09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala crash toll hits 18, probe begins||The crucial flight data recorder of the ill-fated Air India Express flight AXB 1344 that crashed after overshooting the runway of Calicut International Airport at Karipur on Friday evening was recovered as investigations into the accident began. The toll from the mishap rose to 18 on Saturday, with one more passenger succumbing to injuries, officials said. Of the 149 people injured, 23 are in critical condition, while another 23 have been discharged after initial medical assistance. Normal operations resumed at Karipur airport a day after the crash amid safety concerns, even as Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri and Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, who visited the site, dismissed the fears. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had given clearance to the airport after inspecting all aspects and satisfying the requirements, they said. Rs. 20 lakh for kin The Centre and the Kerala government have announced separate interim relief of Rs. 10 lakh each to the families of those killed in the crash. Normal operations resumed at the airport, despite initial concerns about the safety at the two runways. “There is no debris on runway so there is no need to cancel operations,” said a senior official. DGCA chief Arun Kumar told The Hindu that several recommendations in 2011 and 2019 to improve safety standards at the airport were complied with, though some suggestions such as extending the length of the runway could not be implemented due to lack of land availability. But he said that the runway, at 8,000 feet, was sufficiently long for narrow body and wide body aircraft operations. Top officials visit site Mr. Puri, who visited the site along with top officials of Air India and Airport Authority of India, said the investigation would reveal the exact reason for the crash. Appealing to the media not to speculate on the causes of the accident, Mr. Puri said only the investigation report could authoritatively fix the reason for the crash. “I, too, have been asking all kinds of questions. But let’s get the facts right before jumping into any speculations,” he said. Mr. Puri said all concerns raised about safety at the airport had been addressed. “I have been Civil Aviation Minister since June 2019. We have addressed all concerns. We would not have given clearance to the airport without addressing the issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-crash-toll-hits-18-probe-begins/article32307600.ece
09 August 2020||IDUKKI,||Idukki landslip: 8 more bodies found||With the recovery of eight more bodies, the death toll in the Pettimudy landslip rose to 26 on Saturday. Four layams (workers quarters) in the Nayamakkad tea estate, near Rajamala, in Munnar were buried under the debris of a major landslip on Thursday night. The search operations, which were discontinued late on Friday due to unfavourable weather, resumed on Saturday morning. Devikulam subcollector S. Premkrishnan said the ground was prepared for burying the bodies near the accident area. After completing the autopsy and other formalities, the bodies would be buried there. It was estimated that 44 people were still missing, he added. Though the weather condition at Pettimudy was favourable in the morning, rain and mist hampered the search operation in the afternoon. An NDRF team was leading the operation, with doctors camping near a makeshift mortuary to conduct post-mortem examination. The search operations will continue on Sunday. So far, 24 bodies have been identified. It is feared that 21 persons from a family are among the victims. Mayilswami, his brother Ganesh, Ananthasivam, and their families were trapped in the accident. Mayilswami was a driver at the Eravikulam National Park. Six persons hit by the landslip were staff of the Forest Department. They are Mayilswami, Ganeshan, Rekha, Raja, Manikandan, and Achutan. The bodies of Raja and Mayilswami had been recovered. The news of the tragedy reached outside only on Friday morning due to the inaccessibility of the area. The residents reached a forest check-post at Rajamala and informed the officials there. Revenue Minister E.Chandrasekharan and Electricity Minister M.M. Mani are coordinating the rescue operations. Earlier, Dean Kuriakose, MP, visited the spot and camped there. Kanan Devan Hills Plantation Ltd. has announced a financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh each to the kin of the bereaved families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/idukki-landslip-8-more-bodies-found/article32307596.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State sees biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 deaths||The State witnessed 97 new deaths, the biggest spike in a day so far, and 10,080 new COVID-19 infections during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,939 and the tally of infections to 2,17,040. On the brighter side, 9,151 patients recovered and were discharged during the period taking the total recoveries to 1,29,615 and the recovery rate to 60%. There are 85,486 active cases. Mortality rate So far, 24.24 lakh samples were tested, including the 62,123 samples in the past one day. The positivity rate is at 9% and the mortality rate is 0.89%. Nearly half of the deaths were reported from the districts of Guntur (14 new deaths), Anantapur (11), Kurnool (10) and West Godavari (10). The remaining were reported from Chittoor (8), Nellore (8), Prakasam (7), Srikakulam (7), East Godavari (6), Visakhapatnam (5), Vizianagaram (5), Krishna (4) and Kadapa (2). Meanwhile, only two districts reported more than a 1,000 new infections. Kurnool reported 1,353 cases and East Godavari reported 1,310 cases. Visakhapatnam reported 998, Anantapur (976), Chittoor (963), Nellore (878), West Godavari (681) , Guntur (601), Kadapa (525), Prakasam (512), Vizianagaram (450), Srikakulam (442) and Krishna reported 391 new cases. The number of infections reported so far in East Godavari has increased to 30,160. The district's tally amounts for 14% of the State's overall tally. Along with it Kurnool (26,032), Anantapur (23,249) and Guntur (20,837) reported more than 20,000 cases. Visakhapatnam which has 18,532 cases now is rapidly going towards the 20,000-mark. The tallies of other districts are: West Godavari (17,015), Chittoor (16,249), Kadapa (12,614), Nellore (12,524), Srikakulam (10,527), Krishna (9,853), Vizianagaram (8,448) and Prakasam (8,105).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-deaths/article32307594.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China Major Generals discuss situation at Depsang||India and China on Saturday held talks at the Major General-level to discuss issues concerning the strategic Depsang Plains, a defence source said on Saturday. Despite the strategic importance of the Depsang Plains, the series of military talks held so far have focussed on the stand-off areas at Galwan, Gogra Hotsprings and Finger area of Pangong Tso. Varying claims Talks began around 11 a.m. on Sunday at Daulat Beg Oldie and went on till late evening. The discussions are limited to Depsang to discuss issues of varying claims and also blocking of patrols by each other, a defence source said. Saturday’s meeting was a normal one to discuss patrolling patterns by both sides. There was no discussion on disengagement or de-escalation, just routine patrolling as part of border management, the source stated. Stating that Depsang is not a problem that started in 2020, the source added that meetings like this happen regularly to discuss routine issues. The Depsang Plains along with the Pangong Tso are the two major areas of concern in the ongoing stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. This is the first Major General-level talks since the stoppage of all established meetings between Colonels, Brigadiers and Major Generals following the violent clash at Galwan on June 15. Military talks since then have been limited to Corps Commander level. As reported by The Hindu on June 2, there is heavy Chinese presence in the Depsang Plains, at a crucial area called the Bulge, and PLA troops have also been blocking Indian Army patrols from reaching the Patrolling Points (PP) 10 to 13. There has also been build up of tanks and armoured vehicles on the Chinese side very close to the LAC. The Chinese ingress in this area threatens Indian positions at Burtse and Raki Nala well inside Indian territory and further DBO by bringing Chinese troops closer to the 255 km long crucial Darbuk-Skyok-DBO road. Depsang is also close to the Karakoram Pass, overlooking the very strategic Saltoro Ridge and Siachen glacier. Depsang is one of the few places on the LAC where tank manoeuvres are possible. During the 1962 war Chinese troops had occupied Depsang Plains and in 2013 Chinese troops came 19 kms inside and pitched tents resulting in a 21 day standoff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-china-major-generals-discuss-situation-at-depsang/article32307602.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||IMA flags death of 196 doctors to PM||Close to 200 doctors, the majority of them general practitioners, have lost their lives to COVID-19 till August 7, said the Indian Medical Association (IMA), requesting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urgently ensure that these “at risk healthcare workers and their families at least get assured treatment when infected”. In a letter to Mr. Modi, the IMA warned that these deaths are reaching alarming proportions. It also submitted a detailed list of 196 doctors who have succumbed to COVID-19 so far. Tamil Nadu accounted for 43 fatalities, followed by Maharashtra and Gujarat (23 each), Bihar (19), Karnataka (15), Andhra Pradesh and Delhi (12 each). As per the data collected by the IMA, of the 196 doctors who lost their lives, 170 were above the age of 50, with general practitioners making up around 40% of the deaths. ‘Disturbing reports’ The Association, which represents 3.5 lakh doctors spread across the country, said there have been disturbing reports of doctors and their families not getting beds for admission, and also of deficiency of drugs in many cases. “IMA thus requests the Government of India to provide adequate attention for the safety and welfare of doctors during the pandemic,” said Rajan Sharma, national president, IMA The IMA’s honorary secretary general, R.V. Asokan, said the government must assure doctors of access to adequate hospital care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ima-flags-death-of-196-doctors-to-pm/article32307604.ece
09 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Fresh cases soar, but recoveries keep apace||The State on Friday reported the highest single-day spike in new COVID-19 cases as well as the highest number of recoveries when 1,420 persons tested positive and 1,715 patients tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. The cumulative case burden has now reached 33,120. However, the number of patients undergoing treatment is 12,109. A total of 20,862 patients have recovered so far. Four deaths in Kasaragod, Kollam, Kozhikode and Ernakulam take the toll to 106. Of the new 1,420 new cases, 1,252 are locally acquired infections and they include 30 health-care workers. The State has put over 1.48 lakh people in quarantine, of whom 11,934 people are isolated in hospitals. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours went up to 27,714. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 498.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-cases-soar-but-recoveries-keep-apace/article32307838.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Capital: govt. files SLP in Supreme Court against HC status quo order||The State government has filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court appealing for a stay on the status quo order issued by the High Court on the implementation of Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act and the CRDA Repeal Act. Mahfooz A. Nazki, A.P. government’s advocate-on-record in the apex court, stated in the petition that the HC had stayed the operation of the two legislations without even a prima facie examination of their constitutional validity. He said the HC’s observation that it granted status quo upon a request made by the petitioner (Rajadhani Rythu Parirakshana Samiti) was unsustainable. It had also been contended that the rights of the farmers had been protected under the CRDA Repeal Act, thus no cause of action had arisen in their favour. The HC order was contrary to the well settled principle of law that there was always a strong presumption in favour of the constitutionality of a statute and the burden lay on those who attacked it, to show that there had been a transgression of constitutional principles, Mr. Nazki affirmed. He insisted that the above Acts not only gave effect to decentralised development of the State but were also an expression of the will of the Legislature based on the report of the high-power committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-govt-files-slp-in-supreme-court-against-hc-status-quo-order/article32307528.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant death case: ED questions Rhea’s brother||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik, who is also an accused in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate in Mumbai on Saturday. The ED is recording statements of all the accused persons under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. On Friday, the agency had quizzed four persons, including Mr. Showik, Ms. Rhea and her former manager Shruti Modi. The agency is looking into the financial transactions of the suspects, as Sushant’s father has alleged that Rs. 15 crore was transferred from his account within a short span of time. Central Bureau of Investigation officials, who have started probing the allegations of abetment to suicide, criminal conspiracy, cheating, wrongful confinement and theft, are planning to visit the Mumbai residence of Sushant to inspect the room where his body was found on June 14. Among those named in the FIR, which was earlier registered by the Patna police, are Ms. Rhea’s parents Indrajit and Sandhya Chakraborty and Samuel Miranda, who worked for Sushant. Conspiracy angle Sushant’s father has alleged that as part of a conspiracy, Ms. Rhea and others came close to the late actor and started interfering in his life. The statement of Siddharth Pithani, who used to live with Sushant and worked for him, will also be recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sushant-death-case-ed-questions-rheas-brother/article32307766.ece
09 August 2020||Kolkata,||PM should have skipped bhoomi pujan: Minister||West Bengal Minister for Mass Education and Library Services Siddiqullah Chowdhury on Saturday expressed reservations over the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. “Narendra Modi is the Prime Minister of 130 crore people of India. He should have thought about the feelings of all sections of the population before attending the event,” Mr. Chowdhury said, adding that the “PM has made a mistake”. The Minister, who heads the State unit of the Jamiat-e-Ulama-Hind, said Muslims have not got justice in this matter. “I am happy to be part of Mamata Banerjee’s government, but it would be wrong for me not to speak out now,” he said. In a video statement, he urged people to remain patient. “We don’t disrespect Ram. Islam teaches us to respect all religions,” Mr. Chowdhury said. Belief in rule of law He said the BJP and the RSS must be thinking why Muslims have not hit the streets in protest. He said, “Indian Muslims believe in the rule of law, the Constitution, democracy and national unity… It does not matter if a temple is built and the PM goes and lays its first stone. No matter what, the whole world knows it is a mosque.” On building a mosque at a different place in Ayodhya, Mr. Chowdhury said a mosque as per the Islamic law can only be built at a place bought or donated by the believers of the religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-should-have-skipped-bhoomi-pujan-minister/article32307892.ece
09 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||One dead, 11 injured in Ulhasnagar cylinder blast||One person died and 11 others were injured in a cylinder blast at a vada pav joint in Ulhasnagar in Thane district on Saturday afternoon. The blast ocurred around 1.05 p.m. at Jai Mata Di Nashta house at camp number 4 in section 25 near Venus Cinema Chowk. When the snack corner first caught fire, the owner, and workers and customers present there started dousing it. Within minutes, the cooking gas cylinder exploded injuring 12, including the owner, Ravindra alias Pappu Gupta, who died in hospital later. “Three of the seriously injured were taken to Central hospital and the others taken to Shivneri and Balaji Hospital,” Yuvraj Bhadane, public relations officer from Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation said. Gupta was declared dead at Central hospital. “Prima facie, we suspect that there would have been a short circuit and a minor LPG gas leakage,” a fire official said. Three fire engines from the Ulhasnagar fire station reached the spot to douse the fire. “Many people had crowded outside the shop when the fire started. Since the outlet was small, when the blast occurred, the blaze spread out beyond the shop itself. We reached the spot just as the flames intensified. The blaze was doused within two minutes and the people were rushed to hospitals,” the officer added. The wiring of some nearby shops was also damaged in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-dead-11-injured-in-ulhasnagar-cylinder-blast/article32307923.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Ammonium nitrate to be moved out of city soon||The ammonium nitrate stored in a facility at Manali in north Chennai is likely to be moved to a neighbouring State by Monday or Tuesday. The substance would be transported in authorised vehicles, and traffic regulations would be put in place to ensure safety. It would be transported only during lean hours, perhaps at midnight or early in the morning, a senior police official said. The vehicles would be authorised under the Ammonium Nitrate Rules by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO). Now that an interested buyer has been identified, efforts are on to get the paperwork done, after which arrangements would have to be made to transport the substance. It is likely to take a day or two to complete the process, sources said. Officials allay fears “There is no need to panic, since the chemical is predominantly used in agriculture. Safety measures would be undertaken to make sure that there is no slip-up anywhere. Ammonium nitrate is imported legally and transported regularly among ports for various requirements,” a source said. The substance would be sent after due consultations with the police, Customs and PESO officials. Concerns emerged in the wake of a deadly explosion in Beirut, as it was brought to light that a large consignment of ammonium nitrate had been lying in storage in Chennai for the past five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ammonium-nitrate-to-be-moved-out-of-city-soon/article32307680.ece
09 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in State cross 90,000||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 2,949 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 92,615. The State also recorded 51 deaths in 24 hours, taking the total fatalities to 2,005. The active cases in the State increased to 25,486 and the recovery rate in stands at 70.32%. Of the 51 deaths in the State, Kolkata recorded 20 deaths while North 24 Parganas recorded 19. Kolkata’s death toll now stands at 927 and that of North 24 Parganas at 463. Meanwhile, the State observed its second complete lockdown in the month of August on Saturday. There was no vehicular movement on the streets. Around 670 people were booked in Kolkata Police area for violating the lockdown restrictions and 379 for not using masks. In another development, a patient tried to jump from the window of Medical College, Kolkata the primary COVID-19 facility in the city. The patient was a resident of Ashoknagar in North 24 Parganas and was suffering from mental health issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-state-cross-90000/article32307891.ece
09 August 2020||Mysuru/Hassan,||Kodagu landslip: Body of one victim found||The body of one of the five persons, who went missing after a landslip hit Bhagamandala in Kodagu district on Thursday, was found by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Anandateertha, 86. He and his brother, Narayanchar, the priest of the main temple at Talacauvery; the latter’s wife Shanta, and two assistant priests, Pawan and Ravikiran, went missing after a portion of the hill caved in owing to heavy rains on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kodagu-landslip-body-of-one-victim-found/article32307783.ece
09 August 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19 cases in State cross 5 lakh||Maharashtra on Saturday reported its highest single-day spike of 12,822 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally in the State to 5,03,084, a health official said. With 275 patients succumbing to the infection, the death toll has increased to 17,367, he added. However, a record 11,082 patients were also discharged from hospitals, taking the tally of recovered patients to 3,38,362, the official added. There are currently 1,47,048 active COVID-19 patients in the State, he said. Mumbai reported 1,304 new cases and 58 deaths. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the city thus rose to 1,22,316 and death toll to 6,751. Pune city reported the highest number of new cases at 1,457, along with 39 deaths. The total number of cases in the city is now 69,500 and death toll 1,744, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-state-cross-5-lakh/article32307925.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 test for passengers||As one of the deceased tested positive for COVID-19, the Kerala Health Department is conducting COVID-19 tests on all passengers of the Air India Express flight that crashed at Calicut airport on Friday. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has urged all those who took part in rescue operations to go in self-quarantine.page 7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-test-for-passengers/article32307589.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Tamil Nadu data is wrong’||The Tamil Nadu unit of the IMA has denied that 43 doctors have died of COVID-19 in the State. C.N. Raja, president, IMA-Tamil Nadu, said “The data that 43 doctors have died is wrong. We are investigating the deaths, and there seems to be non-COVID deaths too.”page 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-data-is-wrong/article32307590.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||G.C. Murmu takes charge as new CAG||Former Jammu & Kashmir L-G Girish Chandra Murmu on Saturday took charge as the new Comptroller and Auditor General. Mr. Murmu was sworn in by President Ram Nath Kovind, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a communiqué.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gc-murmu-takes-charge-as-new-cag/article32307763.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW chief meets police over minor girl’s assault||Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Maliwal met senior Delhi police officers on Saturday and raised questions over their action in the case of a 12-year-old girl who was sexually assaulted and stabbed in west Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dcw-chief-meets-police-over-minor-girls-assault/article32307765.ece
09 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Gauhati University to start classes from Sept. 1||A week after the Assam government set September 1 as the tentative date for reopening schools and colleges, Gauhati University has decided to resume regular classes from that date. Exams for UG and PG students will be held from September 22 and September 25 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gauhati-university-to-start-classes-from-sept-1/article32307764.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 toll crosses 3,000 in Karnataka||The total number of COVID-19 deaths crossed the 3,000-mark on Saturday, with 93 deaths reported. With this, the total number of deaths in the State stands at 3,091. The bulk of deaths were reported in July . As many as 7,178 COVID-19 cases were reported on Saturday, the highest single-day increase so far. The total number of cases in Karnataka stood at 1.72 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-toll-crosses-3000-in-karnataka/article32307640.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Small places of worship to be reopened: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced that small temples whose annual revenue is below Rs. 10,000 and small mosques, dargahs and churches can reopen for worship from August 10. He announced that driving schools would be allowed to reopen from August 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/small-places-of-worship-to-be-reopened-cm/article32307676.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. not in a hurry to reopen schools: CM||Schools in Tamil Nadu will reopen only when the conditions are safe, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday. The spread of COVID-19 is yet to reduce and medical experts have advised that more care should be given to children, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-not-in-a-hurry-to-reopen-schools-cm/article32307679.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. reports 5,883 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Saturday recorded 5,883 fresh COVID-19 cases, while 118 deaths saw the toll rising to 4,808. Chennai reported 986 cases, the second day in a row it logged less than 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-5883-fresh-covid-19-cases/article32307678.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,||More demand for online extracurricular activities||With schools restricting the duration of online classes, an increasing number of working parents are signing their children up for private online tuition and extracurricular classes to keep them engaged. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in teachers and trained professionals offering a variety of classes, ranging from coding to painting to dance and even football coaching lessons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-demand-for-online-extracurricular-activities/article32307639.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana and Kerala cases at new high||Andhra Pradesh reported 97 new COVID-19 deaths on Saturday, the biggest spike in a day, and 10,080 new infections. The death toll stood at 1,939 and the tally of infections at 2,17,040. Kerala reported the highest single day high in new cases, when 1,420 persons tested positive. Four deaths in Kasaragod, Kollam, Kozhikode and Ernakulam were included in the official toll by the Health department, taking total fatalities to 106. In Telangana, 2,256 more samples tested positive on Friday. This was the highest single-day figure. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the State stood at 77,513. Fourteen more patients died and the death toll touched 615. The 2,256 new cases included 464 from Greater Hyderabad, 181 from Rangareddy, and 138 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. Besides, 187 cases were in Warangal Urban, 101 in Karimnagar, 95 in Jogulamba Gadwal, and 92 in Sangareddy. Of the total 77,513 cases so far, 22,568 were active. The percentage distribution of deaths attributed to COVID-19 and co-morbidities remained unchanged in the past 11 days (July 28-August 7). Asked about this, senior State Health department officials said the total used for the calculation was the cumulative number of deaths. In Andhra Pradesh, there were 85,486 active cases. So far 24.24 lakh samples were tested including 62,123 samples in the past day. Nearly half of the fresh fatalities were from Guntur (14), Anantapur (11), Kurnool (10) and West Godavari (10). The remaining were from Chittoor (8), Nellore (8), Prakasam (7), Srikakulam (7), East Godavari (6), Visakhapatnam (5), Vizianagaram (5), Krishna (4) and Kadapa (2). Kurnool reported 1,353 positive cases and East Godavari 1,310. Visakhapatnam reported 998, Anantapur (976), Chittoor (963), Nellore (878), West Godavari (681) , Guntur (601), Kadapa (525), Prakasam (512), Vizianagaram (450), Srikakulam (442) and Krishna 391 new cases. Kerala’s cumulative cases stood at 33,120. Patients currently under treatment in hospitals were put at 12,109. Of the 1,420 new cases, 1,252 were locally acquired infections, including 30 health care workers. No epidemiological link was found in 92 cases. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Thiruvananthapuram district would require prolonged interventions. Karnataka’s COVID-19 death toll went up to 3,091 on Saturday, with 93 new fatalities. New cases reported on Saturday stood at 7,178, the highest in a day, raising the total to 1.72 lakh, Health and Family Welfare department data said. Active cases stood at 79,765 cases as of Saturday. Saturday saw 43,883 fresh tests being conducted, of which 22,310 were rapid antigen tests.          (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-reports-97-deaths-kerala-cases-at-new-high/article32307537.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Probe, safety teams land in Kozhikode||Three relief flights were operated in the early hours of Saturday from Mumbai and New Delhi to ferry family members of the two pilots, investigation teams as well as the top brass of Air India. A flight departed from Mumbai to Kozhikode at 6 a.m., along with the relatives of the pilots who died of their injuries — Captain Deepak Sathe and co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar. They were accompanied by Air India’s aircraft recovery team, flight safety team and ground personnel, who will coordinate with various rescue agencies. Two flights from New Delhi also left for Kozhikode early on Saturday, along with the Chairman and Managing Director of Air India and the Chief Executive Officer of Air India Express. Officials from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau were also on the flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-safety-teams-land-in-kozhikode/article32307554.ece
09 August 2020||Kozhikode,||All injured in plane crash to undergo COVID-19 test||As one of the dead tested positive for COVID-19, the Kerala Health Department is conducting COVID-19 tests on all those injured in the air crash at the Calicut International Airport on Friday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan confirmed the status of infection of the deceased on Saturday. Earlier, State Health Minister K.K. Shylaja urged all those who had engaged in rescue operations at the crash site to go into self-quarantine. She said several people had participated in the work and it was becoming difficult to track all of them. It would be better if they went into quarantine on their own, she added. Reports from various private hospitals said more people were testing positive. The condition of 12 people admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital and 16 at the Government General Hospital is reportedly stable. Seven at a private hospital tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-injured-in-plane-crash-to-undergo-covid-19-test/article32307543.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||13 districts account for 9% cases||Thirteen districts in eight States and Union Territories, including Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Kolkata and Delhi, account for nearly 9% of the active COVID-19 cases and about 14% deaths, said the Health Ministry on Saturday which has now asked these areas to tighten measures to contain the virus. The Ministry said a surge in cases has been reported from four districts — Kamrup Metro in Assam, Lucknow, Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha. Officials held a meeting with the States reporting high case loads, and said these areas also had reported low tests per million and a high confirmation percentage. The 13 districts include Patna, Ranchi, Ganjam, 24 Paraganas North, Hooghly, Howrah, Kolkata and Maldah and Delhi. The States were advised to address low lab utilisation, low tests per million population, decrease in absolute tests from last week, delay in test results and high confirmation percentage among healthcare workers. “They were advised to ensure timely referral and hospitalisation in view of reports from some districts of patients dying within 48 hours of admission,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-districts-account-for-9-cases/article32307572.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Lockdown has hit nutritional services’||Increase in joblessness and poverty due to the pandemic will lead to a rise in hunger as well as malnutrition in the country, Arjan De Wagt , UNICEF’s India Chief for Nutrition, says adding that the extended lockdown has hit many nutritional services. He stresses that COVID-19 sensitive strategies must be developed to continue them.  What has been the impact of COVID-19 on nutritional services? We know that in March and April many services were affected, but some such as take home ration delivery did take place because it is a legal entitlement under the National Food Security Act, 2013. There was quick adaptability and there was door-to door delivery of take home ration, but at the same time there were people on the move who could not be reached. The limited data we have from making phone calls, not scientific data, we know that restoration of services started to happen and improved in the months of May and June but the reach and coverage is still lagging behind. During the pandemic it is important to make health and nutrition services COVID-19 sensitive. We need the same essential services, but need to deliver them through new platforms such that they do not contribute to possible spread of COVID-19. What are the challenges India is facing vis-a-vis nutrition? There is COVID-19 induced food insecurity, there are job losses and incomes have reduced which will lead to an increase in malnutrition. According to a Lancet study last year, of the 10.4 crore under-5 deaths in India in 2017, as many as 7,06,000 deaths could be attributed to malnutrition. So on an average, every day 1,934 children under five die with malnutrition as underlying cause; they could all be alive if there was no malnutrition. But due to COVID-19 induced food insecurity and malnutrition these figures will go up. We need to go back to January/ February levels of investment of resources, community engagement and energies and work on the additional nutritional challenges posed by COVID-19. Were there increased admissions in Nutrition Rehabilitation Centres (NRCs) where severe acute malnourished children are brought for treatment ? In the beginning, some of these NRCs were declared COVID-19 centres or staff members were diverted to support the COVID-19 response. But in many States, they have reopened. We noticed though that there was a fall in the numbers of children being admitted to NRCs because of several reasons — either parents were reluctant to bring their children to these centres due to fears about them getting infected, or due to these facilities being poorly equipped or community screening to identify malnourished children in need of management not taking place and affecting the uptake of services at NRCs. The government has been distributing mobile phones to anganwadis to improve tracking. What does the data from these devices show about service delivery? Ministry of Women and Child Development has invested a lot in rolling out the ICDS-CAS system whereby all angandwadi workers have a mobile phone and enter information about their clients. Towards the end of last year this had not yet reached all anganwadis and more needs to be done on training, collecting, analysing and disseminating the data at various levels.  Due to COVID-19 induced food insecurity, malnutrition deaths will increase||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-has-hit-nutritional-services/article32307574.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ration card portability yet to gain pace||Around 11 a.m. last Tuesday, 35-year-old Babu Lal went to a ration shop in the Gujarati town of Amreli and bought 9 kg of wheat and 3.5 kg of rice at subsidised rates, just like crores of other ration-card holders across the country. More unusually, however, his ration card is not registered in Amreli, but more than 400 km away at a shop in the small village of Marol in Rajasthan’s Sirohi district. Mr. Lal is one of the first participants in the One nation, One ration card scheme that the Centre has hyped as the solution to the problems of migrant workers whose ration cards are registered in their home villages, leaving them unable to access subsidised foodgrain in their workplaces, often hundreds of kilometres away. However, while four additional States were integrated into the scheme this month, increasing its coverage to 65 crore beneficiaries, Mr. Lal is among a negligible fraction which has actually been able to make use of it. Food Ministry data show that in July, fewer than 2,000 inter-State transactions were carried out under the scheme, benefiting less than 13,000 people. Just over 31,500 kg of grain were distributed. Since the scheme was launched a year ago, the number of monthly beneficiaries never crossed 5,000 until July. In August, Mr. Lal’s purchase is one of just 257 inter-State transactions in the first week, benefiting almost 1,400 people. “The challenge is that at the receiving end, we must encourage workers to go to the nearest fair price shops and get themselves registered. So that is what now State governments have started doing proactively. It will take time, a month or two,” Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey told The Hindu on Saturday, adding that intra-State usage has been higher, with the total number of such beneficiaries crossing 1.2 crore since the scheme began. “Now the reverse migration is also happening, they are going back. But still the COVID scenario is not very clear, sometimes lockdown somewhere, factories gearing up gradually. It will take a couple of months before it reaches its peak,” Mr. Pandey said. Workers given option However, Mr. Pandey says that if workers are returning to the cities with jobs, some may choose to leave the entire ration allocation for their families back home. “It depends whether the person is wanting to draw that ration or not. You cannot force him, you can give him an option, but if he still feels that he would prefer his family to draw his share of ration also back home, and here the employer is giving him something, maybe a free meal at the factory, he may not be interested in taking the ration,” he said. According to the Ministry’s portal, Mr. Lal seems to have taken the option of buying a partial share of his family’s ration allocation in Gujarat, picking up a total of 12.5 kg out of the five member family’s monthly allocation of 25 kg. The remainder may have been left for other family members to buy back home in Marol village. There are still 12 States and Union Territories yet to join the scheme, including Delhi with its large migrant population. Ration card portability requires integration with Aadhaar and electronic point of sale machines using biometric authentication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ration-card-portability-yet-to-gain-pace/article32307578.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,||WHO official warns against ‘vaccine nationalism’||With over 200 COVID-19 vaccine candidates in development and 27 of them on clinical trials across the world, Chief Scientist at the World Health Organisation (WHO) Soumya Swaminathan raised the need to have a multilateral or global approach to vaccine deployment and distribution, rather than a more nationalistic approach. Noting that the term “vaccine nationalism” was being used to describe the fact that many countries are only thinking about their own population, she said, “The argument we are making is that the virus is everywhere in the world and it would be impossible for the world to go back to normal, and for the economy to recover if only pockets of people are protected...” Dr. Swaminathan was delivering the Lawrence Dana Pinkham Memorial Lecture on “COVID-19 pandemic: What we know and the role of the media” — the commencement lecture for Asian College of Journalism (ACJ) class of 2020-2021 on Saturday. Political compulsions However, she said it was a difficult issue because most political leaders would first think about protecting their own people. “It is true that they have a responsibility. At the same time, in this particular case, it is not enough to protect only their citizens. It is important to ensure that people around the world have access in an equitable way. What we are proposing is, if we have a limited supply of vaccines at the beginning of 2021, lets say a few hundred million doses, how do we distribute that? Who should get it first? All frontline workers, health workers and social care workers, police and others at high risk of getting the infection. Should they not be prioritised before the otherwise healthy adult population,” she stated. Difficult choice Elaborating on this, Dr Swaminathan said there were two options — a few countries vaccinate their entire population, while others wait for a long time. “Today, 10% of all infections have occurred in healthcare workers. It would be unfair not to protect them before everyone else gets a chance,” she said. This was an ongoing dialogue happening globally, and getting a consensus was a challenge, she added. Referring to the WHO’s Solidarity Trial in which 25 countries were participating and over 6,500 patients were recruited, she said this was something that they wanted to promote for vaccines as well. “There are a large number of vaccine candidates in development. Some of them are big companies; multinationals have the resources and expertise to run their own trials, while smaller companies may not get the same opportunities. We want to provide a platform for vaccines to be tested,” she said. Bad experiences Stressing on equitable access, she said, “We have had bad experiences in the past in previous epidemics including the H1N1 pandemic when vaccines were cornered by high income countries, and very little left for low income countries. Only when the pandemic turned out not so serious that those countries, which had stockpiled vaccines, gave up some of their stock for distribution in low income countries. This could be a terrible thing to happen this time around.” More than 4,000 clinical trials were registered with WHO, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-official-warns-against-vaccine-nationalism/article32307538.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sathe was a decorated pilot||Air India Express lost two of its pilots in Friday’s crash, Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe and First Officer Akhilesh Kumar. Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, 59, Commander of the ill-fated flight, was a highly decorated pilot. He received the Sword of Honour at the Air Force Academy given to the top-ranking cadet, and was an accomplished fighter pilot. He was also a test pilot for Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. He joined Air India Express in 2013, and had earlier served Air India. An airline colleague remembered him for his “officer-like gentlemanliness”. “He was very approachable and many junior pilots looked up to him because he often counselled and mentored them. He was an asset to the airline and a humble person despite his long career as a pilot,” a senior pilot said. The Indian Air Force colleagues were also devastated by the death. “My association with him started at Air Force Station, Bidar, earlier called Elementary Flying School. We were commissioned as pilot officers in 1981. He was best in our course, extremely good, hard working and knowledgeable. As a fighter pilot, he flew MiG-21,” Air Commodore (Retd.) Ashit Mehta said. He said Sathe, who took voluntary retirement as Wing Commander, was an experimental test pilot — a demanding job that requires testing planes. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri said the Captain had flown 27 times to the Calicut airport. First Officer Akhilesh Kumar, 32, was very familiar with the airport and its ‘critical’ status. His home base was Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sathe-was-a-decorated-pilot/article32307552.ece
09 August 2020||COLOMBO,||Rajapaksa’s victory a fresh chance to boost ties: envoy||Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi telephoned his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa to congratulate him on his party’s big win in the recently held parliamentary polls, the Indian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka, Gopal Baglay, called on the newly elected leader in Colombo to congratulate him on the “emphatic victory”. “The strong mandate received by Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa provides a fresh opportunity for the two countries to enhance bilateral engagement, including mitigating the adverse economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic,” the Indian High Commission here said in a statement following the meeting. Mr. Rajapaksa’s ruling party secured a two-thirds majority in Wednesday’s polls. “The High Commissioner reiterated the strong desire and the commitment of the government of India to work very closely with the new government and Parliament in Sri Lanka for further strengthening comprehensive bilateral cooperation. He looked forward to continued guidance from Sri Lanka’s leadership in this endeavour,” the statement said. Mr. Modi’s call and the High Commissioner’s subsequent meeting, on the eve of Mr. Rajapaksa’s swearing-in ceremony, comes amid persisting opposition from trade unions at the Colombo Port to Indian involvement in developing a terminal there. India has been keen on partnering Sri Lanka in developing the East Container Terminal, along with Japan, and the three governments signed a Memorandum of Cooperation last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajapaksas-victory-a-fresh-chance-to-boost-ties-envoy/article32307569.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks Registry to explain case listing||The Supreme Court has sought an explanation from its Registry officials involved in the listing of a writ petition filed jointly by veteran journalists N. Ram and Arun Shourie, along with advocate Prashant Bhushan, challenging a law that makes “scandalising of court” a ground for contempt. A short note from an official source in the court said a ‘mistake’ had been made by the Registry in the listing of the case. The writ petition was listed for hearing before a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and K.M. Joseph on August 10. The court website now shows the petition has been dropped from the list of cases before that Bench on that day. The note explained that the petition, as per established procedure, should have been listed before the Bench which was already seized of a “similar matter”. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra had recently initiated and heard a suo motu contempt case against Mr. Bhushan for “scandalising the court” with his tweet featuring a photograph of Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde on a heavy motorbike and another about the role of the court in the past six years. The Justice Mishra Bench has reserved the case for orders. Appeal for stay The present writ petition is accompanied by an application for stay of all contempt proceedings initiated on the ground of “scandalising the court”, which includes the suo motu proceedings before the Justice Mishra Bench. The writ petition has challenged the legality of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Court Act, which deals with contempt on the ground of scandalising the court and the “chilling effect” it has on free speech and right to dissent. Section 2(c) (i) holds it is criminal contempt if a person publishes, by words spoken or written or by any other act, anything “which scandalises or tends to scandalise or lowers or tends to lower the authority of any court”. “‘Scandalising the court’ is rooted in colonial assumption and objects, which has no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionality and maintenance of an open robust public sphere,” the writ petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-registry-to-explain-case-listing/article32307563.ece
09 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||16 senior IRS officers shifted in reshuffle||A major reshuffle in the country’s Income Tax bureaucracy was carried out by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Friday involving as many as 16 senior Indian Revenue Service (Income Tax) cadre officers of the rank of Principal Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (PCCIT) and Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (CCIT). Notable changes figuring in the list issued on Friday include Patanjali Jha, who has been shifted from Bengaluru where he was Director General (Investigation) to CCIT-II in Mumbai. Another noticeable change is that of Amit Jain, who was transferred from Gujarat to Mumbai only recently but has been moved back to Gujarat in less than two months, even without his taking charge in Mumbai. The changes brought by the CBDT have apparently flummoxed Revenue Service officials by the way appointments and transfer orders at the top level are happening in the Finance Ministry’s Revenue wing. Extensions given Sources said it could also be causing a sense of resentment among the senior officials who feel that, on the one hand, there are vacancies in the CBDT as well as at the PCCIT level in several places, and on the other, certain officials are not only given extension in deviation of the established norms but also given multiple charges despite the availability of top-ranking officials. The post of PCCIT Mumbai has not been filled and is continued to be held on in-charge basis by S.K. Gupta, a Member of the CBDT and recently given extension as Member, a first instance where a Member of the top tax body has been granted extension. After Mr. Gupta’s extension order issued by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on July 27, the CBDT on August 5 had issued an order handing over charge of PCCIT and CCIT-II Mumbai to Mr. Gupta. In the CBDT, Mr. Gupta was inducted as Member (Tax Payers Services and Systems) but has also been given additional charge of Member (Income Tax and Revenue. “It’s not common that a Member of the CBDT would continue to hold the post of PCCIT and CCIT on in-charge basis,” a retired IRS official said In another instance of one person holding multiple charges, Amit Jain as PCCIT Gujarat would hold Additional Charge of DG (Investigation) as well as CCIT-I. The CBDT’s Chairperson P.C. Mody, whose one year extended tenure is ending this month, was not available for comment despite several calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/16-senior-irs-officers-shifted-in-reshuffle/article32307567.ece
09 August 2020||Mysuru/Hassan,||Kodagu landslip: body of one victim recovered||The body of one of the five persons, who went missing after a landslip hit Bhagamandala in Kodagu district on Thursday, was found by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Anandateertha, 86. He and his brother Narayanchar, the priest of the main temple at Talacauvery; the latter’s wife, Shanta, and two assistant priests, Pawan and Ravikiran, went missing after a portion of a hill caved in owing to heavy rains early on Thursday. Though a search operation was launched immediately, inclement weather hampered any rescue efforts for almost 48 hours as Bhagamandala and the surrounding regions were battered by heavy rains, in excess of 480 mm, during the last 48 hours. Besides, there were landslips along the connecting road. However, on Saturday the rains abated a little and the NDRF team, assisted by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), managed to reach the spot and launched a search operation and found the body of Anandateertha, according to Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy. Search operations for the remaining four persons will resume on Sunday. The district authorities said that so far 52 places have been affected by floods and 561 persons have been rescued by NDRF and SDRF personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kodagu-landslip-body-of-one-victim-recovered/article32307520.ece
09 August 2020||Guwahati,||As floodwaters ebb in Assam, hunters kill rhino for horn||Hunters killed a female rhinoceros in the partially flooded Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) on Friday and sawed off her horn. This was the second rhino killed by hunters in the 1,055-sq.km park this year, while 18 more died during the floods since May 22. Officials said forest guards at three anti-poaching camps — Gabrai, Borbeel and Kathanibari — in KNPTR’s Kohora Range heard six rounds of gunshots on Friday evening. They followed the footprints of the hunters early on Saturday morning and located the carcass at about 11 a.m. “The staff took time because of the slushy conditions and recovered six empty cartridges of a .303 rifle from the spot. The hunters were apparently lying in ambush along the Brahmaputra river at night,” the park’s Divisional Forest Officer Ramesh Kumar Gogoi said. A joint team of police and forest officials detained a suspected poacher in the park’s Biswanath Wildlife Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-floodwaters-ebb-in-assam-hunters-kill-rhino-for-horn/article32307576.ece
09 August 2020||MYSURU,||A glimpse of Malgudi at Arasalu station||Passengers alighting at the Arasalu railway station in Shivamogga district can savour a slice of the imaginary town of Malgudi created by writer R.K. Narayan, as depicted in the T.V. serial Malgudi Days. The Indian Railways has developed a museum at the station as some of the episodes of the Doordarshan serial directed by the late Shankar Nag were shot at Arasalu. The initiative - Museum Malgudi - features photographs and art associated with the serial and was inaugurated virtually by Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi on Saturday. It was incorporated in the renovation plan of the old railway station building of Arasalu. The authorities though it fit to develop a museum on the theme of Malgudi as a tribute to the makers of the popular serial and the novelist, said Aparna Garg, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru Division. The old railway building stood on the metre gauge track and was abandoned after the gauge conversion. It was decided that it would be developed as a museum which cost nearly Rs. 25 lakh. One of the sculptors involved in recreating Malgudi at Arasalu during the shooting, John Devaraj, was roped in. Scenes from the serial are sketched on the walls apart from portraits of R.K. Narayan and the character Swami played by Master Manjunath among the exhibits. A narrow gauge coach stabled at the station has been converted to a tea shop and named Malgudi Chai. The demand that the station be renamed as Malgudi, is awaiting approval from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-glimpse-of-malgudi-at-arasalu-station/article32307531.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Reaching an understanding with China is a big challenge’||Reaching an understanding with China is one of the big challenges before Sino-Indian relations, said External Affairs Minister (EAM) Dr. S Jaishankar. Addressing the India@75 summit organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), the Minister said India and China had similarities in various aspects as two of the biggest economies of the world, but an understanding between the two is a crucial issue. “We are demographically two very unique countries, only two with billion-plus [population] categories. We are seeing parallel but differential rise of the two countries. But all of these are happening at a time when we are neighbours as modern states. To my mind, what it does is that it puts a huge premium on reaching some kind of equilibrium ... And how to do that is one of the big challenges that we face,” Mr. Jaishankar said, arguing that the “world has a lot riding on this given our size and our impact”. He said the Chinese were probably also discussing this internally. “Certainly this is something which I feel is very central for our foreign policy calculation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reaching-an-understanding-with-china-is-a-big-challenge/article32307548.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul takes on BJP over ‘missing files’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday took on the Narendra Modi government in a series of tweets asking the Prime Minister if he would tell the truth about the Chinese aggression, and asserting that the removal of a document from the Defence Ministry website is the Modi government’s “anti-democratic experiment”. On the 78th anniversary of the Quit India movement, the Congress leader said Mahatma Gandhi’s “do or die” will have to be given a new meaning to convey that it is a “fight against injustice without fear”. In a separate tweet, attacking the Modi government, he said, “Whenever the country got emotional, files went missing. Be it Mallya [Vijay Mallya] or Rafale, Modi [Nirav Modi] or Choksi. In the list of missing, the latest addition is the set of documents on Chinese intrusions. This is not a coincidence but the Modi government’s anti-democratic experiment.” His tweet came days after the Ministry of Defence removed a document from its website regarding Chinese aggression.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-takes-on-bjp-over-missing-files/article32307560.ece
09 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan MLAs shifted to Gujarat||In a new twist to the political drama in Rajasthan, the Opposition BJP has started shifting its MLAs, especially those from the tribal-dominated districts, to neighbouring Gujarat, alleging that the ruling Congress was trying to poach them ahead of a crucial Assembly session, beginning on August 14. Six BJP legislators left Jaipur by a chartered flight for Gujarat’s Porbandar on Saturday, while 12 others left for Ahmedabad on Friday. From Porbandar, the MLAs were reportedly taken to Somnath where they will be staying at a hotel booked by the Gujarat BJP. Those who left for Porbandar were Nirmal Kumawat, Gopi Chand Meena, Jabbar Singh Sankhla, Dharmendra Kumar, Gopal Lal Sharma and Gurdeep Singh. The action for sequestering MLAs was launched after former Chief Minister and senior BJP leader Vasundhara Raje met party president J.P. Nadda, general secretary B.L. Santhosh and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi to discuss the political situation in the State. Ms. Raje had maintained silence over the political turmoil and kept away from the party meetings in Jaipur. According to sources in the BJP, all the 72 MLAs of the party will be shifted to Gujarat, while the three MLAs of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), supporting the BJP , will be sent to a different location. Congress MLAs supporting Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot have been staying at a resort near Jaisalmer since the ruling party accused the BJP of hatching a conspiracy to topple the government by horse-trading of MLAs. The legislators supporting the ousted Deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who staged a rebellion, are staying in Haryana. BJP State president Satish Poonia said the Congress was trying to influence the BJP legislators, particularly those elected from the Udaipur division, and spreading rumours about them. “We decided that all of them should be at one place where they can be protected against harassment. They are depressed and tense,” he said. Mr. Poonia, representing Jaipur district's Amber constituency, said the BJP Legislature Party was “intact” and its meeting would be convened shortly before the Assembly session. There was no distrust and all the legislators were united, which was proved during the recent Rajya Sabha election, he said. The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has sent two members from the Udaipur division to the Assembly for the first time, has extended support to Congress during the ongoing crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-shifts-rajasthan-mlas-to-gujarat-ahead-of-house-session/article32307642.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||AP, TS asked to stop new projects||Union Minister for Jal Shakti (MoJS) Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments not to proceed with projects planned in the Krishna and Godavari basins without submitting detailed project reports (DPRs), getting them appraised by the two river boards and obtaining approval of the Apex Council. In separate letters addressed to Chief Ministers of Telangana and AP K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy respectively, Mr. Shekhawat also wished that the second meeting of the Apex Council, which he said was long over due, be held “at the earliest this month to resolve all the outstanding issues amicably”. The MoJS letters to the two Chief Ministers follow the postponement of the Apex Council meeting scheduled for August 5 after a request made by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao that he had prior commitments and the meeting be held any time after August 20. However, the Union Minister has also pointed out in his letter to the AP Chief Minister that there was no response from that State even after the communication for the August 5 meeting was sent. Mr. Shekhawat stated that “AP’s plans to draw 6 to 8 tmcft of additional water per day from Srisailam reservoir was in violation of the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, and are detrimental to the interests of Telangana as objected to by the latter”. He has also drawn the attention of the AP Chief Minister that the Krishna River Management Board directed the AP government not to go ahead with the new projects till they were appraised by the river board and Central Water Commission and approved by the Apex Council. In his letter to the Chief Minister of Telangana, the Union Minister stated that AP had objected to Kaleshwaram, Godavari (Devadula), Sita Rama and Tupakulagudem lift irrigation schemes, Telangana Drinking Water Supply project, barrages on Penganga and Ramppa lake to Pakhal lake diversion and they be stopped since they are in violation of the bifurcation act and till appraised by the Godavari River Management Board and approved by the Apex Council. On Kaleshwaram LIS, Mr. Shekhawat said its DPR was approved for lifting only 2 tmcft water a day but the State government has changed the scope of the project to enhance the capacity to lift 3 tmcft water a day without submitting DPR, appraisal by GRMB and CWC and approval by the Apex Council. “Any change in scope or cost of the project needs to be appraised again”, the Union Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-asks-ap-ts-to-stop-new-projects/article32307815.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Former MP Nandi Yellaiah passes away||Veteran Congress leader Nandi Yellaiah, who was elected to Lok Sabha six times and Rajya Sabha twice, died while under treatment at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences here on Saturday. He was 78. He was admitted with illness at NIMS where he tested positive for coronavirus. He died after 10 days of treatment. Yellaiah was first elected to the Lok Sabha from Siddipet in 1979 and repeated the feat from the same constituency in 1980, 1989, 1991 and 1996. He lost elections to Telugu Desam candidates in 1984 and 1998. After two stints in the Rajya Sabha from 2002 to 2014, he was re-elected to the Lok Sabha but this time from Nagarkurnool constituency (SC) in 2014. He continued in the post till general elections last year. Yellaiah began his political career as a corporator of Hyderabad Municipal Corporation in 1964. He was a close associate of former Chief Minister Marri Channa Reddy. Death condoled Leaders of political parties, including Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and AICC president Sonia Gandhi, condoled the death of the Congress leader. Mr. Rao conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Cutting across party lines, many of the leaders recollected their association with Yellaiah during his long political career spanning nearly six decades. Among those who expressed condolences were TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president A. Revanth Reddy, and former MP V. Hanumanth Rao. Several Ministers who condoled the death of the Congress leader include T. Harish A. Indrakaran Reddy, S. Niranjan Reddy, V. Prashanth Reddy, Satyavathi Rathod and V. Srinivas Goud. Telangana Legislative Council Chairman G. Sukender Reddy, Rajya Sabha member of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) K. Keshava Rao, former minister Marri Shashidhar Reddy and former MP Mallu Ravi termed Yellaiah a grassroots leader. BJP State president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, former president K. Laxman, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Telangana unit president L. Ramana, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo member Ravula Chandrasekhar Reddy, CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy, Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) president M. Kodandaram and leaders of other parties expressed grief over the death of Yellaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-mp-nandi-yellaiah-passes-away/article32307523.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||G.C. Murmu takes charge as new CAG||Former Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Lieutenant-Governor (L-G), Girish Chandra Murmu on Saturday took charge as the new Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG). Mr. Murmu was sworn in by President Ram Nath Kovind, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a communiqué. The ceremony, held in the Ashoka Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, among others. Mr. Murmu, a 1985-batch IAS officer of the Gujarat cadre, will have a tenure up to November 20, 2024. Appointed as the first L-G of the newly created Union Territory of J&K, Mr. Murmu resigned on August 5, the first anniversary of the Centre abrogating special status for J&K under Article 370. He was then appointed the CAG to replace Rajiv Mehrishi, who was completing his tenure this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gc-murmu-takes-charge-as-new-cag/article32307556.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Accused in Bikru shootout ‘surrenders’||An accused in the Bikru ambush, in which eight policemen were killed, ‘surrendered’ before the police on Saturday, over two months after the incident. Along with his wife and daughter, Umakant Shukla, carrying a bounty of Rs. 50,000, reached Chaubeypur police station and surrendered, police said. He had covered his face and had hung a placard from his neck in which he allegedly pleaded for his security, and claimed that he was involved in the shootout, for which he felt “guilty”, said the police, adding that he is being interrogated. The Uttar Pradesh police had earlier shot dead the main accused, Vikas Dubey, and five of his associates in separate incidents. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/accused-in-bikru-shootout-surrenders/article32307558.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP shifts Rajasthan MLAs to Gujarat||From Porbandar, the MLAs were reportedly taken to Somnath where they will be staying at a hotel booked by the Gujarat BJP. Those who left for Porbandar were Nirmal Kumawat, Gopi Chand Meena, Jabbar Singh Sankhla, Dharmendra Kumar, Gopal Lal Sharma and Gurdeep Singh. The action for sequestering MLAs was launched after former Chief Minister and senior BJP leader Vasundhara Raje met party president J.P. Nadda, general secretary B.L. Santhosh and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi to discuss the political situation in the State. Ms. Raje had maintained silence over the political turmoil and kept away from the party meetings in Jaipur.According to sources in the BJP, all the 72 MLAs of the party will be shifted to Gujarat, while the three MLAs of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), supporting the BJP, will be sent to a different location. Congress MLAs supporting Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot have been staying at a resort near Jaisalmer since the ruling party accused the BJP of hatching a conspiracy to topple the government by horse-trading of MLAs. The legislators supporting the ousted Deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who staged a rebellion, are staying in Haryana. BJP State president Satish Poonia said the Congress was trying to influence the BJP legislators, particularly those elected from the Udaipur division, and spreading rumours about them. “We decided that all of them should be at one place where they can be protected against harassment. They are depressed and tense,” he said. Mr. Poonia, representing Jaipur district's Amber constituency, said the BJP Legislature Party was “intact” and its meeting would be convened shortly before the Assembly session. There was no distrust and all the legislators were united, which was proved during the recent Rajya Sabha election, he said. The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has sent two members from the Udaipur division to the Assembly for the first time, has extended support to Congress during the ongoing crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-shifts-rajasthan-mlas-to-gujarat/article32307533.ece
09 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,||Kondotty youth turn Good Samaritans||The local people of Kondotty and neighbouring areas won many a heart by responding quickly and efficiently to the Air India Express flight crash at Calicut International Airport on Friday night. Keeping aside the fear induced by COVID-19, the people of Kondotty swung into action to take the crash victims to hospitals. The ease and alacrity with which they handled the emergency of unparalleled proposition earned them the praise of many, including Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and several other ministers, MPs and MLAs. The kudos they got on social media had wider ranges. “We never saw an accident of this nature. Yet we know how we mustered so much courage and commitment,” said Muhsin K., who was in the forefront of the rescue effort. Dozens of youngsters from neighbouring localities came running to the spot within minutes after the flight plunged down the runway. The CISF security men guarding the gates did not wait long to allow the local men in to help the victims. “Humanity drowned every norm there,” said a senior CISF officer, refusing to divulge his name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kondotty-youth-turn-good-samaritans/article32307844.ece
09 August 2020||IDUKKI,||Bring down Mullaperiyar level, Kerala urges T.N.||With a considerable increase in the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam, Kerala has asked Tamil Nadu to initiate urgent measures to keep the storage in the dam at a manageable level. The water level in the dam reached 134.85 ft at 10 p.m. on Saturday, an unprecedented increase of over 10 ft in two days. The maximum level of the dam is 142 ft. There was an inflow of 8,143 cumecs while the discharge was 167 cumecs. In the event of the water level touching 136 ft, Tamil Nadu should draw water from Mullaperiyar to the Vaigai dam. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta has written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart K. Shanmugam in this regard, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. Kerala should be warned at least 24 hours before the spillway shutters are raised, the letter said. The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam which stood at 116.20 ft on August 3 shot up to 131.25 ft at 2 p.m on Friday. The dam recorded a rainfall of 198.4 mm for the past 24 hours, Mr. Mehta said adding that immediate steps should be taken to release water in phases. The details of the water level in the dam and the water flow should be handed over to and discussed with Kerala. There was heavy rainfall in the State, especially in Idukki, leading to a heavy inflow of water into the dam, he said. A flash flood on Thursday night inundated Vandiperiyar, Karinkulam Chappathu, and Upputhara towns downstream of the dam destroying the Santhipalam bridge and damaging the Kartinkulam Chappathu bridge. Though the water receded in the morning on Friday, the continuing rain was a cause of concern for the people. In the August 2018 flood, downstream areas of the dam suffered heavy damage after the dam was opened leading to release of water from the Idukki reservoir downstream. As the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put Idukki on red alert on Sunday also, the administration has taken steps to open relief camps in case of an emergency. The shutters of the Poringalkuthu dam have been opened with the water level rising in the Chalakudy basin. Kerala has also requested Tamil Nadu to ensure interaction between Kerala and Tamil Nadu engineers when water is discharged from the dams in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) system. ( With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bring-down-mullaperiyar-level-kerala-urges-tn/article32307525.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala crash toll hits 18, probe begins||“I have been Civil Aviation Minister since June 2019. We have addressed all concerns. We would not have given clearance to the airport without addressing the issues,” he said. He said the Mangaluru crash in 2010 too had given them many lessons. “We learned lessons from Mangaluru. And we continue to learn,” he said. “Tabletop runways do pose a challenge. But that challenge is factored in when you give clearance for commanders with a certain amount of experience,” Mr. Puri said. The Minister praised the captain of the ill-fated flight, Deepak Vasanth Sathe, for his services, saying, “He was a decorated pilot.” Mr. Muraleedharan, who accompanied Mr. Puri, also dismissed reports that the runway had been dangerous. Reiterating that permission had been granted for large aircraft to operate after detailed examinations and clearance by the DGCA, he said he had not heard or seen any official report describing the airport as “unsafe.” Mr. Puri announced an interim relief of Rs. 10 lakh to the kin of the dead, Rs. 2 lakh to the seriously injured and Rs. 50,000 to those with minor injuries. “This is only an interim relief from Air India,” he said. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, too, visited Karipur along with several other members of the State Cabinet. Announcing a relief of Rs. 10 lakh to the family of the victims, Mr Vijayan said the State would sponsor the treatment of the injured. He also visited the injured at different hospitals. “If any further assistance is required, the State will take an appropriate decision to support them to get back to normal life,” Mr. Vijayan said. Among the 18 dead, four were children. Eight of the victims were from Kozhikode, six from Malappuram and two from Palakkad districts. Mr. Vijayan lauded the quick response of the local people to the accident. He said the speed in rescuing the victims had been instrumental in reducing the number of casualties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-crash-toll-hits-18-probe-begins/article32307532.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||IMA flags death of 196 doctors to PM||“For doctors and their families who are at special risk, the government must ensure timely and standardised care. Every life saved of a doctor directly benefits the thousands of patients who depend on them for medical care,” he said. The Association, in its letter, also asked for extending state-sponsored medical and life insurance facilities to doctors in all sectors. “A good percentage of doctors who have lost their lives are general practitioners,” said the IMA, adding that these doctors, who have died in the line of their professional duty, merit favourable consideration for succour and solace to their families. “An increasing number of doctors are getting infected and losing lives due to COVID. General practitioners are usually the first contact for most patients and a significant proportion of the population consult them for routine fever and related symptoms. They also happen to spend quality time in consultation and practise clinical medicine. As of today, we have lost 196 of our doctors. It is pertinent to mention that COVID does not differentiate between government and private sector,” the Association noted. “Also, it is pertinent to draw your attention to the demoralising effect to our healthcare community,” said the Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-flags-death-of-196-doctors-to-pm/article32307541.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||People should tackle EIA legally: Jairam Ramesh||Former Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh on Saturday said the Environment Impact Assessment Act (EIA) 2020 as a subordinate legislation violated the parent Environment Protection Act, adding that the Modi government had proposed the changes keeping in mind the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ criteria. In a virtual interaction organised by the Research Department of the AICC and moderated by former MP Rajeev Gowda, Mr. Ramesh said the proposed changes would not only dilute the environment laws but would take away the powers of the States. “I think the legal reason against the EIA is very strong and I would encourage people to take to legal recourse,” he said. He also alleged that the MoEF had blocked its sites to prevent public comments on the EIA from coming in. “When I was the Minister, once I got 800 mails. I knew Greenpeace was behind it. I gave them a call, told them one mail was enough. I laughed, they laughed but I didn’t block the site,” Mr. Ramesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-should-tackle-eia-legally-jairam-ramesh/article32307549.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China Major Generals discuss Depsang||The Depsang Plains along with the Pangong Tso are the two major areas of concern in the ongoing stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. This is the first Major General-level talks since the stoppage of all established meetings between Colonels, Brigadiers and Major Generals following the violent clash at Galwan on June 15. Military talks since then have been limited to Corps Commander level. As reported by The Hindu on June 2, there is heavy Chinese presence in the Depsang Plains, at a crucial area called the Bulge, and PLA troops have also been blocking Indian Army patrols from reaching the Patrolling Points (PP) 10 to 13. There has also been build up of tanks and armoured vehicles on the Chinese side very close to the LAC. The Chinese ingress in this area threatens Indian positions at Burtse and Raki Nala well inside Indian territory and further DBO by bringing Chinese troops closer to the 255 km long crucial Darbuk-Skyok-DBO road. Depsang is also close to the Karakoram Pass, overlooking the very strategic Saltoro Ridge and Siachen glacier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-major-generals-discuss-depsang/article32307534.ece
09 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Gauhati Univ. to resume classes from September 1||A week after the Assam government set September 1 as the tentative date for reopening schools and colleges after the COVID-19 break, the Gauhati University has decided to resume regular classes from September 1. “This is for the information of all concerned that the Gauhati University is preparing to restart regular classes for post-graduate (PG) 4th semester, under-graduate (UG) 6th semester, LLB 6th semester and BALLB, BBALLB and B.COM LLB 10th semester,” the university said in a notification. Hostels will also be reopened and exams for UG and PG students with physical presence of the students will be held from September 22 and September 25 respectively, it said. According to the notification, resuming classes was subject to any changes the UGC may come up with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gauhati-univ-to-resume-classes-from-september-1/article32307767.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Heavy flood to Jurala likely for a week||With heavy rains in the catchment areas of Krishna and its tributaries in Maharashtra and Karnataka forecast to be continued for the next 2-3 days, although with reduced intensity, the heavy flood to Jurala and Srisailam is expected to continue for at least one week. The heavy flood is expected to improve the water storage in Srisailam considerably as the Central Water Commission has forecast that it is likely to receive a flood of about 8.4 tmc ft in 12 hours from 6 pm on Saturday to 6 am on Sunday as the inflows are set to go up to over 1.94 lakh cusecs. Jurala is likely to get nearly 10 tmc ft water during the same period with the inflow forecast of over 2.26 lakh cusecs. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC) forecast, Narayanapur is likely to receive nearly 9.6 tmc ft of flood in 12 hours from 8 pm on Saturday to 8 am on Sunday with inflows in the range of 2.22 lakh cusecs and Tungabhadra dam expected to get nearly 5 tmc ft water with inflows of about 1.13 lakh cusecs. As Tungabhadra dam is only half full, any spillway discharge is ruled out for the next 7-10 days even in case of the continued flood in the current measure. As of Saturday night (9 pm), nearly 1.96 lakh cusecs of flood was being discharged from the 28 spillway gates of Jurala and 22,000 cusecs from the power house. However, the realisation of flood at Srisailam in that measure is likely to happen only from the wee hours of Sunday, flood monitoring officials said, adding that the actual inflows into the common reservoir of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana was about 1.74 lakh cusecs at 9 pm on Saturday. The CWC has advised the authorities of major reservoirs in the Krishna basin to maintain close watch for increased inflows over the next 2-3 days. According to a CWC bulletin, 8.9 cm rain was recorded in Koyna catchment area in 24 hours preceding 8.30 am on Saturday. Similarly, it was 7.5 cm in Warana, the catchment area of Warna dam, and 7.2 cm in the catchment area of Krishna river – Mahabaleshwar and these areas are forecast to get good rains for the next 4-5 days. In the Godavari basin, flood at Laxmi (Medigadda) barrage was around 1.41 lakh cuses with forecast of further increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heavy-flood-to-jurala-likely-for-a-week/article32307817.ece
09 August 2020||New Delhi,||AirAsia plane aborts take-off after bird-hit||An AirAsia India aircraft departing for Mumbai on Saturday morning aborted its take-off at Ranchi airport after encountering a bird hit, said the airline spokesperson. “AirAsia India aircraft VT-HKG operating from Ranchi to Mumbai as flight i5-632 encountered a bird hit during scheduled departure at 11:50 hrs, today, 8th August 2020,” stated the spokesperson. The pilot aborted take-off and the aircraft was being inspected, the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/airasia-plane-aborts-take-off-after-bird-hit/article32307544.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Many were returning after months||The Air India Express plane from Dubaithat crashed in Kozhikodeon Friday was a repatriation flight operated under Vande Bharat, and those on board were returning after being stranded for several months. The passenger manifest shows that as many as 56 of the total 175 on board were stranded tourists reuniting with their families after months. There were 10 infants, as well as six crew members on the flight, taking the total to 191.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-were-returning-after-months/article32307550.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED questions actor Rhea’s brother||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother, Showik, who is also an accused in the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Mumbai on Saturday. The ED is recording the statements of all the accused under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. On Friday, it quizzed four persons, including Mr. Showik, Ms. Chakraborty and her former manager Shruti Modi. The agency is looking into their financial transactions, as Mr. Rajput’s father has alleged that Rs. 15 crore was transferred from his account in a short span of time. The CBI, which has started probing the charges of abetment of suicide, criminal conspiracy, cheating, wrongful restraint, wrongful confinement and theft, is planning to visit the Mumbai residence of Mr. Rajput, to examine the room where his body was found hanging on June 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-questions-actor-rheas-brother/article32307557.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Six BSP MLAs in Rajasthan move SC||Six Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs, who “merged” with the Congress in the Rajasthan Assembly, have moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of a case, seeking their disqualification citing defection, which is pending in the State’s High Court. The MLAs, led by Lakhan Singh, said the merger of two legislative parties in the House is protected under Paragraph 4(2) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. According to the paragraph, a merger is not defection if two-thirds of the members of the legislature party has agreed to it. The MLAs said the BSP’s Legislature Party was a total of six members in the Rajasthan Assembly and all of them had agreed to the move. Hence, there is no defection, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-bsp-mlas-in-rajasthan-move-sc/article32307564.ece
09 August 2020||Thiruvananthauram,||KSDP into manufacture of medical equipment||The Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP) has now ventured into the manufacturing of medical equipment and systems that can be used during a pandemic situation. In the first phase, the company has begun the manufacture of swab examination booth that enables secure swab collection, easy isolate system, and mask disposable bin. The first order for 23 booths has been received from the Alappuzha district panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ksdp-into-manufacture-of-medical-equipment/article32307843.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The Hindu scribe awarded||The K.P. Narayana Kumar Memorial Award for Social Impact Journalism went to The Hindu’s Shiv Sahay Singh for his report on “Death by digital inclusion: on faulty public distribution system in Jharkhand.” The award was instituted by the 2001 batch of ACJ in the memory of their classmate who died in 2019. The ACJ Investigative Journalism Award went to Nitin Sethi for his series on electoral bonds published by HuffPost, India .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hindu-scribe-awarded/article32307540.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Several safety steps implemented: DGCA chief||Several recommendations made for the Calicut airport in 2011 by an air safety committee constituted in the aftermath of the Mangaluru crash were implemented, while a few could not be executed due to the lack of land availability, said the chief of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), Arun Kumar, in an interview on Saturday. “The safety area on both sides of the runway was increased, and some other measures were also adopted. These were implemented in several batches until 2017. However, the length of the runway could not be increased because of land availability issues,” the DGCA chief said. The DGCA is the aviation safety regulatory body of the country. Mr. Kumar said the length of the two runways at the Calicut airport is 8,000 feet, which he claimed is adequate for wide-bodied and narrow-bodied planes. Friday’s ill-fated aircraft was the narrow-bodied Boeing 737. A separate audit of the airport done in 2019, following multiple runway excursions in rainy conditions, also led to Mr. Kumar making stringent observations, as many as 16, against Calicut International Airport. These included concerns about “excessive rubber deposits”, “water stagnation”, and “several cracks”. “These actions were acted upon. AAI procured a rubber removal equipment machine and did periodic friction tests as well. Several actions were taken, including against errant officials. We were satisfied with compliance,” Mr. Kumar said. He also told The Hindu that the aircraft touched down in the second attempt, after aborting landing in the first instance — an indication of adverse conditions making the landing tough. Pilots are encouraged to abort landings if they have apprehensions. He said that the aircraft landed beyond the touchdown zone of zero feet to 3,000 feet, increasing the chances of overshooting the runway, and stopped 10 feet beyond the runway safety area. Mr. Kumar said he will not speculate about the cause of the accident. “Only the flight data recorder and the voice data recorder (two black boxes) will reveal the cause. Anything could have gone wrong — adverse wind conditions or some technical malfunction,” he said. A team of the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau — the agency in-charge of probing accidents — arrived at the accident site on Saturday morning. The team will seek help from Boeing, as well as their U.S. counterpart, the National Transport Safety Board, for downloading the data and analysing it. This is likely to take “a day or two”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/several-safety-steps-implemented-dgca-chief/article32307546.ece
09 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Woman stabbed to death||A 40-year-old woman was stabbed to death allegedly by her close relative over a financial dispute in Manuguru town on Saturday morning. The victim was identified as Habeeba Begum, a chicken shop operator of Ambedkar Centre locality in the coal town. Police said she was walking to home after collecting drinking water at the roadside tap near her house when a bike-borne man, later identified as her close relative, attacked her with a sharp knife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-stabbed-to-death/article32307799.ece
09 August 2020||New Delhi,||Pak. intruder killed in Rajasthan||A Pakistani infiltrator was killed by the Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday along the India-Pakistan international border in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, officials said. “BSF troops observed a Pakistani intruder who crossed the IB. He was challenged but he still crossed the fence. Troops fired upon him and he hid behind a bush, but was found dead during search of the area,” the BSF said. Officials said that this was the first time that an infiltration attempt had been made at night in the area.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-intruder-killed-in-rajasthan/article32307561.ece
09 August 2020||New Delhi,||CBI registered case with “indecent haste”, Mumbai police tell SC||The Mumbai police on Saturday told the Supreme Court that the CBI had proceeded with “indecent haste” to register a case into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. It said the CBI should have waited for a final decision from the Supreme Court on a plea by actor Rhea Chakaraborty to transfer a case of abetment to suicide registered against her from Patna to Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-registered-case-with-indecent-haste-mumbai-police-tell-sc/article32307566.ece
09 August 2020||New Delhi,||Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral tests positive for COVID-19||Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral, who attended a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Law and Justice on August 6, has tested positive for COVID-19. All other members who attended the meeting have been told to take the necessary precautions. Ironically, the meeting was to discuss the efficacy of online court proceedings in the time of COVID-19 pandemic. The panel was headed by BJP MP Bhupendra Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akali-dal-mp-naresh-gujral-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32307570.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 5,000 test positive in State for tenth day in a row||For the tenth day in a row, over 5,000 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, even as Chennai reported less than 1,000 cases for the second consecutive day. A total of 5,883 persons tested positive in the State on Saturday, taking its overall tally to 2,90,907. As many as 53,481 persons are undergoing treatment. However, the number of persons who died of COVID-19 continued to rise, with another 118 fatalities recorded by the Health Department. Twenty of them died in Chennai, while there were 10 deaths in Coimbatore, eight in Chengalpattu and seven in Tirunelveli. A total of 4,808 persons have succumbed to the infection in the State till date. A 29-year-old woman who had a history of gestational diabetes was brought dead to a private hospital in Chennai on August 6. She had complained of fever and breathing difficulty, and died of COVID-19. A 30-year-old man from Thanjavur was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on August 3. He died on August 6 due to respiratory failure, COVID-19 and diabetes. Till date, a total of 2,32,618 persons have been discharged after treatment in the State. Of the 5,043 patients who were discharged on Saturday, 869 were in Chennai, 366 in Ranipet and 327 in Tiruvallur. A total of 986 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai, while Theni recorded 452 new cases. Chengalpattu followed with 425 cases, while Tiruvallur had 391 infections. Five districts reported 200-plus cases — Kancheepuram (284), Tenkasi (203), Thanjavur (227), Thoothukudi (245) and Virudhunagar (246). Nine other districts had 100-plus cases. They included Kanniyakumari (196), Cuddalore (192), Coimbatore (183), Vellore (154) and Dindigul (138). Madurai recorded 91 cases. The number of individuals tested so far in the State crossed the 30-lakh mark, reaching 30,41,529. In the last 24 hours, 67,553 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 31,55,619. More private laboratories have been approved for COVID-19 testing — Micro Therapeutic Research Labs Pvt Ltd, Chennai; Billroth Hospitals; Clinical Laboratory Services, Chennai; and Raos Pathlab, Salem. As of date, there are 129 testing facilities in T.N. U.T. toll at 80 Puducherry recorded five more COVID-19 deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 80. The Health Department, in a statement, said five persons — three in Puducherry and two in Karaikal — died of the viral infection in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory also witnessed 268 new admissions during the period. Of the new cases reported, 228 were from Puducherry region, 38 from Karaikal and 2 from Yanam. With this, the total tally went up to 5,087 cases. At present, 1,953 patients are under treatment in various hospitals in the four regions of the Union Territory. As many as 3,054 patients have been discharged so far. Lockdown warning Taking a serious note of the growing number of cases, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday said his administration would be compelled to impose lockdown if people did not heed the advice of the government to maintain physical distancing at public places. In a press conference held online, the Chief Minister said: “We have been repeatedly telling people to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene. But people are not listening to the advice and without knowing the seriousness of the spread of virus, they are gathering at public places without taking precautions.” The Chief Minister said the government had received several inputs about the spread of virus in fishing hamlets and after religious gatherings. The State Disaster Management Authority meeting would be convened on Wednesday to take stock of the situation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-5000-test-positive-in-state-for-tenth-day-in-a-row/article32307711.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AAI officials inspect cargo area of Chennai airport||Following the explosion in Beirut and the subsequent concerns raised over the storage of huge quantity of ammonium nitrate at Manali, Airports Authority of India (AAI) carried out an inspection of the cargo area of Chennai airport on Friday. The AAI officials said that although the chemical had not been stored in the cargo area, the inspection was done as a precautionary measure to ensure that there was no lapse and the area was secure. “Cargo is a vast area and several consignments arrive. Substances like ammonium nitrate can only be shipped. So, the question is not just about that. It is about knowing if there is any discrepancy and to monitor the goods that arrived here now. When we heard about this development, we wanted to be cautious and do an inspection,” an official said. No hazardous substance There was no issue at the airport and no substance that was potentially dangerous for long term storage had been kept in the area, he added. “There are hazardous chemicals that are imported but we get a notification well in advance for the same and make elaborate arrangements for storing them temporarily in a designated area till the time the importer takes them out after clearance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aai-officials-inspect-cargo-area-of-chennai-airport/article32307693.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges PM to halt NEP implementation||DMK president M.K. Stalin has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, urging them to halt the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 until the situation is conducive to follow due process enshrined in the Constitution. “At the outset, while the country is reeling from the impact of COVID-19 pandemic and the economy is stagnating, the unilateral decision to approve the NEP 2020 without discussion or deliberation in Parliament undermines the foundational principles of our democracy,” he said in the letter. Today, the unilateral move by the Central government to have a larger say on education policy has serious repercussions on the idea of federalism, which is the mainstay of the Indian union, Mr. Stalin said. Suggestions ignored “When the draft of the policy was given for public scrutiny in 2019, the DMK had strongly opposed various provisions and submitted suggestions to the Centre. However, the NEP that has been approved is no way different to its previous draft in 2019 with none of the recommendations incorporated,” he added. Mr. Stalin pointed out that the proposed policy threatens the progress made in educational attainment, access and quality in the country by undermining not just the authority of States but also setting up additional barriers to social justice and equity in the country. Additional barriers “The one-size-fits-all approach in this policy create unnecessary additional barriers for students from all parts of the country and all backgrounds to access education,” he added. Mr. Stalin pointed out that the two-language formula with compulsory Tamil learning has already been implemented and progressed well in Tamil Nadu and the three-language formula proposed in the education policy with a compulsory option of Sanskrit at all levels of education, including higher education, cannot be accepted. “This move undermines the glory and dignity of Tamil language and is an affront to the feelings of the people of Tamil Nadu,” he said. The National Education Policy has stated that it wants to reduce the burden of learning on students and parents, but the assessment for class 3, 5 and 8 seems antithetical to that notion, Mr. Stalin said. He also flayed the move of standardised entrance examinations for college admissions and said this discriminates against students from marginalised groups. The education policy has not mentioned anything about the reservations for socially backward communities and has fewer provisions for increasing the female enrolment ratio in schools and in the higher education system, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-pm-to-halt-nep-implementation/article32307721.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-passes to be issued for two more categories||The Greater Chennai Corporation will approve 30% more e-pass for entry of persons from other parts of the country, owing to introduction of two additional categories for issuance of e-passes. At present, the civic body has approved just 33% of the applications for e-pass to visit the city, rejecting more than three lakh applications. The civic body had been issuing e-pass only for three categories — marriage, death and medical emergency. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Saturday said people who seek e-pass for “work-related” travel to Chennai will get it. “Anyone who wants to appear for an interview will get e-pass for visiting Chennai. Persons who want to sign a business agreement may apply for an e-pass,” said Mr. Prakash. Guest workers from other States will be permitted under a different category, with facilities for 14-day quarantine by the employer. “At least 1.4 lakh guest workers left the city by train free of cost. We spent Rs. 18 crore to send them home. They have started returning to Chennai. We will approve e-pass for such persons,” said Mr. Prakash. Positivity rate Stressing the need for COVID-19 containment activities for at least another three months, Mr. Prakash said the case positivity rate was 8.5% in the city and was expected to fall 6% by the end of August. “The case fatality rate is 2.12%. Our target is to reduce it to 1.5%. The case doubling rate is 72.2 days. It was 64 days last week. Many zones of north Chennai have registered a case doubling rate of 140 days,” said Mr. Prakash. The civic body had made arrangements to admit 625 patients with breathlessness without testing for COVID-19, he said. The Corporation tested 14,000 people on Friday. As many as 1.07 lakh persons have tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 11,606 active cases have been reported. “Most of the COVID-19 care centres are under lock and key. Just 3,300 beds are occupied. We have 17,500 beds in COVID-19 care centres,” said Mr.Prakash. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 had reduced from 40 to 20 every day. About 16 lakh people had been on quarantine. About 12 lakh people had been taken out of quarantine in the city, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-passes-to-be-issued-for-two-more-categories/article32307689.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Small temples, churches, mosques to open from Aug. 10||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced that small temples whose annual revenue is below Rs. 10,000, and small mosques, dargahs and churches can reopen for worship from August 10. He also announced that driving schools would be allowed to reopen from August 10. A G.O. was issued for the same on Saturday. The CM said the places of worship and driving schools would follow the existing standard operating procedures. “Permissions for opening temples should be obtained from the District Collector concerned, and in the Chennai Corporation limits, the Corporation Commissioner will grant permission. In other Municipal Corporations, permissions should be taken from the Collectors,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-temples-churches-mosques-to-open-from-aug-10/article32307709.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Take serious note of complaints regarding corruption in issuance of e-passes, HC tells T.N. govt||The Madras High Court on Friday impressed upon the need for the State government to “seriously” look into scores of complaints regarding government officials making illegal money, even during a grave situation posed by the pandemic, by collecting bribe for issuing e-passes to people for travelling from one district to another. Justices N. Kirubakaran and V.M. Velumani said: “For the past few months, people have been unable to work or travel from one place to another for various purposes and they have been put to untold misery. Though the government is not responsible for the present position, some corrupt officials involved in issuing e-passes are bent upon making a booty.” “It is very shocking to know about such incidents and also about cut-throat corrupt officials in the system. They are like cruel bloodthirsty wolves and they should be dealt with an iron hand. Throughout the State, there are allegations that there are brokers available for getting e-passes, and the rate ranges between Rs. 500 and Rs. 2,000,” the judges noted. The observations were made while passing orders on a habeas corpus petition filed by C.M. Sivababu, president of the Tamil Desiya Makkal Katchi, to produce six adolescent boys and girls who were reportedly detained against their wishes in a private spinning mill in Tiruppur. Taking serious note, the court had directed the police to act. Accordingly, the Superintendent of Police reported to the court that a raid conducted in the mill on Thursday did not lead to any findings on employment of child labour. However, it was found that the mill had employed 331 people, of whom 133 were aged between 14 and 18, brought from various districts, and most of them were from Tiruvannamalai. Adolescents rescued The chairperson of the Tiruppur district welfare board told the court that only on July 28, the Labour Department officials had conducted a raid and found 95 workers, including 42 adolescents and two children. Since many adolescent workers complained about low wages, they were rescued and sent back to their native districts. When the judges interacted with some of the adolescent children through videoconferencing on Friday, they did not complain about the working conditions but appeared to have been tutored. “This is a classic case demonstrating how corrupt government servants utilise any situation to make illegal gains,” the judges said, and directed the mill management to explain, by August 20, how it managed to transport so many people from one district to another during a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-serious-note-of-complaints-regarding-corruption-in-issuance-of-e-passes-hc-tells-tn-govt/article32307713.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gendered impact of COVID-19 takes centre stage at discussion||The pandemic and its gendered impact took centre stage at a virtual discussion organised by the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation on Saturday, as experts deconstructed the effect COVID-19 has had on women’s work, nutrition security, reproductive health and education, and gender-based violence. “Pandemics, outbreaks and emergencies, in general, have differential impacts on women and men, and experiences depend on biological and gender characteristics as well as their interaction with other social determinants. Both global and national plans for COVID-19 preparedness and response need to be grounded on a strong gender analysis,” said Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organisation (WHO). Since there was only a limited availability of disaggregated data based on sex and age, she urged the States affected by COVID-19 to collect, report and analyse data based on these and other factors. “A gender analysis of the data can be undertaken and States should invest in quality gender-responsive research on the differential impacts of COVID-19 on men and women,” she added. Informal workforce Highlighting the impact of COVID-19 on women’s work, food and nutrition security, Nitya Rao, professor, University of East Anglia, U.K., spoke about how a large number of women in the informal sector were among the first to be affected when the pandemic struck. “It is necessary to address the devaluation of women’s work as well as all forms of structural violence, that is central to their dignity, equality and justice,” she said. Poonam Muttreja, executive director, Population Foundation of India, stressed the need to provide uninterrupted reproductive and maternal healthcare services. “Studies from across the globe indicate how a lack of investment in family planning is impacting public health measures. Capacity building of women front-line workers, who are large in numbers and are often the only points of contact for women in remote places, should be done, and counselling services should be strengthened,” she said. Stating that gender-based violence would get exacerbated as the pandemic goes on, she said that it was imperative to have a response to this factored into the public health system in the country. Highlighting the increase in the care burden for women, Dr. Kezevino Aram, president, Shanti Ashram, Coimbatore, said that women have had to take up multiple roles that they were previously sharing with other individuals or support services. She stressed on the need for protective measures in the informal sector so that women were not exploited. “From a community point of view, I feel that never before has it been so important for public health interventions to look at decentralised governance as an important medium of building composite responses to the pandemic,” she added. Avni Amin, scientist, Gender Team, Department of Reproductive Health and Research, WHO, spoke about the global gender impact of COVID-19. Among the critical interventions necessary to address the concerns surrounding children affected by the closure of schools and anganwadi centres, is a cluster-mapping exercise, said Anjana Mangalagiri, senior fellow, Institute of Social Sciences. This must be undertaken in each block to update data on children below the age of six, she said. “The rights and needs of children have been largely ignored through the crisis and if there is no focus on their growth and development, this will be a humanitarian crisis in the making,” she added.  Pandemics, outbreaks and emergencies have differential impacts on women and men Soumya Swaminathan Chief scientist, WHO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gendered-impact-of-covid-19-takes-centre-stage-at-discussion/article32307715.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Death data released by IMA contradicts Minister’s statement||The data on the number of doctors who have died of COVID-19 has sparked a political controversy in Tamil Nadu, with two wings of the Indian Medical Association releasing different sets of figures. The Indian Medical Association (headquarters) made an official statement on August 7 that 43 doctors had died of COVID in Tamil Nadu. Both Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and the State IMA president had rejected the quoted figure earlier this week, after the DMK’s Udhayanidhi Stalin tweeted the data set. The IMA’s data on State-wise doctors’ deaths was widely circulated on social media earlier this week. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, IMA (headquarters) disclosed the details of 196 doctors who had died of COVID-19 in the country. The IMA’s submissions included a document containing the deceased doctors’ details like name, age, IMA branch and speciality. Forty-three of them were from T.N. — the highest figure in the country. “The entire data is from within IMA. The details were verified by another IMA member or by local branches. We have published authentic data. When we released only the numbers, it was subjected to varied interpretations. We have now released the names of the doctors. The State can investigate the details and find out whether the deaths were COVID-19 or non-COVID [deaths]. Our concern is that so many doctors have died,” said R.V. Asokan, honorary secretary-general, IMA (HQs). K. Senthil, president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, said two government doctors had died of COVID-19 in T.N., while C.N. Raja, president of IMA-Tamil Nadu, said that as per their list, 20 private practitioners had died of COVID-19. Hence, 22 doctors had succumbed to the infection in all. Dr. Raja said, “The data that 43 doctors have died is wrong. As soon as we received it, we started to cross-verify the list. We are investigating the deaths, and there seems to be non-COVID deaths too. We have asked all IMA branches to check and get supporting documents,” he said. In the midst of all this, doctors have begun to question if the State government has any data on doctors’ deaths at all. When the data was sought, an official said he would collect the details and then provide them. However, a group of doctors have been collecting details from various doctors’ groups and from Facebook since the start of the pandemic. “From March till date, 27 doctors have died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. They include two government doctors — Kalyanaraman of Thoothukudi and Sugumaran, chief medical officer of Madurantakam GH. Fourteen other doctors, including five in the government sector, have died of other reasons during the pandemic,” said a doctor, on the condition of anonymity. A majority of those who died of COVID were aged between 40 and 60, and a few above 60. The Health Minister could not be reached for comment. A senior health official said data released by IMA was not related to the government. Disclose details: Stalin DMK president M.K. Stalin urged the Health Minister to disclose the number of doctors who had died of COVID-19 in T.N. In a tweet, he referred to the data released by IMA. “Hiding deaths is not the way to prevent deaths,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-data-released-by-ima-contradicts-ministers-statement/article32307719.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police to strictly enforce lockdown||The Greater Chennai police have issued instructions to be followed by the public during the complete lockdown on Sunday. In order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the government has announced complete lockdown on Sundays. The public have been requested not to venture out unnecessarily and gather on the streets without maintaining personal distancing norms. Exempted categories No vehicle will be allowed to ply on the road on Sunday except those meant for milk distribution, medical purpose, emergencies and funeral. Private vehicles meant for medical emergency and print and electronic media are exempted. Other vehicles plying without reasons will be seized under section 144 CrPC. For this purpose, 193 police traffic check-posts have been established all over the city. This regulation will be followed on all Sundays till the end of this month. For any queries, traffic control room may be contacted at 044-23452330 / 044-23452362 and 9003130103.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-strictly-enforce-lockdown/article32307683.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Food delivery agent held for selling ganja||The Guindy police have arrested a 32-year-old woman, working as a food delivery agent, on charges of delivering ganja to customers across the city, over the past few months. The police seized 3 kg of ganja from her. According to the police, Vanitha was arrested near Madipakkam on Friday. During an inquiry, she reportedly told the police that she had started delivering ganja recently. “Her service used to be sought by a woman in Koyambedu regularly. After a few trips, she began asking Vanitha to deliver some parcels and used to pay her for this,” said a police officer. Initially, Vanitha did not know about it and continued to deliver the parcel. Soon she came to know that it was ganja. “But the woman convinced Vanitha to continue delivering the parcel and promised good payment,” the officer said. “She used to get Rs. 2,000 for every delivery and she made multiple deliveries every day,” said the officer. Based on information, G. Chandru, Inspector attached to Guindy police station, and his team nabbed her. She has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-delivery-agent-held-for-selling-ganja/article32307687.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fort of Marudu Brothers, a symbol of resistance, re-emerges||Reduced to rubble in 1800, the fort of the Marudu Brothers at Aranmanai Siruvayal in Sivaganga district, a symbol of resistance to the British, is gradually rising like as a phoenix. The Archaeology Department of the State government has undertaken the restoration work at a cost of Rs. 60.13 lakh. “The funding has come from the Asian Development Bank (ADB),” said Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan, Minister for Tamil Development and Culture. The Archaeology Department is using lime and sand paste for the restoration works. Workers from Kovilpatti and surrounding areas who have expertise in restoration work are employed. “We are erecting a strong fencing normally designed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI),” he said. The fort and the village fell into the hands of the British on July 30, 1800. “The fine extensive village of Sherewele (Siruvayal), almost destroyed by the flames, which had spread with great fury, accelerated by a high wind, fell into our hands without opposition, although every house was capable of a sturdy defence, and it had a very thick hedge all around it,” Colonel James Welsh, a friend-turned-foe of the Marudu Brothers, had said in his book Military Reminiscences . Welsh maintained a good relationship with Periya Marudu and Chinna Marudu, but fell out with them after they refused to hand over Oomaithurai, the brother of Kattabomman. His reminiscences of the two brothers offer good insights into their characters. The elder brother was called Wella, or Vellu Murdoo, but he had nothing to do with the management of the country. “He was a great sportsman and gave up his whole time to hunting and shooting. Being a man of uncommon stature and strength, it was even said that he could bend a common Arcot rupee with his fingers,” Welsh had written. Writing about Chinna Marudu, Welsh says, “Though of a dark complexion, he was a portly, handsome, and affable man, of the kindest manners, and most easy access; and though ruling over a people to whom his very nod was a law, he lived in an open Palace, without a single guard.” “Yet this very man, I was afterwards destined by the fortune of war, to chase like a wild beast; to see badly wounded, and captured by common peons; then lingering with a fractured thigh in prison, and lastly, to behold him, with his gallant brother, and no less gallant son, surrounded by their principal adherents, hanging in chains upon a common gibbet,” Welsh had recorded. They were subsequently hanged in Tirupattur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fort-of-marudu-brothers-a-symbol-of-resistance-re-emerges/article32307724.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA Selvam, who met BJP chief, wants suspension revoked||Suspended DMK MLA Ku.Ka. Selvam has asked the party to withdraw his suspension, stating that the decision was taken without hearing his side, and that it was not wrong to meet other political party leaders. Mr. Selvam was suspended from the party after meeting with BJP president J.P. Nadda and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in New Delhi on Tuesday. Mr. Selvam had claimed that he had met Mr. Goyal to ask for the construction of lifts at the Nungambakkam Railway Station in Chennai, which falls in the Thousand Lights constituency that he represents. DMK president M.K. Stalin had said a show-cause notice has been issued to Mr. Selvam asking why he should not be expelled from the party. Responding to the notice on Saturday, Mr. Selvam pointed out that even before hearing his side, it has been decided that he is guilty. “The decision of suspension is one-sided and against the principles of natural justice,” he said in his response. Mr. Selvam also claimed that the notice sent to him did not have sufficient details. “Nowhere is it mentioned that those belonging to the party should not meet cadres and leaders of other political parties,” he said. “Our leader [late] M. Karunanidhi also met the then Prime Minister who was from the BJP, which is known to everyone. Therefore, it is not correct to say I violated party discipline,” he said. Asking the party high command to withdraw the notice, he said: “If an inquiry is conducted in a fair manner, I will co-operate by giving the details sought by the party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mla-selvam-who-met-bjp-chief-wants-suspension-revoked/article32307699.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. draws flak for barricading the homeless||Activists expressed shock over the manner in which the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has put up tin sheets along the pavement on Gandhi Irwin Road near Egmore Railway Station to quarantine the primary contacts of homeless persons who tested positive for COVID-19 recently. There are over 45 homeless families living on the pavement on Gandhi Irwin Road. Most of them work as loaders for omni buses, but were jobless now in the wake of lockdown. On Tuesday, around 10 of them tested positive for COVID-19. “Some officials came and placed the tin sheets along the pavement where we live and pasted stickers with the Corporation’s logo on it. However, we are able to go out and come in. There is no restriction on that,” said a homeless person. However, the primary contacts do not stay on the platform after the tin sheets were placed. “We are not able to sleep on the pavement after the sheets were placed. Now, most of us stay at the entrance of Egmore Railway Station. The Corporation did not come forward to give food after quarantining us. We have to rely on NGOs,” he said. They had been using the railway track as an open toilet. “We are using a public toilet which is not cleaned properly. This poses a risk for us,” said another homeless person. Meanwhile, activists said that the Corporation should have a protocol for handling homeless families. ‘Inhuman act’ Individual homeless persons were tested and were taken to a shelter if found negative. But there were no shelters for homeless families. “It is inhuman to place tin sheets. Besides allowing primary contacts to move freely does not serve the quarantine purpose,” said an activist. An official said that some of the staff placed the sheets in a hurry to quarantine them. “They will be removed and the people will be taken to a shelter,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-draws-flak-for-barricading-the-homeless/article32307695.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ritchie Street shops flout all norms||Many shops on Ritchie Street, Chennai’s famous electronics market, are flouting all COVID-19 norms: they do not maintain physical distancing, fail to check the temperature of customers and also don’t provide sanitisers to them. And some are seen walking without a mask. On Saturday, many shops on Wallers Road had a few customers standing close to each other. The average size of most shops here are between 100 sq.ft-300 sq ft. “Today being a Saturday the footfall is high and we can’t afford to wait until each person gets a temperature check. We will lose the customer to a nearby shop,” said a shop owner. A few shops on Ritchie Street are also not following the guidelines given by the association. When the market re-opened, the associations had clearly said that only alternate shops should be kept open. All shops were marked with a red and green label with numbers 1 and 2 printed on them for this purpose. But in the last few days and specifically on Saturday, shops with red and green labels were kept open in many roads. Another shop owner here, who had a red label pasted on his outlet, said, “Opening shops on alternate days is really not helping us. We need to pay rent and salaries. If we close down for one day it means a huge loss,” he said. A shop onwer on Narasingapuram Street said traders from Burma Bazaar and other zones were allowed to sell their products here (like a shop-in-shop). R. Chandalia, secretary, Chennai Electronics and Infotech Traders Association, said he had not received any complaint so far and safety measures were being taken. Mukesh Khubchandani, president of All India Electronics Association, Chennai, said: “From time to time, we visit the shops.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ritchie-street-shops-flout-all-norms/article32307685.ece
09 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||BSNL pensioners’ twin medical woes||The pensioners of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) are constrained by the delay in getting medical reimbursement for more than two years. They are also facing difficulties in getting regular medical treatments in empanelled private hospitals, as these hospitals are not willing to provide treatment under the Medical Reimbursement Scheme (MRS). R. Venkatachalam, secretary, All India BSNL Pensioners’ Welfare Association, Tamil Nadu, said the BSNL had more than 30,000 pensioners on its rolls in the State and 1.50 lakh all over the country. A large number of them were suffering from various health issues, including cancer, needing regular treatment from specialised hospitals. For the past few months, a number of private hospitals had been denying them regular treatments because of delay in clearing the treatment charges for more than a year, he said. In some cases, the pensioners were asked to pay the bills and get them reimbursed. V. Ramarao, a retired staff, said the BSNL failed to pay the monthly medical allowance of Rs. 1,000 to a large number of pensioners. A senior official of BSNL, Tamil Nadu circle, confirming the financial constraints faced by the company and the delay in the clearing of medical bills, said the pensioners could surrender the company’s medical reimbursement scheme and migrate to Central Government Health Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bsnl-pensioners-twin-medical-woes/article32307698.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver arrested under POCSO Act||The police on Friday arrested a 45-year-old autorickshaw driver under the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act on charges of sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl at Avadi. According to the police, the girl was studying in Class 11 in a private school. On August 4, the girl’s parents had gone out of the house and she was alone at home. At this juncture, Srinivasan, the autorickshaw driver, barged into the house and sexually assaulted the girl after threatening her. She informed her parents about the crime and they lodged a complaint with the Avadi All Women Police Station. Srinivasan was arrested by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-arrested-under-pocso-act/article32307686.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leaders condole lives lost in Air India plane crash, landslides||Political leaders in Tamil Nadu extended their condolences to families of victims of the Air India Express plane crash at Kozhikode airport and the landslides in Munnar. “I express my deepest condolences to the bereaved family members and pray to the almighty for a speedy recovery of those admitted in the hospital. #KozhikodeAirCrash,” Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami tweeted. He also condoled the deaths caused by landslides in Munnar. Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam also tweeted his condolences. DMK president M.K. Stalin offered his condolences to the families of the victims. “Shocked to hear about the Air India plane crash in Calicut that was bringing home Indians who were stranded abroad due to #COVID19,” he tweeted. “I offer my sincere condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this tragedy and hope for a speedy recovery for the injured,” Mr. Stalin said. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri, while extending his condolences, said the lack of availability of runways was the reason for the accident. He also extended his condolences to Tamils who died in the landslides. Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan expressed shock over the crash. He also urged the Centre and the State government to announce compensation for the kin of the victims and those undergoing treatment. Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan said it was painful that people who had returned home with big dreams had died in the plane crash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leaders-condole-lives-lost-in-air-india-plane-crash-landslides/article32307722.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Environment award presented||The Dr. M.S. Swaminathan Award for Environmental Protection 2020 was on Saturday virtually presented to R.S. Paroda, former Director General, Indian Council for Agricultural Research, during an online meeting organised by the Rotary Club of Madras East. The award was presented for his outstanding contribution in the area of agricultural research, education and extension, especially in the field of conservation and management of agrobiodiversity. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Paroda said there was a need to scale up new innovations by involving the youth and the private sector needed to be embraced to ensure food and nutrition safety. World Health Organization’s Chief Scientist Dr. Soumya Swaminathan said this was the time to reflect on things that we were not doing very well before the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/environment-award-presented/article32307700.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Magazine publishers demand pending dues||The Tamil Nadu Magazine Publishers’ Association (TAMPA) has written to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, appealing for the release of dues pending to magazines from libraries across the State. R. Sakthivel, president, TAMPA, said the amount pending for the year 2019-2020 was yet to be released. “Initially, the Directorate of Public Libraries said that 50% of the amount would be released first. However, even this has been done only in a few districts,” Mr. Sakthivel said. Lockdown woes He said that this was a severe blow to several magazines that had already taken a huge hit because of the economic slowdown due to COVID-19 and its subsequent lockdown. In the letter, TAMPA also emphasised the need to increase the percentage of revenue that each library was allowed to spend on subscriptions of magazines and newspapers. “An upper limit of 6.5% of the revenue was set four decades ago, but this was not put into practice. This year, the directorate has stressed that the amount spent on magazines cannot exceed 6.5%,” Mr. Sakthivel noted. He added that this was unreasonable and appealed to the Chief Minister to increase the limit to at least 20%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/magazine-publishers-demand-pending-dues/article32307710.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Reserved seats being reduced in bank jobs’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday said that the reservation for OBCs, SCs and STs has been reduced in the recruitment drive announced by Bank of Maharashtra, Bank of India, Punjab & Sindh Bank and UCO Bank. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said that 1,417 posts were notified for recruitment on August 4. “382 posts for OBCs, 212 posts for SCs, 107 posts for STs and 141 positions for EWS should have been reserved. However, EWS quota has been increased by 1 to 142 while only 300 posts for OBCs, 196 for scheduled castes and 89 for Scheduled tribes were created. 116 posts in total has been reduced for OBCs, SCs and STs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reserved-seats-being-reduced-in-bank-jobs/article32307704.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin greets Anna’s great-granddaughter for clearing civil services exam||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday greeted Prithika Rani, great-granddaughter of C.N. Annadurai, over phone for clearing the civil services examination. He sent a letter wishing Rani to reach even greater heights and be a guiding force for India’s unity like Anna, according to a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-greets-annas-great-granddaughter-for-clearing-civil-services-exam/article32307703.ece
09 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID awaits chemical examination results||The CB-CID investigating the death of a man believed to be Sri Lankan underworld operative Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera, alias Angoda Lokka, early this July here also suspects that he might have been poisoned. The post-mortem certificate of the deceased, a copy of which is with The Hindu , states that the man’s finger and toenails were bluish in colour, a possible indication of poisoning. The senior civil assistant surgeon who performed the autopsy has observed in the document that the body did not have evidence of any ante-mortem external and internal injuries. The heart of the deceased was sent for histopathological examination while viscera samples were preserved and sent for chemical examination. The cause of death will be attributed based on the results of these examinations and the complete post-mortem report will be prepared on the same. Sources at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where the autopsy was conducted, said that there was no video record of the procedure as the body did not have external injuries or signs of suspicious death. Several Sri Lankan media had reported in July that Lokka could have been poisoned to death in India, many days before Coimbatore city police issued a statement on August 2 that three persons, including a Sri Lankan woman, were arrested in connection with the death of a man suspected to be Lokka. Five-day custody sought K. Shankar, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, said the agency has sought five days custody of the three accused, namely Amani Thanji, D. Sivakamasundari and her friend S. Dyaneswaran from Erode who were arrested for allegedly helping the deceased in obtaining an Aadhaar card and illegal stay in India. The court is likely to hear the custody petition on Wednesday. It is learnt that the seven special teams of the CB-CID have collected a large chunk of information regarding the deceased and the three accused for custodial interrogation. The investigators also found that the deceased underwent a cosmetic plastic surgery on his nose at a private hospital in R.S. Puram, Coimbatore, in February this year on the grounds that he was desirous of acting in films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-awaits-chemical-examination-results/article32307701.ece
09 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||State Government plans to promote handloom products through social media||The State Government is looking at ways to promote the sale of handloom products through social media, a Handlooms Department official said here. Officials of the Department, weaver service centres and the weavers from Pollachi and Sirumugai areas had a virtual meeting on Friday to discuss the challenges faced by handloom weavers because of the COVID-19 spread. The meeting was organised as part of the National Handloom Day. With physical distancing restrictions in place, only about 10 weavers from each cluster took part. The official said that with 60 handloom co-operative societies, nearly 15,000 weavers attached to these societies and an equal number of independent weavers, Coimbatore district was one of the largest handloom producing centres. The main challenge faced by these weavers now was marketing. At exhibitions held at industries and colleges on National Handloom Day last year products worth nearly Rs. 1 crore were sold. The expo could not be held this year owing to COVID-19 restrictions. But, the products need to be marketed. As there were stocks with the societies and weavers were getting some orders, the focus now was on sales. Hence, the government was looking at ways to promote handloom weaves through social media. To support the weavers during the lockdown, the State Government disbursed Rs. 2,000 for each handloom weaver family that had free power connection. There was a demand to continue with such a support till the situation became normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-plans-to-promote-handloom-products-through-social-media/article32307727.ece
09 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. comes to the aid of defunct societies||After giving a three-month breather to registered societies to conduct annual general body meeting, the State Government has once again come to the rescue of the societies; this time to the defunct societies though. Earlier, in an order, the Government had extended by three months the time period for registered societies to conduct annual general body in view of extraordinary circumstances prevailing due to COVID-19 pandemic. It had also said that the societies now had time till December end to conduct the meeting. In another order related to the societies, the Government had said that the defunct societies could now approach the registrar of the district concerned if the period of condonation was less than 10 years and the Inspector General of Registration if it was 10 to 20 years and the Government for period over 20 years. The latest order enhances the power of the district registrar by seven years – from three to 10, and the Inspector General of Registration by 15 years from five to 20 years. The move was aimed at helping defunct societies get their act together to revive the society at the district level. Move hailed Welcoming the move, consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said this would help defunct societies renew their membership and thereby make use of their immovable assets and operate bank accounts. The Government had, however, disallowed the demand for holding virtual annual general body meeting. Citing the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Rules, it said as it was mandatory for the members to be present and vote at the meeting, holding of virtual meeting was disallowed and that would require an amendment to the Tamil Nadu Societies Registration Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-comes-to-the-aid-of-defunct-societies/article32307728.ece
09 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police nab member of burglary gang||The Singanallur police have apprehended a member of the burglary gang that was on the prowl in residential areas of Coimbatore for several weeks. The police nabbed a member of the gang named Veeramani, a native of the Nilgiris, during patrol on Friday night. The police suspect that six more men operated with Veeramani during housebreaks and multiple attempts reported in the city. The first CCTV visual of the burglars roaming in underwear appeared on July 23. Special teams A senior official said that the special teams of the police were working to trace other members of the gang. Veeramani’s face was caught on the surveillance camera of a house while attempting a housebreak within the limits of Singanallur police station on Thursday night. Others had covered their faces with mask. The men made housebreak attempts at AG Pudur, near Irugur, and Kotari Nagar, near Singanallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-nab-member-of-burglary-gang/article32307743.ece
09 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID awaits chemical examination results in Sri Lankan gangster’s death||The CB-CID investigating the death of a man believed to be Sri Lankan underworld operative Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera, alias Angoda Lokka, early this July in Coimbatore, also suspects he could have been poisoned. The agency is awaiting chemical examination results to confirm or rule out poisoning. Post-mortem certificate The post-mortem certificate of the deceased, a copy of which is with The Hindu , states that the man’s finger and toe nails were bluish, an indication of poisoning. The senior civil assistant surgeon who performed the autopsy has observed in the document that the body did not have evidence of any ante mortem external and internal injuries. The heart of the deceased was sent for histopathological examination while the viscera samples were preserved and sent for chemical examination. The cause of death will be arrived at on the basis of the results of these examinations and the complete post-mortem report will be prepared on the basis of the same. Sources at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where the body was autopsied, said that there was no video record of the procedure as the body did not have external injuries or signs of a suspicious death. Several Sri Lankan media had reported in July that Lokka could have been poisoned to death in India, many days before Coimbatore city police issued a statement on August 2 that three persons, including a Sri Lankan woman, were arrested in connection with the death of a man suspected to be Lokka. K. Shankar, Inspector General of Police, CB-CID, said the agency had sought five days custody of the three accused, namely Amani Thanji, D. Sivakamasundari and her friend S. Dyaneswaran from Erode who were arrested for allegedly helping the deceased in obtaining an Aadhaar card and for the illegal stay in India. The court is likely to hear the custody petition on Wednesday. It is learnt that the seven special teams of the CB-CID have collected a large chunk of information regarding the deceased and the three accused for custodial interrogation. Plastic surgery The investigators also found that the deceased underwent a cosmetic plastic surgery at a private hospital in R.S. Puram in Coimbatore in February this year. The deceased underwent the procedure for a nose correction, claiming to the doctors that it was for acting in movies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-awaits-chemical-examination-results-in-sri-lankan-gangsters-death/article32307745.ece
09 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Palani MLA Senthil Kumar tests positive||I.P. Senthil Kumar, DMK MLA representing the Palani Assembly Constituency, tested positive to COVID-19 on Saturday. According to party sources, the MLA, who had given samples two days ago, tested positive to the virus. He was admitted to a private hospital in Madurai, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palani-mla-senthil-kumar-tests-positive/article32307945.ece
09 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Girl who lost father to alcoholism pleads with villagers to shun liquor||Nine-year-old Rakshita’s eyes welled up with tears when she pleaded with the residents of Kuttaiyur Village to shun liquor, as she had lost her father to alcoholism, and later her mother to illness. “Four siblings, including I, are left alone,” she said, narrating the tragedy her family faced because of her father’s addiction to alcohol. Rakshita said this to people at the camp organised by the Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Selva Charitable Trust, and Humanity During COVID-19 Group at the village on Friday to distribute relief materials. Kuttaiyur Village is located near the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border in Bargur Panchayat, Anthiyur Taluk. As the police personnel were speaking about the ill-effects of consuming liquor, Rakshita came forward and spoke about the loss of her parents, separation of the siblings, and her family’s ordeal in trying to make ends meet. Rakshita’s father Puttappan (41) died two-and-a-half years ago, while her mother Sakhi (30) died a year ago. Rakshita and her sister Jeya now stay with their 80-year-old grandmother Manjamma. They are in Class 5 and 4 respectively at the Government Tribal Residential Elementary School in the village. Two of her siblings, Akshita, a Class 8 student, and Mani, aged three, are staying with her mother’s sister at Devarmalai. The Rs. 1,000 that Manjamma received every month as old-age pension was the only source of income for the family.   Children’s future Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Salem Zone, R. Sivakumar asked people at the camp not to justify liquor consumption. “The future of your children lies in your hands. So keep away from liquor,” he said. Selva Charitable Trust founder J.J. Bharathi and Humanity During COVID-19 Group founder Naim Khan sponsored 120 packs of essentials that were distributed to the villagers of Kuttaiyur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-who-lost-father-to-alcoholism-pleads-with-villagers-to-shun-liquor/article32307747.ece
09 August 2020||ERODE/ salem,TAMIL NADU||Water level nearing 100 ft at Bhavani Sagar||With the inflow continuing to be around 13,000 cusecs, the water level at Bhavani Sagar dam inched closer to 100 feet on Saturday evening. At 6 p.m., the water level was 98.87 feet, as against the maximum reservoir level (MRL) of 105 feet. While the inflow was 13,602 cusecs, the discharge was 500 cusecs into Kalingarayan canal and 600 cusecs into Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals. The storage was 27.852 tmc, as against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. A Public Works Department official said that as per flood regulation norms, the quantum of water that could be stored for every month was specified: 100 feet in June and July, 102 feet from August to October and 105 feet in November and December. Once the water level touches 102 feet, surplus water would be discharged through the spillways into River Bhavani, he said. If the inflow continued to be around 10,000 cusecs, the water level would touch 100 feet by afternoon on Sunday. Inflow into Mettur increases The inflow to Mettur dam increased to 45,000 cusecs on Saturday morning. According to officials from the Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 70.05 ft against the total scale of 120 ft and the strored capacity of water in the dam was 32,743 mcft. The inflow to the dam was 45,000 cusecs and outflow to Cauvery river was maintained at 1,000 cusecs. The inflow increased to 43,000 cusecs from 30,000 cusecs on Friday night. Officials said 1,40,000 cusecs of water has been released from Kabini and K.R.S dams and the inflow is expected to gradually increase from Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-nearing-100-ft-at-bhavani-sagar/article32307731.ece
09 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MKU to approach DVAC over irregularities in conduct of exams||Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) administration will approach the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) over irregularities in conduct of examinations by the Directorate of Distance Education (DDE) of the university. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said on Saturday said that reports of malpractice in conduct of examinations at some distance learning centres in Kerala had surfaced. The administration has found that some centres allowed answer scripts written at homes of students to be inserted in answer sheet bundles during their semester examinations to be sent later for evaluation. They have found discrepancies in 29 applications till date and were probing the matter. Besides, five staff of the DDE have submitted letters admitting to tampering with the process of conducting examinations, he said. In their letter, they reportedly said that they wrote answers on scripts provided by the university in return for money at their respective homes and inserted the papers later in bundles before correction. The VC said that they would be questioning these employees further regarding involvement of any other employees after ordering their termination. “Centres outside the university’s jurisdiction were shut down due to such malpractice. We want to ensure that no more irregularities take place in centres at Dindigul, Theni, Virudhunagar and Madurai. Those found guilty will be punished and that is why we are approaching the DVAC,” he said. Registrar (in-charge) V. S. Vasantha said that they have called for a meeting with members of the MKU syndicate to decide further course of action. It may be noted that the DVAC is probing the issue of bogus marksheets and provisional certificates that were given by the DDE to some students who were enrolled at four centres in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mku-to-approach-dvac-over-irregularities-in-conduct-of-exams/article32307914.ece
09 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Artefacts from microlithic and iron age found||Several stone tools and artefacts belonging to microlithic age and iron age were found at the foothills of the Western Ghats in Manuthu - Paraipatti village near Usilampatti block in Madurai by K.T. Gandhirajan, an art historian who undertakes documentation of historical monuments across the State, along with a group of enthusiasts. Mr. Gandhirajan said that around 20 cup marks were found on a rock shelter found at the site. “Cup marks is a prehistoric art form that is found on rocks across the world. Though there are different interpretations regarding the cup marks, there is no specific meaning that can be derived out of them,” he says. The rock shelter, which is huge, can accommodate around 20 people and could have been used by hunters-gatherers during that period, he adds. Several stones belonging to microlithic age, dating back to around 3,000 to 5,000 years, were found near the rock shelter. These stones were of different colours, sizes and shapes. “These stones could have been used to tear down the hunted animals for consumption of meat,” he says. Agricultural activities Remains belonging to the iron age, including iron slags and moulds, were also found. “By the iron-age period, the people engaged in agriculture-related activities too,” he says. Burial urns were also found there. “By these remains we can infer that people belonging to different time periods and cultures settled down at this site. This region’s landscape was Mullai (forest) and these remains show the kind of civilisations that have evolved in the foothills,” he says. This place, which was an old trade route leading towards Chera kingdom, has high potential for further archaeological excavation, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artefacts-from-microlithic-and-iron-age-found/article32307706.ece
09 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai records less than 100 cases||Madurai district recorded less than 100 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 92 patients testing positive, the total tally of cases reached 11,898 on date. A total of 256 persons were discharged from COVID-19 care centres, private hospitals and the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) taking the total to 9,989. Madurai district slipped to the 11th position among all districts in Tamil Nadu in terms of active cases. Four patients from Madurai district succumbed to the virus on Saturday, raising the death toll to 282. The patients from Virudhunagar, Tiruchi, Dindigul and Thoothukudi districts admitted at the GRH and private hospitals in Madurai too died of the virus. Virudhunagar Despite a declining trend of positivity rate, there was no let up in number of deaths in Virudhunagar as four more deaths reported on Saturday took up the toll to 121. Three men and one woman, in the age group of 51 years to 82 years, died on Wednesday and Thursday. Meanwhile, the district recorded 246 fresh positive cases. With this, the total number of positive cases has come closer to 10,000-mark at 9,773. However, with 107 patients got discharged on Saturday (7,728 total discharge till date), the number of active patients stood at 1,924. Theni Theni had 350 fresh cases tested to COVID-19 on a single day, which took the tally to 7538. The number of people discharged from hospitals stood at 252. Dindigul Dindigul recorded 282 positive cases and the tally stood at 3747. The discharges from hospitals were at 53. I. P. Senthil Kumar, DMK MLA, representing the Palani Assembly Constituency tested positive on Saturday. According to party sources, the MLA, had given samples two days ago. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Madurai, sources added. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram had 39 new cases and the total positive cases was 3585. The number of people discharged from the hospital was 22. Sivaganga Sivaganga accounted for 55 fresh cases with which the tally went up to 2887. The number of patients discharged from the hospital was 60. Tirunelveli Sudden spurt in cases in southern districts continued on Saturday as these four districts collectively recorded 773 cases and witnessed 11 deaths while 543 patients who recovered from the viral infection were discharged. Thoothukudi continues to record 200-plus infections as the district had 247 fresh cases on Saturday that took its tally to 8,905 and active cases to 1,810 even as 229 patients were discharged from hospitals. The sudden spurt in infection took Tenkasi’s tally to 2,952 as the district reported 203 cases on Saturday that took the number of active cases to 1,032 even as 48 patients were discharged from hospitals. In Kanniyakumari, 197 more cases were recorded that increased the district’s tally to 6,222 and active cases to 1,896 after 126 patients were discharged from hospitals. The tally of Tirunelveli district touched 6,425 with the addition of 126 cases that took the number of active cases to 2,308 as 140 patients were discharged. While Tirunelveli lost seven patients, the highest loss on a single day so far, Thoothukudi witnessed the death of two patients and one each in Tenkasi and Kannniyakumari districts succumbed to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-records-less-than-100-cases/article32307917.ece
09 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Custodial death: HC directs CB-CID to conduct inquiry and submit report||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the CB-CID officials probing the custodial torture case of Mahendran, involving the same police personnel accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, to complete the inquiry in a month. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the CB-CID to complete the inquiry and submit a report on whether a cognisable offence was made out in the case. Mahendran who had suffered injuries on his head and private parts in illegal custody, was admitted to the Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for treatment. He later succumbed to his injuries. The petitioner S. Vadivu, mother of Mahendran, said that her son was tortured in illegal custody in the name of inquiry. After Mahendran was let off, Vadivu said that she was threatened by the Sattankulam police personnel of dire consequences if she spoke of the police torture to anyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/custodial-death-hc-directs-cb-cid-to-conduct-inquiry-and-submit-report/article32307912.ece
09 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||File counter affidavit: HC directs State||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to file a counter affidavit in yet another petition filed before the court complaining of alleged custodial torture by police. Justice R. Pongiappan directed the State to file a counter affidavit to the petition filed by B. Raja from Periyakulam in Theni district. The petitioner who runs a tea shop alleged that he was tortured by Periyakulam police. Raja said that he was picked up based on a complaint lodged by Santhosham, an AIADMK functionary. In the complaint, it was said that the ruling party member was verbally abused by the petitioner and two others during distribution of COVID-19 relief materials. He alleged that in the name of inquiry, the police stripped him naked and hit him with lathis in the presence of Santhosham who was in the police station. He was threatened not to reveal the torture meted out to him before the Judicial Magistrate concerned when produced for remand. When he was taken to the Dindigul District Jail, seeing the injuries, the Jail Superintendent refused to admit him and it was after this the police took him to the Government Hospital for further treatment before he was lodged in the prison, he said. Now out on bail, the petitioner said that he is still receiving treatment for the injuries. He said that though he had complained of the torture to senior police officials, no action was initiated against the police personnel involved. He sought a CB-CID probe into the torture incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/file-counter-affidavit-hc-directs-state/article32307913.ece
09 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Burnt body of woman found||Burnt body of a middle-aged woman was found on Gundar riverbed in Tirumangalam on Saturday. The body was found close to P.T. Rajan Street behind a match factory at around 4 p.m. Madurai Superintendent of Police, Sujit Kumar, inspected the scene of crime and the identity of the victim was yet to be established.  Bid to rob cash An unidentified man had attempted to break open an ATM machine at Thumbaipatti near Melur on Friday midnight.  Assaulted Four persons assaulted N. Lakshmanan,35, of Melur at Tiruvathavur on Thursday and robbed him of cash, phone and two-wheeler.  Chain snatched P. Ayyammal, 50, of Vadipatti, lost her seven sovereigns gold chain when two motorbike-borne men snatched it on Friday. M. Radhika, 43, of Arasadi also lost her nine sovereigns gold chain to bike-borne men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burnt-body-of-woman-found/article32307908.ece
09 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Burnt body of woman found||Burnt body of a middle-aged woman was found on Gundar riverbed in Tirumangalam on Saturday. The body was found close to P.T. Rajan Street behind a match factory at around 4 p.m. Madurai Superintendent of Police, Sujit Kumar, inspected the scene of crime and the identity of the victim was yet to be established. Chain snatched P. Ayyammal, 50, of Vadipatti, lost her seven sovereigns gold chain when two motorbike-borne men snatched it on Friday. M. Radhika, 43, of Arasadi also lost her nine sovereigns gold chain to bike-borne men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burnt-body-of-woman-found/article32307962.ece
09 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. announces lockdown in Yanam for three days||The government has announced a three-day lockdown, starting Sunday in Yanam to contain the spread of COVID-19. Regional Administrator of Yanam, Shivraj Meena, in an order issued on Friday, said the region would be completely shut from August 9 to 11. While medical shops will function, milk booths will be kept open from 6 a.m to 8 a.m and 6 p.m to 8 p.m. All government offices and banks will be closed during the three days. “Public movement is not allowed during this period and all are requested to make necessary arrangements in advance. Any violation of the above instruction is punishable under the provisions of Disaster Management Act 2005 and Epidemic Act 1897,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-announces-lockdown-in-yanam-for-three-days/article32307726.ece
09 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister appeals to COVID-19 cured persons to donate plasma||Persons who had recovered from COVID-19 should come forward to donate plasma, Health Minister C.Vijayabaskar said on Saturday. Plasma from people who recovered from COVID-19 would have antibodies against the virus. Infusing the antibodies to critically ill COVID-19 positive patients is expected to improve their chances of survival. “Persons who have been cured of the novel corona infection can donate plasma 14 days after their recovery,” Mr.Vijayabaskar said speaking to reporters after inaugurating a micro compost yards of the Pudukottai Municipality at Santhaipettai and Narimedu in the town. He pointed out that a plasma bank had been established in Chennai at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. Steps were being taken to open plasma banks in other districts too, he said. Mr.Vijayabaskar also disclosed that a 300-bed exclusive block for treating COVID 19 patients would soon become functional at the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. The three-storey block is coming up at a cost of Rs. 25 crore. The block would soon be declared open by Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami, he added. Mr.Vijayabaskar also disclosed that 31.71 lakh face masks would be distributed to the 4.58 lakh smart card holders in Pudukottai districts through ration shops. Two masks were being being to each member of a family listed in the smart cards, he said distributing the face masks to the ration card holders at the Adapanvayal Pudukottai Town Coperative Cooperative Stores ration shop. Later, Mr.Vijayabaskar inaugurated a seed processing centre of the Pudukottai Organic Farmers Producers Organisation (FPO) at Vadamalapur. He disclosed that eight FPOs have been formed in the district through the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business. Three FPOs have been sanctioned Rs. 60 lakhs each for establishing seed processing units with godowns, he said. Collector P.Uma Maheswari and senior officials accompanied the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-appeals-to-covid-19-cured-persons-to-donate-plasma/article32307954.ece
09 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Arrest murder accused’||Relatives and friends of Kalaivanan of Vagavasal, who died at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Saturday after being attacked by a gang a few days ago, staged a protest, demanding the arrest of the accused. According to sources, a group of three persons led by Kalaivani Subramani of the same area allegedly attacked the deceased with wooden logs on July 31 due to a previous enmity over contesting the local body elections. Kalaivanan was taken to the Government Medical College Hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries. His kith and kin thronged the hospital. They said they would not receive the body until the accused were arrested. However, they withdrew the protest after police assured that the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrest-murder-accused/article32307950.ece
09 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Schools will reopen only when conditions are safe’||Schools in Tamil Nadu will reopen only when the conditions are safe, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday. The spread of COVID-19 in the State is yet to reduce and medical experts have advised that more care should be given to children, he said, emphasising that schools would reopen only once the conditions are safe. Talking to the media after reviewing COVID-19 preventive measures and development works in Salem district, he said that committees had been formed to study the National Education Policy and the Environment Impact Assessment draft. The State government has followed the two-language policy — Tamil and English — right from the time of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai to the time of former Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa. “This government, which follows Jayalalithaa’s footsteps, will continue to implement the same,” he said. Regarding increasing the compensation for workers who die while on COVID-19 duty, Mr. Palaniswami said, “A total of Rs. 50 lakh has been announced for doctors and nurses since they treat COVID-19 patients. The Centre itself has announced that it would be provided through insurance. For other workers, Rs. 10 lakh was announced and this has been increased to Rs. 25 lakh and a government job for a person from their family.” e-pass issuance On the issuance of e-pass, he said District Collectors had been advised to simplify the process, and additional teams had been formed to issue the passes. Works on the Mettur surplus water scheme were expected to be completed in six months. “Once completed, it will improve the groundwater levels in the region and drinking water issues will be solved,” he said. Water has been released for irrigation in the delta region from the dam, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-will-reopen-only-when-conditions-are-safe/article32307717.ece
09 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Drivers seek relief, waiver of e-pass||Drivers of hired vehicles protested in front of Kandhampatti Regional Transport Office here on Friday highlighting various demands. The drivers gathered in front of the office and demanded that the State and Central governments provide relief measures for their families. The petitioners demanded that the State government should waive off e-pass requirements for hired vehicles as their livelihood is being affected due to this. The petitioners also demanded that governments should take measures to waive off penalty interests on loans availed by them. They also demanded that the government should waive off road tax and insurances for vehicles which couldn’t be operated during lockdown period. The protesters tried distribution of porridge at the place however, police stopped them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drivers-seek-relief-waiver-of-e-pass/article32307736.ece
09 August 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Woman found murdered in Sivakasi||Pragathi Monicka, 24, was found murdered inside her house at Periyar Nagar under Sivakasi East police station limits on Saturday. The police said that the woman, who had got married in June, was alone at home. Her husband Selva Manikandan, a Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi functionary, had gone for work in a fireworks unit. Neighbours found the woman lying in a pool of blood with cut injuries on her head and limbs and they alerted her husband. The police said a gold chain on her body was missing. Madurai Superintendent of Police, Sujit Kumar, who holds additional charge of Virudhunagar district, inspected the scene of crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-murdered-in-sivakasi/article32307915.ece
09 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest against amendments||Paddy was dumped into the Cauvery at Kumbakonam by members of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association on Saturday as a mark of protest against amendments carried out in some of the laws relating to the agriculture sector which, they contend, would favour the multi-national companies. Led by Sundara Vimalanathan, secretary of the association, the demonstrators claimed that the recent amendments to Essential Commodities Act, the Electricity (Amendment) Act and promulgation of “The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance” and the “The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020” were against the interests of farmers in the country and would result in takeover of the agriculture sector by the multi-national companies. Holding the national flag, they raised slogans urging the Centre to withdraw the amendments in order to prevent hapless farmers falling into the clutches of multi-national companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-protest-against-amendments/article32307942.ece
09 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Stir against accommodating positive patients in lodge||A group of people staged a protest alleging that COVID-19 positive patients were being being provided temporary accommodation at a lodge in Kumbakonam, here on Saturday. According to sources, a private hospital where COVID-19 infected persons were being treated has entered into an agreement with a lodge near Sarangapani temple to accommodate asymptomatic patients and those who require to be in isolation after their recovery from the infection. Revenue, Health, and Municipal officials visited the lodge on Saturday to inspect whether the facility had been set up as per the guidelines issued by the government. On hearing the news, a group of people gathered near the lodge and protested the setting up of the facility. They claimed that accommodating infected persons in their locality would result in local people contracting the virus. They demanded that the proposal be dropped immediately. However, the officials tried in vain to explain to the demonstrators that only asymptomatic persons and those who did not have the required facilities for isolation or quarantine at their houses would only be accommodated at the lodge. “Our attempts to clear the their misconception turned futile as the demonstrators continued to question the routine visits of doctors and nursing assistants to the facility to check the health of the patients lodged at the centre. They also refused to accept the fact that COVID-19 patients who require continuous or advanced medical support will not be accommodated in the facility,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stir-against-accommodating-positive-patients-in-lodge/article32307947.ece
09 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Minister: safe environment ensured for childbirths||Health Minister, C.Vijayabaskar has said that safe environment for child births was being ensured in government hospitals in Tamil Nadu despite the pandemic situation. Disclosing this to reporters here on Saturday, Mr.Vijayabaskar said that 3,700 mothers had delivered their babies in the State at a time when the official machinery was focussed on the controlling the COVID 19 outbreak for the past four to five months. Deliveries, be it normal or Caesarean, have taken place in a safe environment wherein a majority of the expectant mothers or the babies were not affected by the pandemic in any manner, he added. Stating that the number of persons getting cured of the novel coronavirus was increasing day by day, the Minister said hitherto a total of 30,88,066 persons have undergone the COVID-19 swab and blood sample tests in Tamil Nadu. Out of this, 2,27,578 have been cured of the virus infection and returned home. Calling upon the people to avoid self-medication if they suffer from fever or other symptoms related to COVID-19 virus infection, Mr.Vijayabaskar said the infection could be cured if identified at the early stage itself and urged the people to make use of the facilities available in the government hospitals for treating the novel coronavirus infection. Earlier, the Health Minister inspected the Baby Friendly Ward at the Government Rajah Mirasdar Hospital and the construction of a new building to mark the centenary of the Government Eye Hospital in the same premises. He also interacted with the doctors and para-medical staff involved in the COVID-19 virus infection curing exercise at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital during a review meeting chaired by him. Agriculture Minister, R.Doraikkannu, Rajya Sabha MP, R.Vaithilingam, Collector, M.Govinda Rao and others accompanied the Health Minister during the inspection and at the review meeting. Meanwhile, equipment required for treating COVID-19 virus-infected persons sponsored by Agaram Foundation were handed over to the TMC hospital by the representatives of the foundation in the presence of the Health Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-safe-environment-ensured-for-childbirths/article32307959.ece
09 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Centre for excellence in robotics||The Periyar Maniammai Institute of Science and Technology, Deemed to be a University, has joined hands with the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, to set up a Centre for Excellence in Robotics and Embedded System on its Vallam campus. According to a press release, the Centre for Excellence would be named as e-Yantra Lab and form part of the Electronic and Communication Engineering Department where latest robotic equipment from Nexrobotics Private Limited, Mumbai, would be made available for the students. Four PIMST faculty members have been trained on the basics of robotics at IIT, Bombay and completed the task-based training successfully through online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-for-excellence-in-robotics/article32307946.ece
09 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for killing cat||The Nachiyarkovil police have arrested Veeramani (19) of Swamimalai on the charge of killing a cat at Sakkottai on Friday. According to police, the accused hit the cat relaxing on the compound wall of a house at Sakkottai with a stone when he was carrying out sanitary operations in the area. As the stone hit right on the head of the animal, it died on the spot. Basheer Ahamed who was rearing the cat as a pet lodged a complaint with the Nachiyarkovil police. Veeramani was later released on own bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-killing-cat/article32307948.ece
09 August 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Heavy flow in Moola Vaigai||Following heavy rain in catchment areas of Vaigai and Periyar dams, there was heavy flooding at Moola Vaigai on Saturday. Heavy rainfall was recorded in catchment areas like Megamalai and Vellimalai Hills, Arasaradi, Indiranagar and Bommarajapuram for the past three days. Periyar dam recorded a rainfall of 83.2 mm on Saturday at 6 a.m. and Thekkadi recorded a rainfall of 40.4 mm. The water level in Periyar dam had risen to 133.80 feet at 6 a.m. A total of 1,671 cusecs was discharged from Periyar dam. Farmers say that last flooding in Moola Vaigai was nearly eight months ago. They say the heavy flow will help in addressing drinking water crisis and recharge irrigation wells along river banks. Following good rainfall in the Meghamalai hills, there was increased inflow at Chinna Suruli falls. But, due to COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, tourists were barred from entering the spot. The district administration had issued a press release urging people living along the river banks not to venture into the river due to heavy inflow of water. The officials were asked to form emergency rescue teams, identify flood-prone areas and set up relief camps with necessary amenities. The press release added that a control room that will function round-the-clock was set up at the Collectorate to attend to the complaints from the public. The Highways Department officials have been instructed to ensure that there was no water stagnation in bridges. The public health department officials have been asked to create awareness among the public to undertake preventive measures against the possible spread of dengue. The public have been asked to drink water only after boiling it. For any complaints related to flooding, people can contact 1077 or 04546-261093, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-flow-in-moola-vaigai/article32307922.ece
09 August 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||One held; stolen ornaments recovered||The Muthiahpuram police have arrested a youth from West Bengal in connection with theft of 40 sovereigns of gold ornaments. S. Winston Antony Xavier, 31, had gone to attend a function along with his family on March 26. The burglary came to light when he returned home. The police picked up T. Shranjit Mahanto, 26, of West Bengal, who was living near the house of Mr. Winston. The police recovered ornaments worth about Rs. 16.80 lakh and handed over the same to Mr. Winston on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-held-stolen-ornaments-recovered/article32307907.ece
09 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 659 more cases||The central region on Saturday recorded 659 new COVID-19 cases, with Thanjavur recording a single-day high of 227 new cases. The region also accounted for nine deaths -- three in Thanjavur, two in Tiruchi, and one each in Ariyalur and Karur. Men aged 36, 30 and 67 from Thanjavur died at the Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital of respiratory failure and co-morbid condition of diabetes. In Tiruchi, two men aged 72 and 36 died at a private hospital. A 60-year-old man with diabetes and renal failure from Ariyalur died at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital while a 60-year-old woman with coronary artery disease also succumbed to the virus. Thanjavur recorded a single-day high of 227 COVID-19 cases. The patients included housewives, students and shop keepers. Some of the patients also had symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Meanwhile, 81 patients were discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after recovering from the viral infection. Tiruchi recorded a drop in cases with 84 new COVID-19 positive cases. “Our positivity rate has significantly dropped. At our highest, it was even 15% but over the last week, it has been between 7 and 8%, which is almost half,” said S. Sivarasu, Collector. Meanwhile, on Saturday, 40 patients from the Tiruchi MGMGH and 25 from the COVID Care Centre were discharged and sent home after recovering from the viral infection. Pudukottai recorded 114 new COVID-19 cases among which were primary contacts, and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur recorded 30 COVID-19 cases. Of the 77 new COVID-19 cases in Nagapattinam were seven healthcare workers including three policemen, two sanitary workers and two doctors. The remaining patients are all immediate contacts of patients who tested positive earlier. The total number of COVID-19 cases is 1076. Perambalur recorded 45 new COVID-19 cases, while Ariyalur added 42. In Ariyalur, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported so far stood at 1247, of which 951 have recovered and returned home. Of the 42 new cases, 11 hailed from the rural parts of Ariyalur, and nine from Ariyalur town. Meanwhile, 277 new throat swabs were lifted from primary contacts, those in containment zones and people with symptoms and have been send for testing. In Karur, 40 patients tested positive, including two men from the Superintendent’s Office, a policeman form the Vadivel Nagar Police quarters. Patients also tested positive in Karupampalayam and Poosaripatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-659-more-cases/article32307951.ece
09 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Trade union members protest against changes in labour laws||Members of various trade unions, affiliated to the Opposition parties, staged demonstrations in various parts of the city and the district on Saturday in protest against the changes in labour laws and to press for their various other demands. The agitation was in protest against the amalgamation of Central labour laws into four codes and against the amendments to the Electricity Act and the cancellation of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited for 4G upgrade. The protesters, among other things, demanded sanction of Rs. 22,500 as compensation to labourers such as construction workers who had suffered job losses over for five months due to the lockdown. The agitators, representing the LPF, CITU, AITUC, INTUC, HMS and AICCTU, staged the demonstrations in front of the BSNL Office in the city and at Woraiyur and Edamalaiapattipudur. The union members also staged protests in Thuraiyur, Manapparai, Lalgudi and other centres in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-union-members-protest-against-changes-in-labour-laws/article32307956.ece
09 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Suspend implementation of biometric system at ration shops||Expressing concern over the possibility of the spread of the novel corona virus through the biometric authenticated distribution of essential commodities ration shops, introduced as a pilot project in Tiruchi and neighbouring districts, a section of activists in the city have urged the district authorities to suspend its implementation temporarily. Tiruchi district is one of the three districts in the State, which has been chosen to implement the new system on a pilot basis. Ariyalur and Perambalur are the other two districts implementing the system in the State. Under the system, the Food and Civil Supplies Department has established Aadhaar enabled biometric devices in all ration shops in three districts to scan and verify the fingerprints of card holders before distributing rations at points of sale. In Tiruchi district, the Food and Civil Supplies Department has already begun the system of distributing rations in Mannachanallur, Tiruchi (West) and Tiruchi (East) taluks. Though the new system, aimed at checking the malpractices and distribution of subsidised commodities to those in possession of fake ration cards, is largely welcomed by the people, the timing of implementation has received widespread criticism. Under the system, the cardholders have to place their fingerprints on biometric device to prove their authenticity to draw rations. But, it is said that there are practical difficulties in implementing the system at the time of the pandemic. Many cardholders, who visit the fair price shops, are poor and do not make use of sanitisers during the process of biometric authentication. Consumer activists are apprehensive that the physical verification of fingerprints on the device would give room for the spread of virus. However, a senior official of the Department of Cooperation said that hand sanitizers have been provided at all 1,224 fair price shops in the district. The sales personnel have been given clear instruction to ensure that all card holders cleaned their hands using the sanitizers before the affixing their fingerprint on the devices. Physical distancing and wearing of face masks have also been made compulsory. Hence, chances of the infection spreading from the rations shops were remote, he maintained. But consumers are not convinced. M. Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations, who visited a fair price shop at Ariyamangalam in the city, alleged that many consumers failed to use hand sanitisers while buying rations. Each shop had an average of 1,000 family cards. It was difficult to ensure virus protection norms when many consumers turned up on the day of distribution of important commodities. Mr. Sekaran claimed that a few States particularly Kerala had deferred the system due to COVID-19. There should be no urgency in implementing the system. The State government should postpone the project until COVID-19 situation was improved, he said. “The new system may be good to regulate the distribution. But, the timing of its launch is not right. Chances of people getting infection can not be ruled out when they place their fingers on the devices,” said Ghouse Baig, a consumer activist in Tiruchi, after visiting a fair price shop at Edamalaipattipudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspend-implementation-of-biometric-system-at-ration-shops/article32307961.ece
09 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PWD removes hyacinth from Uyyakondan canal||The Public Works Department has started removing the thick growth of water hyacinth on the city stretch of the Uyyakondan canal. Though the canal runs a distance of about 71 km from Pettavaithalai to Vazhavanthankottai, the Public Works Department (River Conservation Division) officials said that water hyacinth, a thick and dense weed, grows extensively on the city stretch of the canal, particularly from the Puthur aqueduct (near Kuzhumayi Amman temple) to Ariyamangalam. The growth is heavy wherever domestic sewage is being let into the canal. With nearly 700 cusecs of water being discharged into the canal for irrigation, the PWD has launched a drive to remove the weeds as it would impede the water flow. A senior official said water hyacinth from Puthur aqueduct to District Sessions Court has been removed so far. Besides a couple of earth movers, at least a dozen personnel had been engaged. Since water was expected to flow up to January, it had been decided to carry out the drive once in three months. A sum of Rs. 10 lakh had been earmarked for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-removes-hyacinth-from-uyyakondan-canal/article32307944.ece
09 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Constable ends life||A constable attached to Vathalai police station allegedly committed suicide on Friday night. According to sources, G. Anand (26), the deceased, had returned home at Analai near Thiruparaithurai around 11 p.m. after completing duty. He was found hanging from the roof of the cattle shed on Saturday morning. The Jeeyapuram police have registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-ends-life/article32307949.ece
09 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Idukki landslide hits Tirunelveli village||Ancestors of many residents of Bharathi Nagar near Kayathar had moved to a tea estate close to Rajamalla in Idukki district a century ago as there was no scope for farming operations in the dry region of Kayathar. They believed that tea gardens in the Western Ghats would make their life bright. When the first generation got a decent income, the next generation followed suit. While elders returned to Bharathi Nagar, their children stayed in the estate. Most of their wards too lived in Bharathi Nagar so that they could go to school. But on Thursday night, they came to know that landslides had buried their relatives. Officials say 55 persons had died but residents say 72 had died. “As educational institutions are yet to open, most of the children were with their parents in the tea estate only to be buried,” says Antony, Kayathar town secretary of Puthiya Thamizhagam, who has lost 15 close relatives. A girl, who is residing in her grandparents’ house in Bharathi Nagar and studying in Class 10 and did not go to the tea estate as she could not get e-pass, has lost her parents, an elder brother and two sisters. The family of Shanmugaiah, 60, lost 12 persons including his children and grandchildren. Retrieving the bodies of victims will be a Herculean task and relatives here say that bodies may be buried there itself. Like Bharathi Nagar, nearby Govindapuram, Pillaiyarnaththam and Thalaiyaalnadanthaankulam villages have also lost their near ones. Eight people from Nadu Pillaiyaarkulam near Maanur in Tirunelveli district have been buried alive in the landslide at Pettimudy in Idukki district in Kerala. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal confirmed death of 8 persons from Nadu Pillaiyaarkulam who were working in the tea estate. Relatives have left for Pettimudy in two vans.  Minister expresses shock Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju has expressed shock over death of tea estate workers from Bharathi Nagar near Kayathar. In a statement, he said officials have been asked to collect information about landslide victims and share the information with Thoothukudi district administration. He is coordinating with the Government of Kerala for getting e-passes to the families or relatives of the deceased to reach Pettimudy. He said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has spoken to his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan to ensure proper medical treatment to the injured Tamils, Mr. Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idukki-landslide-hits-tirunelveli-village/article32307920.ece
09 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Former Sivakasi MLA dead||Former AIADMK MLA, V. Balakrishnan, passed away here on Saturday. He was 80. He represented Sivakasi Assembly constituency between 1980 and 1984. “He was the former party organising secretary and Virudhunagar district secretary,” said Minister for Diary Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji. Balakrishnan was admitted to a private hospital and died due to heart attack. He is survived by his wife, Dhanalakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-sivakasi-mla-dead/article32307910.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 deaths, 373 new cases in western districts||Ten COVID-19 patients, who were admitted to various hospitals in Coimbatore district succumbed to the disease on Thursday and Friday, according to the Health Department. As per the media bulletin issued by the Department, seven patients died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), two at private hospital and one at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. They were aged between 44 and 89. With these, the death toll in the district increased to 112. The district reported 183 new cases, taking total cases reported so far to 6,450. The patients were from various places including Selvapuram, SS Kulam, Neelikonampalayam, Karumathampatty, Irugur, Vadavalli, Karumbukadai, Sundarapuram, Vilankurichi, Ganapathy, Ramanathapuram, Somanur, Kuniyamuthur, Race Course, Pollachi, Podanur, Gandhi Ma Nagar and Ukkadam. As many as 62 persons, who recovered from the disease got discharged from ESI Hospital on Saturday. Hindustan Petroleum supplied garments and fresh vegetables to 170 COVID-19 workers at the ESI Hospital. In Tiruppur district, a woman aged 55 and a man aged 85 died of the disease, and the district reported 45 new positive cases, according to a tweet from District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. The new cases included four children. The cases were from corporation limits and Palladam, Mangalam, Dharapuram, Avinashi and Madathukulam blocks, Health Department said. Erode Erode district reported the death of two women, aged 70 and 62. The district saw 58 new positive cases that raised the tally to 1,012. Twenty-three cases were reported in Erode Corporation limits. While 41 cases of the new cases were contacts of those who tested positive earlier, 16 had no contact history and one case was a person who undertook inter-district travel. A total of 18 persons were discharged from the hospital, while 332 are under treatment. With 102 positive cases reported in corporation limits in the past three days, the civic body is focusing on conducting more camps to screen residents for influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). Five employees of the civic body tested positive after which the corporation’s main office was also closed. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that with a spike in cases in the past days, more fever screening camps were being held. Salem reported three deaths -- two men aged 54 and 71 and a woman aged 55. The district saw 55 new positive cases, of whom 54 were indigenous, including 40 from the Salem Corporation limits. One patient had travelled to Perambalur. In Namakkal, 32 cases were reported. According to officials, eight persons have travelled to Erode, Coimbatore, Salem and Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-deaths-373-new-cases-in-western-districts/article32307740.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Income loss forces cab service owner to convert vehicle into eatery||The owner of a Tiruppur-based tourist taxi service company has converted one of his cars into a mobile eatery after facing income loss due to COVID-19 lockdown. S. Krishnamurthy, who has been running a private taxi company for the past eight years, said on Saturday that there has been no rides for the two cars that he owns since the lockdown began in March. “We were able to manage for the past four months with the salary of my eldest son, but we could no longer meet our expenses,” he said. With a family of four, including his two sons, Mr. Krishnamurthy said that he could not pay the rent of the house at Solipalayam for the past three months. Having converted his car into an eatery at the end of July, Mr. Krishnamurthy parks the mobile eatery at Gandhi Nagar on Tiruppur-Avinashi Road near his tourist taxi office. He serves only lunch from Monday to Saturday to the customers. “I make anywhere between Rs. 500 and Rs. 600 a day,” he said. In comparison, he said that a long ride alone would fetch him around Rs. 3,000. “It is difficult, but we have to run the family,” Mr. Krishnamurthy, who was a driver for 20 years before he started his own tourist taxi company, said. The stringent rules for obtaining e-pass are the reason many taxi drivers and owners are out of job, he alleged. “If the State government abolishes e-pass, our livelihoods will be protected,” he asserted. C.P. Balaji, State joint secretary of All India Tourist Vehicle Drivers Association, suggested that the State government could bring a ‘spot e-pass’ system where e-passes are issued at check-posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/income-loss-forces-cab-service-owner-to-convert-vehicle-into-eatery/article32307734.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. Commissioner inspects fish market||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath on Saturday visited the Ukkadam wholesale fish market. A release from the civic body said he went to the market to check if traders and customers wore mask and observed physical distance norms. More than a week ago, the Commissioner had visited the market before dawn to only find the traders and customers violate the safety norms and market itself over crowded. He had ordered the closure of market for a few days. The Comm ssioner on Saturday also inaugurated the disinfection drive at the Selvapuram North Housing Unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-commissioner-inspects-fish-market/article32307729.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brick kiln worker killed in elephant attack||A man from Assam who had been working at a brick kiln in Periya Thadagam, near Coimbatore, was killed in wild elephant attack on Saturday. The Forest Department has identified the deceased as Babul Hussain (30). Forest officials said that Hussain was working at Madhu Sree brick kiln unit at Periya Thadagam, which is located around 1.5 km away from Thadagam reserve forest coming under Coimbatore forest range. They said that a wild elephant strayed from the forest in the early hours of Saturday and came near the brick kiln unit. The man reportedly tried to chase the elephant away. The elephant attacked the worker, who was critically injured. Forest officials were informed about the incident around 6.45 a.m. The injured man was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where he died without responding to treatment. Case registered The Thadagam police were also informed about the man’s death. The police have registered a case of unnatural death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brick-kiln-worker-killed-in-elephant-attack/article32307741.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers stage protest||Around 60 conservancy workers in Ward 67 of the Coimbatore Corporation staged a protest at the ward office in Ramananathapuram on Saturday morning. The workers, who started gathering at the start of duty hours at 5.30 a.m. did not sign the attendance register, boycotted work for the day and continued their protest till 11 a.m., sources said. The protest led by a contract conservancy worker with affiliation to a political party was a result of a fracas that brokeout at the ward office on Thursday last.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-stage-protest/article32307730.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Men booked for stealing jewellery||The Gomangalam police are on the lookout for two men who stole 29 grams of gold from a jewellery showroom at Kolarpatti, near Coimbatore, on Friday. The police said that two men visited RSG Jewel Makers showroom at Kolarpatti on Friday afternoon and stole 29 g of jewellery. The two men came to the showroom on the pretext of buying panchaloga jewellery. After spending some time at the showroom, they left. The owner of the showroom later found that some pieces of jewellery were missing. The owner lodged a complaint with the police. The police have collected surveillance camera visuals of the duo from the showroom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/men-booked-for-stealing-jewellery/article32307732.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC: Take steps to trace missing fishermen||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Centre and the State to take immediate steps to trace and rescue Ignatius, a fisherman who went missing off the Kanniyakumari coast on August 7. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli directed the Centre and the State to see that helicopters were deployed in the search operation. Ignatius went missing after his boat capsized near Thengaipattinam harbour. The court also sought details on the steps taken to trace Shibu, another fisherman who had gone missing off the Kanniyakumari coast in July. Federation of fishermen’s associations had moved the High Court seeking a direction to the Centre and the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-take-steps-to-trace-missing-fishermen/article32307911.ece
09 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Threat of Krishna basin getting flooded eases||The threat of flooding of the Krishna basin subsided slowly after reduced rainfall in Karnataka and reduced release of water from Maharashtra on Saturday Rainfall stopped across Belagavi district by Saturday afternoon. This reduced the inflow into the rivers Hiranyakeshi and Markandeya and the rivulet of Ballari Nala. Their catchment area includes the city, Belagavi taluk and Khanapur taluk. Reduced rainfall in Khanapur taluk also reduced the inflow into the Malaprabha. Inflow into the Naviluteertha dam on the Malaprabha reduced to around 14,000 cusecs by Saturday evening. The outflow was increased to 6,500 cusecs. The dam with a capacity of 37 tmcft now has around 27 tmcft of water. Maharashtra reduced the release of water into the Krishna and its tributaries. Officials managed the water levels in the Krishna by increasing the outflow from the Almatti dam to 2.2 lakh cusecs. Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi told media in Chikkodi that Maharashtra had not released water from Koyna dam as it was only around three-fourths full. Officials told him that the Koyna in Maharashtra had only around 71 tmcft of water as against its capacity of 100 tmcft. Hidkal dam on the Ghataprabha near Gokak has 43 tmcft of water against its capacity of 51 tmcft. Inflow into the dam reduced to 42,000 cusecs on Saturday. Eight dams on the tributaries of the Krishna like Doodha Ganga, Veda Ganga and Ghataprabha are still under water. But they are expected to open up for traffic if there is no rainfall in the next 72 hours, officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/threat-of-krishna-basin-getting-flooded-eases/article32307786.ece
09 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Flood situation under control’||The flood situation is under control in the State, as officers are closely monitoring the management of dams on an hourly basis, Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said in Chikkodi on Saturday. He said officers had pushed up outflow from Almatti dam to 2.2 lakh cusecs, following inflow of 1.8 lakh cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flood-situation-under-control/article32307784.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surge in demand for online extracurricular activities||With schools restricting the duration of online classes, an increasing number of working parents are signing their children up for private online tuition and extracurricular classes to keep them engaged. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in teachers and trained professionals offering a variety of classes, ranging from coding to painting to dance and even football coaching lessons. This is over and above the “traditional” online classes such as training for competitive exams and academics. While many of the companies offering classes have switched to online mode because of the pandemic, many teachers and artists who haveseen a reduction in their salaries or lost their jobs have decided to open their own enterprises and have designed online classes. Families who can afford it are using the opportunity to acquire new skills. Mitali Joshi, a designer and digital marketing expert who founded the Bengaluru-based company Your Future Skill, has started conducting Adobe Illustrator courses for students. “I decided to do this on the side, and have already conducted training for two batches. It is a five-day course which will end with an assessment. Students willget a certificate,” she said. Karan Bajaj, founder and CEO, WhiteHat Jr., which conducts courses in coding, said they had seen a surge in demand for online classes. They have four levels where children learn logic, structure, and algorithms to eventually make animations and applications. “While the beginner course involves building apps with logic and abstraction, at the intermediate level students learn to develop advanced art and single-character games. They finally move to the advanced and professional level courses,” he said. Parents pointed out that they were signing their children up for more extracurricular activities as they were saving a lot of time on commute. “Before the pandemic, my teenage son had football classes twice a week, and a weekly painting class. Now, besides these two classes, I have also signed him up for coding and yoga as he needs to be occupied through the day,” said Ramya S. Parents acknowledgedthat the time their children were spending sitting in front of a computer screen had shot up dramatically, but there was no other choice. Not all online classes are popular, especially those trying to coach children in sports. For instance, online football classes involve students learning and practising skills such as ball control, single leg tic tac, double leg tic tac, step over, and so on. Renu Bhatt, one of the founders of Stadium FC which was started in 2010, said they had seen a reduction in the number of children opting for online classes compared to previous years. “We have designed drills that students can do in a small area. We focus on their fitness and technique, and students can take the classes from a small room in their house. Although we have kept in mind logistics, online football coaching is not a big hit among students. They want to come out and play on the field,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surge-in-demand-for-online-extracurricular-activities/article32307659.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft Tourism Policy focuses on putting State on tourist map||Even as a beleaguered tourism industry grapples with the massive hit it has taken because of the COVID-19 pandemic, Karnataka is set to get a new tourism policy for the next five years. The final meeting to discuss the Draft Tourism Policy 2020-25 was held recently. The policy is expected to address aspects such as attracting more domestic and international travellers to place Karnataka on the tourist map of the country, giving a boost to various kinds of tourism such as heritage, wildlife, spiritual, cultural, adventure, coastal, nature, health, and agriculture, looking into the development of tourist destinations, providing basic amenities, and revenue generation. With its tagline ‘one State, many worlds,’ Karnataka has often been compared to the neighbouring Kerala and Goa, which are extremely popular among domestic and international travellers. Implementation Minister for Tourism C.T. Ravi told The Hindu that the new policy also takes up an evaluation of last year’s policy to see what has been implemented and what hasn’t, and why, apart from including a road map to implement the new policy by year. “We need the concurrence of the Finance Department, Planning Department, and then the Cabinet. Once [it is] through, the Chief Minister will release the policy by this month-end or the next month,” he said. Asked about what to expect from the new policy, he said to attract international travellers, entry fee into south Indian States could be waived through a mutual understanding to create a circuit to facilitate travellers between different south Indian States. In addition to this, district-level task forces will be initiated to make planning more inclusive, letting them decide on the dos and don’ts for those destinations instead of centralising them in Bengaluru, he said. The impact of COVID-19 has also been factored in for the initial survival and revival of the industry. “We have made a few changes to the subsidy application. A demand survey will be carried out as to where a budget hotel or resort needs to come up. Based on the fulfilment of conditions, we will give subsidy. Where there is abnormal growth, no subsidy is required. Other than through a policy, travel agents will be roped in with attractive packages to facilitate more tourists into the State, as the maximum number of tourists go through them,” Mr. Ravi said. The entire tourism ecosystem has had a non-starter season this year with the pandemic washing out the peak summer vacation period. Industry representatives have estimated that the situation is likely to improve only once a vaccine for COVID-19 is available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-tourism-policy-focuses-on-putting-state-on-tourist-map/article32307651.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 toll crosses 3,000 in Karnataka||The total number of deaths in the State due to COVID-19 crossed the 3,000-mark on Saturday, with 93 deaths reported. With this, the total number of deaths in the State stands at 3,091. The bulk of deaths were reported in July (see graphic).  As many as 7,178 COVID-19 cases were reported on Saturday, the highest single-day increase so far. The total number of cases in Karnataka stood at 1.72 lakh, according to a bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. The total number of people discharged was 89,238, with 5,006 new discharges recorded on Saturday. The number of active cases in the State as on Saturday was lower, at 79,765. Meanwhile, as many as 2,665 fresh cases were reported in Bengaluru, taking the total to 72,237. Seven other districts reported over 200 cases on Saturday. Ballari saw 607 cases. Saturday saw 43,883 tests conducted, including 22,310 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests conducted in the State added up to 16,68,511.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/toll-crosses-3000-in-karnataka/article32307655.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Recovered patient meets plasma donor||Days after he was discharged, a senior cardiologist from Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who recovered from COVID-19 with the help of plasma therapy, met with his plasma donor over a Zoom call on Saturday. Natesh B.H. was diagnosed with COVID-19 on July 16. Despite treatment, his symptoms grew worse, following which his colleagues and friends contacted the plasma bank set up under Mission COPE at HCG Hospital. Dr. Natesh received plasma donated by Kunal Ganna, a 21-year-old businessman, who had recovered from COVID-19 and donated his plasma in June. Within three days of receiving the plasma, Dr. Natesh made a recovery and was shifted to the ward after spending about five days in the ICU, said U.S. Vishal Rao, Associate Dean at HCG Hospitals and programme director of Mission COPE, in a press release. He was discharged on August 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recovered-patient-meets-plasma-donor/article32307648.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada study centre at Chamundi foothills||The State government has decided to establish the Kannada Classical Language Study Centre on a 10-acre plot at the foot of Chamundi Hills in Mysuru. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting convened by Kannada and Culture Minister C.T. Ravi in Bengaluru on Friday.The proposed land belongs to Mysore University, according to an official release. Mr. Ravi directed the authorities to initiate measures to ensure that the centre begins work within a month. He also warned that the government would not hesitate to initiate action against those officials delaying the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-study-centre-at-chamundi-foothills/article32307652.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committee to study high mortality rate in hospital||A committee will be formed to study the reasons for the high mortality of COVID-19 patients at the ESI Hospital in Rajajinagar, Bengaluru. Medical Education Minister K.Sudhakar, who made a surprise visit to the hospital on Saturday, announced this after an interaction programme with patients through videoconferencing. Till now, 421 patients have been admitted to the hospital, and 54 have died, which makes the mortality rate as high as 12.8%. There is a need to understand the reason for this, the Minister said. The hospital’s medical officer said a large number of cancer patients were getting admitted to the hospital. Also, patients have been coming in while in the later stages of infection, he said. However, he added, a death audit has been ordered and it will be submitted to the government. Dr. Sudhakar said therewere 494 beds at this hospital and 150 were for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-to-study-high-mortality-rate-in-hospital/article32307649.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested after he gets father killed||The city police, who launched an investigation into what appeared to be a kidnapping case, have instead uncovered a murder. The police on Saturday arrested the victim’s son and three others whom he had allegedly paid to kill his father. Paneer Selvam, 52, a resident of Ramamurthy Nagar, was abducted by a group of people in a car while he was on his way to a nearby temple on Friday morning. “During the preliminary investigation, we uncovered that the victim and his son Rajesh Kumar, 26, had a stormy relationship and fought over several issues, including property,” said a police officer. The police detained the son and under sustained interrogation, he allegedly confessed to ordering a hit on his father. According to the police, Kumar had given a supari for Rs. 10 lakh and paid an advance of Rs. 3 lakh to Parthiban, 29, who hails from Vellore, Tamil Nadu, and lives in Bengaluru. “Parthiban and his associates abducted Paneer Selvam and killed him. We tracked down and arrested Parthiban and two others, Stanley, 25, and Anand, 21, both residents of the city,” said a police source. The trio have allegedly confessed to the murder. They disposed of his body in a eucalyptus grove in Kolar, and the police have recovered it now. “The investigation revealed that this was not the first attempt on the life of Paneer Selvam. In March this year, the same gang had hit Paneer Selvam on his head with a wooden plank, but he survived. On Friday, once they abducted Paneer Selvam, the trio injected him with a poison and beat him up. He died in the car and his body was thrown away,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-after-he-gets-father-killed/article32307657.ece
09 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBP declared safe to visit||Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) has been declared as COVID-19 preparedness compliant by a team from the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services, Bengaluru, which conducted an evaluation. A release said that the team noted that the park was allowing a maximum of 4,400 visitors a day with staggered entry and had in place other precautions such as contact-less ticketing system, screening processes, and other SOPs. “We would like to clarify that persons with quarantine seal will not be allowed into the park,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbp-declared-safe-to-visit/article32307646.ece
09 August 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman found dead in river||An 87-year-old woman, who went missing on Friday, was found dead in the Hemavathi near Jannapura-Agrahara in Mudigere taluk on Saturday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Rudramma of Jannapura. Her body was found near a temple. She is survived by seven daughters. Her daughter Vinutha has filed a plaint with Gonibeedu police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-found-dead-in-river/article32307785.ece
09 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 10 crore for flood relief in Haveri district||Home Minister and district in charge for Haveri Basavaraj Bommai has said Rs. 10 crore will be released to the district for taking up flood relief measures and that Rs. 5 crore had already been released. Mr. Bommai told reporters in Haveri on Saturday that the district administration already had Rs. 6.24 crore at its disposal for calamity relief and on Saturday Rs. 5 crore had been released. The government would release another Rs. 5 crore and there would be no dearth of funds for relief measures, he said. The Minister said the administration had identified 144 villages that were prone to floods, based on the floods in Tungabhadra, Varada, and Dharma rivers last year and already precautionary measures had been taken. He said he had directed officials to immediately begin the preliminary survey on crop loss and loss to property, and added that an immediate relief of Rs. 10,000 would be given for house damage. Earlier, during his visit to flood-affected Kodala village in Hangal taluk and Kunimellihalli in Savanur taluk of the district, he said all the taluks in the district had received more than the average rainfall for August in the first week of the month itself. Consequently, crop loss and damage to property had been reported. Officials had been directed to immediately take up the primary survey, he said. Already, precautionary measures had been taken in flood-prone villages and an NDRF team too would deployed, he said. Regarding the permanent shifting of flood-prone villages, the Minister said people were reluctant to shift to places identified for shifting and wanted to build houses in the same place. A final decision would be taken in consultation with the villagers. And meanwhile, places had been identified for shifting eight to 10 villages permanently, he said. He was accompanied by Shivakumar Udasi, MP; MLAs Virupakshappa Ballari and Nehru Olekar; Deputy Commissioner Sanjay Shettennavar, and Chief Executive Officer Ramesh Desai, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-10-crore-for-flood-relief-in-haveri-district/article32307797.ece
09 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Some monkeys rescued using rope ladder||Officials and personnel of the Fire and Emergency Services and Forest Departments, who have been trying since Friday to rescue monkeys that had taken shelter on trees submerged by overflowing Tungabhadra river near Rajanahalli in Harihar taluk of Davangere district, had something to cheer about by Saturday evening. Five monkeys moved to safety using the rope ladder tied to the tree on the river bank. District Fire Officer for Davangere district Basava Prabhu Sharma, who has been overseeing the rescue operation, told The Hindu that using the rope ladder, five monkeys managed to come to the river bank. However, as the rope ladder started tilting, the others returned to the tree. He said the team had sent bananas and groundnuts in a rescue boat to the monkeys. He added that as the rope ladder was tilting, they took steps to stabilise it. Roughly around 50 monkeys have taken shelter on the branches of the submerged trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-monkeys-rescued-using-rope-ladder/article32307661.ece
09 August 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Rain intensity subsides in North Karnataka||With rain intensity decreasing in the neighbouring Maharashtra consequently reducing the inflow to Krishna river, there was some relief for the people of North Karnataka on Saturday as the water level in the rivers and streams started subsiding. Maharashtra reduced the release of water into the Krishna and its tributaries stood at 1.8 lakh cusecs by Saturday evening. Officials managed the water levels in the Krishna by increasing the outflow from the Almatti dam to 2.2 lakh cusecs. Farmlands on the banks of Benni Halla in Dharwad district and Tuppari Halla and Varada river in Haveri distric are inundated, damaging the crops. At Ganjigatti in Dharwad district, the body of the eight-year-old girl who was washed away in a stream was recovered after two days. And in Kalaburagi district according to initial reports, crops in 3.86% of the total sowing area have been damaged. In Bantwal The swollen Netravathi has inundated low-lying areas in Bantwal town even as rain continued to pound the coastal districts and ghat regions on Saturday. The taluk administration shifted people residing in low-lying areas of Bantwal to safe places. The river was flowing above the danger level of 8.5 m in Bantwal, having reached beyond 9 m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-intensity-subsides-in-north-karnataka/article32307673.ece
09 August 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Body of girl recovered||The body of the eight-year-old girl who was washed away in a stream at Ganjigatti village in Dharwad district was found two days after the mishap. The body of Sridevi Hanumanthappa Ganiger was found one-and-a-half kilometre away from the spot of the mishap at Ganjigatti village in Kalaghatagi taluk. The girl was washed away while crossing a road inundated by overflowing waters of Hire Keri on August 6. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has assured suitable compensation to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-of-girl-recovered/article32307795.ece
09 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||508 new cases in DK and Udupi||While five COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died and 314 new positive cases were reported in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada saw six deaths and 194 new cases on Saturday. According to the Dakshina Kannada district administration, all six deceased were from Mangaluru and this took the total number of COVID-19 deaths to 214. Of the 194 new cases, 98 had influenza like illness (ILI), 15 were primary contacts of COVID-19 positive persons and 12 had severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). Contact tracing of 69 persons was on. As many as 183 persons were discharged. The active cases in the district was at 3,374. With the death of five persons, the number of COVID-19 deaths in Udupi has gone up to 60. While four deceased persons were from Udupi taluk, one was from Kundapura taluk. Of the 314 new cases, 156 were primary contacts, 69 had ILI, six had SARI and four had history of domestic travel. Contact tracing of 79 persons was on. As many as 89 persons were discharged. The active cases in Udupi was 2,512, said the bulletin by the Udupi district administration. In Belagavi Meanwhile, Belagavi and Dharwad continue to record more cases, with 313 and 261, respectively, on Saturday. Belagavi recorded 313 cases while Dharwad recorded 261 cases. Dharwad recorded six deaths while Belagavi recorded one. Bagalkot recorded 149 cases, Vijayapura 143, Davangere 132, Uttara Kannada 117, Haveri 95, Gadag 94, and Chitradurga 63. In Davangere Davangere and Haveri recorded two deaths each, while Gadag and Vijayapura reported one fatality each. As many as 23 deaths and 416 cases were reported from the six districts of Kalyana Karnataka. Nine deaths were recorded from Ballari, with 607 new cases. Kalaburagi reported seven deaths and 261 cases. Raichur reported 295 cases, Yadgir 200, and Bidar 47. Two deaths each were reported from the three districts. Koppal recorded one death and 163 new cases on Saturday.  (With inputs from Hubballi and Kalaburagi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/508-new-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article32307793.ece
09 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kozhikode tragedy brings back Mangaluru crash memories||Friday night’s air crash at Kozhikode International Airport in Kerala, which claimed 18 lives, has brought back memories of a similar tragedy on May 22, 2010 in Mangaluru, which also has a table-top airport. Of the 160 passengers and six crew members, 158 including all crew members had died in Managaluru after the aircraft overshot the runway, fell into a gorge, and caught fire. The casualty in Kozhikode was less as the aircraft did not catch fire. However, an expert who facilitated the inquiry back then claimed that causes that led to the crash of Air India Express Boeing 737 in Mangaluru was vastly different in terms of cause and infrastructure of the two locations, besides the casualties they resulted in. M.R. Vasudev, former director of Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) who facilitated the inquiry of Mangaluru crash and later was posted its director, said the crash was due to error by the Captain as he ignored the co-pilot’s suggestion to go around instead of immediate landing. “Captain Zlatko Glusica had just come back from a 21-day-long leave after which Air India should have given refresher training. He was also given the round trip duty, flying from Mangaluru to Dubai and back, involving about eight hours of flying with limited rest,” recalled Mr. Vasudev. Dozing off in the cabin, he ignored co-pilot H.S. Ahluwalia’s request not to land immediately and go around instead. “At Kozhikode, however, the aircraft appears to have skidded on the slippery runway and fell into the gorge following heavy rains,” he said. MIA has had several infrastructure changes after the tragic incident. Mr. Vasudev said that MIA built 240 m of Runway End Safety Area (RESA) on both the ends of the 2,450-m-long runway following the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s directions after the crash. In contrast, Kozhikode airport has just 90 m of RESA. RESA is meant to arrest the speed of aircraft if it shoots the runway. The existing instrument landing system at MIA was fixed inside the earth as per DGCA recommendations, though the proposal to extend the runway for 2,700 m is in limbo for want of land acquisition. “The existing facilities at MIA were more than enough to handle aircraft of the desired size,” Mr. Vasudev said, adding it was distinctly different from that of Kozhikode. Work on construction of a parallel taxiway for 2,400-m length to reduce the waiting time for aircraft is on while 1,200-m taxiway is ready. Meanwhile, MIA Director V.V. Rao told The Hindu the Airports Authority of India has executed all works as suggested by DGCA to ensure safe handling of flights. There have been periodical inspection of facilities by the DGCA and no deficiencies were found.  Mangaluru crash was due to error by the Captain as he ignored the co-pilot’s suggestion to go around instead of immediate landing. At Kozhikode, however, the aircraft appears to have skidded on the slippery runway and fell into the gorge following heavy rains.M.R. VasudevFormer director of Mangaluru International Airport||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kozhikode-tragedy-brings-back-mangaluru-crash-memories/article32307671.ece
09 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Low-lying areas in Bantwal inundated by Netravathi waters||The low-lying areas in Bantwal town was inundated by the Netravathi even as rain continued to pound the coastal districts and Ghat regions on Saturday. The taluk administration shifted people residing in low-lying areas of Bantwal to safe places. The river was flowing above the danger level of 8.5 m in Bantwal, having reached beyond 9 m. Goodinabali-Bantwal Road, Baddakatte Fish Market, Panemangaluru, and surrounding areas have remained waterlogged since Saturday morning. Jeppinamogaru and surrounding areas on the banks of Netravathi in Mangaluru city too are under the threat of being inundated. The administration is shifting people to safe places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-lying-areas-in-bantwal-inundated-by-netravathi-waters/article32307791.ece
09 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents pour out woes on artificial flooding||Residents of Kundapur in Udupi district, who were aghast over continuous artificial flooding on NH66 inside the town, poured their woes to Minister for Ports and Fisheries Kota Srinivas Poojary on Saturday. Mr. Poojary visited Basrur Moorkai area on NH66 at the rquest of the Rashtriya Heddari Horata Samiti. The residents pointed out that they have been suffering from artificial flooding for over six years owing to the slow pace of the construction of a four-lane highway. Now that vehicles have been diverted on the service roads, to facilitate construction of main carriageways and underpasses, rainwater gets accumulated on the service roads thereby forcing vehicles and people to move through knee-deep waters. Mr. Poojary said he would speak to the district administration as well as NHAI officials to get the problem solved immediately. Kundapura Assistant Commissioner K. Raju told The Hindu rainwater was drained out by giving an opening as well as pumping it out. The administration has told NHAI to ensure rainwater does not get accumulated on service roads during monsoon, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-pour-out-woes-on-artificial-flooding/article32307792.ece
09 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Develop alternative routes to Charmadi Ghat’||While seeking about Rs. 50 crore for the flood relief operations in Dakshina Kannada, legislators from the district on Saturday asked the State government to seriously consider developing alternative roads and avoid use of Charmadi Ghat that is prone to landslips. During the review meeting for flood relief chaired by Revenue Minister R. Ashok, Pratap Simha Nayak, MLC, said landslips are seen in Charmadi Ghat, which connects Mangaluru with Chikkamagaluru, this monsoon too and the stretch has been closed for traffic till August 11. “Seeing the condition in the region and with forecast of heavy rain, there are less chances of improvement of the road,” he said, adding that there were four routes that could be developed as alternative roads. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty said sea erosion was found in new places and a major part of fisheries road in Sasihitlu had been washed away. He sought funds for building a sea wall in Someshwar, Meenakaliya and Chitrapura. Mr. Ashok said State government had released Rs. 5 crore for flood-relief work in Dakshina Kannada, and more funds will be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/develop-alternative-routes-to-charmadi-ghat/article32307789.ece
09 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||New DCP (Crime)||Vinay Gaonker has been appointed as new Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic). The State government transferred incumbent K. Lakshmi Ganesh and posted him as Additional Superintendent of Police, Bengaluru district. Mr. Gaonker was the Assistant Commissioner of Police (City Crime Record Bureau) and had been promoted recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-dcp-crime/article32307794.ece
09 August 2020||Mangaluru/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Railway track damaged||About 15 metres of the railway track embankment between Sakleshpur and Kadagaravalli Railway Stations on Hassan-Mangaluru railway line was washed away on Thursday following a landslip from the adjacent National Highway 75. A release from South Western Railway’s Mysuru division here said the landslip triggered further landslips next to the railway line. Rainwater from the road began gushing through the railway track uprooting a tree and bringing lot of muck. It also caused erosion of the banks of a nearby minor bridge and washed away the embankment. Protective works done earlier were damaged. Railway engineers have taken up restoration work. Meanwhile, after five days of heavy downpour, the intensity of the rain reduced in several parts of Malnad region on Saturday. Water has receded in some flooded areas and elected representatives have begun to visit the rain-hit areas. Parts of Koppa, N.R. Pura, Mudigere, Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru, Thirthahalli, Sagar, Hosanagar in Shivamogga, and Sakleshpur and Alur continued to receive rains, though with reduced intensity. People could not come out of their places and vast tracts of agriculture fields remain inundated. The growers of paddy, maize, and potato are worried about the yield this year. The inflow into Hemavati reservoir at Gorur in Hassan taluk has been increasing. Crest gates of the reservoir were opened on Friday evening to discharge water at the rate of 20,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-track-damaged/article32307672.ece
09 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Outflow from reservoirs rises as rain pounds Cauvery catchment area||Torrential rain in the catchment areas of Cauvery and Kabini rivers has increased the volume of inflow into major reservoirs in the region since the last one week. This has also led to high rate of outflow, which is inundating the downstream regions of major dams in the Cauvery basin. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), the cumulative discharge from Kabini and KRS from June 1 till August 8 is 39 tmcft and this is almost equal to the June and July quota of Karnataka’s obligation to lower riparian State of Tamil Nadu. But out of this, 16 tmcft of water has been released from Kabini reservoir alone between August 4 and 8 and this is set to increase further due to extreme weather conditions in Wayanad region of Kerala, which is the catchment area for Kabini. The inflow into the reservoir was at the rate of 64,449 cusecs and the outflow was 70,600 cusecs on Saturday. An outflow of nearly 11,500 cusecs for 24 hours equals 1 tmcft. The water level was 2,277.9 feet against the full reservoir level of 2,284 feet. The cumulative outflow from the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) was 14 tmcft from June 1 to August 8. But this will increase significantly during the next 48 hours as the KRS is nearing the full reservoir level and there is no let up in rains in the catchment area of the Cauvery. The inflow to the dam as measured at 11.30 a.m. on Saturday was at the rate of 77,848 cusecs and the outflow was pegged at 74,642 cusecs. The water level at KRS was 117.4 feet against the FRL of 124.8 feet, as per KSNDMC. The gross capacity of the KRS is 49.45 tmcft against which the available quantum of water as on Saturday is 40.56 tmcft. In view of the active monsoon in Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru, as there will be discharge from both Harangi and Hemavati, which feeds the KRS, authorities not only expect the dam to attain its FRL within the next two to three days. Vehicular traffic on the busy Mysuru-Nanjangud road was disrupted on Saturday after water from Kabini river overflowed onto the highway near Mallanamoole Mutt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/outflow-from-reservoirs-rises-as-rain-pounds-cauvery-catchment-area/article32307666.ece
09 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Four days of intense rain||The intensity of rain in the Cauvery catchment area can also be gauged by the quantum of precipitation in Kodagu, which had a deficit of 36% for the current monsoon season till August 4. But within a span of 4 days, the deficit has been narrowed to 13%. Kodagu district has received 580 mm of rain since August 1, most of it after August 4, against a normal of 187 mm for the period August 1 to 8, according to KSNDMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-days-of-intense-rain/article32307667.ece
09 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Congress teams to study flood situation in State||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) will constitute four separate teams to study the worsening flood situation in different parts of the State. On the way to Kodagu, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar spoke to reporters in Hunsur near here and said the teams comprising senior Congress leaders will tour different parts of the State and submit a report based on which the party will bring pressure on the State government to provide succour to the farmers. The visit by the team members will also help find out if the farmers, who had been affected by last year’s floods, had received any aid from the government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-teams-to-study-flood-situation-in-state/article32307669.ece
09 August 2020||YADGIR/RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Roads, bridges inundated||With inflow into the reservoirs built across the Krishna increasing, the discharge from the reservoirs increased causing inundation of some bridges and roads in Yadgir district on Saturday. KBJNL officials increased discharge of water from Basavasagar reservoir at Narayanapur on Saturday. The bridge between Sheelahalli and Hanchinal in Lingsagur taluk of Raichur district has been submerged and road connectivity between Hanchinal, Jaladurga, Yalagundi, Yaragodi and Kadadaragaddi villages has been cut off. Another key bridge across Krishna between Huvinadagi village in Deodurga taluk of Raichur and Kollur village of Shahapur taluk in Yadgir is facing threat of submergence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roads-bridges-inundated/article32307788.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Six deaths in Hassan||As many as six more people died due to COVID-19 and 136 people tested positive in Hassan district on Saturday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases increased to 3,294 and among them, 94 people have died so far. K.M. Sathish Kumar, District Health Officer, told the media that three people, native of Channarayapatna, one each from Belur, Arsikere and Holenarsipur died in Hassan. So far, 1,247 persons have been discharged from the designated hospital. Among 1,953 people undergoing treatment for COVID-19 , 41 are in the intensive care unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-deaths-in-hassan/article32307787.ece
09 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Downpour claims two lives in Alappuzha||At least two persons died in rain-related incidents in the district on Saturday. According to officials, C. Anandan, 68, died after he fell into a flooded field and got swept away at Karipuzha in Mavelikara. A three-year-old child, Nethel Lijo of Pallipuram, drowned in a waterlogged area in Cherthala taluk. A 70-year-old woman who fell into the Alappuzha-Changanasserry canal is yet to be found. Several places in Chengannur and Kuttanad remain submerged. Floodwaters entered a number of houses. KSRTC service Both the Pampa and Achencoil rivers breached banks, inundating low-lying areas in Chengannur. At least 17 relief camps were opened in Chengannur and 573 people shifted there as of Saturday evening. Several parts of Kuttanad, including Thalavady, Muttar, Edathua, Thakazhi, remain submerged. So far, 14 people from three families have been shifted to camps. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation has partially suspended bus services through the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) Road after several parts of the road got submerged. Floodwaters also entered the Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla State Highway. Relief camps have also been opened in Karthikappally, Mavelikara and Cherthala taluks. A total of 787 people from 222 families are residing in 24 camps in the district. Officials said that water level in rivers in the region was likely to go up further. The district administration has issued an alert to the people living on the banks of the Pampa river in Chengannur municipality, Cheruthana, Mannar, Thiruvanvandoor, Pandanad, Chennithala, Thripperunthura, Veeyapuram, Kumarapuram and parts of Kuttanad. Bund breach The outer bund of Valiyathuruthu paddy polder in Kainakary grama panchayat was breached on Saturday evening. Paddy cultivation in several hectares got submerged and water entered houses in the area. Officials said 250 families would be shifted to relief camps on Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/downpour-claims-two-lives-in-alappuzha/article32307938.ece
09 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||12 acres destroyed in Gap Road landslip||Twelve acres of land was destroyed in a major landslip on the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway on Thursday night, according to a Revenue Department estimate. Cardamom and pepper crops cultivated on a 3-km stretch were destroyed. However, local people said that crops on nearly 100 acres of land were lost in the rubble. Earlier landslip The landslip was reported below the road where the debris of another landslip that occurred on June 17 had accumulated. The debris of the earlier landslip too rolled down along with the heavy rocks and gush of water on Thursday night. Chinnakanal village officer Sunil K. Paul said two houses were damaged in the landslip. A huge uprooted tree prevented the debris from flowing into a residential area, averting a major accident, he added. Traffic suspended Many small and medium landslips were recorded on the Gap Road alone in the past three days. It is estimated that over a dozen major landslips had occurred on the stretch in the past two years. Many environmentalists attributed them to the unscientific road-widening works. The traffic on the Gap Road stretch has been suspended in view of the possibility of landslips there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-acres-destroyed-in-gap-road-landslip/article32307933.ece
09 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID-19 count spirals in Ernakulam as 101 test positive||A total of 101 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday in Ernakulam, of whom 94 acquired the infection through local contact. One person succumbed to the disease. The deceased is a 68-year-old from Palluruthy who was being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. He had existing liver and kidney problems, said a release issued by the hospital. A 28-year-old employee of the Fire and Rescue Services Department from Aluva has tested positive. A health worker from Fort Kochi and another health worker from Alappuzha have also been infected. Twelve persons from Thrikkakara, eight from Fort Kochi, five from Chellanam, three from Kumbalangi, and five from Nellikuzhi have tested positive. Five members of a family from Palarivattom have tested positive after a family member acquired the infection from her colleague at a real estate office, corporation officials said. Other positive cases were recorded at Angamaly, Edakochi, Eloor, Panayappilly, Palluruthy, Vennala, Maradu, Kothamangalam, Piravom, Vengola, and Edathala. Seven persons arrived from outside the State. As many as 62 persons tested negative on Saturday, and 1,237 are currently being treated for the disease. 804 patients at FLTCs A total of 804 asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients are being monitored at 11 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs). At Karunalayam in Thrikkakara, a home for the elderly and destitute, which had been converted into an FLTC when residents turned positive, 10 persons are currently under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-count-spirals-in-ernakulam-as-101-test-positive/article32307862.ece
09 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL breathes easy with flood control measures in place||The Cochin International Airport (CIAL) authorities are breathing easier this year when compared to August 2018 and 2019, with half of the 26 projects, costing more than Rs. 129 crore, to prevent flooding of the airport facilities and four neighbouring panchayats being completed. “We passed last week a crucial test on the ability of the newly commissioned projects to help prevent flooding,” airport sources said on Saturday, pointing out that as many as 13 completed projects had kept the airport and neighbouring panchayats dry, even though the water level in the Periyar went up to 7.5 metres above sea level by 9 p.m. on Thursday as measured at the Central Water Commission facility at Neeleeswaram. While the first phase of the August rain has boosted the confidence of the CIAL authorities, they are keeping their fingers crossed for the remaining part of the season. The projects being undertaken include development of infrastructure in the neighbouring panchayats and measures to ensure that the panchayats do not get isolated due to flooding in the future. The key component is the work on widening Chengalthodu on the northern side of the runway and the diversion of the canal on the southern side. These projects are undertaken with the full participation of people, airport sources said.  The projects include infrastructure development in neighbouring panchayats and steps to ensure that the panchayats do not get isolated due to flooding||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-breathes-easy-with-flood-control-measures-in-place/article32307865.ece
09 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Contractors to halt work over dues||Citing dues worth nearly Rs. 100 crore, the Cochin Corporation Contractor’s Association will go on an indefinite strike from Monday, halting work undertaken by the civic administration. Payments for completed work have not been made to contractors for the past 35 months, from September 2017 onwards, said a statement issued by the association. Repeated entreaties to the corporation and the State government to release their dues have gone in vain, and most contractors are left with little finances of their own to continue work, the statement added. The government owes around Rs. 30 crore to contractors for work taken up under the Plan Fund. “Contractors have not been able to bear the burden of paying for material and equipment, as well as handing out salaries to workers. Some bills from cleaning of drains and canals from 2018 onwards have not even been prepared,” said K.A. David, secretary of the association. The association squarely blamed the corporation’s five-year-long inefficiency for their plight. Work on widening some canals, besides laying slabs and some road and walkway work, will now be halted, Mr. David said. The corporation was set to take a loan and pay contractors Rs. 10 crore a few months ago, but the government’s sanction for the loan is still pending, said Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar. The association had withdrawn another strike in December last year when the Rs. 10 crore worth of dues was promised to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contractors-to-halt-work-over-dues/article32307859.ece
09 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Use landslip susceptibility data to mitigate hazard’||Kerala has to come up with bold imaginative, but humane, initiatives on environmental land management and new utilisation rules for land and water while maintaining the sustainability of drainage basins considering all related uncertainties, C.P. Rajendran, geoscientist and Professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research in Bengaluru, has said. “Land use zoning regulation that incorporates landslip susceptibility data should be made mandatory. The data that are made available by agencies like the Geological Survey of India indicate that out of the approximately 39,000 square km area of Kerala, the hill area having slopes higher than 10 degree constitutes about 19,000 square km and most of the scarps are thinly forested and further weakened by human activities,” he said in an email interview a day after the Rajamala landslip tragedy in Idukki district. Prof. Rajendran says the landslip susceptibility map of the State will help the administrators to understand what type of landslip size is expected in different areas. Scientific data “I don’t think there is any dearth of scientific data on landslip vulnerability in the State although some specific geotechnical and geological studies may be required in some areas. To my knowledge, several detailed technical reports have been submitted to the State government at various times. It is high time that we came up with a programme that will enable us to use such data to mitigate the hazard,” he says. He says it is important that both the local and State authorities should be relying on scientific reports on landslip vulnerabilities to reach decisions on land allocations for constructions in the hill districts of Idukki and Wayanad. “In these decisions, local soil properties and slope stability should be important factors to be considered, rather than political expediency. A blueprint that demarcates areas suitable for habitation and those to be left untouched should help in strictly implementing the basic tenets of land zonation,” he says. Prof. Rajendran suggests a comprehensive master plan on land utilisation strategy based on a clear environmental vision at macro and micro levels to ensure that encroachment is minimal. “These documents should contain clear guidelines for constructions, including recommended designs of houses that will match with local landscape and scenery,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/use-landslip-susceptibility-data-to-mitigate-hazard/article32307879.ece
09 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Muvattupuzha river flows at danger mark||The flood situation in low-lying areas close to the banks of Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers eased on Saturday, even as intermittent rain prompted the district administration to continue vigil and shift people from vulnerable locations to safer destinations. The water level in the Muvattupuzha river remained at the danger mark after six shutters of the Malankara dam were raised at 11 a.m. The reading at the gauging station at Kochangadi was 11.51 metres as against the danger level of 10.51 metres in the afternoon. Revenue officials at Muvattupuzha said floodwaters had entered houses at Kacherithazham and Kochangadi. However, it was less severe compared to the levels recorded on Friday. As many as 23 families were shifted to four relief camps, they said. The situation at Kothamangalam improved owing to moderate rainfall till afternoon. Floodwaters that entered houses in Jawahar Colony have started receding, according to Revenue officials. However, over 60 families continue to remain at seven camps opened in the region as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, the water level in the Periyar near the Marthandavarma Bridge in Aluva was 2.3 metres against the 2.5-metre flood warning level, while the corresponding figures near the Mangalapuzha Bridge were 2.55 metres and 3.3 metres respectively. Ernakulam district is expected to receive moderate rainfall for the next two days. 30 relief camps District Collector S. Suhas said over 850 persons were staying in 30 relief camps. The water level at the Bhoothathankettu barrage, which was 31 metres on Friday midnight, came down to 28.5 metres on Saturday. “We have issued alerts, especially in coastal areas, in view of the possibility of high tide and strong waves,” he said. People residing in places like Kayanttinkara and Elookara, who experienced floods on Friday, heaved a sigh of relief, as water level dropped on Saturday. Civil defence volunteers trained by the Fire and Rescue Services Department said the situation had eased, though people remained on high alert against possible rise in water level in the Periyar owing to intermittent rain. The flood-affected regions suffered a total loss of Rs. 1.22 crore. Kochi and Kanayannur taluks reported a loss of Rs. 30 lakh each, while the corresponding figure at Muvattupuzha was Rs. 25 lakh. Paravur taluk registered a loss of Rs. 12 lakh. Aluva and Kunnathunad taluks had a loss of Rs. 10 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-continues-in-low-lying-areas-amid-intermittent-rain/article32307868.ece
09 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Kerala land has lost immunity, landslips to stay’||Kerala land has lost its “immunity” and landslips and related phenomena are here to stay. The State must prepare to deal with it for a long time to come, V.R. Haridas, hydrogeologist, who studied the August 2019 Kavalappara and Puthumala landslips as adviser, Climate Adaptive Project for the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. says. The soil structure has changed drastically. It is no longer “immune” to events such as intense rain, as witnessed over the past two years and this year, Dr. Haridas, drawing an analogy from COVID-19, says. “Land will continue to slip and slide and destroy lives unless pre-emptive measures are adopted. Soil is sensitive like the human body. Any interference with its nature and structure will have its consequences. One of the most common human activities has been massive deforestation, mostly for plantations. Mono-cropping and quarrying are other serious interferences with the structure and lay of the land,” he says. Cutting trees When trees are cut and their roots are left to rot, they decay over decades to form pipes through which the soil substrata is directly injected with rainwater. This results in the formation of a sludge-like slippery layer that oozes to the hard rock resulting in the layer above the hardest rock losing grip and stability. The conditions this week have been ideal for this type of phenomenon. Kerala’s rain is traditionally over a period of two to two-and-a-half months. But now about half the 3,000 mm of annual rain is received in about one or two weeks. It is like pelting the earth with stones, he says, pointing out that the nool mazha or yarn rain, which irrigated the land at a pace so suited to farming activities, is a thing of the past for Kerala. Munnar and neighbouring areas received about 30 cm of rain over 24 hours in the last couple of days. Any volume of rain above 24 cm is classified as extremely heavy. Dr. Haridas says the phenomenon of piping from large-scale root decay after deforestation takes about three decades. This was quite obvious in places where landslips had occurred in the past, including at Kavalappara, where 59 people lost their lives. He says though landslips are unpredictable, warning signs, mostly in the form of smaller land dislocation, should be heeded to if we are to avoid massive destruction of life and property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-land-has-lost-immunity-landslips-to-stay/article32307874.ece
09 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Couple from Odisha found dead||A young woman and her husband from Odisha, both employed in a plywood factory, were found dead at a rented house at Odakkali near Perumbavoor on Saturday morning. Preliminary probe suggested that Vishnukara Pradhaan, 26, had killed himself by hanging after hacking his wife Silaaka Pradhaan, 23, to death. The incident is said to have occurred between Friday night and Saturday morning. Neighbours, many of whom migrant workers, found the couple dead around 9 a.m. on Saturday. Based on their statements, the police said the couple used to frequently quarrel and fight. The doors of the house were found closed, and there was no sign of forced entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-from-odisha-found-dead/article32307863.ece
09 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mayor raises concerns over delay in setting up WTE plant||Mayor Soumini Jain has raised concerns about the delay in the process of setting up a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Brahmapuram and has communicated them to A.C. Moideen, Minister for Local Self Governments. The deadline for submitting bids has been extended by a month without any clear reason, she said in a statement. There cannot be any justification for delay in the initial phase of the project, and the government’s promise that the project will be implemented in a time-bound manner cannot be taken at face value, the statement added. “The agreement with GJ Eco Power was cancelled after it took four years to grant all approvals to the firm. If the process is delayed again, it defeats the purpose of having cancelled the initial agreement,” Ms. Jain said. A document on the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) website says the last date for submission of bids for the project has been extended to September 4. At the pre-bid meeting, the companies had requested for another month due to pandemic-related restrictions, said S. Harikishore, MD, KSIDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-raises-concerns-over-delay-in-setting-up-wte-plant/article32307860.ece
09 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||41 test positive in Kollam||A total of 41 persons from the district, including three health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. While 30 patients contracted the virus through contact, four others had travelled from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Telangana, and Haryana. There are also four cases without any travel history or known source. All the three health workers, residents of Chathannur, Pooyappalli, and Panayam, have been working at Government Victoria Hospital. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 60-year-old-Kilikollur resident was owing to COVID-19. He had died on August 5 while undergoing treatment at Kollam District Hospital. 38 recoveries Kollam district currently has 7,743 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 32,921. While 854 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 7,690 primary and 2,122 secondary contacts of the new cases. The district also reported 38 recoveries on Saturday. Animal Husbandry Department has formed emergency veterinary teams in all taluks for those living in hotspots and containment zones. The details of the teams have been displayed at the veterinary hospitals and dairy societies concerned. Moreover, a district-level call centre will be operating for the purpose from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and the public can get in touch by dialling 9446096855.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/41-test-positive-in-kollam/article32307903.ece
09 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam rushes an ‘expert’ team to Pathanamthitta||This year they will have to brave the extra threat of the pandemic and loss of livelihood due to the extended fishing ban. But none of this could stop the fishers of Kollam from leaving for the flood-hit parts of Pathanamthitta with their boats on Saturday morning. Twenty-four fishers and 10 boats from the district are currently at Pathanamthitta, a reserve task force all set for any contingency. 2018, 2019 floods Many of them were part of the rescue teams in the 2018 and 2019 floods, but this year their task seems all the more challenging. “We know about the virus, but now saving lives is more important,” says 51-year-old Joseph, who was in the rain-ravaged Aranmula during the last two floods. He agrees his community is already in dire straits due to the fishing ban. “First the pandemic and then the weather stopped us from venturing into the sea. But as someone who had seen the misery of flood victims I had no doubts. I am not afraid of the disease,” says the fisher from Moothakara. It was during a meeting of Harbour Management Society on Friday that the request from Pathanamthitta came up. “The meeting was to fix the rates of fish after the ban and at first some people were a little apprehensive. But despite all the anxieties, they agreed to go and they were given essential supplies and safety products. They will stay in Pathanamthitta till the situation changes. We can arrange more fishers and boats in case of emergency,” says Kollam district Matsya Thozhilali Union president H. Basil Lal. The boats were transported in trucks and the rescue activities will be held by adhering to COVID-19 protocols.  When a request came from Pathanamthitta, the fishers decided to go there, setting aside pandemic worries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-rushes-an-expert-team-to-pathanamthitta/article32307940.ece
09 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Rain, sea surge inflict damage on Kollam||The district has incurred a loss of Rs. 9.49 lakh in rain-related incidents on Saturday. While one house was destroyed in heavy rains, over 40 houses were damaged. Punalur taluk suffered maximum damages while 12 houses each were damaged in Kottarakara and Karunagappally. Similar incidents have been reported from Kunnathur, Kollam and Pathanapuram. Incidents of sea surge have been reported from many parts of the district where waves continued to batter the coast for the last two days. Water entered six homes near Mundakkal beach and arrangements are in place to shift the families to a school in Amruthukulam any time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-sea-surge-inflict-damage-on-kollam/article32307941.ece
09 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rain eases, worries don’t||Even as torrential rains that had battered the region for a couple of days stayed away for most part of the day, the flood situation in Kottayam continued to be grim on Saturday. Though intensity of the rain subsided, the major rivers in Kottayam, including Manimala, Muvattupuzha, and Meenachil, flowed above the danger level. Earlier on Saturday, the water level at Meenachil at Pala had crossed the previous peak of 14.23 metres (recorded in 2018) by at least 30 centimetres. Floodwaters, which took over most parts of the Pala town, began to recede early Saturday. However, traffic along all major routes, except Thodupuzha, could not be restored. Damage to causeways The Pazhayidom causeway between Kanjirappally and Manimala and the Mookenpetty causeway across the Azhutha river sustained serious damage. The Angel Valley region on the eastern banks of the Azhutha remained marooned for the second day. In the 24 hours that ended at 8.30 a.m. on Saturday, the district recorded a rainfall between 123 mm to 190 mm. Life came to a standstill in the low-lying regions from Vaikom to Changanassery. The Meenachil river, which flowed above the danger mark, breached banks along the Kottayam-Kumarakom route and entered the road. In Mundar, near Kallara, about 350 houses were inundated. Several houses in the low-lying parts of Changanassery municipality and Vazhappally panchayat were submerged. People were shifted from Peroor, Ayarkunnam, and Arumanoor regions. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) reached Kottayam and visited the flood-affected areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-eases-worries-dont/article32307866.ece
09 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Fall in new cases in Kottayam||Even as the number of local contact cases continued to rise in the district, new COVID-19 cases recorded a sharp decline on Saturday with just 15 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the new cases, 12 persons contracted the virus through local contact while three persons came from abroad. At the same time, 59 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from the various treatment centres. Those confirmed of the virus infection through local contact also included two priests and six persons linked to the Ettumanur cluster. The district presently has 406 active cases while 9,590 persons remain under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fall-in-new-cases-in-kottayam/article32307896.ece
09 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Landslips put Kozhikode on alert, families shifted to safety||As part of the continuing vigil against rain-related calamities, 450 persons from various affected areas have been given accommodation in temporarily arranged relief camps in Kozhikode district. According to officials, there are 135 families now staying in such relief camps. In the wake of a minor landslip in the interior areas of Kakkayam, 54 personshave been shifted to a local relief camp. A minor landslip at Theyyappara in Kodenchery too triggered panic among the local residents on Saturday. Revenue Department officials in charge of coordinating rescue operations said more families from the flood-affected areas of Koorachundu panchayat would be shifted to relief camps. In Azhiyoor panchayat, the affected families from six wards including the coastal area were shifted to safer locations. In Wayanad Though there was a brief respite from torrential rain on Saturday morning, major tributaries of the Kabani river, including the Mananthavady, Nugu, Kalindi, and the Panamaram rivers, are in spate in many low-lying areas of the district. A meeting of the district disaster management authority decided to raise the three shutters of the Karapuzha reservoir to 25 cm if the water level increased further. The Indian Meteorology Department has issued red alert in the district for Sunday. In Thrissur Torrential rain along with wind lashed the entire district on Saturday. Low lying areas are under water. The coastal belt of the district is facing the fury of monsoon. Control rooms, working 24 hours, have been opened at taluks and collectorate in the district. They are: Collectorate 1077 (toll free), 0487 2462424, 9447074424; Thrissur taluk (0487 2331443); Thalappilly (04884-233226); Mukundapuram (0480-2825259); Chavakkad (0487-2507350); Kodungallur (0480-2802336); Chalakudy (0480-2705800); Kunnamkulam (04885 225200, 225700). In Kannur About 1,600 people have been evacuated following heavy rain in Kannur district. Four persons were injured and many houses were completely or partially destroyed. Two camps have been set up at Chengalai and Irikkur in Taliparamba taluk. Three camps have also been started in Payyanur taluk. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 514 families were relocated to safer places with heavy rain lashing the district. District Collector D. Sajith Babu has cautioned people living along the banks of the Karyangode river to be careful as the rain might intensify.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslips-put-kozhikode-on-alert-families-shifted-to-safety/article32307853.ece
09 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||2012 drill at airport proved helpful||A full-scale drill conducted seven years ago at the Calicut International Airport for assessing its preparedness in meeting emergency situations proved beneficial for a number of emergency medical care technicians, doctors and other first respondents to address the challenge effectively on Friday night. The drill which was organised in 2012 by the Active Network Group of Emergency Life Savers (ANGELS) in association with the Airports Authority of India, Indian Medical Association, the police and fire force departments had managed to identify a number of safety requirements and challenges. Suggestions to address such findings had been submitted to the authorities after the event. ANGELS was then emerging as a trained group of ambulance drivers with competence in handling emergency situations. “It was a big experience as I was then involved in the field-level coordination of the drill in my capacity as ANGELS executive director. The situation was simulated by burning about 5,000 litres of aviation fuel,” said P.P. Venugopal, chief of emergency medicine at Aster MIMS Hospital, which cared for over 40 of the injured passengers on Friday. It was quite distressing that Friday’s crash took place exactly at the same location where the drill was carried out in 2012, he told The Hindu . The drill had witnessed the participation of a large number of health workers. It was then claimed to be the biggest ever drill conducted at the airport by complying with the guidelines of the Disaster Management Authority. There were also similar drills in later years for auditing safety situations with the participation of airport staff and the Central Industrial Security Force personnel. Dr. Venugopal said the biggest challenge for his medical team on Friday was to manage the critical care needs amid the COVID-19 scare. “There were 150 persons, including doctors, emergency medical technicians and nursing staff wearing PPE kits to handle the situation. Surgeons from all departments had been asked to report at the spot and care for the injured,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2012-drill-at-airport-proved-helpful/article32307850.ece
09 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wide-bodied jets likely to skip Calicut||The Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is likely to revisit its decision to allow Calicut International Airport to operate wide-bodied aircraft in the wake of an Air India Express flight from Dubai overshooting the runway on Friday. Sources said the no-objection certificate (NOC) issued to three airlines — Air India, Saudia (Saudi Arabian Airlines), and Emirates — based on the adequacy of safety assessment and mitigation measures to ensure safety of Code E aircraft would have to be reviewed shortly. It was in December 2018 Saudia secured the approval of the DGCA to operate Boeing 777-200 and Airbus 330-300 aircraft. Banned in 2015 The operation of wide-bodied aircraft was banned at the airport from May 2015 in the wake of the Court of Inquiry report on the Air India Express Boeing 737 crash in Mangaluru in May 2010. One of the major reasons was that the tabletop runway had only a length of 2,850 metres designed to operate only narrow-bodied (Code- D) aircraft and that the runway end safety area (RESA) of the airport was inadequate for the operation of wide-bodied (Code E) aircraft. The approval then, the sources said, had been obtained due to political pressure so as to benefit the lakhs of air passengers to the Middle East and the restoration of Haj embarkation point to the Calicut airport. Incidentally, the runway was reduced by 150 metres to facilitate the RESA expansion to the mandatory 240m x 90m as stipulated by the International Civil Aviation Organisation.The approval of the DGCA had come with multiple riders, including restricting the operation of flights only during the day time for an initial period of six months. sThereafter, the DGCA will review the situation for the night operations, the sources said. Directive on SOP The Airports Authority of India had then been asked to stick to the standard operating procedures (SOP) such as ‘regulatory take off weight’. For Boeing 777-300, the weight should not exceed 290 tonnes and for Boeing 777-200, 257 tonnes. Further, the DGCA said the approval would be subjected to review after three years. Also the onus of the disabled aircraft removal plan had to be jointly put on the airline and the Calicut airport authorities in case of incidents such as tyre burst and aircraft running off the runway or taxiway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wide-bodied-jets-likely-to-skip-calicut/article32307872.ece
09 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hours later, survivors recall moments of shock and panic||Mohammed Ali from Koyilandy was only partially conscious when he made it out through the emergency exit of the Air India flight that crashed at Karipur on Friday. He jumped on to the wing and then to the nearby road before he collapsed and was later carried away by rescue workers. “I had a doubt that the flight may catch fire in no time. Hence, I hurried out”, he had told his brother-in-law, who is his bystander at the Government General Hospital at Kozhikode Beach. He thanks the seat belt that saved him from being thrown around during the crash. But he is at present fighting a serious blood clot in his internal organs caused by the tightening of the seat belt around his abdomen. Several survivors of the crash, mostly those with not so serious injuries are under treatment at the Beach Hospital in Kozhikode. Most of them were shifted here from other hospitals on Saturday based on the state of their injury. Mohammed Ali had a good job in Dubai before COVID-19 hit and the firm was shut temporarily. Out of work for months, he had no option but to wait it out at home until the crisis was averted. “There were many like me on that flight, who were there out of desperation. We never expected a bigger danger here”, he conveyed through his brother-in-law. M. Riyas from Kakkattil shares a similar plight, though his injury is very minor. He has been travelling to and from the Middle East for some years on visiting Visa, hoping for a permanent job. A painter, he had to cut short his job hunt this time due to teh pandemic and return home. He is now at the Beach Hospital where he is getting treated for a fracture on his hand.  All of them are sure that they were spared from a fatal injury only due to their seating position, quite away from the cockpit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hours-later-survivors-recall-moments-of-shock-and-panic/article32307858.ece
09 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cases cross 100-mark for third day in Kozhikode||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district went above the 100-mark for the third consecutive day on Saturday when 173 people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 110 persons recovered from the infection and the number of active cases reached 1,065. Among them, 143 people got the infection through local transmission. Fifteen others, including eight migrant labourers in Beypore, had come from other States and six from abroad. The source of infection of the rest is not known. Meanwhile, 33 more healthcare workers attached to the Government Medical College Hospital were asked to go in quarantine after they came into contact with infected persons. In Wayanad As many as 10 COVID-19 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Saturday. Of the patients, eight were infected through local transmission, said District Medical Officer R. Renuka. District Collector Adeela Abdulla on Saturday declared all divisions of the Kalpetta municipality, Division 21 of Mananthavady municipality and Ward 18 of Mullankolly grama panchayat as containment zones. In Thrissur Sixty-four cases of COVID-19 were reported in Thrissur district on Saturday. With this, the number of active cases in the district has reached 571. On Saturday, 54 people were found to have been infected through local contact. Seventy-two people recovered from the disease on Saturday. In Kannur In Kannur, 57 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Twenty-six people were infected through local contact, seven are health workers, three DSC officials and 21 people returned from other States. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 73 more people have tested positive for the virus. Seventy of them contracted the virus through contact. Thirty-three people have tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-cross-100-mark-for-third-day-in-kozhikode/article32307848.ece
09 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Notice to Airport Director kicks up a row||A show cause notice issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to the Airport Director in July last has been a subject of debate following the Air India Express crash at Calicut International Airport. In the show cause notice, DGCA Deputy Director General D.C. Sharma had asked Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao to explain within 15 days why facilities were not maintained in accordance with the regulatory requirements in Civil Aviation Regulations (CAR). The lack of facilities was found during a routine inspection of the airport on July 4 and 5. However, the Airport Director had then said that the show cause notice was blown out of proportion, The minor faults detected during the periodic inspection carried out in the first week of July had been rectified with immediate effect. Mr. Rao told The Hindu that the DGCA wanted the airport authorities to be extra cautious in the wake of recent incidents at Surat, Mangalore and Mumbai. Also, Mr. Rao said that runway friction had been carried out and rubber deposit had been removed. He said the stagnation of water on the runway shoulder was only for a short period during heavy rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/notice-to-airport-director-kicks-up-a-row/article32307846.ece
09 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Four children among 18 dead||Following is the list of passengers who were killed in Friday night’s Air India Express B-737 flight crash at Karipur. Among the victims were four children: Sheza Fatima, 2, from Kallingal near Tirur; Azam Mohammed, 1, from Silver Hills, Kozhikode; Aysha Dua, 2, from Palakkad; and Shivatmika, 5, from Kozhikode. The other passengers who died were Shaheer Sayeed, 38, from South Kuttur near Tirur; Lailabi K.V., 51, from Kolalomba near Edappal; Santha Marakkat, 59, from Niramarathur near Tirur; Sudheer Variyath, 45, from Kolamangalam near Valanchery; Remya Muralidharan, 32, from Kakkattil in Kozhikode district; Janaky Kunnoth, 55, from Naduvannur near Kozhikode; Sharafuddin, 35, from Pilassery near Kunnamangalam in Kozhikode; Shenobiya, 40, from Kozhikode; Shahira Banu, 29, from Kozhikode; Rajeevan C.P., 61, from Balussery in Kozhikode district; and Mohammed Riyas V.P., 24, from Chalavara near Cherpulassery in Palakkad; and Manal Ahamed, 25, from Nadapuram in Kozhikode district. Manal was six months pregnant. Flight pilot Deepak Vasanth Sathe and co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar too died in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-children-among-18-dead/article32307854.ece
09 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Water level climbs in Pampa dam||After witnessing vigorous monsoon conditions over the past two days, the weather over Pathanamthitta cleared up a little on Saturday though the threat posed by swollen rivers loomed large across the region. While the floodwater that had submerged Pampa-Triveni, the base camp of the Sabarimala temple, receded gradually during the day, the water level in the Pampa dam continued to rise because of the incessant overnight rain in the forests. The district administration sounded a blue alert for the people living on the banks of the Pampa after water level in the reservoir here reached 982 metres early Saturday. The maximum water level in the Pampa dam has been fixed at 986.33 metres. At the same time, water level in the Kakki-Anathodu reservoir in Sabarigiri stood just over half of its capacity. Earlier in the day, traffic along the Moozhiyar-Kakki road faced disruptions following a landslip. Roads at several locations, including Thiruvalla, Kumbanad, and Ranni, remained under water throughout the day District Police Chief K.G. Simon has asked the public to exercise caution in view of the rivers being in full spate and because of the opening of the shutters of Maniyar dam. A police control room has been opened at the district headquarters for coordinating the rescue and relief activities. Crop loss The district administration has declared several taluks, including Ranni, Kozhencherry, Aranmula, and Malappally, as flood-affected. As many as 73 relief camps were opened in the district, which together accommodated about 2,101 persons from 609 families. The loss of crops in the district is estimated at Rs. 42.57 lakh. Meanwhile, the receding floodwater brought life in the upper Kuttanad region, which extends to Alappuzha district, to a complete standstill with people being evacuated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-climbs-in-pampa-dam/article32307936.ece
09 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||38 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 38 persons, including two heath workers and a police official, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Officials said 21 persons contracted the virus through local contact while 10 persons came from abroad. The remaining seven persons came from other States. Of the local contact cases, the source of contact for at least eight persons were yet to be ascertained. A 30-year-old police man contracted the virus from the AR camp cluster while six cases were linked to the Adoor cluster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/38-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32307897.ece
09 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees highest spike with 485 new cases||The district witnessed a massive spike in COVID-19 cases on Saturday with 485 testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the highest single-day count to be reported in Thiruvananthapuram. A small respite, however, was that the district also registered its highest number recoveries from COVID-19 on a single day with as many as 777 people testing negative. There were currently 3,022 people being treated for the disease in the district. Among the new COVID-19 cases, as many as 468 have been attributed to local transmission. The source of infection in 33 of them are unknown. Seven health workers have also been infected. The coastal belt continued to witness a resurgence of COVID-19 cases after a lull as was the trend in the last few days. A bulk of the cases that were reported on Saturday were from the critical containment zones. The coastal hamlet of Anjuthengu appeared to be the worst hit with 125 people including the panchayat president and two other members testing positive from among 476 people who were subjected to antigen tests on the day. The total number of people diagnosed with COVID-19 in the region since Thursday is 302 while as many as 1,270 people were tested during the period. With the Anjuthengu grama panchayat president testing positive, Attingal municipal chairman M. Pradeep, the chairman of the health standing committee, municipal secretary, and a few others officials who had taken part in a cremation along with the former on Friday went into self-quarantine for seven days. The Anjuthengu grama panchayat president had also visited the municipal office in connection with conducting the final rites of an Anjuthengu native in the municipality crematorium. During his briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said rising incidence of cases necessitated the extension of stringent containment efforts. He added that the trend could not be interpreted as a failure of the triple lockdown imposed in the State capital. However, pointing out that there has been a let-up in containment measures, he said it could take more time to salvage the situation from worsening any further.  Attack on Pulluvila FLTC Mr. Vijayan also minced no words when he criticised the attack of a COVID first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at Pulluvila on Saturday. Referring to the demands made to close down the facility, the Chief Minister said that it was not up to the public to decide where FLTCs should be established. “Such treatment centres have been found to be necessary all over. They should not be seen as centres that could lead to a proliferation of COVID-19, but those meant to counter such a possibility. The public must refrain from falling prey to falsehoods propagated by a minority. Attacks as these are the most heinous crime meted out to the society,” he said.  As many as 468 are contact cases and source of infection in 33 of them are unknown||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-sees-highest-spike-with-485-new-cases/article32307899.ece
09 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kitchen bins to be distributed free of cost||At a time when the city is facing the twin threats of monsoon-time vector diseases and COVID-19, the city Corporation is all set to step up its waste management-at-source activities by popularising kitchen bins. Mayor K. Sreekumar said that kitchen bins that cost Rs. 1,800 each would be provided free of cost to households to promote waste treatment at source. Mr. Sreekumar said here on Friday that the dumping of unsegregated biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste in public spaces can lead to the spread of vector diseases. During this pandemic period, the kitchen bin is a more practical method to dispose of waste as it reduces interactions with waste collectors, keeping these workers safe too. Green technician For technical support in setting up and maintaining kitchen bins, Haritha Karma Senas have been appointed in all wards. A green technician for every 300 houses has also been appointed. The service providers will collect the non biodegradable waste as per the Corporation’s collection calendar from households which have installed kitchen bins. Those who need kitchen bins can apply through residents' association representatives, health inspector office, through the Smart Trivandrum mobile application. Contact - 9447308048 , 7012211314 , 8891966649.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kitchen-bins-to-be-distributed-free-of-cost/article32307895.ece
09 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Walking the extra mile to keep connected||Even though Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has often got the least preference from the Central government in spectrum allocations and technology upgrades, the public sector telecom company has time and again proved its social commitment. When the landslip-hit Pettimudy in Idukki district was cut off from communication on Friday, hampering rescue efforts, BSNL workers were quick to restore it, despite the challenging conditions. The nearest point of optic fibre connectivity from Pettimudy is around 30 kilometres away in Rajamala. Even at this point, only BSNL has connectivity, as private players often stay away from the regions in the interiors. But since extending the optic fibre network to the remote Pettimudy was impractical, the BSNL has been using the satellite connectivity method to provide a mobile network for those living in the layams (housing lines of tea garden workers). Early on Friday, as soon as they got information about the communication breakdown that was hampering rescue efforts, a team led by Junior Telecom Officer, Pettimudy, set out to Pettimudy. With a key bridge from the Munnar side being washed away, they had to take a dangerous forest path, part of which was negotiated in a vehicle provided by the Forest Department, and partly on foot. “We had feared that the tower itself might have been washed off. It turned out that the satellite antenna was completely damaged and there was no power supply. The repairs were done and service was restored using generator power supply, as power lines were yet to be restored. But even with the original bandwidth, it was tough to handle the call traffic. So, I contacted the higher ups in Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and later Delhi, from where we got approval to increase the bandwidth by four times, with which 2,000 calls can be handled every hour,” says Francis C. Jacob, Principal General Manager, BSNL. Social obligation At the normal bandwidth, it costs the BSNL anywhere between Rs. 11 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh annually in rent to maintain the satellite connectivity. The revenue from this area is much lesser than that, yet the company still provides connectivity to the remotest of locations as part of its social obligation. “The BSNL Employees Union had appealed to all its members to be on the field during this hour of crisis, despite the hardships we face. It is in such times that the public realise the importance of the survival of PSUs like BSNL,” says BSNL EU Kerala Circle Secretary C. Santosh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walking-the-extra-mile-to-keep-connected/article32307901.ece
09 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Northern districts put on high alert||Northern districts of the State have been put on alert for torrential rain on Sunday also. Idukki, Wayanad, and Malappuram can expect extremely heavy rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put the three districts on red alert. Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod too can expect heavy to very heavy rainfall. Orange alert has been issued in the districts. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority has recommended the evacuation of people in landslip and flood-prone regions in the districts put on red alert as a precautionary measure. The KSDMA has advised the public to avoid travel in the hilly regions between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall (7 to 11 cm in 24 hours) is likely to continue in parts of the State on Monday. Fishermen have been advised not to venture out to sea as strong winds with speeds touching 50-60 kmph are likely along the Kerala, Karnataka coasts, and Lakshadweep region. A fresh low pressure area is likely to develop over north and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal on Sunday. During the 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. Saturday, Vadakara received 33 cm rainfall, while Peermadeand Vythiri received 19 cm each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/northern-districts-put-on-high-alert/article32307876.ece
09 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Safety audit of airport needed: former DGCA||A full-scale safety audit of Calicut International Airport should be carried out by the Civil Aviation Ministry to ensure safety of flyers and hassle-free flight operations, former Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) E.K. Bharat Bhusan has said. “Such a safety audit will be able to clear the apprehensions that prevail among the flyers, operating airlines, and other aviation stakeholders on various safety aspects in the wake of the overshooting of the tabletop runway by the Air India Express B-737 aircraft last night,” Mr. Bhusan, a 1979 batch Kerala cadre IAS officer, who superannuated as Chief Secretary, told The Hindu . Mr. Bhusan said the safety audit would also clear the concerns about the exact nature and whether relaxations had been given for the 240-m ‘runway end safety area’ (RESA) and the 60-m strip on both ends of the runway. While serving as the DGCA, Mr. Bhusan was also responsible for developing a detailed domestic safety protocol for aviation, adopted in line with international norm, and aimed at optimal maintenance of aircraft and airports. Mr. Bhushan said the runway had several restrictions on account of various factors and hence the maintenance and recarpeting by the airport authorities should be looked into closely. DGCA nod The reported permission granted by the DGCA to the airlines, including two foreign carriers, to operate wide-bodied aircraft to Calicut should be looked into as it was a risky affair, he said. The need for the safety audit assumed significance against the backdrop of the DGCA’s show-cause notice to the Airport Director on July 11 last year after it found ‘various critical safety lapses’ in different places, including cracks on the 2,860-m runway, water stagnation, and excessive rubber deposits. Currently, a member of the Central Administrative Tribunal, Ernakulam, Mr. Bhusan said the solution was to go for land acquisition to increase the runway length. “The State should take the lead with local and political support as it is a thickly populated area,” Mr. Bhusan, who started his career as Subcollector, Malappuram, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-audit-of-airport-needed-former-dgca/article32307880.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Huge jump of 168 cases in Alappuzha tally||In a huge spike, the district reported 168 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The new cases include 134 patients who contracted the disease through contact, three health workers, 18 who came from other States, and 13 from abroad. The district also registered a COVID-19 death. The deceased was identified as a 30-year-old man from Kadakarappally. Of the total contact cases, 17 were reported from Poochakkal, 13 from Punnapra and nine each from Kayamkulam and Vayalar. Rest of the contact cases were from Arthunkal (7), Pattanakkad (7), Aroor (7), Panavally (6), Thaikkattusserry (5), Alappuzha (4), Kanjikuzhy (4), Cherthala (4), Ambalappuzha (4), Alappuzha (4), Kallisserry (3), Muhamma (3), Cherthala (3), Kanichukulangara (2), Pathirappally (2), Valavanad (2), Haripad (2), and one case each from Mannacherry, Kappil Mekku, Kadakarappally, Pallithode, Mavelikara, Kareelakulangara, Andhakaranazhi, Muttom, Chandiroor, Chethi, Peringala, Kumarapuram, Purakkad and Chettikkad.  100 recoveries Meanwhile, 100 people who were undergoing treatment tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,019. Wards 6 and 10 in Aroor and ward 5 in Panavally were declared as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/huge-jump-of-168-cases-in-alappuzha-tally/article32307902.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hard at work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hard-at-work/article32307870.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Uninterrupted care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uninterrupted-care/article32307906.ece
09 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police conduct march in Tadipatri town||The show of strength by the followers of former Tadipatri MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and his son Ashmit Reddy while coming out of the Kadapa Central Prison on Thursday prompted the police to conduct a ‘kavathu’ (march) using 25 vehicles. While entering the district limits, Mr. Prabhakar Reddy allegedly threatened a Circle Inspector, and based on his complaint, the TDP leader was arrested and sent to jail on Friday. In view of these developments, restrictions were imposed on the movement of people in Tadipatri town under Sections 144 and 30. The police personnel from various wings such as Armed Reserve from Chittoor, Kurnool and Anantapur districts conducted the march to instil confidence among the general public and to send a message that flouting COVID-19 norms would attract stringent action, Tadipatri Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Srinivasulu said on Saturday. In all, more than 300 police personnel took part in the march with six DSPs, 13 CIs or Reserve Inspectors, 14 SIs, 29 head constables, 79 constables, and 140 reserve constables provided security. The police set up seven checkpoints, pressed into service five mobile parties, and set up 14 pickets. The DSP appealed to the people not to enter Tadipatri town, or go out without any emergency, and completely stop unnecessary travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-conduct-march-in-tadipatri-town/article32307979.ece
09 August 2020||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur logs its highest single-day death toll||Eleven persons succumbed to COVID-19 in Anantapur district in the last 24 hours — the highest single-day death toll due to the virus so far. With this, the total death toll in the district rose to 162. The district also recorded 976 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, 765 persons were discharged from COVID Care Centres and Hospitals in Anantapur district and the nodal officers for each of the hospitals and CCCs have been asked to ensure that those being discharged are given Rs. 2,000 and are told to remain for 14 days in home quarantine. Inquiry launched In Kurnool district, 1,353 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. Ten persons succumbed, taking the death toll to 238. Collector G. Veerapandian instituted an inquiry into reports that a person died of breathlessness after he was unable to find a bed in any hospital. It was alleged that crucial time was lost in going from one hospital to another. In Tadipatri, 32 police personnel had contracted COVID-19, DSP A. Srinivasulu said. All of them made a quick recovery and are back on duty, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-logs-its-highest-single-day-death-toll/article32307966.ece
09 August 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legal Metrology officers crack whip on errant shops||In the wake of the scarcity of urea fertilizer and the subsequent hoarding of the chemical in the district, officers of the Legal Metrology swung into action and conducted a series of raids in the last 10 days in which seven cases were booked and Rs. 95,000 as penalties was collected. Assistant Controller N. Swamy and Inspector Mohammed Ghouse, said that the cases pertained to selling the product above the Maximum Retail Price. In view of the pandemic, several retailers, mainly of groceries, resorted to selling of kirana items at exorbitant prices, said Mr. Swamy. Oil pulses, among other items, were hoarded at several places in the district - mainly in Kalyandurg, Kuderu, Rayalacheruvu, and Madakasira. From April 1 to July 31, the officers booked 429 cases and collected Rs. 30,54,500 in penalties. Seventy percent of the cases booked in the four months were related to essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/legal-metrology-officers-crack-whip-on-errant-shops/article32307967.ece
09 August 2020||ANNAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||32 Annavaram temple staff test positive for virus||Thirty-two staff, including two priests, of Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamivari Devasthanam at Annavaram in East Godavari district have tested positive for COVID-19. cIn an official release on Saturday, Executive Officer V. Trinadha Rao said the staff who tested positive were primary contacts of those who had contracted the virus on the temple campus. Two priests serving outside the main temple on the hill, security personnel are among those who tested positive.Temple closedtemple will be closed between August 9 and 14 as a part of containment strategy. Daily rituals However, the daily rituals will be performed, but no devotee will be allowed for darsha ,” said Mr. Rao. Devotees have been advised to plan their travel based on the darshan schedule to be announced on August 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/32-temple-staff-test-positive-for-virus/article32307971.ece
09 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||34 trainee policemen test positive||Thirty-four trainee police personnel at the Police Training College at Kalyani Dam in Chittoor district tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. A senior official at the PTC confirmed to The Hindu that at present, 348 trainee police constables are awaiting their passing-out parade after completing both indoor and outdoor training. The batch, comprising only men, had arrived at the PTC in December last year. Due to the pandemic outbreak, the passing-out parade was put on hold. A couple of days ago, some of the trainees began displaying COVID-19 symptoms. “We informed the Collector immediately about the development. A mobile testing unit conducted tests on 100 trainees. While 34 tested positive, results of another 50 personnel are awaited. After updating district authorities about the situation, we will initiate steps to conduct tests on all trainees on the campus,” the official said. It is suspected that the virus might have spread to the trainees through some of the visiting instructors from other PTCs in the State. The trainees housed at the PTC are from nine districts of Andhra Pradesh, including Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Nellore, Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa and Chittoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/34-trainee-police-test-positive-for-covid/article32307521.ece
09 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, daughters ‘commit suicide’ in Kadapa||A man and his two daughters allegedly committed suicide in two separate incidents in Kadapa district on Saturday. According to information, Babu Reddy (55) of YMR Colony of Proddatur town allegedly committed suicide by hanging at his residence on Friday night. Before resorting to the extreme step, he reportedly made a selfie video, citing the reported difficulties faced by his elder daughter, who was married and the alleged harassment by her husband. After reportedly seeing the video footage, his daughter Swetha (23) along with her younger sister Sai Swetha (19), allegedly committed suicide by jumping before a train on the outskirts of Yerragunta town on Saturday morning. The railway police rushed to the spot and shifted the bodies to area hospital for autopsy. The Proddatur and Kadapa railway police registered two separate cases and took up investigation. Those in distress can Dial 100 for guidance and counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-daughters-commit-suicide-in-kadapa/article32307970.ece
09 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for hunting wild boar||The forest personnel of Bhakarapet range of Tirupati wildlife circle on Saturday took two elderly persons into custody on charges of hunting a wild boar at the forest fringe hamlet of Mylavandlapalle of Chinnagottigallu mandal, and launched search for others allegedly involved in the poaching. According to the forest officials of the Chamla valley range, acting on a tip-off, a team of forest staff rushed to an agriculture field abutting the forests of Devarakonda in the early hours of Saturday. Seeing the officials, many group members fled, while two elderly persons were apprehended along with the carcass of a wild boar weighing around 100 kg. Forest Range Officer Pattabhi said that the carcass was sent to the veterinary clinic of the area for autopsy. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-hunting-wild-boar/article32307968.ece
09 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanipakam Brahmotsavams to be held from August 22||The annual brahmotsavams of Lord Varasiddhi Vinayaka Swamy temple at Kanipakam near Chittoor, scheduled from Aug. 22 to September 11, will be a low-key affair and will be held in strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines, officials said. Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta and SP S. Senthil Kumar, who reviewed the arrangements for the brahmotsavams at Kanipakam on Saturday, told reporters that the traditional event of gramotsavam would not be performed due to the pandemic, but the rituals would be performed inside the temple premises. On Vinayaka Chavithi Day (August 22), steps would be taken to strictly limit the number of devotees, including the VIPs, to below 4,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kanipakam-brahmotsavams-to-be-held-from-august-22/article32307969.ece
09 August 2020||Guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP chief is behaving like a political novice, says Sajjala||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is behaving like a political novice by saying that YSRCP leaders should seek a fresh mandate, Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said. “It is a known fact that the YSRCP has been given absolute mandate on the plank of decentralisation of administration. It is, therefore, moving ahead with its decision to set up three capitals — in Amaravati, Visakhapatnam and Kurnool,” he said. “Mr. Naidu is seeking the resignation of qualified legislators for his meaningless ends out of innocence, ignorance, or arrogance. People know how Mr. Naidu had created a hype that Amaravati would be a dream capital and how the farmers were deceived in the name of land pooling. He is now demanding the resignation of democratically elected legislators for a cause dear to him — to foster the interests of his real estate coterie,” Mr. Reddy said. “Chief Minister Y.S. jagan Mohan Reddy was given a decisive mandate on the plank of decentralised development. Where is the question of neglecting Amaravati, which is planned to be made the Legislative capital? If Mr. Naidu is so particular, let all his 23 MLAs resign and face the music,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-chief-is-behaving-like-a-political-novice-says-sajjala/article32307981.ece
09 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Splitting capital won’t bring development: MP||Guntur MP Jayadev Galla has said that decentralised development can be achieved by creating policies that empower the local bodies and not by splitting the capital into three pieces. Mr. Jayadev said that the people of the State had lost Hyderabad which was the growth engine. The new State was primarily agrarian with very few industries. This meant there were limited employment opportunities. The most developed city in the new State, Visakhapatnam, could not compete with the other major cities in the region such as Hyderabad, Bangalore and Chennai. The requirement was to develop a growth engine for the State, which could accelerate development and put the State on a path of progress. Even after being on the back foot, the TDP developed the State by bringing in new industrial investments leading to new employment opportunities, he said. To meet the requirement of high-skilled labour for these companies, many central and private universities were invited to set up their campuses in the State. These investments in industry and education were not concentrated in one centre but distributed across the State to make them accessible to all. The irrigation projects that had been stagnant for years together or were progressing at a snail’s pace were taken up on a war-footing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/splitting-capital-wont-bring-development-mp/article32307605.ece
09 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||200-bed COVID facility soon at Arts College||Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat on Saturday said that a 200-bed COVID critical care facility would be set up on the Government Arts College campus in the city. Mr. Bharat, accompanied by District Hospitals Services coordinator Dr. Ramesh Kishore, inspected the college. He said an oxygen capsule would be installed to ensure oxygen supply for patients in a critical stage. In Tuni, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday inaugurated a COVID ward with oxygen facility at the area hospital. He said, “Three more area hospitals and four Community Health Centres would soon get the oxygen facility to treat COVID patients.”  Over 1,000 new cases A total of 1,310 new COVID cases have been reported in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning in the district. In Kakinada city, 280 persons have been infected and in Rajamahendravaram 94.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-bed-covid-facility-soon-at-arts-college/article32308007.ece
09 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam reservoir swells||The inflows into Srisailam reservoir increased significantly in the last three days, and at 6 p.m. on Saturday, it stood at 98,765 cusecs, while Telangana Power House was consuming 38,140 cusecs and the total storage stood at 79.8 tmcft against a capacity of 215.8 tmcft. The water level was 849.9 ft against 885 feet at Full Reservoir Level. Good rains in Karnataka and Maharashtra saw Jurala project discharging 1.97 lakh cusecs from spillway and 21,828 cusecs from powerhouse. Arrivals at Srisailam too will increase in the next two days. With Telangana continuously producing power for several days, water level remained much below from where Rayalaseema can get its share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srisailam-reservoir-swells/article32307977.ece
09 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Authorities begin plasma therapy in Nellore||At least 15 more patients, eight in SPSR Nellore district and seven in Prakasam, succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the death toll due to pandemic rose to 100 in Prakasam and 91 in SPSR Nellore, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Saturday night. There was no let-up in the incidence of coronavirus in Nellore district as 878 more patients tested positive taking the count to 13,043. Meanwhile, as many as 413 patients were discharged from COVID-19 hospitals in the district thereby bringing the number of active cases down to 6,654. Seven of the recovered patients donated plasma as the health authorities in the district made a modest beginning in providing plasma therapy to patients. Two of the four patients who were provided plasma therapy responded well to the treatment, health officials said. District Collector K.V.N. Chakaradhar Babu reviewed the health situation with the representatives of private medical hospitals and asked the health officials to contact each of the over 6,300 recovered patients. Those who had recovered in a month or so could be ideal persons for donating plasma, he pointed out. Encouraging people to come forward to donate, he said one could save lives of two others by donating plasma. In Prakasam district, 512 more contracted the disease while 265 patients were discharged from hospitals. The cumulative cases stood at 8,235 of which, the number of active cases was 3,121. The disease continued to spread to remote places in Prakasam district with Ongole accounting for 63 fresh cases. New cases also came from Korisapadu(22), Kumarole (20), V.V.Palem(17), Cumbum(14), Podili(12), Lingasamudram(9),Ponalur(7), Tripurantakam(6),Ulavapadu(5), N.G.Padu(4), Martur(4) and Tallur(4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/authorities-begin-plasma-therapy-in-nellore/article32307972.ece
09 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home quarantined persons complain of lack of aid||Many COVID positive persons in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, who have been asked to quarantine themselves at home owing to lack of beds in the designated hospitals, have complained to the authorities over lack of proper assistance. A few patients in Saluru in Vizianagaram district were agitated over the inordinate delay in taking them to the hospital. They had informed the authorities that there was no possibility of them isolating at home they did not have separate bathrooms or extra rooms. But, they say they were made to wait until beds were available. Though 6,000 beds are available in the hospitals in the district, most of them are in COVID Care Centres where medical facilities are not at par with that of those in the hospitals. In this background, the government authorities are allowing the patients to be quarantined at home after taking their consent. Some, who are not willing to get admitted to the hospitals, can also opt for home quarantine option. “After results turned out positive, the government authorities are supposed to shift the patients to the COVID-19 hospital. However, the officials asked everyone to follow home quarantine. It may lead to spread of the disease to others,” said Bhisetti Babji, State executive president of Lok Satta Party. As many as 11 persons in Padala street of Jami mandal recovered from COVID-19 while staying at home. Their recovery was aided by the assistance from the health staff. However, many others have not been receiving such support. ‘Patients being fleeced’ “Private hospitals are fleecing patients with their special packages for those staying in home quarantine. The hospitals charge up to Rs. 10,000 per day for providing medical assistance through ‘video-call’ facility. That is why, the government should provide treatment to patients in COVID-19 hospitals instead of making them to be in home quarantine,” he added. Srikakulam Collector J.Nivas directed all the COVID-19 hospitals to arrange for immediate availability of beds for patients. He had observed that the beds were not being sanitized immediately after the discharge of existing patients. It is also leading to non-availability of beds at hospitals. “Apart from beds, round-the-clock availability of doctors, nurses and staff is very important. We will take action against those who fail to attend to their duties,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-quarantined-persons-complain-of-lack-of-aid/article32308009.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State has entered peak of pandemic curve’||With the number of COVID infections “hitting the peak” of the pandemic curve, the State has adopted a proactive strategy of treating all persons with certain COVID symptoms irrespective of the test result to avoid deaths based on clinical diagnosis. Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy told a press conference on Saturday that Andhra Pradesh had entered the peak of the pandemic curve, and several districts were already at peak of infections while others are about to hit it. “Most districts such as East Godavari, West Godavari, Kurnool, Anantapur and Guntur have already entered the peak stage and others are about to witness the peak of infections. As we enter the sixth month of the pandemic, it is a natural consequence to see the peak,” Dr. Reddy said. “Having less than 1% mortality rate, the pandemic has been well managed clinically in the State. The focus is now on reducing the mortality rate further by identifying severely ill persons even without testing them for COVID,” Dr. Reddy said. “Persons with continuous fever for three to four days, breathlessness, and oxygen saturation level below 94% will be considered as severe symptomatic cases. Even without testing, they will be immediately admitted to hospitals and treated. To identify them, we have given pulse oxymeters to ANMs and with the help of ward and village volunteers and ASHA workers patients would be identified at the ground level,” Dr. Reddy said “We have three parameters in place to avoid deaths. One is having a minimum of six to seven day treatment window. Second, following all treatment protocols and medication available. The third is to not allow any critical patient to die without being treated with ventilator support,” he said. Dial 104 “In most cases, deaths are occurring within three days of admission. Sometimes it is on the same day of admission. This is because of late reporting and identification of the persons infected. I appeal to the public to come forward and dial 104 or local volunteers and ANMs if they are experiencing severe symptoms,” Dr. Reddy said. About the age group of persons who succumbed to COVID, he said that about 70% are of 40 to 60 years of age group with and without comorbidities and remaining were cases of patients aged less than 40 years. He said there were over 4,000 containment clusters in the State at present and nearly 60% of them were in urban areas.  Public cooperation is key Seeking cooperation of the public, Dr. Reddy said that every person was prone to COVID infection and the only things that could save us is “COVID appropriate behaviour” and “non-pharmaceutical public health measures”. He said the State had already begun sero-surveillance survey in Krishna, East Godavari, Anantapur and Nellore districts through CLIA tests, where 3,750 people in each district would be tested for antibodies. The results of the survey wouldbe known in a week, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-has-entered-peak-of-pandemic-curve/article32307975.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||I-Day tableaux to highlight COVID care||Officials of various departments reviewed the arrangements being made for the 74th Independence Day celebrations, here on Saturday. The event will be conducted at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium. Krishna district Joint Collector (Welfare) K. Mohan Kumar will monitor the display of models (tableaux) of different departments, said Collector A.Md. Imtiaz. Information Commissioner T. Vijay Kumar Reddy said the steps being taken by the government to prevent COVID-19 and the development activities would be highlighted through 10 tableaux during the celebrations. Medical and Health Department officials will arrange four tableaux explaining the measures taken from the first virus case detected in State, the tracing, testing and treatment being extended to the patients, Mr. Reddy said. Door-to-door survey Medical and Health Department Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar said the door-to-door survey taken up by grama volunteers and Asha workers, development of hospitals under Nadu-Nedu programme, 108 and 104 services, Sanjeevini buses and the awareness programmes taken up to enlighten people on preventing the disease would be highlighted. The programmes related to education, agriculture, police, SERP, shifting of migrant labourers, distribution of YSR pensions and ration would be explained. Mr. Bhaskar said a separate tableau would display the services being rendered by doctors, nurses and the police and the persons who recovered from the dreaded virus. Review meeting Medical and Health director Dr. Aruna Kumari, State Additional Project Director (Education) Madhusudhan Reddy, ACP (Crime) K. Srinivas Rao, SERP officer Sudhakar, Information Joint Directors Kiran Kumar, T. Kasturi and District Supplies Officer Mohan Babu participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-day-tableaux-to-highlight-covid-care/article32307615.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RLIP does not require prior environmental nod, says panel||The Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) has reached a conclusion that the prima facie requirement of prior Environmental Clearance (EC) is not applicable for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP). K. Gopakumar and other EAC members, at a recent meeting, observed after detailed deliberations on the ECs granted to the Telugu Ganga Project, Srisailam Right Bank Canal and Galeru Nagari Sujala Sravanthi projects that the RLIP was not a new one and it did not fall under any category listed in the Schedule of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification of 2006. ‘No power generation’ The EAC stated that the RLIP had also no power generation component involved and it did not qualify as an expansion / modernisation project either, official sources said. Besides, the committee said that the EC letters of the above three schemes to which RLIP would be feeding water were taken by the Government of Andhra Pradesh. A review of the EC conditions contained in the letters revealed that changing from gravity discharge to pumping should not be considered as a change in scope as the ECs issued to these schemes did not restrict them to gravity discharge only. Another factor is that since there is no change in the cultivable command area, the RLIP does not qualify to be covered by the aforementioned EIA notification. The EAC concluded that as long as A.P. was restricted to drawing its allocated share of water, environmental impact of the availability of water on other users was not envisaged. Further, A.P. shall install pumps capable of pumping only 3 tmcft (excluding safety margins) to ensure it drew only that much quantity per day, the committee reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rlip-does-not-require-prior-environmental-nod-says-panel/article32307976.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boston Group to set up shop in Vizag||The State government has entered into an understanding with the U.S.-based Boston Group for setting up its development centre in Visakhapatnam. The pact was signed in the presence of Rathnakar Pandugayala, Special Representative of the A.P. Government for North America, and Subu Kota, Chairman of Boston Group and People Prime Worldwide, an official release said. On the occasion, Mr. Subu said he was delighted to tie up with the Andhra Pradesh government for the development of the IT sector, and that Visakhapatnam had tremendous potential for growth. Diverse footprint He announced that his company’s operations in Visakhapatnam would be spread across Artificial Intelligence (AI), machine learning, cyber security and human resources. Ravi Aleti, CEO of People Prime Worldwide (a subsidiary of The Boston Group), said that Visakhapatnam had its own advantages such as connectivity, cosmopolitan population, good educational institutions and universities as well as medical and support services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boston-group-to-set-up-shop-in-vizag/article32307983.ece
09 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Happy that govt. is planning to issue land pattas to tribals’||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has conveyed his greetings to the Adivasi communities in the State on the occasion of the World Adivasi Day, also known as the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples, on August 9. “About 26 lakh tribal people reside in Andhra Pradesh. The World Adivasi Day is celebrated every year to raise awareness and protect the rights of the Adivasis,” the Governor said. “I am happy that the State government is planning to issue land pattas to the tribal people soon under the Recognition of Forest Rights (RoFR) to eligible Adivasis, and their contribution towards environmental safeguard and water conservation will be recognised today,” Mr. Harichandan said in his message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/happy-that-govt-is-planning-to-issue-land-pattas-to-tribals/article32307989.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naraharisetti is city Congress president||Senior advocate and All India Congress Committee member Naraharisetti Narasimha Rao on Saturday assumed charge as the Vijayawada City Congress Committee president. He said he would work sincerely to revive the past glory of the Congress in the city. The party was one family and it would offer stiff resistance to the “anti-people policies” of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the State and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, he said. The Centre and the State had failed miserably in containing the COVID-19 pandemic, he added. Mr. Narasimha Rao said the Congress was in favour of a single capital for the State. Many trade union leaders and others felicitated him on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naraharisetti-is-city-congress-president/article32307607.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers’ protest today against ‘detrimental’ farm ordinances||Farmers in both the Telugu States are geared up to stage massive protests under the aegis of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordinating Committee (AIKSCC) on Sunday demanding repeal of the three farm ordinances and the Electricity Act brought by the Centre besides a rollback of the fuel price hike. In a statement on Saturday, leaders of the coordinating committee said nearly 30 farmers’ organisations had come together to stage protests in nearly 5,000 villages across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Their plan of action includes burning copies of the three farm ordinances and the Electricity Act, discussions on the policies of the State and the Central governments and submitting memoranda to the officials concerned. The leaders alleged that the Modi government had failed in providing succour to the farmers and farm coolies in this difficult times of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdowns. They said while the corporate firms were offered a massive package of Rs. 20 lakh crore, the poor farmer was left high and dry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-protest-today-against-detrimental-farm-ordinances/article32307609.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private schools seek clarity on fees, online classes||Members of the Independent Schools Managements’ Association (ISMA) in the State have sought clarity on the issue of collection of tuition fees and flexibility in conduct of online sessions for students of classes VI to VIII. In a letter addressed to the Commissioner, Department of School Education, Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, members of the association have pointed out that most of them are CBSE schools and they strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by CBSE and ICSE authorities from time to time. NCERT schedule They said that in April, they followed the four weeks’ plan of online learning given by NCERT, which had also recommended an eight-week Alternate Academic Year plan from mid-June, which the schools in Andhra Pradesh could not follow due to instructions from local authorities. They said that clarity finally emerged on the issue after some of their members met Mr. Chinaveerabhadrudu. On the issue of fee collection, the ISMA members cited the orders of the A.P. School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC), which said that collection of fees before the commencement of new academic year was against the rules. They said that their academic year had already commenced as per the CBSE academic calendar. In yet another directive, the APSERMC asked school managements to pay full salaries to their staff but was silent on fee collection. They said that private unaided institutions like theirs would not be able to manage their expenditure without collecting fees from students, which is their only source of income. Example of other States They also pointed out that the High Courts of Delhi, Punjab and Haryana, Kerala Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat had given their verdict in favour of fee collection recognising the fact that schools incur certain expenditure irrespective of whether they are functioning or not. They appealed to the Commissioner to give clear instructions on collection of tuition fees for the 2020-21 academic year. Flexibility on sessions With regard to online classes, they said that CBSE authorities had allowed flexibility on the number of sessions to be conducted and the ISMA was trying its best to ensure that the students cope with the lost academic time on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. The school representatives also offered their full cooperation and infrastructure facilities to help the government strengthen the education system in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/private-schools-seek-clarity-on-fee-online-classes/article32307608.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 staff of Durga temple test positive||The management of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Devastanam here is taking steps to sanitise Indrakeeladri, after five of the Endowments Department staff tested positive for COVID-19. The temple, which was closed due to COVID, was opened after the lockdown, and officials were allowing ‘darshan’ for devotees who booked tickets online. “An officer, two veda pandits, and two clerical staff who were on duty atop Indrakeeladri contracted the virus, the temple premises were sanitised and we are allowing the pilgrims for the darshan,” an Endowments officer said. “We asked the affected employees not to attend for duties,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-staff-of-durga-temple-test-positive/article32307613.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing scheme gets more funds||The government has sanctioned Rs. 1,000 crore as additional funds for acquiring land under the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ (housing for the poor) programme and Rs. 100 crore towards administrative charges, according to a G.O. issued by Principal Secretary (revenue) V. Usha Rani. The G.O. issued on Saturday said that the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration (CCLA) had requested the government on June 18 to allot an additional budget of approximately Rs. 2,891 crore for the scheme as proposed by the district Collectors. A budget release order for a sum of Rs. 1,213.07 crore had been issued on June 30, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/housing-scheme-gets-more-funds/article32307984.ece
09 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor booked on charges of misbehaviour||A doctor working in the Old Government General Hospital here was booked for allegedly misbehaving with an outsourcing staff. Following a complaint, the Disha Mahila Police Station staff registered a case and took up investigation. A case under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intention to outrage her modesty), 506 (criminal intimidation) 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and other sections has been registered and investigation is on, said Assistant Commissioner of Police V.V. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctor-booked-on-charges-of-misbehaviour/article32307612.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PHCs are first port of call in emergency set-up: Collector||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that primary health centres (PHC) at the ward-level will act as the first platform in the emergency set-up to face COVID-19. Addressing the press along with Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, after a district-level COVID -19 review meet here on Saturday, he said that as of now 24 PHCs in the GVMC are operational and another 42 have been identified by the GVMC Commissioner. “In total, we shall have 74 PHCs in each of the wards, including one each in Anakapalle and Bheemili, as per the old ward layout,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. “Even people having viral fever, should approach the PHCs. It is very difficult to differentiate whether the fever is due to some viral infection or COVID-19. So if there is any doubt or symptoms, people should approach the PHC. Where they will be tested and guided as per the requirement,” he said. According to him, every PHC will have one medical officer, supported by two staff nurses. The recruitment for which has been done. If the symptoms of COVID range from mild to moderate then he or she will be advised home isolation with basic medication. If home isolation is not possible due to constraints or space at home, then they will be sent to COVID Care Centres. Hospitalisation will be done only if there are symptoms of hypoxia (oxygen saturation below 93) or dyspnea (breathlessness), irrespective of if they are COVID-19 positive or not, said Mr. Vinay Chand.. Apart from PHCs, people can also approach COVID support hospitals such as RCD Hospital, Regional Eye Hospital, Family Psychiatry ward or ENT hospital, he added. “Over 300 beds with adequate staff and required medicine, including oxygen, have been provided at these hospitals,” he said. He suggested that apart from the PHCs, one can call the 24/7 GVMC Command Control Centre at 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244. “We have placed three specialist doctors at the CCC. They will hear the case and suggest accordingly. We have placed one ambulance at each ward and based on the symptoms and other emergency criteria, the doctors present will advise and if required even send an ambulance for evacuation to a hospital,” he said. This apart, people can approach private testing centres and hospitals, depending on their choice and economic affordability, added Mr. Vinay Chand. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that every private hospital has been told to keep at least two to three beds for emergency admission during the night-time. He also said that the millennium ward in KGH with 500 beds will be opened shortly for treating COVID-19 patients. He also informed the media that nodal officers have been appointed for every ward and resident welfare associations can interact with them on a weekly basis and take the issues in their areas to their notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/phcs-are-first-port-of-call-in-emergency-set-up-collector/article32308002.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adding an extra layer of safety to masks||Mamidi Prasada Rao, an innovator from the city, has developed a mask that reduces the risk of transmission of COVID-19 from infected persons to medical personnel during the process of taking nasal or oral swab samples. Mr. Prasada Rao said the mask comes with a droplet barrier and has elastic straps on either side in order to fasten it securely before testing. An outer portion of the mask covers the entire face, except for the mouth and nose which are covered by an inner portion that is transparent. A small hole is provided in the inner portion to allow the collection of swab samples. “The mask is inexpensive and bio-degradable. I developed it after realising that there is a danger of the virus spreading from an infected person to medical officials as the air exhaled from the patient may also have infected droplets. Some persons cough or sneeze during the swab collection which also raises the risk of surfaces getting contaminated,” Mr. Prasada Rao said. The droplet barrier is made of chart paper and covers the entire face from the forehead to the lower jaw, said Mr. Prasada Rao, who has applied to the Controller of Patents, Chennai, for a patent under the Patents Act, 1970 and the Patent Rules, 2003. He has entered into an agreement with Kalam Institute of Health Technology (KIHT), located at Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) in Visakhapatnam, for technology transfer. Interested entrepreneurs can contact Mr. Prasada Rao on 8106677515.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adding-an-extra-layer-of-safety-to-masks/article32307991.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 5 more deaths||As many as 998 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Saturday, taking the district tally to 18,944. Five more persons succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 126. On a brighter side, as many as 1,379 persons have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres on Saturday. The total number of active cases is 7,668 and discharged is 11,150, as per the district COVID-19 bulletin. Officials say that more than 1.83 lakh tests have been conducted in the district till date. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district is 851. Among them, the total number of very active clusters is 134. The number of active and dormant clusters is279 and 438 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, citizens can contact Control Room 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-5-more-deaths/article32307999.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurt in coronavirus cases puts ITDA officials on toes||Officials from the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) are on their toes with the steep increase in the number of COVID-19 cases covering almost all 11 mandals in the Agency. Most of the tribal regions have voluntarily gone for partial lockdown, since the June first week. Massive testing is being carried out in the mandal headquarters such as Paderu, Araku and Pedabayalu, from where most of the cases are being reported. In the first three months, the Agency did not report any case due to the strict lockdown. However, after relaxation, many migrants returning home and people from plain areas visiting the Agency for various purposes led to spurt in the cases. The first case was reported in the end of June and till date (August 7) as many as 190 cases were reported, including two deaths in Paderu mandal. “There are two COVID-19 hospitals in the Agency areas, one at Paderu and another at Araku. Two COVID-19 Care Centres have been set up at Youth Training Centres (YTC) at Araku and Paderu. Patients are being shifted after testing positive. We are giving home quarantine facility to a very few who have the facility of separate room and washroom in houses. Only critical cases are being referred to the city,” said ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar. The Project Officer said that tests using Truenat and Antigen kits are being conducted widely in all areas. “In Paderu alone, we have conducted 2,700 tests,” he added. Tribal associations demanded that the government establish more COVID-19 Care Centres with proper facilities in the wake of increasing cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spurt-in-coronavirus-cases-puts-itda-officials-on-toes/article32307995.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Put State before self, party and community: Minister to Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu should learn to put the State before self, party and community, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao told the media here on Saturday. The Minister further asked Mr. Naidu not to shed crocodile tears on Amaravati and make false claims that he had done a lot for Visakhapatnam. “Had Mr. Naidu been so keen on developing Visakhapatnam, why did he sit on the ‘Panchagramalu’ issue for five years and issue a G.O. just before elections? He had adopted the same strategy towards the Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi and other projects,” the Minister alleged. Referring to the much hyped CII Partnership Summits organised by the TDP government in Visakhapatnam, the Minister said, “When industrialists came forward to set up shop in the Port City, Mr. Naidu asked them to make Amaravati their base.” “Mr. Naidu claims to have brought IIM to Vizag. But he should remember that the institution was sanctioned to the State as it was mentioned in the A.P. State Reorganisation Act, 2014. In the five years of his rule, Mr. Naidu could not ensure construction of even the boundary wall for the IIM at Gambheeram,” the Minister said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was committed to developing all the regions of the State, the Minister said, and added that the concerns of the Amaravati farmers would be addressed. “Mr. Naidu has no moral right to speak for the farmers,” he said. ‘Vizag best bet’ “Moreover, as the Chief Minister said, it is not worth spending Rs. 1 lakh crore on developing one region of the State. If a fraction of it is spent on Vizag, it will become a world-class city on par with Chennai and Bengaluru. The city already has the infrastructure in place,” the Minister observed. Mr. Srinivasa Rao challenged Mr. Naidu to convince at least one of his MLAs from Visakhapatnam to resign in protest against making the city the Executive capital. “It is not clear as to why Mr. Naidu is against development of the North Andhra region,” said Chodavaram MLA Karanam Dharmasri. “Vizag is the only city in the State that has the potential to generate revenue on par with Hyderabad. Hence, it deserves to be made the Executive capital,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/put-state-before-self-party-and-community-minister-to-naidu/article32307987.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police custody extended in child trafficking case||Police custody for the main accused in the child trafficking case, Managing Director of Universal Srushti Hospital P. Namratha, along with two others, have been reportedly extended for three more days, here on Saturday. The accused are under police custody as part of further investigation for the last two days. Sources said that Assistant Commissioner of Police (Disha PS) Prem Kajal and Inspector of II Town Venkat Rao questioned the accused and are carrying out the investigation. On July 26, the city police arrested Dr. Namrata and, K. Venkata Lakshmi and B.Annapurna, both ASHA workers from V. Madugula mandal, A. Ramakrishna, Dr. Tirumala and L. Chandra Mohan in the case. On August 6, the city police arrested Dr. Ch. Padmaja, DGO of Padmaja hospital, Seethammadhara, and another person for allegedly selling a newborn baby for money, by informing the mother of the infant that she gave birth to a stillborn baby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-custody-extended-in-child-trafficking-case/article32307997.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fishing boat catches fire||Six fishermen had a lucky escape when the mechanised fishing boat in which they were sailing caught fire near the fishing harbour under One Town police station limits in Visakhapatnam on Saturday. The incident occurred while they were returning to the shore. However, no one was injured. According to I Town police, the fishermen had gone for fishing in the morning. When they were minutes away to reach the jetty, fire broke out in the boat engine, which gradually spread. “All of them jumped into the waters in order to save themselves and immediately port personnel rescued them,” he said. The reason for the accident is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishing-boat-catches-fire/article32307985.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why Maoists silent on landmine incident, says SP||Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam district, B. Krishna Rao, questioned why were the Maoists silent on the death of two tribal persons from Chintalaveedhi village. The two persons died when they stepped on a landmine allegedly planted by Maoists in Jamiguda panchayat of Pedabayalu mandal in Visakhapatnam district on August 2. In a note released on Friday, the SP said that the Maoists, especially East Division Committee, normally react to all issues through audio clips and letters, but in this case they have not responded yet. He said that the Maoists have been placing landmines on roads which have been causing the death of tribals. He said that the victims of such landmine blasts, include youth, children, elderly persons and cattle. “Who will take the responsibility of these persons. The Maoists will not allow to lay roads and when the government lay roads, they place landmines,” he said. He also said ever since the COVID-19 cases started to rise, the police have been in the forefront in providing all necessary help to the tribal persons. He said that police have been supplying essential commodities, sanitisers, masks and other essentials to the people, but the Maoists who claim to be living for the public failed to help tribals. Instead, the Maoists have been taking away the essentials for Maoist Martyrs Week and other reasons, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-maoists-silent-on-landmine-incident-says-sp/article32307996.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for ‘furnishing fake documents’||The PM Palem police arrested two persons for allegedly procuring house pattas by creating fake documents and cheating revenue officials at Vikalangula Colony in Madhurawada area in the city on Saturday. The arrested have been identified as Mallela Vijay Kumar of Peda Waltair and Tamineni Ramana. Another accused in the case Ganta Lakshmana Rao is yet to be nabbed. According to reports, M, Vijay Kumar used to work as driver for TDP Bheemili in-charge Ch. Vijay Babu, during the TDP rule. At that time, Vijay Kumar and G. Lakshmana Rao allegedly came to know that T. Ramana had contacts and he can get them house pattas in Vikalangula Colony. On their request, Ramana had allegedly created fake documents which stated that Vijay Kumar and Lakshmana Rao had been living in flat no 132, 133, Vikalangula Colony from 2014. For this, Ramana had allegedly collected Rs. 1.20 lakh each in instalments from the duo. The PM Palem police registered a case. The duo were produced in the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-furnishing-fake-documents/article32307992.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Akshaya Patra Foundation opens food centres||The Akshaya Patra Foundation started food distribution at COVID testing centres, to all patient attendants at government hospitals and night shelters. Food distribution centres have been opened at ENT Hospital, Chest Hospital, VIMS Hospital, KGH and five night shelters run by the GVMC. As part of this activity, about 1,700 food packets are being distributed every day, said a press release from the foundation. The food is being cooked at the foundation’s central kitchen at Industrial Estate. Donors can contact phone numbers 9010611108 and 8019003108||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/akshaya-patra-foundation-opens-food-centres/article32308003.ece
09 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raghuveer Vishnu joins as ACB DSP||Police Inspector Raghuveer Vishnu has been promoted as Deputy Superintendent of Police and posted in Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). The 1991 batch officer, was earlier posted in Special Branch, Visakhapatnam Police Commissionerate. He is one among the few police officers in the State to have served in UN Peace Keeping Force. He served in UNPKF in Kosovo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raghuveer-vishnu-joins-as-acb-dsp/article32308005.ece
09 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress leader Adiraju dies of COVID||APCC vice-president and former DCC president Yedla Adiraju (53) died of COVID-19 on Saturday. He is survived by wife, daughter and son. Adiraju tested positive five days ago and had been in home quarantine since then. Adiraju became famous for waging a lone battle for the Congress in the district when all other leaders, led by former PCC president Botcha Satyanarayana, joined the YSRCP six years ago. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and senior leaders recalled Adiraju’s contribution to the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-leader-adiraju-dies-of-covid/article32307831.ece
09 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. staff not getting pay’||A.P. Government Employees Association State president K.R. Suryanarayana on Saturday said a few employees working for the Central government-sponsored schemes were not paid salaries. In a press release, he said that the salaries were not being given to many employees in the Medical and Health Department and Women and Child Welfare Department on the first of every month along with staff in other departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-staff-not-getting-pay/article32308008.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Throwing the norms to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/throwing-the-norms-to-the-wind/article32307994.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||On duty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-duty/article32307617.ece
09 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bhadrachalam reports 16 new COVID cases||The temple town of Bhadrachalam reported 16 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. An employee and a retired employee of the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple were among those who tested positive in last 24 hours, sources said. The district has witnessed a total of 79 coronavirus positive cases and a death on Friday. The death of a young government doctor, G. Naresh Kumar, due to COVID in a Hyderabad-based hospital on Friday prompted the medical professionals and healthcare workers on coronavirus duty to be extra cautious, sources added. Meanwhile, Sarapaka major Gram Panchayat (GP) in Burgampadu mandal has decided to implement ‘total lockdown’ from Monday till the month-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhadrachalam-reports-16-new-covid-cases/article32307809.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New single-day high of 2,256 COVID cases||More than 2,000 COVID-19 cases were recorded in Telangana for the fourth day in a row with 2,256 more swab samples on Friday testing positive for coronavirus. This is also the highest single-day spike till date. The total number of COVID cases in the State now stands at 77,513. The death toll touched 615 with the death of 14 more COVID patients. While a comparatively high number of cases continue to be recorded in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Rangareddy and Medchal, other districts too are recording an increase in infection spread. The new 2,256 cases include 464 from GHMC, 181 from Rangareddy, and 138 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. Besides, 187 cases were recorded in Warangal Urban, 101 in Karimnagar, 95 in Jogulamba Gadwal, and 92 in Sangareddy. Of the total 77,513 cases so far, 22,568 are active while 54,330 have recovered. Curiously, the percentage distribution of deaths attributed to COVID-19 and co-morbidities has remained unchanged in the past 11 days (July 28-August 7). Media bulletin issued on these days state that 46.13% of deaths are due to COVID-19 and the remaining 53.87% are due to co-morbidities. On none of these 11 days has the bulletin mentioned the total number of deaths considered to draw out the percentages. Asked about this, senior officials in the Health department said the total is cumulative number of deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-single-day-high-of-2256-covid-cases/article32307804.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HMR fate tied to Delhi metro resumption||It has been over three months since the Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) has come to a grinding halt when the countrywide lockdown was enforced on March 22 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. And, the wait for this public transport facility to start is likely to continue for some more time along with the city bus services with the constant rise in cases. It also means the loss making Rs. 20,000-crore project will only further sink into debt. L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) has already submitted project cost overrun details to the government of Rs. 3,756 crore and has been “pursuing the matter with the government for providing relief”. It has reported a loss of Rs. 382.21 crore for financial year of 2019-20 and a revenue of Rs. 598.20 crore as per the annual report and has warned that the continuing shutting down of services makes the current financial year predictions totally uncertain. The last three years of operations has got the company Rs. 1,142.41 crore from fares and another Rs. 228.16 crore for non-fare revenue from exploitation of commercial real estate. Before shutdown, HMR was carrying close to 5 lakh passengers and garnering revenue of about Rs. 40 crore a month running across three corridors of Miyapur to L.B. Nagar (Red Line), Jubilee Bus Station to MG Bus Station (Green Line) and Nagole to Raidurg (Blue Line). Earlier in February, the last remaining Corridor II stretch was launched for commercial operations completing the entire project with 69.2 kms of the metro rail system. Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited, the nodal agency of Telangana government, recommended the extension of scheduled completion date as defined under the Concession Agreement till June 30, 2020. What happens now is not clear. “Everything is tied to the Delhi Metro Rail services. If the service starts there, we can resume here too as the Union Home Ministry is involved. We are ready with all necessary safety protocols to begin services at a short notice,” affirmed senior metro rail officials, pleading anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmr-fate-tied-to-delhi-metro-resumption/article32307828.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-affected family forced to leave accommodation by locals||A family of three, including two elderly COVID-19 patients, were allegedly forced out of an acquaintance’s home, where they had arrived to isolate themselves, by irate locals who objected to their presence in the neighbourhood. The family had arrived from Kollapur at the home of a relative in Kamala Nagar in Vanasthalipuram on August 5 after developing symptoms of the novel coronavirus where their accommodation was inadequate for home isolation. Their relative, Sai Gopal Sambaraju, who works with an IT giant, said, “Their reports came two days ago. The 86-year-old lady, and her son, who is over 60, have tested positive. The third person has tested negative. The house in Vanasthalipuram was empty and the owner, who is a relative, gave us permission to use it for self-isolation. Around 7.30 pm, I took an oxygen cylinder in my car and tried to move it into the house. Some locals who saw me began to glare at me and soon afterwards, questioned me about the family’s presence in the house and why they were brought for isolation there.” Mr Sambaraju alleged that after finding out the inmates had tested positive, several locals surrounded him and his sister, hurled abuses, and in a threatening tone asked them to vacate the house. He also claimed that the one of the locals threatened to damage their car and assault them if they did not comply, even as he said the temporary inhabitants had not stepped out of the house since their arrival. “The locals threatened to call ‘108’ to remove the family from house. I told them to give us an hour to vacate as there was an 86-year-old lady there. Then, police came and agreed with locals that we should leave. Eventually, we were forced to go with the family at 11.30 p.m. on Friday. They were moved to a quarantine centre in Gachibowli and had to pay Rs. 40,000 for seven days. My sister has registered a complaint with Vanasthipuram police,” he said. Vanasthalipuram police inspector K. Murali Mohan confirmed the incident. “They did not have permission from the District Medical and Health Officer to move the patient to that locality. The crowd there was of locals. We have made a general diary entry and no FIR has been registered yet,” he said. However, an official of the health department expressed surprise, and said no permission from the DMHO is required to move a COVID-19 positive case for isolation. “No DMHO has received any such instructions from the State government about giving permission for moving COVID-19 suspects or patients,” the official said.  I told them to give us an hour to vacate as there was an 86-year-old lady there. Then, police came and agreed with locals that we should leave. Sai Gopal Sambaraju, Relative of the family||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-affected-family-forced-to-leave-accommodation-by-locals/article32307812.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Cases in GHMC to dip by month-end’||The ongoing COVID-19 crisis has evoked a range of emotions in people, from helplessness and confusion to frustration and rage. At their wits’ end, many of them rhetorically ask, ‘when will the pandemic end?’. Senior officials in the Health department claim that COVID is now beyond its peak and cases are set to decline by month-end. In case of other districts, officials estimated that the cases will decline will start by end of September. However, this relief might not last for long as experts have predicted a second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. July high Till mid-July, a major chunk of the cases detected in the State were from GHMC. Some days, up to 80% of cases in a day were from the municipal limits. Special attention was given to the State capital and localities surrounding it. Over 1,000 cases a day were reported in GHMC till July 8. It dropped to below 1,000 on July 9 and started to gradually decline there on. In the past seven days, between 250 to 550 cases a day were recorded in the municipal limits. On Friday, only 21% of the total 2,256 cases were from the municipality. The rest were from other districts. “After hitting the peak, number of cases stabilise and will decline in coming days. Now, the cases in GHMC have stabilised. According to our estimation, cases will decline in GHMC by end of August. Now cases are surging in other districts. That is the nature of the virus. It will first hit densely populated cities, and then spread to two tier cities and thereafter in villages. But severity of cases in other districts might not be the same as witnessed in GHMC,” Director of Public Health, G. Srinivasa Rao said. Low testing Earlier, fewer cases in the State was attributed to low testing. Asked if number of tests to detect coronavirus conducted in GHMC limits is the same now as it was in early July, Dr Rao said the tests have increased by five to six times.  “We are conducting 20,000 to 23,000 tests a day. Of those, around 60% tests are conducted in GHMC. Testing is being ramped up in other districts too. We are ready to conduct 40,000 tests per day,” the senior health official said. About a possible second wave, the Director of Public Health said they are prepared for the worst. He said the time when cases subside will be used to further bolster the infrastructure and resources.However, people were urged to continue maintaining precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining distance as negligence might lead to a spike in cases again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-in-ghmc-to-dip-by-month-end/article32307807.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS sops for units employing locals||Telangana is seeking to take a different path with its proposal to provide additional incentives to new industrial units that recruit more local candidates, skilled as well as semi-skilled. The decision not to go for reservation as some States have done is based on its emphasis on facilitating the process rather than achieving it through a mandate. While Telangana too has a compulsion of creating job opportunities for locals, just like other States, “we felt we should not do reservation,” Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said about the proposal on additional incentives that the Cabinet had approved on Wednesday. Additional incentive above what is now being offered, be it on GST, power tariff and capital subsidy, would be given to new enterprises employing more people from the State. The guidelines and rules of the policy were likely to be readied in 10-15 days, the senior official said. Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh are among the States that opted for reservation of jobs for locals in the private sector. The decision did not go down well with industries and industry bodies. Two-pronged approach It is in this backdrop that Telangana decided to pursue a different path — a two-pronged approach to offer additional incentives and skilling youth. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was keen on Telangana providing a different model to the country, Mr. Ranjan said. The focus is on creating an enabling mechanism. If the units do not take on board as many locals as required, they will not be eligible for additional incentives. But, it would not translate into their being penalised, he said. On whether views of industry were sought, Mr. Ranjan said “we know what they do not want.” The State government is considering engaging with ITIs, especially those in proximity to industrial clusters, to make them offer courses meeting the job requirements of the units. TASK (Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge) did this for the IT sector, “we need to do it for the manufacturing sector,” he said. The decision on additional incentives has come at a time when industry is looking forward to payment of pending incentives. Mr. Ranjan said the State Budget had provided for Rs. 1,500 crore towards clearing all incentives till last year. The COVID-19 outbreak and the resultant impact on revenues, however, came in the way of implementation. They would be paid once revenues improved, he added. Welcoming the proposal on additional incentives, FICCI Telangana State Council chairman T. Muralidharan said its successful implementation would depend on a robust procedure that transparently disclosed what was happening. On pending incentives, he said the Telangana government could consider creating a mechanism or an instrument with which industrial units could adjust the outstanding dues to them against other levies. Noting that the proposal was likely to reduce dependence on migrant workers, Telangana Industrialists Federation president K. Sudhir Reddy said the government should consider clearing the pending incentives of MSMEs first, possibly in tranches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-sops-for-units-employing-locals/article32307814.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2,200-year-old inscription discovered at Manjeera valley||The discovery of five letters of Brahmi script found on the side of a rock in the Manjeera valley by a bunch of researchers is set to push back the early history of Telangana by more than three centuries. “The earliest inscriptions found in Telangana date back to 1st Century AD in Kotilingala. This inscription is certified as early Brahmi script that was in use during the 2nd Century BC,” says M. A. Srinivasan, a doctoral student of Buddhist history in the region. The inscription was found on a rock on a hillock opposite the Chennakesava Temple in Malthummeda village in Kamareddy district, about six kilometres from the Pocharam Dam reservoir. Epigraphist K. Maniratnam Reddy has deciphered the five-letter word found on the rock as, “Mādavachhaṁda. It is in Prakrit language and Brāhmī characters of the 2nd century B.C. Seems to be the name of a person”. The discovery adds to the understanding of the socio-mercantile ties of the region. “The Kotilingala inscription is in the Godavari Valley, this inscription on the banks of Manjeera River shows the spread of Buddhism in the region,” informs Mr. Srinivasan. He began exploring the area after the discovery of neolithic cave shelter as well as some cave paintings showing a continuum of human activities. “The Satavahanas ruled this areas of Deccan for 450 years. While the 23rd ruler Gautamiptura Satakarni is well known, there were 29 other rulers. One of the legendary kings was Srimukha, who was a Jain,” says another historian, who has studied the Early Deccan period. The extent and spread of Satavahana rule appeared like a puzzle without enough epigraphic evidence. With the discovery of this inscription, the pieces of puzzle fall in place as the earliest Naneghat inscription on the west coast of India and the records of trade routs and capitals in the Deccan plateau appear connected with different settlements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2200-year-old-inscription-discovered-at-manjeera-valley/article32307821.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Meeting in memory of BioAsia founder||A virtual meeting in memory of B.S. Bajaj, founder of BioAsia, a prestigious global conclave of biopharma held every year in Hyderabad, was organised by the Federation of Asian Biotech Associations (FABA) here on Saturday. He passed away on July 28. About 40 industry leaders and family members of Dr. Bajaj participated in the event. Prominent FABA members who attended included its patron and IAS officer B.P. Acharya, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech Krishna Ella, Director of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology Rakesh Mishra, and Director of National Animal Resource Facility Suresh Pothani. It was agreed at the meeting to rename ‘FABA Special Award’ as ‘Dr. Bajaj Memorial Award’ and recommend his name to the State government for Padma award. Mr. Acharya said that Dr. Bajaj was instrumental in developing the biotech sector in Hyderabad and paved the way for the growth of Genome Valley. He put Hyderabad on the global map of biotechnology. CEO BioAsia and Director, Telangana Life Sciences, Shakti Nagappan said that Dr. Bajaj succeeded in bringing 20 Asian countries under the fold of FABA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/meeting-in-memory-of-bioasia-founder/article32307830.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Exorbitant billing a common grouse against private hospitals||A common complaint among COVID-19 patients is the exorbitant charges of private hospitals in Telangana. Till date, 1,039 complaints were lodged against private hospitals through WhatsApp number (9154170960) announced by the Health department. Of the 1,039 complaints, 136 are regarding inappropriate billing and excess charges for COVID treatment, 16 are related to insurance. Others complained about private hospitals not following safety protocols or preventive care measures. Addressing a press conference at State Health campus in Koti on Saturday, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said a dedicated team is working on the complaints. “The complaints are sent to District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) concerned for thorough enquiry. All hospitals were issued show-cause notices. Action will be taken against those who do not follow government guidelines related to treatment charges and protocols,” Dr Rao said. The State government on June 15 issued a government order announcing the maximum rates chargeable by private hospitals for various services provided by them for COVID treatment. The charges range between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 9,000 per day. Some services were excluded such as charges for high-end medicines. In the past few days, permission given to two private hospitals in Hyderabad to attend COVID-19 cases was revoked by the senior health official. However, he clarified that their intention is not to shut down private hospitals as providing treatment only at government hospitals will be difficult, and that a section of people went to seek medical treatment from private hospitals. “But we should ensure quality treatment is provided at reasonable charges,” Dr Rao said. Though action was taken against private hospitals, some continued to charge Rs. 60,000 to Rs. 70,000 per day, and collected money in advance. Senior health officials said people must opt to get admitted at government hospitals and not to shell out lakhs of money for treatment at private hospitals. They stressed that high-end medicines such as Remdesivir, oxygen lines, are established at government health facilities including at Primary Health Centres. During the press conference, the senior officials said people are under the misconception that costly medicines used in the treatment are provided only at private hospitals. “Around 25,000 vials of Remdesivir are distributed to government hospitals across the State. Around Rs. 100 crore is allotted for buying medical consumables such as PPE and test kits,” Dr Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/exorbitant-billing-a-common-grouse-against-private-hospitals/article32307805.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Warehouses can turn COVID care centres’||Large warehouses and defunct factories can be turned into primary care centres for COVID-19 patients if need for such a measure arises in the State, FICCI Telangana State Council Chairman T. Muralidharan has said. “We will put all our efforts to identify one such large facility in each district of the State,” he said, on the recommendation made in a report prepared by the Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI), Hyderabad, in collaboration with FICCI Telangana and the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI). It will be primary care facility, with doctors but will not have oxygen facility, he said, adding how many warehouses will be available once the procurement season is over. Likewise, data on defunct factories can be collected and provided if the government so desires. On primary COVID care centres the report, as part of the recommendations it made to the State government, referring to what has been done in Karnataka said private sector can be encouraged to convert office infrastructure to primary care centres for COVID patients. Hotels in each district can be engaged to convert into such facilities, while government can collaborate with community stakeholders like SHGs, NGOs to ensure home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warehouses-can-turn-covid-care-centres/article32307802.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Talasani holds meeting with Ganesh samitis||Ahead of the Vinayak Chaturthi, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav on Saturday convened a meeting with government officials and Ganesh Utsav Samithis to discuss how the festival could be celebrated in times of the COVID pandemic. The festival falls on August 22. At the meeting conducts at the MCRHRD Insitute, the Minister sought the cooperation of stakeholders, including utsav samithis, and requested them to help the State government in going ahead with the festivities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talasani-holds-meeting-with-ganesh-samitis/article32307825.ece
09 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Present Yadadri ring road master plan: HC to govt.||The Telangana High Court on Friday instructed the State government to place before it master plan of the proposed ring road near Yadadri temple in Yadadri-Bhongir. Hearing a PIL plea challenging the proposed removal of an old Hanuman temple and pipal tree while laying Yadadri ring road, the HC said the earlier orders not to disturb the temple would continue till August 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/present-yadadri-ring-road-master-plan-hc-to-govt/article32307826.ece
09 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pregnant teen found dead||A seven-month pregnant teenager from Shamshabad, who went missing since Tuesday, was found dead on the bank of the Himayatsagar on Saturday. Police said that the 18-year-old victim committed suicide by jumping into the water, after her ‘boyfriend’ got married to another woman. “She went into depression, as she got pregnant and Vijay Kumar (28), a grocer, was already married to another woman. Recently, the girl’s family had a discussion about her future,” Shamshabad DCP N Prakash Reddy said. They live in the same locality and their parents objected to their marriage as they belong to different castes, police said. On Tuesday, the girl left home and did not return, following which her parents lodged a complaint with RGIA police. Vijay was taken into custody as her parents raised a suspicion. He was booked under IPC and POCSO. (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pregnant-teen-found-dead/article32307833.ece
09 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for peddling Opium||Bowenpally police on Friday arrested a 40-year-old man and recovered 300 grams of opium worth Rs. 1.20 lakh from his possession. The accused, Hanuman Ram, who is into tiles business at Jeedimetla, was supplying the narcotic drug to people in Hyderabad after smuggling it from Rajasthan. He is a native of the Harandanaram district in Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-peddling-opium/article32307834.ece
09 August 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Suspicion over role of registration staff too||The needle of suspicion in sensational land-grabbing cases in Karimnagar district is pointing to employees of not the just Revenue department. In some instances, glaring negligence of some Registration department employees too has come to light. A case in point is that of a retired deputy tahsildar B. Hanamatha Reddy. He purchased nearly 1,200 square yards of land in Vavilalapally in 2018 and got it registered. A few weeks ago, he learnt that land grabbers not only occupied his land but got registered it through two sale deeds using imposters in his place. He approached the Karimnagar police who registered a case. The modus operandi of using an impostor in the place of a property owner (who is described as vendor in registration documents) is not unusual. But the failure of the Karimnagar Sub-Registrar office to notice the ‘cheating crime being committed before them’ raised eyebrows. The conspirators created a fake Aadhaar card in Hanamantha Reddy’s name. But they used imposter’s photo and his original Aadhaar card number. They did this because during registration the authorities check thumb impressions of vendors which are verified through Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) server. During the mandatory process of E-KYC, the Aadhaar details of the vendor get displayed on the sale deed. The same is printed on the registered documents. In Hanamantha Reddy’s case, the accused got two sale deeds registered and used two imposters. Since the impostors used their real Aadhaar card numbers, their original names, Kodari Satyanarayana and Kodi Malleshwar Rao, appeared on the sale deed. On the top of the sale deed, the imposter’s name is mentioned as B. Hanamantha Reddy and beneath that their original names got printed on the same page! “This could not have been done without the connivance of Registration department employees though they might say it is an oversight,” said Lok Satta president N. Srinivas. The quickness of the Registration department in registering a sale deed and another general power of attorney of the same property (a graveyard) on the same day within a gap of an hour also leaves a lot to be desired about their employees,”says Bommakal ward member Thota Kiran Kumar. This land was surrendered by the late former legislator and being used by people as graveyard. The Revenue department issued proceedings on that land this March. Based on the proceedings, the land was registered in the names of the late former legislator’s two family members on June 4. The same day, another document was registered, creating a sale deed-cum-general power of attorney in the names of some private persons. This transaction too has come under the scanner of the police and revenue departments in the inquiries into land grabbing cases in Karimnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suspicion-over-role-of-registration-staff-too/article32307819.ece
09 August 2020||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||PD Act against spurious seed kingpin||Following orders of District Collector Prashant J Patil, the Nalgonda police on Saturday invoked Preventive Detention Act against Ki Madhusudan Reddy, prime accused in spurious seed business. He was sent to the central prison, Warangal. Police said his network was found in Nagarkurnool, Nalgonda and Mahabubnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-against-spurious-seed-kingpin/article32307823.ece
09 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||12th Guinness Record for GITAM student, parents||GITAM University B.Tech final year CSE student Shivali Johri Srivastava and her parents Kavita Johri Srivastava and Anil Srivastava jointly secured their 12th Guinness World Record for the largest display of 1,993 origami maple leaves. This is also the highest number of Guinness records held by a single family in Hyderabad. Earlier, the family secured 11 Guinness World Records for the largest display of 1,251 different handmade paper dolls, 7,011 uniquely quilled flowers, handmade paper quilled dolls of 2,111 different varieties, origami whales of 3,501, origami penguins of 2,100 and 6,132 origami citrus fruits inflated lemons, 6,001 origami whales, 2,500 penguins, 1,451 origami maple, 2,200 quilled dolls and 9,200 origami fish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/12th-guinness-record-for-gitam-student-parents/article32307644.ece
09 August 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Man hacks wife to death||A 36-year-old woman was hacked to death allegedly by her ‘suspicious’ husband at Jalmalakunta thanda of Penpahad mandal around 11 p.m. on Friday. Saroja, who became unconscious with profuse bleeding after being hit with a sharp weapon, breathed her last at the Suryapet area hospital on Saturday morning. According to sources, her husband Lunavath Swamy suspected his wife to have an affair with his father. Four months ago, he had allegedly murdered his father Bikya for the same reasons. Since his release on bail last week, locals said there have been disputes between the couple. The accused was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-hacks-wife-to-death/article32307832.ece
09 August 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Man killed in clash||A 49-year-old man Muthangula Venkatesh, of Toopranpet in Choutuppal, was killed in a clash between two families on Friday night. There had been tension between the two families since gram panchayat elections. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-in-clash/article32307824.ece
09 August 2020||New Delhi,||Come 2023, new policy will drive 50% delivery fleet to e-mobility||The Electric Vehicles Policy 2020, notified by the Delhi government on Friday, seeks to affect a major transformation when it comes to last-mile connectivity in the Capital – whether related to goods and services or for citizens. The policy not only envisions the replacement of the existing autorickshaw fleet with e-autos and State-run buses, progressively, with e-buses, but also ensures that delivery-based services operating in the city are powered by e-mobility. Ride hailing service providers, according to the policy, will be allowed to operate electric two-wheeler taxis subject to operating within the guidelines to be issued by the Transport Department. The incentives provided by the policy, it stated, led the government to expect that it would encourage delivery service providers related to food delivery, e-commerce logistics providers and couriers to switch to using electric two-wheelers. “To ensure the switch happens in a time-bound manner, all delivery service providers shall be expected to convert 50% of their fleet operating in Delhi to electric by March 31, 2023 and 100% by March 31 March, 2025,” the policy states. Delivery service providers who commit to achieve these targets will also be eligible for financing support from the Delhi Finance Corporation. By providing incentives related to the purchase and use of new electric autos instead of the current fleet mainly powered by CNG, an open permit system will be put in place to provide permits on first come, first served basis to those with valid light motor vehicle driving licences and a Public Service Vehicle badge. No cap on permits Unlike the existing cap on the number of CNG-run autorickshaws, which are allowed to ply in the city, the Delhi government, according to the policy, is in favour of not having any cap on permits issued to e-autos in Delhi, since they are zero-emission vehicles and can be very effective in ensuring clean, last-mile connectivity. “Pending further orders on this matter by Hon’ble Supreme Court, the open permit system for e-autos shall be subject to the cap on maximum number of autos in Delhi as fixed by the apex court,” the policy states. A Purchase Incentive of Rs. 30,000 per vehicle will be provided by the government to registered owners of e-autos. 1,000 e-buses by 2020 Half of the State-run buses to be procured for commuters by the Delhi government over the next three years too, according to the policy, will be “pure electric buses” starting with the induction of 1,000 pure electric buses by 2020.  Pending further orders on this matter by the Supreme Court, the open permit system for e-autos shall be subject to the cap on maximum number of autos in Delhi as fixed by the court Electric Vehicles Policy 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/come-2023-new-policy-will-drive-50-delivery-fleet-to-e-mobility/article32307777.ece
09 August 2020||New Delhi,||NDMC plant told to fix foul smell from it or shut down||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday visited the New Delhi Assembly constituency, which he represents, and directed New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) officials to immediately address problems of the residents. He also paid a visit to the NDMC compost plant set up in Sector-4 of Gol Market area. Residents complained of foul smell emanating from the compost plant and of mosquito and fly menace. The Delhi government said that Mr. Kejriwal has assured the residents of speedy disposal of the problem and has given a deadline of 10 days to NDMC officials to ensure cleanliness in the area. The plant has also been given an ultimatum that it will be shut down if the problem is not addressed by August 20. A year ago, the NDMC had set up a compost plant in the nursery behind Bharti Public School. Wet garbage is brought and compost manure is made from it at the plant before being later used for plants. “Residents from 39 to 69 in Sector-4 in Gol Market are the most affected by the stench. At the same time, the plant has also led to fly and mosquito menace in the area. There have been several complaints regarding the plant to the authorities, but no action has been taken yet. The locals informed Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal about the problem today,” the government said. In another programme held in Sector-4, Gol Market, Mr. Kejriwal planted a medicinal sapling in a park and heard the problems of members of RWAs in the area. The government said that the RWAs brought up problems related to scarcity of drinking water, power cuts and lack of pruning of trees following which Mr. Kejriwal directed the authorities concerned to expedite work to solve these issues. “NDMC officials have sought 10 days. It would be okay if the steps taken by the officials solve the issue of the foul smell, otherwise, the plant will be shut down. I am inspecting the area with residents. The local people have pointed out many other problems, including cleanliness. I have ordered the officers of the NDMC to resolve the issues,” he told reporters here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ndmc-plant-told-to-fix-foul-smell-from-it-or-shut-down/article32307778.ece
09 August 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal kick-starts consultation process for new start-up policy||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday convened a meeting with a panel of industry leaders and young entrepreneurs to kick-start the consultation process for Delhi’s new policy for start-ups and to discuss its development as a leading choice for start-ups. The objective of the draft policy, the government said, is to support entrepreneurs and build a robust economic and policy infrastructure that will create new jobs and bring new competitive dynamics into the current economic system. “Prominent business leaders and entrepreneurs expressed interest and joined hands with the Delhi government in this initiative. The industry leaders who joined today’s meeting includes pioneers like Ajai Chowdhry [co-founder, HCL], Rajan Anandan [MD, Sequoia Capital], Padmaja Ruparel [co-founder, Indian Angel Network],” the government said in a statement. Others like Sriharsha Majety, co-founder and CEO, Swiggy; Farid Ahsan, co-founder, ShareChat; Suchita Salwan, founder and CEO, Little Black Book; Tarun Bhalla, founder, Avishkaar; Riyaaz Amlani, CEO & MD, Impresario Handmade Restaurants also attended the meeting. The Delhi government will soon release a draft start-up policy and launch an online forum to seek inputs from the public for “a fresh perspective”. “I believe Indians are the smartest entrepreneurs in the world and all they need is the right opportunity and the right conditions. With this start-up policy, we aim to make Delhi one of the top five global destinations for start-ups,” Mr. Kejriwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-kick-starts-consultation-process-for-new-start-up-policy/article32307773.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT directs DDA to act against pollution in lake||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to take action on a plea alleging pollution in the Sanjay Lake and Sanjay Lake Park near Mayur Vihar. A Bench headed by NGT chief Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the urban body to respond to allegations of concretisation of trees at the park. Following an action-taken report furnished by the Delhi Tourism and Transport Development Corporation (DTTDC), the Bench observed, “The response filed by the DTTDC is that no pollution is being caused in running of the boats in the lake. With regard to the issue of concretisation of trees, action is to be taken by DDA. No response has been filed by the DDA.” Seeking a response from the land-owning agency, the Bench said, “Let DDA file its response within one month, failing which coercive measures [under relevant sections] may be the only option left with the tribunal.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner R.P. Singhal. “Grievance in the application is that Sanjay Lake and Sanjay Lake Park are being polluted for which the DDA and DTTDC have to take necessary steps. Concretisation around the trees is taking place in violation of orders of this tribunal,” the Bench observed while taking note of the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-directs-dda-to-act-against-pollution-in-lake/article32307774.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW chief meets police over minor girl’s assault||A meeting on the issue of sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl in west Delhi was held between Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal and senior Delhi Police officers on Saturday. The women’s panel had earlier summoned senior officials seeking a detailed action-taken report in the matter. Ms. Maliwal questioned the delay in the arrest of the accused in the case, despite him being a repeat offender. “What is most shocking is that there are existing murder charges on him for which he had been jailed. So how was he roaming free? How many such men are there who are involved in such cases but roaming free? The DCW will work on this aspect as well,” said Ms. Maliwal. She added that the victim’s medical records have been sought from AIIMS, where she is undergoing treatment and from Sanjay Gandhi hospital. “. The accused should be sentenced to death within six months,” said Ms. Maliwal. Rs. 10 lakh to kin Meanwhile, AAP MLA Atishi on Saturday met the girl’s family and handed over a cheque of Rs. 10 lakh as promised by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dcw-chief-meets-police-over-minor-girls-assault/article32307775.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DJB employee found dead||A 40-year-old Delhi Jal Board employee was found dead inside a water tanker in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar on Saturday. No note has been recovered, the police said. A senior police officer said that the deceased, a resident of Karawal Nagar, was working as pump operator in DJB. The police said preliminary enquiry revealed that he was an alcoholic and had issues with his wife over his drinking habit. “Neighbours have said that the couple fought frequently,” the officer said. The police said that inquest proceedings have been initiated.  Suicide prevention helpline:Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/djb-employee-found-dead/article32307772.ece
09 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Process licensor work for Barmer oil refinery over||The process licensor work for Rajasthan’s Barmer oil refinery has been completed with the targets set for progress of infrastructure works before the project is finished by October 2022. The Rs. 43,129-crore project, which was earlier caught in a political quagmire, has come back to the priority list of the Congress government here. Additional Chief Secretary (Mines & Petroleum) Subodh Agarwal said on Saturday that the project would have nine refinery and four petrochemical units, for which the basic design engineering work had been completed. A survey has been undertaken for laying the pipelines for crude oil, natural gas and water. Mr. Agarwal said the project would become operational in March 2023, though some of its works were adversely affected because of the COVID-19 lockdown. As many as 155 purchase orders for Rs. 20,500 crore worth of construction and other works have been released till July-end. After the UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi laid the project’s foundation stone in 2013, the previous BJP regime stalled it and renegotiated the terms with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated “commencement of work” at the project site in Pachpadra in 2018 and accused the Congress of announcing the project without any clearances or budget allocation. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who criticised Mr. Modi for “re-laying” of the refinery’s foundation stone, has said that this would be a significant industrial project resulting in the establishment of a model oil refinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/process-licensor-work-for-barmer-oil-refinery-over/article32307782.ece
09 August 2020||Mumbai,||Decide on Wadhawan’s plea by Aug. 19: HC to sessions court||The Bombay High Court has directed the sessions court to decide on a plea filed by Rakesh Wadhawan, the key accused in the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank fraud case, to be shifted to a private hospital in the city by August 19. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and V.G. Bisht on Friday also directed the State-run JJ Hospital to provide the Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited promoter with a copy of all his medical records by August 10. In his petition, Mr. Wadhawan, who is lodged at Arthur Road jail, sought permission to be shifted to private hospitals like Lilavati, Nanavati or Criticare. Senior advocate Amit Desai, Mr. Wadhawan’s counsel, told the court that his client was suffering from hypertension, diabetes, pulmonary disorder, insomnia, chronic urinary tract infection, respiratory disorder, and lung injury with hypoxic respiratory failure. He said jail authorities have been referring Mr. Wadhawan to several government hospitals, but not furnishing him with the medical reports despite him filing an application under the provisions of the Right to Information Act. Mr. Desai said he was not seeking bail for Mr. Wadhawan, just the court’s permission to “shift him to a private hospital so his life can be saved”. Hiten Venegavkar, the Enforcement Directorate’s counsel, said a similar application had been filed by the accused and is pending before the sessions court. The State government’s counsel told the court that Mr. Wadhawan only requires to undergo an endoscopy, which can be done at the civic-run KEM hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/decide-on-wadhawans-plea-by-aug-19-hc-to-sessions-court/article32307894.ece
09 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Special trains to Konkan for Ganesh Chaturthi||The Maharashtra government has given its nod to run special trains to the Konkan region for Ganesh Chaturthi. The director of the State Disaster Management Unit in a letter informed the principal chief operations manager of the Central Railway that special trains may be scheduled for the 10-day festival, which begins on August 22. “The number of trains may be determined as per the demand. A valid confirmed ticket for the trains will serve as the e-pass for travellers,” the letter said. The Central Railway had written to the unit seeking its views on running special trains to the Konkan region. The Disaster Management Unit has asked the Central Railway to ensure that all norms of the State and Central governments with regard to COVID-19, including physical distancing and sanitisation, are followed in trains and at railway stations. An officer from the Central Railway said, “The permission has been granted. Now we need to schedule the trains and the timings with a clear standard operating procedure. Till now, trains were permitted only for long journeys. Now for the festival, people would be able to travel within the State. Along with Western Railway and Konkan Railway, we will chart the train schedule soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/special-trains-to-konkan-for-ganesh-chaturthi/article32307781.ece
09 August 2020||Thane/Mumbai,||CID files third charge sheet in Palghar lynching case||The Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has filed a third charge sheet in the Palghar lynching case in a local court. “ It relates to a police officer opening fire,” an official said on Saturday. Another official said, “The State police is preparing a report on the inquiry against police personnel and the action taken against them, as the Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the Maharashtra government to bring on record those details too.” The CID also filed a charge sheet against two minor accused in the case in a juvenile court at Bhiwandi on Friday. “They were found to be involved in the attack,” the official said. Nine other juvenile accused have not been named in the charge sheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cid-files-third-charge-sheet-in-palghar-lynching-case/article32307780.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The monks who led the mandir movement||The bhoomi poojan , or ground-breaking ceremony, of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has turned the spotlight on the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), one of the first advocates of the Ramjanmabhoomi movement and a group that has been at the forefront of mobilising popular opinion and leading the legal fight for the issue. The formation of the VHP, an amalgamation of sants and akharas and maths of Hindu holy men, may appear to be a natural corollary of the growth of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) and its pursuit of mobilising support for Hindutva, but it was, like the formation of the Jana Sangh in 1951, a well thought-out move. The VHP was formed in 1964, as an affiliate of the RSS, to leverage the influence of Hindu holy men in civil society. Trigger points “Three trigger points led to the formation of the VHP, a need to network the diaspora Hindus who needed an organisation to maintain cultural ties, the Niyogi Commission report (a report on religious conversion brought out by the Madhya Pradesh government in the 1960s) and the need to bring Hindu religious leaders together to initiate social reforms, especially against caste discrimination,” said Arun Anand, research director of the RSS-affiliated think tank Vichar Vinimay Kendra. “The RSS had realised that casteism would hamper Hindu unity and that religious leaders held great sway in civil society in this regard. This was part of the dozens of frontal organisations formed in the 1950s and 1960s by the RSS, to work in specific areas of society for reform and break fragmentation of Hindu society,” added Mr. Anand, who has written three books on the RSS, including the latest, Ramjanmabhoomi: Truth, Evidence, Faith.  The Ramjanmabhoomi movement was something the Sangh Parivar had been associated with since 1948 when idols of Lord Ram “appeared” inside the Babri Masjid, but the VHP’s first order of business was more about mobilising Hindus around “sacred” geography and Hindu cosmology. These were symbols and issues that Hindus revered or felt strongly about, said Sheshadri Chari, former editor of Organiser, the RSS mouthpiece . “There can be Hindu unity around Shraddha Kendras (devotion points).” This was also the time that M.S. Golwalkar’s cautious approach to political mobilisation was supplanted by Balasaheb Deoras’s more political approach in the RSS. The first such programme was the ‘Bharat Mata Ganga Mata Yatra’, carrying water from the four corners of the country to Nagpur, where a small reservoir of Gangajal would be mixed in with water from other parts of the country and later released back into the rivers across the country. The Ganga, a point of reverence in Hinduism, was central to this campaign that became the first mass mobilisation undertaken by the VHP. The VHP’s association with the Ramjanmabhoomi agitation gained prominence under the light of certain events in the 1980s. One of the big triggers was the Meenakshipuram conversions of 1981, where 180 families belonging to lower castes in a village in Tiruneveli in Tamil Nadu converted to Islam. The event triggered unease even in the then Congress-led government at the Centre. A discussion on conversions in Parliament took place with Home Minister and later President of India, Zail Singh, terming it a “a conspiracy of political motivation”. Political space This was followed by the Shah Bano law of 1985, which overturned the Supreme Court’s award of maintenance to Shah Bano. Against this background, Sangh organisations argued that Hindus needed to reclaim political and cultural space as Hindus, and challenged the Congress’s definition of concepts such as secularism. They found the situation ripe for pushing the Ramjanmabhoomi movement. Following the Shah Bano decision, the Rajiv Gandhi government ordered the locks on Babri Masjid be removed, allowing Hindu worshippers access to the structure. The Ram mandir movement was then given a fillip through a campaign of collecting bricks for the construction of a temple. “Kashi and Mathura were places where a mosque and temple were both present, but at the Ramjanmabhoomi, there was only a mosque and hence the brick collecting campaign was launched,” said Mr. Chari. Two committees were formed — the Janmasthan Mukti Sangharsh Samiti and the Ramjanmabhoomi Nyas (which also took care of all the bricks and other paraphernalia being sent to Ayodhya). These committees later evolved into bigger organisations as the movement grew. The Bajrang Dal, the youth wing of the VHP, was formed during the course of the Ramjanmabhoomi movement. From 1984, the VHP initiated the series of processions called the “Ram-Janaki Rathyatra” in Ayodhya, which ratcheted up communal tensions across the north and central India. The youth wing was then set up to “protect” the yatras but it ended up giving a more muscular, and militant tone to the movement. In the wake of the destruction of Babri Masjid by kar sevaks on December 6, 1992, the Narasimha Rao government banned the Bajrang Dal. The ban was revoked a year later, but there had been repeated calls for a ban on the outfit during the UPA government after cases of attacks on members of the minority communities emerged. A special Cabinet meeting was called in October 2008 by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to consider a ban on the Bajrang Dal, after attacks on churches in Karnataka and Odisha, but nothing came of it. The Ramjanmabhoomi movement got its biggest push when the BJP decided to back it in its Palampur meet in Himachal Pradesh in 1989. Not on the same page The BJP, the political wing of the RSS, and the VHP, the organisation the RSS depended on to penetrate and influence civil society, have often been on separate pages through the years, especially under the VHP’s former working president Praveen Togadia, who has very public differences with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The RSS, however, has maintained its steadfastness in implementing its agenda, and weighed in in favour of Mr. Modi in that face-off. Their faith paid off in the August 5 ground-breaking ceremony. The two single majority governments of Mr. Modi allowed the Sangh Parivar a historic opportunity to push forward with its agenda, be it the temple, the dilution of Article 370 or capture of state institutions. Now that the temple is going to rise in Ayodhya, what’s next for the VHP? Will it lose its raison d’etre? Or will it create the same social energy in its call for “liberating” Kashi and Mathura? The answer, say office-bearers who spoke to The Hindu, lies in the first resolution passed by the VHP after its formation in 1964. There’s a Sanskrit term in the resolution, ‘ Na Hindu Patito Bhavet’ (No Hindu is beyond the Pale), that aimed at subverting caste discrimination in favour of a unified Hindu society and resisted conversions to other faiths and dilution of Hindu beliefs. That still remains a goal.  In Focus  The VHP was formed in 1964, as an affiliate of the RSS, to leverage the influence of Hindu holy men in civil society for the Hindutva movement  The VHP’s first order of business was to mobilise Hindus around “sacred” geography and Hindu cosmology  The group's association with the Ramjanmabhoomi agitation gained prominence in the 1980s, especially after the Shah Bano law and the opening of the gates of the Babri Masjid   When there were differences between VHP and BJP, the RSS maintained its steadfastness in implementing its agenda and backed its political wing, which has paid off||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-monks-who-led-the-mandir-movement/article32307504.ece
09 August 2020||Hong Kong,||China’s ties with U.S. plunge further||China on Saturday slammed the U.S. for imposing “barbarous” sanctions in response to Beijing’s crackdown in Hong Kong, capping a dramatic week of deteriorating relations between the world’s two biggest economies. In the toughest U.S. action on Hong Kong since China imposed a sweeping new security law on the territory, Washington on Friday imposed sanctions on a group of Chinese and Hong Kong officials — including the city’s leader Carrie Lam. The move came after President Donald Trump’s administration forced Chinese Internet giants TikTok and WeChat to end all operations in the U.S., in a twin diplomatic-commercial offensive set to grow ahead of the U.S. presidential election in November. China on Saturday criticised the sanctions as “barbarous and rude”. “The ill intentions of U.S. politicians to support people who are anti-China and messing up Hong Kong have been clearly revealed,” Beijing’s Liaison Office in Hong Kong said in a statement. The Treasury Department announced it was freezing the U.S. assets of Chief Executive Carrie Lam and 10 other senior officials, including Luo Huining — the head of the Liaison Office. ‘Politics of suppression’ It accused the sanctioned individuals of being “directly responsible for implementing Beijing’s policies of suppression of freedom and democratic processes”. The move criminalises any U.S. financial transactions with the sanctioned officials. In a short statement, Mr. Luo said he welcomed the blacklisting. “I have done what I should do for the country and for Hong Kong,” he said. “I don’t have a dime’s worth in foreign assets.” The Hong Kong government described the sanctions as “shameless and despicable”. “We will fully support the Central government to adopt countermeasures,” it said in a statement. The city’s commerce secretary Edward Yau warned that the “savage and unreasonable” sanctions could have blowback for American businesses in Hong Kong. China’s Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office said the sanctions list “rudely tramples on international law” and “will be nailed to the historic pillar of shame forever.” Facebook barred Ms. Lam and the 10 other sanctioned officials from advertising on the platform, with a spokesperson saying on Saturday that it had “a legal obligation to take action.” Tensions spike Beijing’s security law was imposed in late June, following last year’s huge pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, sending a political chill through the semi-autonomous city. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the security law violated promises made by China ahead of Hong Kong’s 1997 handover that the city could keep key freedoms and autonomy for 50 years. “Today’s actions send a clear message that the Hong Kong authorities’ actions are unacceptable,” said Mr. Pompeo in a statement. The U.S. measures come three months ahead of the November election in which Mr. Trump, who is behind his rival Joe Biden, is campaigning hard on an increasingly strident anti-Beijing message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-ties-with-us-plunge-further/article32307512.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A city in ruins||The August 4 explosions in central Beirut that killed at least 154 people and injured thousands is the latest blow to a city that has been grappling with many crises. Beirut is no stranger to tragedies. In the past five decades, the city has seen a prolonged civil war, assassination of an elected President and a former Prime Minister, terrorist attacks and foreign bombings. Still, Beirut moved on. But the last few months have been particularly bad for the Lebanese capital as political and economic crises brought life to its knees. Lebanon is going through one of its worst economic crises. The public, angered over corruption and the government’s inability to provide even basic services, are in a permanent agitation mood. The blasts, believed to have been caused by ammonium nitrate stored in a warehouse at the Beirut port, could deepen the economic and political crises. Once an outpost of crusaders, Beirut was captured by the Ottomans in the early 16th century. The city was locally ruled by Druze emirs, who at times had challenged the Ottoman control. By the 17th century, it emerged as an important trading hub between Europe and the Ottoman Sultanate. European and American missionaries became active in the city. The Syrian Protestant College, established by American Protestant missionaries in 1866, later became the famed American University of Beirut. After the fall of the Ottomans following the First World War, Lebanon came under the French mandate. France retained its control until the country became independent in 1943. Civil war For over three decades since independence, Beirut flourished as trade and finance hub under its western style government. The multi-ethnic, multi-religious city was also seen as a liberal haven in an otherwise authoritarian West Asia. But there were fault lines, too. The governance system the French left behind favoured the Maronite Christians, whose ties with Europe go back to the Ottoman period. The influx of Palestinian refugees after the 1948 Arab-Israeli war had changed Lebanon’s demographics as well. Yasser Arafat’s Palestinian Liberation Organisation (PLO) moved to Lebanon after it was expelled from Jordan in 1970. Battles between the Christian militia, Kataeb, and the PLO broke out in April 1975 in Beirut, which would soon slide into a bigger civil war. For Beirut, the civil war opened the gates of hell. The city was practically divided into two — the Muslim dominated west and the Christian east. Militias controlled both parts and fought against each other, while the government looked helpless. The years that followed were one of the most tumultuous periods in Lebanon’s modern history. The country would first see Syrian troops coming, which would be followed by multinational troops and then the 1978 and 1982 invasions by Israel. In 1982, the PLO was forced to leave Lebanon, but the civil war continued, with local Christian and Muslim militias fighting each other. Radicalised by the 1979 Iranian revolution and the Israeli invasions, the country’s Shias, largely inhabited in the south and east, would form Hezbollah, expanding the scope of the conflict. On October 23, 1983, two truck bombs blew apart the buildings in Beirut that housed American and French military members, killing 307 people. Earlier in the year, the US. Embassy in the city was bombed, killing 17. The bombings forced the multinational forces to leave the country. The civil war came to an official end with the 1989 Taif agreement, according to which a Maronite Christian would be President, a Sunni Prime Minister and a Shia Parliament Speaker. This tenuous confessional system held the country together ever since, but with economic troubles mounting in recent years, the old fault lines came back to haunt the country again. And Beirut, being the capital city with an estimated 2.2 million population, has been the fulcrum of crisis. Since late last year, the city has seen large protests, which sometimes slipped into sectarian violence. Prime Minister Saad Hariri resigned last year amid protests, leading to the formation of a new government of technocrats, but the economy remains in ruins. The blasts, which have battered the downtown Beirut, make matters worse for the city, which is already on its knees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-city-in-ruins/article32307500.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Clock is ticking for Internet giant||In an executive order issued on August 6, U.S. President Donald Trump gave the hugely popular short video-sharing social media app TikTok, owned by Beijing-based ByteDance, 45 days to find a buyer. If TikTok didn’t sever its China connection in this time, it would be banned in the U.S. The order on TikTok pointed to the app’s links to the Communist Party of China, saying all data collected by it “threatens to allow the Chinese Communist Party access to Americans’ personal and proprietary information”. It also specifically mentioned India’s June 29 ban on TikTok and 58 other Chinese apps, which the Indian government decided “pose [a] threat to [the] sovereignty and integrity of India”, citing “compilation of…data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India.” The moves in India and the U.S. — TikTok’s two biggest markets, with more than 400 million downloads in India and 175 million downloads in the U.S. — have brought the remarkable global rise of an unlikely social media phenomenon to a screeching halt. TikTok is the brainchild of Zhang Yiming, a 37-year-old Chinese entrepreneur who founded ByteDance in 2012. His first big success was Jinri Toutiao, an AI-powered news aggregator app that is widely popular in China. In 2016, he founded a short video-sharing platform called Douyin, which became a rage among young Chinese who would post videos not longer than 15 seconds, showing everything from their singing talent to life in rural China. Thus was born TikTok. Not in China Rather than take Douyin to the world, Mr. Zhang launched a separate app called TikTok the following year. While Douyin would not be made available outside China, TikTok similarly would only be rolled out for the rest of the world — contrary to the popular perception, TikTok is not used in China. This was a workaround that, Mr. Zhang hoped, would help the app avoid the scrutiny that Chinese companies that operate under suffocating censorship restrictions at home, known popularly as “the Great Firewall of China”, faced abroad. That approach seemed to work. By 2018, TikTok ranked fourth in the world as the top non-game app, according to Harvard Business Review . It garnered a huge market in India, becoming the most downloaded app. A 2019 study showed children aged four to 15 in the U.S., the U.K and Spain spent 80 minutes a day on TikTok, second only to the 85 minutes spent on YouTube, according to Techcrunch. Yet in a strange irony, the empowerment and freedom that many young users found in a Chinese app proved to be discomfiting for the countries where it was unleashed, both for social and political reasons. In 2018, the app was banned briefly in Indonesia for “negative” content seen to be “pornographic and blasphemous”. If social concerns can be addressed, it’s politics that poses the biggest test for the app. In India, the ban followed the June 15 clash on the border, while in the U.S., it was the latest move by the Trump administration amid a trade and technology war with China. Both India and the U.S. have expressed concerns on data security, and the fact that all Chinese companies, private or public, ultimately answer to the Communist Party. Japan has said it is also considering action against TikTok, while Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison said in August the government would “keep watching them” but “there’s no evidence to suggest to us today that [a ban] is necessary”. That India and the U.S. sought to ban the app outright, rather than seek to more tightly regulate it, for instance by insisting on local storage of data, suggest the moves are not just about privacy or security, but about broader ideological concerns about doing business with Chinese companies. Indeed, the rise of TikTok has triggered a debate about how — and whether — open societies can engage with Chinese firms that operate, back home, under their own laws, and without the checks and balances and transparency that applies elsewhere. The larger question countries face as they respond to the China model is, whether they may ironically end up internalising elements of the very model that they claim to be reacting against, as they move to erect their own firewalls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/clock-is-ticking-for-internet-giant/article32307502.ece
09 August 2020||COLOMBO,||An alliance of Malayaha Tamil MPs that stood out||For almost all Opposition parties in Sri Lanka, Wednesday’s general election spelt huge losses in the face of the landslide victory secured by the ruling party of the Rajapaksas. But one group stood out. The Tamil Progressive Alliance (TPA), which represents Malayaha Tamils in the island’s Central, Uva, Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces, retained all six seats in Parliament. While the number is small compared to the coveted two-thirds majority that the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) secured in the 225-member House, it is not insignificant. How did the TPA’s MPs make it, despite being part of Sajith Premadasa’s weak Opposition alliance and despite a contest with powerful rivals in the Ceylon Workers’ Congress (CWC) aligned to the ruling SLPP? Only two of the CWC’s candidates won, including Jeevan Thondaman, son of former Minister and popular politician Arumugan Thondaman, who suddenly passed away in May. “Trust is the word. That is the reason. The TPA’s achievements in the last four years have outnumbered all past performances of other parties,” said Alliance leader and former Minister Mano Ganesan, who won from Colombo district. Rewarded for work Mr. Ganesan’s colleague V. Radhakrishnan from Nuwara Eliya agreed. “People have recognised our work. If they were not happy, we wouldn’t be back,” he said. The TPA could not do much to ensure tea estate workers got the minimum wage despite their incessant protests spanning three years, but its MPs appear to have scored in other areas concerning the million-strong community. Development, for instance. The Alliance shifted the politics of Malayaha Tamils — including some 1.5 lakh people employed in the tea estates — from one of “patronage to [one of] rights”, according to Palani Thigambaram, a former Minister widely credited with building houses in the estates. “We worked to address our people’s right to land and housing, we helped them get original deeds for the first time. We created a dedicated authority for Hill Country development and the people have appreciated that,” he said, adding: “some people think voters are fools. But the fact is voters know what they are doing. It is important to pay attention.” Trust built over 4 years But for this trust built over four years, it may not have been easy for the candidates to win, especially from Mr. Premadasa’s Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB), which has been on a weak footing since last November’s presidential poll. Nine months after Mr. Premadasa lost to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, the SJB secured just 54 seats, about 24% of the votes, in Wednesday’s general election. Its parent party, the United National Party has been reduced to a single seat. It is both consistent work on the ground and efforts to bring about structural changes that the people have acknowledged, according to B. Gowthaman, a lawyer and civil society activist. “The TPA’s work especially with land rights and bringing local government authorities to work inside the estates, appealed not only to the workers, but also to the intelligentsia within the community, like teachers and other professionals,” he said. While much of TPA’s accomplishments are linked to the Ministries its MPs held, they are not afraid to sit in Opposition now. “We will play a constructive role in Opposition, keeping in mind the interests of the people we represent. We will also work with all Tamil and Muslim parties along with progressive minded Sinhalese, keeping the Sri Lankan identity in mind,” said Mr. Ganesan, a vocal legislator in the last Parliament.  Our achievements in the last 4 years have outnumbered all past performances of other parties Mano Ganesan, TPA leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/an-alliance-of-malayaha-tamil-mps-that-stood-out/article32307514.ece
09 August 2020||Washington,||‘Beijing wants unpredictable Trump to lose election’||China has boosted its efforts to influence the U.S. presidential election in November and wants President Donald Trump to lose because it sees him as “unpredictable,” a top U.S. intelligence official said Friday. “We assess that China prefers that President Trump — whom Beijing sees as unpredictable — does not win re-election,” said William Evanina, Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center. “China has been expanding its influence efforts ahead of November 2020 to shape the policy environment in the United States, pressure political figures it views as opposed to China’s interests, and deflect and counter criticism of China,” Mr. Evanina said in a statement. He pointed to China’s criticism of Mr. Trump’s handling of the COVID-19 epidemic, of the U.S. closure of China’s Houston consulate, and of the U.S. administration’s stances on Chinese actions in Hong Kong and the South China Sea. “Beijing recognises that all of these efforts might affect the presidential race,” said Mr. Evanina. Mr. Trump enthusiastically agreed with the warning, which cast him as a threat to Beijing. “China would love us to have an election where Donald Trump lost to sleepy Joe Biden,” he told journalists. Mr. Evanina said Iran is using social media disinformation to divide the country and hurt Mr. Trump, while Russia is meddling to damage the campaign of his Democratic opponent Joe Biden. “This is consistent with Moscow’s public criticism of him when he was Vice-President for his role in the Obama administration’s policies on Ukraine and its support for the anti-Putin opposition inside Russia,” he said. Mr. Trump dismissed the warning that Russia wanted him to see him re-elected, claiming that no U.S. leader has been tougher on Moscow than him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-wants-unpredictable-trump-to-lose-election/article32307518.ece
09 August 2020||Washington,||Trump to sign order extending COVID-19 aid||U.S. President Donald Trump said on Friday that he was poised to sign executive orders to extend aid to Americans facing hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic, though negotiations continued between his administration and Democratic leaders in Congress on a new emergency spending bill. “End of the week,” Mr. Trump said on the possible timing of the orders. But he also said his economic team “continues to work in good faith to reach an agreement with Democrats in Congress” on a relief package including unemployment benefits and protections against evictions. Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said her party had agreed to lower the relief package size to $2 trillion from $3 trillion, but the White House continues to resist aid to State and local governments that economists say will be critical to avoiding a new round of lay-offs. Mr. Trump said his executive orders would defer payroll tax until at least the end of the year, defer student loan payments and extend an eviction moratorium. He also said he would extend enhanced unemployment benefits until the end of the year — a key source of contention between the White House and Democrats. An additional $600 in weekly federal payments to the unemployed expired at the end of July, and Republicans want to slash the figure. Mr. Trump did not say how much the payments would be under his executive order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-to-sign-order-extending-covid-19-aid/article32307517.ece
09 August 2020||Auckland,||Ardern begins campaign after taming virus||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern kicked off her Labour Party’s election campaign Saturday riding high in the opinion polls after a successful response to the COVID-19 outbreak. Ms. Ardern’s popularity as preferred Prime Minister topped 60% in the latest surveys following her leadership through the Christchurch mosque attacks, the White Island volcanic eruption and the pandemic. Before the virus forced New Zealand to seal its borders, the polls had pointed to a cliffhanger election on September 19, but support swung sharply towards the centre-left Labour Party as the country eliminated community transmission in a matter of months. In a country of five million people, New Zealand has had only 22 COVID-19 deaths and it has been 99 days since the last recorded case of infection from an unknown source. “When people ask, is this a COVID election, my answer is yes, it is,” the charismatic Ms. Ardern, 40, said as she launched the campaign with a NZ$311 million ($205 million) pledge to boost jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ardern-begins-campaign-after-taming-virus/article32307516.ece
09 August 2020||MANCHESTER,||City cashes in on Real’s errors||Manchester City reached the Champions League quarterfinals after beating Real Madrid 2-1 (4-2 on aggregate) at home on Friday, with Raheem Sterling and Gabriel Jesus taking advantage of dreadful defensive errors. City will next face Lyon which knocked out Juventus despite Cristiano Ronaldo’s brace. The Italian side’s elimination saw manager Maurizio Sarri being sacked after one season in charge. Stealing a goal Real, trailing 2-1 from the first-leg, made a disastrous start, gifting Sterling a ninth minute opener because of Varane’s mistake.  City ’keeper Ederson, could do nothing when Karim Benzema rose to nod home a superb pin-point cross from Rodrygo. Later, Varane’s attempted header back to ’keeper Courtois was too weak and an alert Jesus flicked it in. At Turin, a 2-1 win was not enough for the Serie A champion as the French side reached the quarterfinals on away goals. Lyon went ahead early from a penalty before Ronaldo levelled from another spot kick. The Portuguese superstar put the home team ahead as he found space for a shot and blasted a goal from 25 metres, but it was not enough.  The results:   Manchester City 2 (Sterling 9, Jesus 68) bt Real Madrid 1 (Benzema 28); Manchester City won 4-2 on aggregate.   Juventus 2 (Ronaldo 43-pen, 60) bt Lyon 1 (Depay 12-pen). 2-2 on aggregate, Lyon won on away goals .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-cashes-in-on-reals-errors/article32307623.ece
09 August 2020||Chennai,||‘Vivo’s exit not a financial crisis’||The Indian Premier League (IPL) suffered a blow a couple of days ago as its title sponsor, Chinese mobile phone maker Vivo, “paused” its partnership with the Indian cricket board for this edition of the T20 tournament. But Sourav Ganguly, the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and former captain of the Indian team, doesn’t want to call this phase a crisis. Bit of a blip “I would not call it a financial crisis. It’s a little bit of a blip and the only way you can do (overcome) that is by being professionally strong over a period of time. “Big things don’t come overnight, big things don’t go away overnight. Preparation for a long period of time gets you ready for losses and success,” Ganguly said in a webinar organised by S. Chand on Saturday. The BCCI is yet to zero in on a replacement for Vivo. “BCCI is a strong foundation. The game, the administrators in the past have made it so strong that the BCCI is able to handle all these blips,” he said. Confidence-booster Ganguly said, “If you look at England, there is county cricket going on everywhere. There’s football happening; they just finished the Premier League. That gives you confidence that if they can go around the country and get cricket done, if we have the right medical staff and the teams are spread out in various venues and we do it clinically,” the BCCI chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vivos-exit-not-a-financial-crisis/article32307635.ece
09 August 2020||SILVERSTONE,||Bottas grabs pole||Valtteri Bottas outpaced his Mercedes teammate and World championship leader Lewis Hamilton by the finest of margins on Saturday to claim a dramatic pole position for the 70th Anniversary Grand Prix. The Finn clocked a fastest lap in one minute and 25.154 seconds to beat the six-time champion by only 0.063 in the final seconds of an enthralling qualifying session. It was the Mercedes team’s 67th front row lockout. “It feels good,” said Bottas who was securing the 13th pole of his career, 48 hours after signing a new contract to keep him at Mercedes next season.  Starting grid: 1. Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes), 2. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes), 3. Nico Hulkenberg (Racing Point), 4. Max Verstappen (Red Bull), 5. Daniel Ricciardo (Renault), 6. Lance Stroll (Racing Point), 7. Pierre Gasly (Alpha Tauri), 8. Charles Leclerc (Ferrari), 9. Alexander Albon (Red Bull), 10. Lando Norris (McLaren), 11. Sebastian Vettel (Ferrari), 12. Carlos Sainz (McLaren), 13. Romain Grosjean (Haas), 14. Esteban Ocon (Renault), 15. George Russell (Williams), 16. Daniil Kvyat (Alpha Tauri), 17. Kevin Magnussen (Haas), 18. Nicholas Latifi (Williams), 19. Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo), 20. Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bottas-grabs-pole/article32307620.ece
09 August 2020||Chennai,||CSK likely to train at MAC Stadium||Three-time champion Chennai Super Kings has been proactive in its preparations for the Indian Premier League and even had plans to reach UAE by the second week of August before it was forced to change its plans and push back its departure. Now, The Hindu has learnt that the team is expected to gather at the M.A. Chidambaram and have a five-day session for its Indian players from August 15 to 20 before flying out.  The TNCA has been trying to get permission to start cricketing activities at Chepauk for a while and it is now understood the requisite permission from the Greater Chennai Corporation has been obtained and a formal letter is expected any time soon. This paves the way for Tamil Nadu’s cricketers too to resume regular net practice sessions at Chepauk by following the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) that has been shared with the State associations. The TNCA has managed to keep the ground and the practice net facilities at MAC-B in full readiness so that once the permission comes through, there won’t be any delay for cricketers who are itching to get back to training.  Tamil Nadu’s cricketers too can resume regular net practice sessions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-likely-to-train-at-mac-stadium/article32307674.ece
09 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sachin Baby becomes a YouTuber||Kerala Ranji captain Sachin Baby has always been at ease answering questions in front of a camera. Now, for a change he will be asking the questions, on his newly-launched YouTube channel — Sachin Baby Official. The channel was officially launched on Wednesday with the first episode summarising a day in his life. Sachin said the content of his channel would not be restricted to cricket. “Different personalities from films and sports will be the guests on my talk show. “There will be sessions on fitness and travel as well,'' he said. “I had been thinking of starting a YouTube Channel for quite some time. But it got delayed due to the lockdown and I also was busy with other work. “When Sreesanth heard of my plans he pushed me. I have a team of childhood friends to help me shoot the content,'' he said. Sachin had been training at Sreesanth's S36 Academy during the lockdown but after a spike in COVID cases in Ernakulam district he had to stop. Now he works out at his home gym and hopes to resume nets session soon. Sachin is pretty confident that Kerala can bounce back this season and he is happy that Sreesanth will be available for selection and believes the former India seamer's presence can make a big differnce to Kerala's fortunes. “Both Tinu chettan (Tinu Yohannan) and Sree can make a huge impact. This season is really important for us as we were relegated last year and we want to come back,'' he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sachin-baby-becomes-a-youtuber/article32307836.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||On-a-roll Carlsen wary of ‘tired’ Liren||A “tired” Ding Liren termed his chances of overcoming an in-form Magnus Carlsen as “low” in the semifinal of the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals beginning on Sunday. Iitially called the Grand Final, the event brings together USA’s Hikaru Nakamura and Russia’s Daniil Dubov in the other semifinal. Carlsen, winner of three events and Dubov one, qualified for the finale. Nakamura and Dubov, the two non-winners, made it on the basis of their points on the Tour. Answering questions, Liren said, “I am not tired because of the games or playing too many tournaments (since April). “It is mainly because of the timing. For me, in China, the games begin at 10 p.m. If each of the four rapid rounds goes for an hour, then for me it is 2 a.m. Thereafter, it is not easy to sleep immediately,” said the genial Chinese No. 1. About his chances against Carlsen, Liren said, “I think they are low. I did beat him in the last Sinquefield Cup playoff but that has not happened often. “If it happens often, then he won’t be Magnus Carlsen.” Lot of respect The Norwegian, too, showed a lot of respect for the Chinese when asked to look at the much-awaited clash. “It’s going to be unbelievably tough. “He ’s shown such class on the Tour that it’s plain to see that he’s a very strong opponent,” said the World champion. Best of five sets The semifinals will be best of five sets, with each set comprising four rapid games. “In case the players are tied 2-2, two blitz games will be played and thereafter, if 3-3, an Armageddon game to break the tie. The final will be the best of seven sets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/on-a-roll-carlsen-wary-of-tired-liren/article32307618.ece
09 August 2020||San Francisco,||Li Haotong outshines big guns on day two||China No. 1 Li Haotong outshone the big guns on Friday to lead at the halfway stage of the PGA Championship, but two-time defending champion Brooks Koepka appears poised to strike. Li, who is trying to become the first player from China to win a men's Major, fired a bogey-free 65 to take a two-shot lead. Li is at eight-under 132 heading into the weekend making him the first player from China to lead in a Major. On track Koepka kept his pursuit of a three-peat on track by shooting a hard-fought 68 to join five others in tie for second at six-under. First round co-leader Jason Day, England's Tommy Fleetwood, Daniel Berger, England's Justin Rose, and France's Mike Lorenzo-Vera are all at six-under 134, two shots behind Li. Brendon Todd, Paul Casey and Cameron Champ are another shot back at five under.   The scores: 132: Li Haotong (Chn) 67, 65; 134: Mike Lorenzo-Vera (Fra) 66, 68, Jason Day (Aus) 65, 69, Brooks Koepka (USA) 66, 68, Daniel Berger (USA) 67, 67, Justin Rose (Eng) 66, 68, Tommy Fleetwood (Eng) 70, 64; 135: Paul Casey (Eng) 68, 67, Brendon Todd (USA) 65, 70, Cameron Champ (USA) 71, 64.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/li-haotong-outshines-big-guns-on-day-two/article32307625.ece
09 August 2020||CHENNAI,||MDAA’s gesture||The Madras District Aquatic Association (MDAA) distributed Rs. 1000 each and grocery items to coaches and other pool support staff, numbering 75, here on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, MDAA president Dr. Sadayavel Kailasam said most of them wanted only groceries and not cash. “Most of the support staff were finding it very difficult to run their livelihood. We identified the deserving lot after proper screening,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mdaas-gesture/article32307675.ece
09 August 2020||Harare,||Zimbabwe cancels T20I series against Afghanistan due to COVID-19 pandemic||Host Zimbabwe has called off a five-match T20I series against Afghanistan set to begin later this month. The Zimbabwe govternment suggested the country was not still ready to host visiting teams due to the sudden surge in COVID cases.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zimbabwe-cancels-t20i-series-against-afghanistan-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/article32307630.ece
09 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha turns to seed-bombs to fight a jumbo problem||Encouraged by germination and subsequent growth in bamboo plantations, Odisha’s Athagarh Forest Division has begun casting seed-balls inside different forests to enrich food stock for elephants. The growth in bamboo plantation is expected to meet food requirement of elephants, which often stray out of the forests and raid human habitations in search of food. Villagers who bear the brunt of the elephant attacks have come forward to prepare bamboo seed balls and scatter them in 38 reserve forests under the Athagarh Forest Division. A vigorous monsoon with copious rains has helped the villagers and forest department personnel ensure that the seed-balls have germinated. “Bamboo shoots are relished by elephants. We are highly optimistic that it will meet the food requirement of wild elephants in their own habitats. “They will not stray out of the forest in search of food,” said Sasmita Lenka, Athagarh Divisional Forest Officer. For restoration of bamboo forests, a massive awareness campaign was launched in all the villages hit by elephant depredation. One quintal of bamboo seeds were brought from Jashipur in Mayurbhanj district. Making seed balls and scattering them in the forest is quite a time consuming task. However, the villagers joined the campaign hoping to ensure the bamboo plants will keep the elephants in the forests rather than straying into their villages. “Elephants love chewing bamboo shoots. Once the shoots come out of the plants, the animal depredation in villages will definitely come down,” said Ms. Lenka. Athagarh Forest Division is one of the worst-hit areas as far as man-elephant conflict is concerned. “Elephants frequently raid villages coming under Athagarh and Khuntuni range and damage standing paddy crops. “Even fruit-bearing trees and vegetable plants are not spared. The situation becomes extremely volatile when any human gets killed by a marauding elephant,” the DFO said. Last year, the division had thrown seed balls using 950 kg of bamboo seeds inside the forest. “The survival rate ranged between 50 and 60%. The man-elephant conflict is complex. No one has simple solution. We are looking at a long-term solution. We will keep on creating bamboo plantation inside forests,” said Ms. Lenka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/odisha-turns-to-seed-bombs-to-fight-a-jumbo-problem/article32307637.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 09:01 IST,||Sudoku - August 9, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-9-2020/article32308130.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Homecoming||It was six in the morning. Rohit Bagla was trying to push his large and heavy suitcase into the overhead rack of the Deutsche Bahn train leaving Vienna for Frankfurt. It was cold, but he was sweating profusely, beads trickling down his unshaven face. A few minutes into his Sisyphean struggle, he gave up. He nudged his suitcase into a corner behind his seat, sat down, and looked around. As our eyes met, his face lit up. He walked over to me. “Indian?” he asked, in great anticipation. My affirmation led to a burst of follow-up questions. I answered, but he wasn’t listening. His mind was elsewhere. He asked me why I was returning. I told him my visa was expiring in a month. I was avoiding the risk of getting stranded in Europe. What about you? I asked. “Family problems,” he responded curtly and returned to his seat as the train moved out of the station. Through the journey, whenever I looked at him, I found him staring out of the window with lifeless eyes. We reunited in Frankfurt and travelled together to the airport, getting to know each other a little better. Bagla told me he had lost his job. He had arrived in Vienna in February, interning at an international bank on a contract for a year, unaware that a pandemic was nipping at his heels. Office closed down in March. The pink slip arrived in April. There would be no compensation, no payment, no support. His only hope was to leave the city of dreams and music and return to his hometown, the blue city of Jodhpur. Bagla was wrestling with the indignity of his return. His family and relatives had gathered to celebrate the day he left home. Sweets had been shared and blessings obtained at the Ganesha temple. Now he was returning empty-handed, carrying only the sour grapes of job loss and the stigma of being a possible carrier of COVID-19. We parted at the waiting section next to the boarding counters. Bagla wanted to charge his phone. He had to talk to his wife. They had been married for just twelve months and he had been hoping to bring her to Europe next year. Frankfurt airport was eerily quiet except for the Vande Bharat flight desk. Embassy staff were making video recordings of hagiographies from passengers on the Vande Bharat Mission. Airport security bicycled along the long queue snaking around the airport, urging passengers to follow safe distancing rules. They needn’t have bothered. Most had deputised their luggage and were sitting elsewhere. The silent queue of suitcases parted from their owners was a nostalgic reminder of similar ones dotting the platform outside unreserved compartments on Indian railways. Anupam Bordoloi was finding it hard to keep his five-year-old son from jumping over suitcases. His wife finally intervened and dragged him away. We chatted during the interlude; his sideways glance fixed on his son who frantically wrestled with his mother. Bordoloi worked for a tech firm and had lived with his wife and son in Frankfurt for three years. Last year, he got his aged parents to come over from India to stay with him. His work contract, tied to his visa, was up for renewal, when, in March, his office decided otherwise. The family had packed their Frankfurt apartment into seven suitcases and landed at the airport. He was returning to Digboi, a small town in the northeastern tip of Assam, moving back with his parents to save rent. A homecoming wrapped in spreadsheets. “I could go to Bengaluru, but too many friends will ask why I have returned, why I couldn’t stay back. I can’t deal with the questions,” he said. We heard a commotion. A debate was unfolding in the knot of people sitting opposite us. In anticipation of the thermometers that awaited them at the boarding desk, a family of four had popped a few paracetamols. On witnessing this, another passenger reprimanded them. The argument was beginning to gather tempo when an embassy employee came along and asked everyone to submit a copy of their indemnity forms. The whole corridor soon rustled with paper. Bordoloi rejoined his family just as his son wrenched free of his mother’s grip and hurled himself at the nearest suitcase. In the indemnity form I signed, I absolved the government of India of any inadvertent exposure to COVID-19 during the flight. When I boarded, I found myself in the middle seat, boxed in from both sides. A buzz of discontent throbbed in the air. One gentleman from Coimbatore had received his flight ticket only when he was already on the train from Stuttgart to Frankfurt. “I would have had to return if I hadn’t got the ticket; I arrived here on blind faith,” he whispered through his mask. A young person from Aizawl, Mizoram, who had just completed his Master’s in hospitality management in Glion, Switzerland, grumbled that this was the most expensive one-way ticket he had ever bought. An old Bengali couple, who had travelled all the way from Zurich to Frankfurt, were figuring out a face-shield for the first time. They dangled it from their chin until another passenger decided to help them out. When Sunil Mishra plonked himself on the seat next to me, the metal frame that joined the seats uttered a soft groan. Mishra claimed he was an angel investor, one of those rare ones who travel economy. He was excited about a new venture for which he was raising investment in Oslo — fully automated pathological laboratories in India. “Why automated?” I asked. “When it is handled manually, there’s too much inconsistency, each person does things differently. With automation, we can churn out many more accurate tests a day.” My doubts about job losses were drowned in the outpouring of his neoliberal dreams. The flight took off. A few people clapped. One person shouted, “Vande Bharat”. An elderly Bengali lady muttered something under her breath. The odd familiarity of the word penetrated her mask, face-shield and the noise of the engines to reach my ears: jottosob (ridiculous!). It was an ominous homecoming. The usual rush to eject ourselves from our seats the moment the wheels touch the ground was missing. So was the urge to elbow each other while opening the overhead stowage bins. A strange disquiet had set in. As if no one wanted to step out. As we slowly started to queue up, I heard someone holler in Hindi behind me. “Put on the hoodie, Mishra, they won’t be able to identify us otherwise!” A group of passengers, all wearing hoodies emblazoned with the logo of an Indian software company, were shouting out to my seat-mate. Mishra, it turned out, was part of their group. His elaborate story had come undone. Mishra was no angel investor out to automate laboratories in India. Just like the laboratory workers he thought were expendable, he too had perhaps been laid off in another country. He had tried to spin his return into a success story. There have been two sides to India’s migrant labour crisis during COVID-19: those who have flown back home and those who have walked till the skin peeled off the soles of their feet. No less than 4,87,303 Indians have asked to be repatriated during the pandemic. Of those who have managed to return, 20,000 have signed a government register for future employment. The scheme — SWADES — piggybacks on the title of a popular Bollywood film on homecoming in which the protagonist, a NASA scientist, returns to his village and builds a mini-hydropower project to electrify it. SWADES, however, in the government’s acronym-speak, is Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support. Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan — the scheme to provide jobs to migrant labourers returning to their villages — does not have the word ‘skill’ in it. But it has the word ‘poor’. There is a common thread, though, that ties migrants across class lines. Homecoming has always been episodic, synchronised with festivities, clement weather, and family events. A sojourn filled with nostalgia and an assured date of departure. This time, the pandemic robbed migrants of all classes of their sense of certainty. And distorted homecoming into failure. It perhaps explained the lifelessness in Bagla’s eyes when I met him on the train that morning. I saw him one last time when he got off the ramshackle and dust-filled Delhi Transport Corporation bus in which we were ferried to our quarantine sites. As he prepared to enter the hotel, he was stopped at the main gate. A hotel staff arrived with a large spray and Bagla watched as his suitcase was doused with sodium hypochlorite. As the vapours of hypochlorous acid wafted briefly through Delhi’s scorched air, it dawned on me that for countless migrant workers, from now on, this would be the smell of homecoming.  (Names changed to protect privacy.)  The writer is a Leverhulme Trust Ph.D scholar in human geography at the University of Edinburg, U.K.  Bagla was wrestling with the indignity of his return. His family and relatives had gathered to celebrate the day he left home. Now he was returning empty-handed   The usual rush to eject ourselves from our seats the moment the wheels touch the ground was missing. A strange disquiet had set in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/homecoming/article32307445.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A lodestar in India’s arts firmament||In a tense moment in the play Tughlaq , the Arab historian Barani seeks to give the brilliant but beleaguered Sultan a piece of advice: “History is not made only in statecraft. Its lasting results are produced in the ranks of learned men”. Spoken from the ramparts of Purana Qila in the national capital, with its lengthening shadows evoking a medieval setting, these lines from Tughlaq had a stunning resonance. Some years later, when Ebrahim Alkazi presented Girish Karnad’s opus again at Delhi’s Kamani Auditorium, its critique of the Emergency and the silencing of the intellectual class was unmistakable. For over 50 years, Alkazi, who passed away last week at the age of 95, was in the vanguard of the arts, pushing tenaciously against the passivity of the Indian artist and audience alike. Karnad, whose Hayavadana and Tughlaq were landmark Alkazi productions, was to say: “If we were to choose an individual who formed the concept of Indian theatre, it would almost certainly be Ebrahim Alkazi.” Famed as the director of the National School of Drama, he had initiated his practice in the cosmopolitan circles of Bombay in the mid-1940s. When much of Indian film and theatre talent had gravitated towards IPTA (the pre-Independence Indian People’s Theatre Association), Alkazi was drawn to the brilliant if fleeting appearance of Sultan Padamsee on the Bombay theatre scene. He followed it up with a course at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, and a deep dive into post-war French, German and Russian theatre. Alkazi returned in 1951 to form Theatre Unit, a dynamic group where he bolstered entertainment with pedagogy, and encouraged his audiences to assume the mantle of world theatre, as its rightful legatees. Community engagement For his Parsi, Christian and Gujarati audiences, Alkazi held Hindi classes. He sought to take theatre to the local community that lived within a mile’s radius of his theatre as well as to the chattering mill audiences of several thousand workers. Among his close circle of enthusiasts were other theatre luminaries: Deryck Jefferies, Alyque Padamsee and Sylvester da Cunha. Converting the rooftop of the building where he lived into an al fresco theatre, he launched into a vigorous programme, inviting audience comments, even as he sought to locate theatre in the larger social fabric. As he said, “I think there is a very, very close connection between politics and theatre and between social conditions and theatre.” Alkazi was also a keen artist and student of art; in England, he had spent hours studying major museum collections, and F.N. Souza was his flatmate. To introduce an understanding of modernism, he initiated 10 major exhibitions at Jehangir Art Gallery, and narrated an apocryphal story. To demonstrate the art of Picasso, he thought of scouting around for the artist’s work among the city’s collectors and cognoscenti. To his own surprise, he found more than 40 pieces, including prints, tapestries and ceramics, which he put into an exhibition. Greening the desert For the then upcoming National School of Drama (NSD), Alkazi was invited to draw up a syllabus. He was not yet 30 and it would be another eight years before he accepted the position of director of the institution. When he came, he found Delhi a “cultural desert”, with none of the infrastructure required for a vivid art scene. His quest for an audience for NSD productions was the same: “The kind of audiences we were anxious to show our plays to were middle-class, the clerks, the office-goers, the small shopkeepers, the types of men you see walking in Paharganj and Daryaganj.” Energising the Mandi House circuit, the NSD and its Repertory performed Lorca, Shakespeare and Sophocles with the same energy and depth as Mohan Rakesh, Adya Rangacharya or Dharamvir Bharti. The raging debates around indigenism in the arts were muted by the embrace of vernacular theatre. From the 60s on, the outstanding talent groomed by Alkazi at NSD was to directly feed an alternative stream of arthouse, and then mainstream cinema and television. After dedicating years to NSD, Alkazi crossed the Mandi House circle to Art Heritage, the gallery co-founded and run by his wife Roshan, which conducted a studied, well-regulated programme of exhibitions. The gallery would help disseminate his vision of Indian modernism even as he occasionally put up large, spectacular shows, such as those dedicated to Souza to resemble a church setting. Alkazi’s presence at his gallery was both sober and enlightening. He set rigorous standards for critical writing in his catalogues, and for decades, outstanding artists like Arpita Singh and K.G. Subramanyan continued to show with him. In a late charge, when he was close to 70, Alkazi turned to a newfound passion for collecting photographs. At a time when the medium of photography was grossly neglected in Indian galleries and museums, he set up a gallery dedicated to photography in New York, and initiated, with the Alkazi Foundation for the Arts, a vigorous programme of exhibiting and publishing colonial and 19th-century photography. In his passing, Alkazi will be remembered for his singular exceptionalism, as one far ahead of his peers. In the light of his achievements, the precarity of the present becomes acutely visible. One may, like Imam-ud-din in Tughlaq , well ask, “A kingdom needs not one but a line of rulers... Where are these guardians of your balanced future?” The writer is an art critic and curator who runs www.criticalcollective.in.  ‘I think there is a very, very close connection between politics and theatre and between social conditions and theatre,’ Alkazi said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-lodestar-in-indias-arts-firmament/article32307419.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Sing in English-Vinglish||The Internet brings many pleasures, not the least, talented people sitting at home making music of various sorts, interacting with other musicians and creating magic sometimes. This music competes, of course, with people posting links on social media to their favourite ‘classics’, rare bootlegs (both video and just audio), old concerts and new, from famous musicians. In the peculiar compression of the isolatory time and space that has been created over the last few months, all sorts of realisations bubble up. Some songs you previously loved become oddly unbearable, musicians you didn’t think much of suddenly begin to appeal, some previously ignored tracks reappear like fresh gems, and all sorts of new connections and comparisons emerge. Sit and listen For example, the series of YouTube videos titled Playing for Change has provided me with great pleasure — for those who don’t know these, the producers have taken the tried and tested device of getting musicians in different parts of the world to play the same song together to put together new versions of well-known Western songs such as ‘Guantanamera’, ‘Chan Chan’, and ‘The Weight’ by The Band. The ones that work do so brilliantly, becoming memorable not only for the varied tributaries that flow into the main river of melody, but also for the montage of changing personalities, locations and styles. People are also posting really precious material from exponents of Indian classical music, both famous and obscure; for those privileged enough to continue in a voluntary lockdown, time is now available in a way it hasn’t been since the advent of global TV and the Net: long renditions can unfurl as you go about your business or maybe just do nothing but sit and listen. These ragas aren’t always accompanied by a video of the performance. Quite often, this actually enhances the experience, again taking you back to that thing we used to do, put a record on the turntable or a tape into the cassette player or on the reel-to-reel and just listen. All Yankeefied Through all this, a question has bubbled up. At one level, it’s an obvious one but somehow it’s never come into focus the way it has now. Rock music has been part of our musical landscape for over half a century. Elite or very niche at one point in the 1960s, ‘rock’ (if we can use that umbrella term for all sorts of modern and contemporary Western Blues-based genres including Anglo-American folk, Soul, Country & Western, etc.) has since spread across urban, English-speaking India. Bombay cinema (as also that from other cities) has been influenced by rock, the beat and the melodies showing up in songs from fairly straight copies to great, indirect reflections. Over the decades, several generations of urban youngsters in India have been belting out classics from famous Western groups as well as obscure ones. Besides these, there are now rock songs in almost every Indian language, where the beat, the tune, the changes are all recognisable as coming directly from the mother industry in the U.S. and the U.K., or owing it a lot. It is also unsurprising that Indian musicians have composed and performed quite a few rock songs in the English language. Over the last few weeks, I’ve seen several such performances online, either solos or two or three people jamming together. Many of these have been truly wonderful, revealing or reiterating serious song-writing and musical talent. What I have yet to come across, however, is a single song in English that is sung with a recognisable Indian English accent. Whether it’s a cover of The Beatles, The Stones or Dylan, or an original song about something in Shillong, Calcutta or Hyderabad, the accent used is almost always ‘American’. Even the typically British songs are sung with an accent that is some kind of an estimation of a twang from the northern half of the U.S. It’s as though the moment any Indian singer starts to sing in the genre of rock not only their speech but also their thinking becomes Yankeefied. This happens across generations and across regions and one has to ask why. For many of us, just as English is as much an Indian language as any other subcontinental tongue, so too are all the components of rock now very much a part of our contemporary musical repertoire. Why, then, can’t we have Indian rock songs in India’s many English accents? As I listen to the many different Spanish or English accents within the same song in one of the Playing for Change videos, I wonder why our musicians are still shy of singing in our own English.  Even the typically British songs are sung with an accent that is some kind of an estimation of a twang from the northern half of the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sing-in-english-vinglish/article32307484.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A fruitful endeavour||An unusual scene was unfolding in Kalimela block in Odisha’s Malkangiri district. Some farmers had let their cattle loose to feed on the fruits and vegetables that were growing abundantly in the well-tended fields. The truth is, they had little choice. With no hope of selling their produce, the farmers had decided to feed it to their cattle. In normal times, the produce would have been bought by local traders, who in turn would have transported it to cities like Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh or Raipur and Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh. Or even as far as their own State’s capital, distant Bhubaneswar, 650 km from Kalimela. But there was a lockdown — demand had fallen and transport was scarce. Vegetable trading had ground to a halt. Then the block administration hit upon an idea: ask self-help groups (SHGs) to procure the farm produce and sell it to local consumers. The idea clicked. With markets mostly closed and with movement restrictions, people were having a hard time buying vegetables and other necessities. SHG to SHG The past few years have seen the formation of several SHGs in Odisha, supported by the government and NGOs, the idea being to empower rural women and help them ensure a basic income for their families. And so, in the first week of April, the administration asked some of these SHGs to team up for their plan in Kalimela. They agreed and soon developed a system of division of labour. First, members of the Odisha Livelihood Mission would identify farmers and their produce; then a few SHGs would buy the fruits and vegetables and sell it to a second set of SHGs. The latter would then take it to the villagers for doorstep sales. In short, it was an ‘SHG to SHG’ model, similar to the ‘business to business’ models popular in urban areas. “The model worked quite well,” says Roslin Das, who works with Odisha Livelihood Mission. She explains the rationale: “Some SHGs were able to buy the fruits and vegetables from farmers, but for transporting them to people’s doorsteps, we co-opted SHGs whose members either had an autorickshaw or could arrange one. Such division of work made the process smooth.” Smooth running The vegetables they sold included brinjal, tomato, bitter ground, cucumber, ladies’ fingers, chilli, sweet corn and pumpkin, besides fruits like banana and watermelon. Some 17 SHGs were involved in the procurement work, while 69 worked with doorstep deliveries. Apart from selling the produce to other villagers, they also delivered it to the free kitchens run by the government to feed the destitute and the elderly during the lockdown. These vegetables also reached the Panchayat-level quarantine centres that soon came up. While the block authorities co-ordinated with different agencies to ensure the process ran smoothly, the government provided initial low-interest loans in the range of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh to those SHGs that needed it. The cash reached the women through mobile banking. The scheme soon became so popular that not only were mobile numbers painted on the backs of the autorickshaws for call-and-deliver services, but the women also started picking up and delivering fish and milk, with battery-operated refrigerators installed in these rickshaws. Common good Champa Kisani has studied till Class X. She belongs to the Biswa Maa Laxmi SHG in Potakhal village. “The vegetables were rotting. We bought them from the farmers and sold them at a small profit to other SHGs. We earned Rs. 500-700 a day,” says Kisani. This money has now been invested in fish farming and a kitchen farm. Pratima Harijan, 38, a tribal woman from Madhu Babu SHG, can barely sign her name but she says that she and her friends “ferried the autorickshaws and sold the vegetables to people at their doorsteps.” The small Rs. 500-1,000 earnings they made per day helped them meet their household expenses during the lockdown. Everyone benefited. Farmers could sell their produce, the village women made a modest profit, and consumers got vegetables delivered at their doorsteps. The scheme was soon taken up by all the blocks in Malkangiri district. This, in turn, brought in climate-related benefits — produce was no longer hauled hundreds of kilometres in vehicles burning gallons of fuel. A new model had emerged as the best community-level solution during these difficult times. Now, as the lockdown is relaxed and things gradually limp back to normal, in Kalimela some seven or eight rickshaws still operate, showing the sustainability of the model. Both demand and supply might last for the long term. The writer is a senior journalist.  The women also started picking up and delivering fish and milk, with battery-operated refrigerators installed in these rickshaws||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-fruitful-endeavour/article32307482.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking on an impossible virus||The pandemic of the 21st century shows no signs of abating. There have been more lethal blights but COVID-19 is the scourge that is forcing the world to collectively think on its feet. It is a disease that is indiscriminate, easily diagnosed but so insidious that it appears to defy a predictable cure. Countries with the most advanced healthcare research and the most knowledgeable scientists have essentially the same defences as healthcare workers in less-developed countries: quarantine, lockdown, masks, social isolation, old drugs and rudimentary ventilators. As editor of the The Lancet , one of the most respected medical journals in the world, Richard Horton was at a vantage point to view the pandemic germinate, proliferate and overwhelm the world. In The COVID-19 Catastrophe , he encapsulates the key events in the evolution of the virus and the response across the world. Origins in China He begins his account from December 30, 2019, when a patient with a mysterious pneumonia tested positive for a new kind of coronavirus. The virus’s similarities with the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) coronavirus (SARS-CoV-1) provoked uncomfortable memories of the original SARS outbreak in 2003 in Asia that infected more than 8,000 people and killed at least 774. There’s an account of how the ophthalmologist Li Wenliang first discussed this new virus, SARS-CoV-2, on Weibo but then was gagged and the virus’s origins traced to a seafood market in Hunan province before the World Health Organization was eventually informed. There are details on the WHO’s response and the steps involved in deciding if it is a pandemic or a Public Health Emergency of International Concern. While U.S. President Donald Trump condemns the WHO for being in cahoots with China, suppressing evidence of the potency of the virus, Horton reminds us that unlike in the case of SARS- CoV-1 it had taken only “thirty days and not eight months to issue WHO’s highest category of international alert. The world had been warned. And it was still only January.” Early reports on the virus’s origins, case reports from China and indications that the pulmonary and organ damage it was causing made it different from flu passed through the pages of The Lancet . Horton’s book will serve as an authoritative account that future research will benefit from. Why did the West stumble? He comes down heavily on ‘Western democracies’ for their public health response. He pillories America’s response that begins with President Trump first describing confirmation of the virus in the country as a ‘giant hoax’ and as it got progressively worse explaining it away with ‘under control.’ The West shuffled its feet on implementing non-pharmaceutical interventions — washing of hands, improving cough etiquette, avoid touching your face and the recommendations on physical and social distancing. He ponders on the toll that social distancing and work from home can have on mental health. “Are these new behaviours simply examples of wise caution at a time of danger? Or do they represent a catastrophic loss of social trust, a fissuring in our communities, a fragmentation of our solidarity? The degree of isolation we live with has important implications for mental health.” Language of war He critiques the use of the ‘language of war’ that politicians started to deploy (‘We are at war with an invisible killer’) and says that while this conveys a sense of urgency in dealing with the epidemic, it also poses challenges of creating an atmosphere where “dissent and criticism of government policy are discouraged, possibly even branded as a kind of betrayal.” The latter is a sentiment that is exemplified in the risk communication of several governments globally from the Centers for Disease Control in the United States or the Indian Council for Medical Research in India where disease risk, extent of community transmission were actively sought to be downplayed to maintain the illusion that the disease could be controlled — in stark contrast to what epidemiologists were warning. Horton reserves particular wrath for his home country, the United Kingdom, and castigates the scientific leadership for being unwilling to speak truth to the political leadership. Despite the United Kingdom having identified the ‘pandemic influenza’ as the greatest risk the country was facing, and via a simulation being warned that 200,000 could die, it didn’t shore up preparedness, says Horton. While the world took a nationalistic turn, the virus has exposed a fundamental flaw — isolationism provides fertile ground for a pandemic. Unless there is a sharing of knowledge and information transcending borders, a catastrophe is inevitable. “We are social beings. We are political beings. COVID-19 has taught us that we are mutual beings too.”  The COVID-19 Catastrophe: What’s Gone Wrong and How to Stop it Happening Again  Richard Horton Polity Press  Rs. 665 (Kindle price)     Are these new behaviours simply examples of wise caution at a time of danger? Or do they represent a catastrophic loss of social trust?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/taking-on-an-impossible-virus/article32307470.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Desire crosses borders of different kinds’||At a time when there is a growing presence of queer writing in the form of fiction, non-fiction and scholarly work in the Indian literary field, the recently released anthology, The World That Belongs To Us, creates its own space, breaking away from prose. Put together by poets Aditi Angiras and Akhil Katyal, it’s a collection of poems with a difference — the idea of poetry has been stretched to include ghazals, sonnets, the spoken word, even rap. The poets featured in this anthology — over 100 of them and from different parts of the subcontinent — represent a rainbow mix of sexuality and gender. Excerpts from an interview with Angiras and Katyal: Poetry hardly finds a way in a market dominated by prose. What made you take this route other than the fact that both of you are poets? Aditi Angiras (AA): In the world of publishing and readership, an interest in poetry might be dwindling but there is a lot happening to poetry outside the book. Poetry on YouTube and Instagram has a huge following; events and performances attract a large young, enthusiastic audience. In fact, I’d say it’s a great time for poems. Initiatives like ‘Bring Back the Poets’, which has queer poeople from South Asia and the Global South doing poetry together, are huge hits. Akhil Katyal (AK): If we take into account multiple media, including social media and the spoken word, we have never been in the middle of so much poetry in multiple languages. Many of the poems in this collection started their life there. Often, what the publishing world misses, other forums make place for. I read that you often stumbled while putting together this collection and were ‘called out’, for example, when you did not include asexuals in the spectrum of sexualities. How did you tackle the possibility of omissions? AA: The ‘calling out’, the stumbling, is what guided our way into the anthology. We began with unpacking the word ‘queer’, to see what it holds, whom it doesn’t talk to, where it wouldn’t go. On this two-year long journey we met a lot of people who were generous with their time, their wisdom, and their experiences. There were emails, phone calls: the scope kept expanding and evolving, to include not just a wider sexuality spectrum but also languages and geographies. AK: Thank god they called us out. The call grew with the suggestions and additions made by people who responded to it and circulated it. We are grateful to the folks who came on board in different capacities, changed the call in some respects, and expanded the routes on which it circulated. Chennai-based activist Ramki put us in touch with Manipuri poet Santa Khurai; academic and activist Karthik Bittu and activist, educator and theatre artist Gee Imaan Semmalar put us in touch with Kannada poet Chandini; Kerala-based poet Chandramohan S. put us in touch with Malayalam poet Vijayarajamallika. All three of them have contributed powerful poems to this book. We’ve seen ‘queer India’ anthologies but this one is South Asian. Why did you feel the need to include neighbouring nations? AA: I don’t remember if an India-only anthology was even discussed or intended. The idea itself appeared to be too limiting, too fragmented to even consider. Linguistic and cultural affinities braided into a shared history appeared to be a thread that could hold together what we were trying to gather here. AK: The hardened borders and restriction of movement are fairly recent for our subcontinent. Along with that, there are several disputed regions which simply don’t fit into easy national borders. Further, among the different political regions here, there are long histories of both commonalities and differences, which we thought could be put in a productive conversation with each other. There is a Punjabi poem in the collection in which two old women speak to each other across the border between Lahore and Jammu. The last time I was there, I noticed that a quarter of the love and lust affairs happening on the Grindr Amritsar app were between folks across the Wagah-Attari border. Desire crosses borders of different kinds. We wanted to let that happen in this book too. Of course you have poems from established writers such as Vikram Seth, Shals Mahajan, Asad Alvi and Ruth Vanita. But you have also included relatively unknown poets. Was that one of the objectives? AA: Yes, our primary objective was to have poets from different regions. When the poems started pouring in, we thought we’d also include poems from poets and times that have helped develop our understanding of queerness and poetry. AK: There is a formidable history of anthologies that has paved the way for this little book. Ruth Vanita, Saleem Kidwai, Ashwini Sukthankar, Hoshang Merchant, Minal Hajratwala and others, brought together queer voices when it was surely far more tricky to do so. We move from the point where they left off. Future anthologists will correct our lacunae. The interviewer is the author ofStraight to Normaland Director, Rainbow Lit Fest.  If we take into account multiple media, including social media and the spoken word, we have never been in the middle of so much poetry in multiple languages||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/desire-crosses-borders-of-different-kinds/article32307452.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||From anklets to chains||What happened to Kanaka? One morning, the young dasi who was supposed to appear in time for the first puja at the sanctum of the Shiva temple, bringing flowers, lamp and holy water for the offering plate, doesn’t show up. But when the doors are opened for the puja, a small golden statue of a girl has miraculously appeared inside. Has the girl turned into the statue? This is the mystery at the heart of Gitanjali Kolanad’s story. Whether in her fiction or in her essays, Kolanad has never glossed over the abuse that prevailed in the devadasi system. Girl Made of Gold is set in a period when these hereditary courtesan dancers still ruled over art, pleasure and love. New laws may have come to change their lives, but the old ways still bind them. It is the threat of a union with the local prince that sends Kanaka fleeing from the only world she knows. That, at least, is what her childhood friend Subbu thinks. His uncle, the priest of the temple, insists that she has turned into a golden statue, and Kanaka’s mother, Nagaveni, encourages this belief. It’s good for business and silences awkward questions. But not for long. Two bodies are found near the temple, one male and one female. To throw light on how all these events are connected we have the partial and flickering light of testimony from Subbu, the prince, Kanaka’s dance teacher, her lover, her mother, her sister, and her selectively mute little niece. Kolanad works with a small cast, as one would see on stage rather than in a novel. Time and place are not specified in the manner of historical fiction. Rather, an atmosphere is created that testifies to the writer’s fluency in the darkness and radiance of the devadasi story. The story of this dancer in particular ends with more hope than certainty. Kolanad uses the narrative modes of dance in the dialogues her characters use — the “lion’s glance” looking forward and backward, the “frog’s hop” crossing time and space, and the “flower garland” stringing together different colours and moods. Like most stories told from the heart, it is not flawless, but it is masterly. The reviewer is author ofThree Seasons: Notes from a Country Year.  Girl Made of Gold Gitanjali Kolanad Juggernaut  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/from-anklets-to-chains/article32307454.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Hercules lived here||The ancient Greeks knew little about India though they were familiar with its produce. They did not know much about the actual country. Many of them thought India was a place to the east of Ethiopia. Being that much closer to the sun, Indians would be as dark-skinned as the Ethiopians. The first real interaction between the two nations came 500 years before Christ. This was when the Persian emperors waged war on Greece and invaded Athens. The Greek historians record Indian mercenaries fighting for the Persians at the Battle of Plataea in 479 BC. Herodotus describes the contingent, what it wore and was equipped with and how it fought (the Indians acquitted themselves well). Flying serpents A century and a half later, Alexander’s Macedonians came to Punjab and went back with a lot of men having recorded their time in Punjab and down the Indus. Of these the most complete account is that of Arrian, whose main source was the text of Ptolemy, the general who would found the last dynasty of Egypt ending with Cleopatra. But because Alexander was held by Porus at the Jhelum and forced to turn back, there is nothing of what we would consider to be ‘India’ in this or other related works. This changed a few years later when, after the death of Alexander, one of his generals, Selecus Nikator (meaning ‘victor’, from the same root word which gives us Nike) sent his envoy, Megasthenes, to the court of Chandragupta Maurya in Patna around 300 BC. Megasthenes’s work, Indika , is available to us only through its quoted portions in other works but it is the best source for the India of 2,300 years ago. Megasthenes describes India as a quadrilateral, with seas on both sides, many large rivers and huge mountains — a very accurate description of our country. The Greeks were particularly interested in geography: it seems that the most republished part of Indika is where Megasthenes talks of India’s location, dimensions and topography. On food he writes that India grows a lot of millet (bajra), and that it has two crops and a monsoon. He believes India to be the place from where Dionysus and Hercules came, referring to Mount Meru as the place where the former rests. Megasthenes encounters lions, tigers, rhinos and pythons, none of which would have been seen in Europe, but also speaks of flying serpents and winged scorpions. Megasthenes says Indians were divided into seven castes, with Brahmins, the smallest in number, being engaged by others to perform sacrifices, and Kshatriyas, among others. But he doesn’t have a word for the Vaish, probably because the economy didn’t have much trade or banking at the time (he says that lending was unknown in India). He divides the rest of the castes into peasants, herdsmen, artisans, administrators and councillors. The justice system had no jail but amputation of limb or death. There are some wild things in Indika , such as a tribe of Indians with eight toes and feet pointing backwards, others who have no noses, and still others with snake-like legs. Megasthenes repeats Herodotus’s story (written 150 years before Alexander) about India having gold-digging ants the size of animals. Rings true? Amazingly, this claim also occurs in the Mahabharata . In chapter 51 of the Sabha Parva, Duryodhana says: “O sinless one, listen to me as I describe wealth consisting of various kinds of tribute given to Yudhishthira by the kings of the earth. They that dwell by the side of the river Sailoda flowing between the mountains of Mer and Mandara and enjoy the delicious shade of topes of the Kichaka bamboo, the Khashas, Ekasanas, the Arhas, the Pradaras, the Dirghavenus, the Paradas, the Kulindas, the Tanganas, and the other Tanganas, brought as tribute heaps of gold measured in jars and raised from underneath the earth by ants and therefore called after these creatures.” Did one work influence the others? Which? It would be fascinating to know. Many of the things Megasthenes writes about ring true today. In manners, he says, Indians are simple and frugal, though they like ornaments. Their food is a rice pottage. Much of the work will please the Indian reading it today. The line that shocked me the most was this: “Indians dislike mobs and consequently they observe good order.”  In manners, Megasthenes says, Indians are simple and frugal, though they like ornaments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hercules-lived-here/article32307457.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The deepening gaps in basic public services||Eisenhower once remarked that in governance, the urgent is never important, and the important is never urgent. We also often hear that what gets measured gets done. This is only true of some aspects of governance. It ignores the importance of processes. Hence, the popularity of metrics, compliance, and the top 3 vs. bottom 3 style of reviewing. Meanwhile, what can’t be easily measured — including the quality of governance itself — gets forgotten. Shankkar Aiyar’s book begins with a list of water despatches from different parts of India. In Bundelkhand, where summer temperatures go above 45 degrees Celsius, people who “borrow” water must return it within hours — and at twice the borrowed quantity. In Mawsynram, one of the rainiest places on earth, residents are forced to ration water in winter. In major urban centres, municipal corporations issue building clearances without ensuring water supply. In five swiftly narrated chapters, Aiyar lists the malaise in India’s key public services sectors: water, health, education, power, law and order. Pulling from history, research, committee reports, plan documents, national surveys, and reportage to create his narrative, he shows how India’s privileged classes have exited from the miasma of apathy and failure: with bottled water, tankers, storage tanks, water purifiers, inverters, diesel gensets, private healthcare and private security agencies — while outside the gated communities, those with less privilege must contend with overburdened public service infrastructure, power outages, and vanishing or contaminated groundwater. Lack of decentralisation What has caused these failures? As Aiyar observes, an obvious reason is funding: yet, poor allocations have not always been due to the lack of resources, but their misdirection. Another is the division of power and accountability in the design of programmes, resulting in one-size-fits-all policy interventions that may not fit local requirements. A third reason is the push for short term outcomes — for optics — rather than an investment in long-term processes for community participation, equity and empowerment. Finally, the most important reason for India’s failures in the provision of public services is incomplete decentralisation. “Literature on development policies has redefined the last mile of delivery as the first mile of governance,” notes Aiyar. “Every country which has delivered on basic public goods and services has done so by empowering local governments.” The list goes on Drinking water, sanitation, health, education, rural electrification, are all listed under the eleventh schedule of the Constitution as subjects under the purview of the elected rural local bodies. This would lead to better accountability and locally responsive governance. Yet in most States, these sectors continue to be under the control of administrative departments at the State level. When the elites opt out, the voice of the poor is more easily ignored and problems become entrenched. But not always. More sharply than ever before, during the time of COVID, we are seeing how inadequate attention to the public health care system, and to state capacity, can impact all of us. Gated communities cannot provide sanctuary against the pandemic. Only a well-functioning and well-resourced public health care system can do so. The greatest challenges facing India and the world today — the pandemic, the economic downturn, climate change — offer no easy escape. The reviewer is in the IAS.  The Gated Republic: India’s Public Policy Failures and Private Solutions  Shankkar Aiyar  HarperCollins  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-deepening-gaps-in-basic-public-services/article32307472.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On August 9, 1965, Singapore became an independent republic. Earlier, it had becomepart of Malaysia along with North Borneo and Sarawak. It was an uncomfortable union causing a lot of racial tension, and Singapore’s Prime Minister advocated for equal treatment of all races. The situation escalated to such an extent that the Malaysian Prime Minister decided to expel Singapore from the federation. After the separation, the fledgling nation struggled with major problems and worked hard to become the self-sufficient nation it is now. What unique place in history does this interesting chain of events give Singapore? 2The national currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar (SGD). It is one of the highest-valued currencies in the Asia-Pacific. In 1999, the ‘Portrait’ series of bank notes was introduced, which feature the face of the first President of Singapore. All the notes have the words ‘Majulah Singapura’. Only on the $1000 note are the contents of the Majulah Singapura printed entirely in microprint. What exactly is the Majulah Singapura, which is translated into English as ‘Onward Singapore’? 3Singapore is a young nation on the rise and the country’s foundations are the five ideals of democracy, peace, progress, justice and equality. The country promotes universal brotherhood and equality of man, and pervading and everlasting purity and virtue. Where would you see a visual manifestation of all these qualities? 4Singapore is one of the smallest countries in the world. The main island is 42 km long and 23 km wide and has a total land area of 682.7 square kilometres (smaller than Bengaluru). As of 2020 Singapore is one of only three surviving city-states in the world. One is found between France and the Mediterranean Sea (and does not produce the popular biscuit), and the other is completely within the city of Rome. What are these two city-states? 5The Singapore Grand Prix Racing Circuit was the first in Asia and in 2008, its inaugural year, it hosted the first-ever F1 night race . It also boasts more corners (23) than any other circuit on the Formula One race calendar and is a very tight track, with cars running close to the walls most of the time. It has heavy braking zones and many 90-degree turns. What is different about this circuit that also means it still sees action on non-race days? 6The 160-year-old Singapore Botanical Garden is the only tropical garden with a UNESCO World Heritage Site tag. There is an exclusive area devoted to flowers of a particular type, and one member of this group is Singapore’s national flower ‘Vanda Miss Joaquim’ (named after an Armenian horticulturalist). What type of flowering plants are these, which are known for their amazing variety and the fact that they grow on every continent? 7The Night Safari was the first ever nocturnal zoo when it was opened in 1994. The 35-hectare park features over 1,000 animals in their naturalistic night-time environments. The innovative lighting system was developed by Simon Corder to mimic a certain celestial event that happens only 12 times (very rarely 13) in a year. What event does the zoo mimic every night? 8 Sentosa Island used to be a military base but is now a popular tourist destination. It has an amazing thrill ride called the ‘Megazip Flying ___’. It is a 450-metre-long zipline that takes participants from the peak of a hill to ground-level at 60 km/hr. Its name refers to a flying mammal (the biggest of its kind) and not a supposedly sly animal. What is this animal whose experience this ride tries to emulate? 9There is a pedestrian bridge that connects Marina Centre with Marina South and has a particular name because of the way it looks. It is designed to resemble a particular organic material but unlike the original, this is left-handed. At night, pairs of four letters (a,c,g,t) light up along the bridge. What is the name given to the bridge because of its twisted look? 10Singapore is very passionate about a certain essential part of a house. With the support of 122 other countries, the World ____ Organization was formed in 2001 in Singapore. In 2013, the Singapore government tabled a UN resolution to designate November 19 as the World ____ Day to tackle the global sanitation crisis. What important feature is this that when addressed properly has a positive impact on public health, human dignity, and personal safety? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article32307488.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||This love will not be televised||I am a reality TV junkie. Sometimes, and especially so in a pandemic, I need to watch things that tell me what I already know: that the world is going to hell in a handbasket. And so, like a large part of a rather tiny Indian online world, I found myself in thrall to a mildly entertaining, mostly irritating, and primarily ludicrous series called — drumroll — Indian Matchmaking . The show is no surprise; its attempt to portray “Indian” matchmaking as the plain-speaking pragmatic mechanism for the already insular institution of modern marriage is fairly ho hum. The heteronormative couple, no matter its sexual orientation, perpetuates society as we know it. All mechanisms, be they fetishised, orientalised accounts of arranged marriage or Karan Johar’s new show where he wants to find out what is “holding people back from true love” are geared towards ensuring the continuity of this unit. And yet, as I binge-watched Indian Matchmaking in one blur of a lost weekend, I realised what struck me most: that the protagonists all seemed to suffer an abject, troubling loneliness. Evidence of this surfaced most tellingly when they met in person. I cringed as I witnessed lifeless conversations precariously perched on a mutual appreciation of fries with ketchup. The first date is always an awkward, frightening proposition, but it was painfully obvious how much the anxiety of being alone powered these conversations. Increasing anomie Who among us can blame them for trying to alleviate this feeling, especially in these last few months? In a world where we are all being rapidly shunted online, loneliness feels more trenchant than ever before. Modern, urban citizens connected more to their phones than to each other are experiencing increasing anomie in a greatly disenchanted world. But love, we are told, can save you, and your one job is to look for it. Why is it so hard to find though? For the longest time, the idea of love has rested on suddenness, accident, happenstance, serendipity and unexpected connection. Love makes its own case and sees not difference; it neither seeks to match nor fill in the blanks. Love, in its best form, has always been a revolutionary force. Indian Matchmaking and others of its ilk are guilty most of all of ignoring and denying this imaginative and revolutionary potential. And yet we watch the show in spite of our collective horror. Perhaps, this is because of what philosopher Alain Badiou questions as the force of training in the modern world, where one is asked to avoid all risks and instead “consume” love in the appropriate fashion. Sociologist Eva Ilouz warns us in a book fittingly called The End of Love of the necessary endpoint to such consumption — the continued inability to form loving relationships. In other words, perpetual cycles of debilitating loneliness. Is there hope? In consciously seeking non-insular spaces and non-matched love, we might invite the possibility of a companionship that shakes us out of the trappings of consumption. I think about La fée, a deliciously magical comedy about a hotel clerk who falls in love with a wish-granting fairy, a film I revisit every time the world gets too much for me. Is this only available then in film and fantasy? Then I remind myself that love of all kinds is present all the time, but only if one should care to step outside received boundaries of self and subjectivity. Else, we are doomed, to the same tired possibilities of a life that delivers exactly as little as one chooses to ask of it. Why just one? Why do we agree that the search for coupled love is the only kind of love that matters? Do we not miss our friends, family and daily encounters? Why are these and other relationships hierarchically disadvantaged in relation to the pursuit of a particular romance? Look, for example, at filmmaker and writer Paromita Vohra’s multimedia platform Agents of Ishq, which testifies to the joyful forms of connection available to us as desiring, desirable beings of all manner of body, taste, and persona. The one true love story may well be a myth perpetuated by Hallmark, but I’d like to think that love isn’t. Rather than the kind of love that philosopher Slavoj Zizek describes as violence against the world, where you must choose the one person in lieu of everybody else on the planet, a capacity for expansive love must precede the finding of love. And the slow, everyday work of building such capacity for plenitude does not make for good television.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/this-love-will-not-be-televised/article32307496.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||When the running hand dropped out of the race||“Your language is good, but running is bad; try to improve your running.” I was never good at sports, so my schoolteacher was obviously not referring to my physical education but to my cursive handwriting (often called “running hand” or just “running”). And after I got admission to a medical college, back-to-back classes, interspersed with bedside clinics, and frequent exams led to a progressive increase in stress, a matching increase in volume of notes and a further decline in the legibility of my handwriting. The problem multiplied several folds when I joined the MD programme in Trivandrum Medical College. The medical journals carried review articles in huge numbers, with often conflicting conclusions. Our job was to keep a note of all those and present them in the weekly “journal club”. Every day ended with a huge pile of notes, mostly unreadable. My running hand by now had deteriorated to a scribble. Never lost Most notes could not be located when needed, and those few which were traced could not be deciphered even by me. But a faint trace of the articles and their context remained somewhere deep inside the brain. Writing a note or a scribble leaves an indelible mark somewhere deep inside the amygdala and hippocampus, areas of brain which consolidate memory. But then, for people like me who were congenitally bad at the running hand, came a breakthrough: “photocopy”. The technology excited us, and as every corner shop got a “Xerox”, costs dipped and every journal article was photocopied. By the time we got addicted to photocopy and degraded our running hand, Bill Gates offered us a life-changing gift that changed the transaction of data forever. Now there was no need for a running hand or scribbles, but just taps on the keyboard would do. Fast but ineffective A recent study has shown that students who took notes in a laptop or tablet were faster than those who wrote in cursive. But the flip side is, when the students were asked to answer a set of questions on the said topic, those writing in cursive fared far better. In an era when a “how to write a love letter” search returns a million results in four seconds, a cursive handwritten letter is like a hand-crafted gift. The shiny, backlit keyboard steals the show but not the heart. But still the keyboard has won, and the running hand has dropped out of the race. My bad handwriting could be due to poor dexterity or a thinking process that is too fast for the hand to match. My hospital pharmacist swears that it is the former, but I still believe it’s the latter. tinynair@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/when-the-running-hand-dropped-out-of-the-race/article32307437.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||For introverts, a dream come true||Till recently, we the introverts had a tough time trying to embrace our own identity. If the pandemic has left any group with a sliver of happiness, it should be us. The new way of life has been perfect for us, as the social distancing measures have given us the freedom to be what we are. Previously, while walking in our office or public places, we had been extremely troubled to decide in a fraction of a second whether to smile at a person or not. Not to mention the timing of the smile. Now, the masks have come as a boon, and it’s left to the extroverts to decide whether to smile or not while we just walk happily facing people confidently. No panic The probability of facing too many people has also come down. At the grocery, ice cream parlour, walking zone, workplace or anywhere, there are so fewer people. No more panic feelings about how to strike a conversation, where to look while speaking and when to stop talking. It’s a heavenly feeling to encounter only a handful of people wherever we go, and no one is inclined to have long conversations. We heave a sigh a relief that there are no more worries about offering the hand for shaking and be in a double mind about how firm it should be and when to loosen the grip. The workplace has always been a nightmare, a dreaded feeling to meet so many people every day. We plot plans to avoid meeting people by reaching early and leaving late. Since most of us are working from home, it relieves us from all the embarrassment of meeting strangers. Sitting comfortably in the confines of our home in front of the computer screen, introverts have now become intrepid and bold speakers. rishiortho@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/for-introverts-a-dream-come-true/article32307439.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The princess who loved the enemy||Much like the author, Maharaj Kumari Binodini Devi, the novel Bor Saheb Ongbi Sanatombi (‘The Big Saheb’s Wife Sanatombi’) holds a rather iconic place in Manipuri literature. It was published in 1976 to uproarious reception, won the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1979, is prescribed in university syllabi and still inspires love songs. Binodini’s New York-based son, Somi Roy, translates this magnum opus under a somewhat prosaic title. The book tells the story of Princess Sanatombi, Binodini’s aunt, who chose to love the enemy, the British Political Agent of Manipur, Lt. Colonel Henry Maxwell. Beginning towards the end of Sanatombi’s life in 1905, the novel reconstructs this extraordinary woman’s experiences of court intrigue, civil unrest, the abdication of her father as king, the Anglo-Manipur War (1891), an indifferent marriage, and a grand transgressive passion. The story’s non-linearity appears to follow Sanatombi’s recollection of the past as she lies on her deathbed, but the narrator is omniscient. It is a curious strategy, throwing the reader off balance, signalling a sophistication of literary art that is entirely missed by the translation. The translation has a surprising lack of interiority, given Roy’s conviction that Binodini uses the “stream of consciousness” technique. The fallen but feisty princess is shown as too passive for her truly radical acts, and the narrator’s plaintive “what could she do?” at every stage gets mildly annoying. She and her mentor, the formidable Queen Mother, seem to be no different from, say, Ekashini (the heroine of Binodini’s acclaimed radio play and 1981 Meitei film Imagi Ningthem ‘My Son, My Precious’) other than in external circumstance. The choppy prose fails to do justice to the stark lyricism of the original. As for local colour, perhaps even Mrs. Edith Grimwood’s rampantly racist 1891 account of contemporary Manipur offers more. The translation rides roughshod over complexities of style and mood. Binodini’s novel enacts an artist’s struggle to reconcile the tensions of public and private, fact and fiction, word and image, dialogue and description. The translation is deaf to all of this clamour. The reviewer is Assistant Professor, English, at IIT-Guwahati.  The Princess and the Political Agent Binodini, trs Somi Roy Penguin Modern Classics  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-princess-who-loved-the-enemy/article32307449.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Fact and myth||Fake news has been in currency for so long that we need another term to deal with the present, perhaps something on the lines of post-truth and alternative facts. Come to think of it, fake and news are mutually contradictory. How can something patently fake be news? And yet, there is fake news and there is news. The term has been popularised by U.S. President Donald Trump who has taken credit for coming up with the term and has used it for news unfavourable to him and to discredit critical media outlets. Peddling misinformation Closer home, and perhaps taking its cue from the U.S. President, the Press Information Bureau (PIB), which functions as a mouthpiece of the Government of India, has decided to counter news critical of the Narendra Modi-led BJP government by labelling it fake news. On the microblogging site Twitter, the PIB, which has positioned itself as an official fact-checker, spends extraordinary amount of energy countering every nugget of news which counters the dominant narrative of a majority government as fake. But what does one make of mis-information peddled by the government and amplified by television channels and social media embedded with the government? Would that qualify as fake news as well? To answer some of these vexatious questions, Bad News goes to the heart of the matter by examining what is news and author Rob Brotherton quickly comes to the conclusion that “fake news mimics the form and function of standard news, leveraging our collective notions of what news is or should be to its advantage. Because of this parasitic relationship, we can better understand the problem of fake news by exploring our complicated relationship with news in general.” Appetite for blood and gore Brotherton writes about the media’s insatiable appetite for blood and gore and how we as readers fall for it. It is a fascinating compendium of how news and those who create it or report it, have never enjoyed a stellar reputation; their ranking quite often was close to real-estate brokers. From bad news to breaking bad news to deadly breaking bad news — news has been about blasts, deaths, floods and gore. If there is a break from this, the good news, as the author reminds us, is of a tragedy averted. The book is as much about news, false news as it is about how we consume news. As we progress into curated news, and consumption of news changes, the future of news is anybody’s guess. By tracing false information back to the 17th century, and by presenting undisputed facts, Brotherton quite effectively convinces us into believing that “fake news” has been around for a long time. This book is not kind on newsmakers. It offers a mirror for newsmakers to see themselves — warts and all.  Bad News: Why we Fall for Fake News  Rob Brotherton  Bloomsbury  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fact-and-myth/article32307465.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from nowhere||I am descending slowly to the lakebed, breathing easy under water. I see the weeds waving, welcoming me in. The white-breasted waterhen calls from among the water hyacinths above: kwok, kwok, kwok. Ifloatback reluctantly from yet another pandemic/ lockdown-enforced vivid dream. Like all dreams, this one too is rooted in the real — I had been reading about how our locality, S.T. Bed Layout in Koramangala, Bengaluru, was a lake some 30 years ago: the name is the abbreviated form of Shinivagalu Tank Bed. The land retains the memory of water, helped in no small measure by the municipal corporation’s development plans. Every monsoon we are back in the lake, with water gleefully reclaiming this low-lying area. Moon river A huge open stormwater drain cuts through the layout, carrying everything from fish and footwear to foam mattresses, and pours into a hyacinth-covered swamp. The waterhens call. As do the brahminy kites circling overhead, looking for fish — their mewling cry can make you imagine flying kittens. After spending the past four months of the lockdown walking up and down our part of S.T. Bed, mostly undistracted by human presence, I know the place intimately now. This is my very own utopia, my nowhereland. S.T. Bed is a microcosm of new India in its unplanned growth, everlasting construction work, cratered roads, and the rows of unfinished apartments that now wear a bombed look. At the gate of the half-completed apartment opposite our rented flat, the proud banner saying ‘Flats starting at 1.2 crore’ now hangs limp, battered equally by the monsoon and the pandemic. The roads are rows of raked red earth because sewage pipes are being laid for the last two years. It’s a Sisyphean project — the ground is dug up, covered up, then dug up again. The apartment workers are cooped up in shacks hidden from the view of the bourgeoisie: their presence can be felt only in snatches of lively chatter, Bengali or Odiya songs, the smell of boiling rice, and the sound of conchshells being blown at dusk. The last, which annoyed me back home in Kolkata, now gives me goosebumps. As an urban pocket which hasn’t quite sloughed off its rural skin, S.T. Bed has a rooster that crows at noon and midnight, a herd of cows that smears the road with dung, and an orange dog who is their shepherd. In the absence of streetlights — a characteristic feature of Bengaluru — at nightfall, S.T. Bed goes back to primal darkness, riven periodically by the screech of barn owls and the swoosh of posh cars. My favourites in this world are the donkeys, kept for their milk, which reportedly has an array of health benefits. I know them individually now — the pater familias is a grey stone sculpture, unmoving in his gravitas; the daughter is frisky, with a fringe; the prettiest is Soufflé, a chocolate brown donkey who munches grass with eyes shut. Their owner is Pradeep (name changed) from Andhra Pradesh. Asked if business has been affected by the pandemic, he shrugs: “I keep the donkeys because my son loves them. They hardly produce any milk.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-nowhere/article32307486.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Plan B||Playing in a match-point game, South had to decide whether to bid four diamonds or four spades at his third turn. He decided to go for the higher scoring contract and bid four spades. South was happy to see the opening club lead because it gave him an opportunity to discard his heart loser, or so he thought. He planned to take the spade finesse right after that. He rose with dummy’s ace of clubs, gobbling up his own king, and continued with the queen of clubs to shed his heart. When East ruffed the second club, South over-ruffed and now had to play trumps from his hand. He cashed the ace and king and got more bad news. It looked like he had two trump losers to go with one heart and at least one diamond. Can you see a ray of hope? It was a long shot, but it was his only shot. South cashed the ace and king of diamonds, relieved that the suit split 3-2, and led his heart. He was in luck when West produced the ace. Having only hearts and clubs remaining, West had to put dummy on lead. South could run dummy’s clubs and over-ruff East should East ruff in at some point, thereby holding his trump losers to one. Should East never ruff, South would be able to discard all three of his remaining diamonds. The defenders were helpless. Well done!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/plan-b/article32307491.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Enforced silence||Security was tight in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, the one-year anniversary of the revocation of Article 370. An all-party meeting called by National Conference president Farooq Abdullah (below) at his house was blocked by the police, while dozens of PDP leaders and workers planning a protest were detained. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Governor G.C. Murmu resigned and was succeeded by former Union minister and senior BJP leader Manoj Sinha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/enforced-silence/article32307421.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Rainstorm||Mumbai was battered by the heaviest single day of rain — 33.2 cm in 24 hours — since at least 1974, accompanied by winds of up to 100 kmph. Much of the city was flooded and businesses and services disrupted. The National Disaster Relief Force rescued some 290 people from two local trains stranded on flooded tracks. Parts of south Mumbai remained waterlogged the next day even as the rains grew less intense.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rainstorm/article32307423.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Splashdown||NASA astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley, who had travelled to the International Space Station in SpaceX’s Dragon craft, returned after a two-month voyage — NASA’s first crewed mission from the U.S. in nine years. They made a ‘splashdown’ off Florida’s coast — the first water landing in 45 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/splashdown/article32307425.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Minting Gandhi||It was widely reported that the U.K. planned to feature Mahatma Gandhi on a coin, but this was a conflation of two processes. The Royal Mint has been planning to issue a commemorative coin of Gandhi since 2019, while Chancellor Rishi Sunak recently backed a campaign that aims to feature a British ethnic minority person on a coin that will be legal tender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/minting-gandhi/article32307427.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||A turning point||The long-anticipated and divisive construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya was inaugurated, significantly also on August 5, following a series of highly publicised ceremonies, culminating in a Bhumi Pujan during which PM Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone and gave a speech. Political and religious figures offered their felicitations, while other commentators condemned the construction and the open participation of elected officials in a religious ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-turning-point/article32307429.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Gutted||As this goes to print, two massive explosions in Beirut have killed at least 135 people, injured 5,000, and destroyed 300,000 homes. The explosion possibly came from 2,750 tonnes of confiscated ammonium nitrate — an industrial chemical used in fertiliser and mining explosives — stored in a warehouse. The Lebanese government has declared a two-week state of emergency. The blast was described as one of the biggest non-nuclear explosions in history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gutted/article32307431.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Man of My Time||Dalia Sofer  Farrar, Straus and Giroux Rs. 2,246 Hamid Mozaffarian works as an interrogator with the Iranian regime. He travels to New York to retrieve the ashes of his father, whose dying wish was to be buried in Iran. With the ashes in his pocket, Hamid starts excavating his past, confronting his estranged family and his own demons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/man-of-my-time/article32307447.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Hamnet||Maggie O’Farrell  Tinder Press Rs. 707 (Kindle price) This novel, shortlisted for the Women’s Prize, is the story of a marriage torn apart by grief; a kestrel and its owner; the bond between twins; a glovemaker’s son who flouts conventions for love. Above all, it is a reimagining of the life of a boy who lent his name to an iconic play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hamnet/article32307459.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The Loneliness of Hira Barua||Arupa Patangia Kalita,   trs Ranjita Biswas  Macmillan Rs. 450 In these startling portraits, women negotiate with family, violence, trauma, ambition and domesticity with grace and resilience. The original won the Sahitya Akademi in 2014. The style of the stories varies from social realism and folklore to magic realism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-loneliness-of-hira-barua/article32307461.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The Henna Artist||Alka Joshi  HarperCollins India Rs. 499 Escaping an abusive marriage, 17-year-old Lakshmi makes a life for herself in Jaipur as the henna artist for the city’s rich and famous. Then her husband returns, with a young girl in tow who claims to be Lakshmi’s sister. Even as Lakshmi’s world crumbles, she helps herself and the people around her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-henna-artist/article32307463.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Above and Beyond: How to Build Impactful Businesses||R. Mukund, R. Srinivasan,   Shrihari Udupa  Notion Press Rs. 600 The authors bring you real-world examples of companies that have gone beyond profits and success, of organisations that had leadership anchored in values. Doing the right thing has helped them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/above-and-beyond-how-to-build-impactful-businesses/article32307467.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||What We Carry: A Memoir||Maya Shanbhag Lang  HarperCollins  Rs. 499 The writer grew up idolising her mother, an accomplished physician who immigrated to the United States from India and completed her residency while raising her children. When she learns that her mother is living with Alzheimer’s, it forces Maya to re-examine their relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/what-we-carry-a-memoir/article32307474.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||India Tomorrow: Conversations with the Next Generation of Political Leaders||Pradeep Chhibber, Harsh Shah  OUP  Rs. 795 The next generation of political leaders will determine India's future. This book provides a snapshot of contemporary Indian politics through conversations with 20 of the country’s young politicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-tomorrow-conversations-with-the-next-generation-of-political-leaders/article32307476.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Quest for Restoring Financial Stability in India||Viral V. Acharya  Sage Rs. 695 This volume is a front-row view of the former RBI deputy governor’s mission to help banks survive non-performing assets (NPA) jams. It analyses among other issues how under-capitalised banks remain vulnerable to further stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/quest-for-restoring-financial-stability-in-india/article32307478.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3112||Across  1 Trip had try-out of some insurance policies (5-5) 6 Primarily, amicablemademoiselleI’ll esteem? (4) 9 Everyman – so healthy! – knocked back enormous quantity of booze (10) 10 Fawn in pie crust (4) 11 Romantic tale is long, sordid novel (7,5) 15 Dour rival displayed impatience for Spooner (2-5) 16 PerhapsBambiseen in rejigged order, Ena’s introduction included twice (3,4) 17 Controlled creep, by ‘eck (2,5) 19 ‘Abaci to Xeroxes’: retrospective includes unusual items (7) 20 What might rattle ‘mid worst snow? (5,7) 23 Mother getting in on Sultan’s territory (4) 24 Green with plan to recycle (10) 25 God, person with lisp’s angry (4) 26 Fibre provided by pathetic meals — ‘moderate sandwiches’ (6,4)  Down  1 ‘Date’s a herb’, we’re told (4) 2 Audiotape.s gripping,A Letter From Greece(4) 3 Measure of alcohol, a kind of sherry, is trifle ingredient (6,5) 4 ‘Reformed’ Duke – I agree, newspaper boss to cover (7) 5 What might affect an athlete’s career in one of two ways? (7) 7 Witches and I end up touring Pacific lands (10) 8 Receiving pursuit, shake a rein of a horse (10) 12 Wren has designs for this political assembly (4,2,5) 13 Turns before dock that’s damper (10) 14 A heartless romance leads to bother for lover (10) 18 Skirt (it’s chiné) as regularly worn by divinity (7) 19 To some extent commend, or second? (7) 21 Join up with part of orchestra (4) 22 Look — with eyes half-closed, a parliamentarian (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3112/article32307494.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Asymptomatic people too carry high viral loads||One reason why containing novel coronavirus spread is challenging is that people who seem to be healthy despite being infected with the virus can spread it to others. A body of evidence now suggests that people without symptoms can and do readily spread coronavirus, and people are most infectious just a couple of days before symptoms show up. This is typically the presymptomatic phase when infected people don’t exhibit symptoms but do shed substantial amounts of virus. Same load A retrospective study of 303 symptomatic and asymptomatic patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 during March 6-26 has found definite evidence that people who do not exhibit symptoms carry the same amount of virus as those who are symptomatic. The results of the study carried out in South Korea were published in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine.   Of the 303 patients studied, 110 (36.3%) were asymptomatic at the time of isolation. The team, led by Dr Eunjung Lee from the Soonchunhyang University Hospital, Bucheon, South Korea, found that only 21 of 110 asymptomatic patients subsequently developed symptoms. This study thus provided the much-needed evidence that many people with coronavirus infection can remain asymptomatic for a “prolonged period”. While this study found that 29% of asymptomatic patients never developed symptoms at all, Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, had pegged it at 20-45%. A review in the Annals of Internal Medicine states that asymptomatic persons account for nearly 40-45% of SARS-CoV-2 infections. The review also said that such people transmit the virus for an “extended period, perhaps longer than 14 days”. While the incidence of asymptomatic patients carrying high viral load raises the possibility of such people spreading the virus to others, the study did not determine this, as it was not designed for the said purpose. Both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients were isolated, thus providing no opportunity to study the chain of transmission. Also, live virus was not cultured (grown) in labs to confirm the infectious nature of the virus. Hence, they note that “detection of viral RNA does not equate infectious virus being present and transmissible”. While several studies too have found a large percentage of asymptomatic cases, such studies have a limitation. Unlike the current study, earlier ones had considered presymptomatic patients as asymptomatic without observing the clinical course of asymptomatic cases. The challenge with asymptomatic infection is the heightened risk of such people travelling freely and mingling with others thus spreading the virus to them, whereas those with symptoms are more likely to stay at home. Underreported cases The combination of prolonged period of being asymptomatic and carrying similar viral load as people with symptoms would necessitate isolation of all infected people regardless of symptoms, they note. “An important implication of our findings is that there may be substantial underreporting of infected patients using the current symptom-based surveillance and screening,” they write. The study once again underscores the importance of wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing to reduce the chances of getting infected. Studies have shown that universal masking reduces the amount virus inhaled thus increasing the chances of coming down with only mild disease even when infected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/asymptomatic-people-too-carry-high-viral-loads/article32307588.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Is there a case for issuing immunity certificates?||As on August 7, of the over 19 million novel coronavirus cases across the world, more than 11.5 million people have recovered from COVID-19. While the quantum and duration of protection conferred by natural infection is still not known, not a single case of true reinfection or reactivation has been documented anywhere in the world seven months after the outbreak. As a result, there is growing clamour for a rethink on “immunity passport” to be handed out to those who have recovered from COVID-19 for the purpose of travel or work without restrictions of quarantine. In a letter to the WHO Director-General Tedros A. Ghebreyesus, Dr. Abdul Ghafur, Infectious Diseases consultant at Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, says: “If reinfections were a significant problem, by now, we would have had hundreds orthousands of cases of reinfection at the global level.” Till such time effective vaccines become available, people who have recovered from COVID-19 should be permitted to travel without restrictions, he says. “We need to look at COVID-19 with a sense of balance and not hysteria. With all the experience available now from millions of confirmed cases across the world, and with not a single proven case of reinfection, there is a clear case for ‘immunity passports’ with some restrictions,” says virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel, CEO of Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance in an email to The Hindu.  Case-by-case basis Dr. Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, in an email to The Hindu, says: “The permission to travel or work should be decided on a case-by-case basis, according to the principles of ethics while dealing with a pandemic. However, terms such as immunity passports may not have relevance, as we do not know anything about specific kinds of immune responses and the duration of protection in people.” There is currently not enough evidence about the effectiveness of antibody-mediated immunity to guarantee the accuracy of an ‘immunity passport’ or ‘risk-free certificate’. “We need an unbiased, reliable point-of-care test providing clear proof of immunity against infection,” Dr. Babu says. If vaccine-induced immunity can protect people, should protection conferred by natural infection be treated differently? True, the amount and duration of protection conferred by natural infection is still not clear, but are scientists and policy-makers treating protection offered by a vaccine differently from protection conferred by natural infection? Dr. Jameel stresses the well-known aspect of protection when he says: “Immune protection after infection/disease is always much more robust than most vaccines, and definitely [more robust than] most COVID-19 vaccines in development.” Some of the vaccines undergoing clinical trials are mostly directed at a single or a couple of proteins (spike) of the virus. But vaccines under trial that use the inactivated coronaviruses would expose the immune system to a whole range of viral proteins, much like natural infection and can produce immune responses comparable to natural infection. However, it is not known if people who have experienced asymptomatic infection would show robust immune responses like those who have recovered from moderate or severe disease. Issuing ‘immunity certificates’ to people who have recovered can be an ethical minefield. “As public health professionals, we do not generally prefer immunity to be induced by natural infection compared with vaccines. It seems logical, but there are multiple challenges. There might be long-term health complications in those who had COVID-19, whereas the vaccine will have minimal or no adverse health consequences. Also, agreeing to this will go against public health principles; if accepted, there is a danger that similar arguments will be made for other vaccine-preventable diseases for which we have a universal immunisation programme,” says Dr. Babu. Public health risk There is also a public health risk of issuing immunity certificates — people whose livelihoods have been affected would be encouraged to adopt risky behaviour so as to get infected rather than taking precautions to stay protected. This would lead to a sharp increase in cases across the country, with huge numbers requiring hospitalisation. Such a situation would lead to testing capabilities getting overwhelmed, crumbling of the health-care systems and increased deaths. Antibody tests The next ethical quagmire would be whether to give such certificates to people who have had asymptomatic infection based on antibody tests. “Antibody tests do not quantify the amount of antibodies and [it is] still hard to say what is protection. A bigger problem is that with already a testing deficit, people will get unnecessary tests [done] and create an access problem. In such situations, it is the poor and vulnerable who won’t have access, while the rich will get tested,” says Dr Jameel. Another problem with antibody tests is unreliability. Also, not everyone infected produces antibodies, and not everyone who has antibodies has developed them specifically against SARS-CoV-2. There is emerging initial evidence in support of T cell-mediated immune responses, for which biomarkers will be different as they are not antibodies. An immunity passport will further divide the society with different ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/is-there-a-case-for-issuing-immunity-certificates/article32307580.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Studying P. vivax malaria||The parasite Plasmodium vivax, responsible for 7.5 million malaria cases worldwide, remains understudied. Not much is known about its dormant stage in the liver. An international team has developed a system to breed these parasites in the lab and then infect cultured human liver cells with it. This can help establish a robust liver stage assay in P. vivax- endemic regions such as India. Mosquitoes inject the sporozoite (spore-like) stage of the parasite into the skin when they bite, and the sporozoites travel to the liver. “Imagine some 50 parasites enter our liver, each infect one liver cell or hepatocyte and multiply enormously to 10,000 or more. These can then move out and infect blood cells,” explains Varadharajan Sundaramurthy, from National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), one of the corresponding authors of the work published in Malaria Journal.  Silent parasite As the number is very low in the liver, our immune system barely notices it. “The parasite can remain in the liver in a dormant stage and relapse later. So there is an urgent need to find drugs for P. vivax which will kill both the blood and liver stages,” he adds. Improved method Susanta Kumar Ghosh, who recently retired from ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research, Bengaluru Centre, and is one of the corresponding authors, developed an improved method for breeding Anopheles stephensi mosquitoes in the lab. The females were fed with blood collected from Indian patients with the P. vivax infection. Two weeks later, the mature sporozoites were taken from the mosquitoes’ salivary glands, added to cultured liver cells (multiple human hepatocyte platforms) and studied. This approach can be used to further study the liver stage. “Another complication is the emergence of drug-resistant malaria parasites. Certain malaria-endemic countries have even abandoned chloroquine for P. vivax treatment. Fortunately chloroquine is still effective in India. But the currently used anti-relapse drug, Primaquine, has many undesirable side-effects, especially in patients with a genetic defect called G6PD deficiency. Moreover, it takes 14 days to administer this drug for radical cure... there is an urgent need for development of a new class of drugs,” adds Dr. Ghosh. The researchers add this assay could also be used to test if a specific anti-malarial drug would work for an individual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/studying-p-vivax-malaria/article32307579.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Flying high, flying straight||How long can Andean condor birds soar without flapping? At 15 kg, Andean condors (Vultur gryphus) are the world’s heaviest soaring birds, with a wingspan of 10 feet. Condors spend 99% of all flight time in soaring/gliding flight. The ability to soar for hours with minimal flapping was seen in birds that were not adults. Documenting every single wingbeat of the birds, researchers have found that and Andean condors can sustain soaring for long hours without flapping their wings. Studying individual wingbeats for over 216 hours of flight, researchers found that they flap their wings for only 1% of their flight time. Even this flapping was specifically during take-off and when close to the ground; over 75% of flapping flight was associated with take-offs. Writing in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a team led by E.L.C. Shepard from Swansea University, U.K., notes that one bird flew for over five hours without flapping, covering a distance of about 172 km. It is predicted that condors can soar long distances by flapping for about 2 seconds per kilometre. Since flapping imposes an economic cost, the overall flight effort of condors is constrained by the requirements for take-off. Even the wandering albatross (Diomedia exulans), which weighs about 9.4 kg and flaps minimally, spends 1.2-14.5% of its flight (outside take-off) in slow, flapping flight, they write. Currents of warm rising air and streams of air pushed upward by ground features help these birds soar. Ability to ride air currents allows them to travel long distances with minimal exertion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/flying-high-flying-straight/article32307582.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Global magnetic field of the Sun’s atmosphere measured for the first time||The Sun is our closest star and we have been studying it for a long time. Yet, it has many associated puzzles that are unexplained. A significant advance has been made by an international team of solar physicists led by those from Peking University, China, and National Center for Atmospheric Research of the U.S. The group has measured the global magnetic field of the sun’s corona, or outer atmosphere, for the very first time. This research has been published in the journal Science.  Hot corona puzzle There are two main puzzles about the Sun which this advancement will help address. First is the coronal heating problem. Though the core of the Sun is at a temperature of about 15 million degrees, its outer layer, the photosphere is a mere 5700 degrees hot. However, its corona or outer atmosphere, which stretches up to several million kilometres beyond its surface, is much, much hotter than the surface. It is at a temperature of one million degrees or more. What causes the atmosphere of the Sun (corona) to heat up again, though the surface (photosphere) is cooler than the interior. That is the question which has baffled solar physicists. Popular attempts to explain this puzzle invoke the magnetic field of the corona. Hence the present work will help understand and verify these theories better. Solar eruptions The other set of questions concerns the mechanisms of eruptions of the Sun, such as solar flares and coronal mass ejections. These are driven by magnetic reconnections happening in the sun’s corona. “Magnetic reconnection is a process where oppositely polarity magnetic field lines connect and some of the magnetic energy is converted to heat energy and also kinetic energy which leads to the generation of heating, solar flares, solar jets, etc,” says Tanmoy Samanta, a postdoctoral research fellow working at George Mason University, and Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory of the U.S. He is one of the authors of the paper. The team used a technique known as coronal seismology or magnetoseismology to measure the coronal magnetic field which has been known for a few decades. This method requires the measurement of the properties of magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) waves and the density of the corona simultaneously. “In the past, these techniques were occasionally used in small regions of the corona, or some coronal loops due to limitations of our instruments/and proper data analysis techniques,” explains Dr. Samanta, in an email to The Hindu.  Sharp instrument The team used the improved measurements of the Coronal Multi-channel Polarimeter (CoMP) and advanced data analysis to measure the coronal magnetic field. CoMP is an instrument operated by High Altitude Observatory, of the U.S. It is located at Mauna Loa Solar Observatory, near the summit of that volcano on the big island of Hawaii. It is very important to measure the corneal magnetic fields regularly since the solar corona is highly dynamic and varies within seconds to a minute time scale. [While photospheric magnetic fields are measured regularly from space] “the measurement of global coronal magnetic fields was missing in the past since the coronal magnetic fields are very weak. We plan to regularly measure coronal magnetic fields using our sophisticated techniques to understand the physical processes of the highly dynamic corona,” says Dr. Samanta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/global-magnetic-field-of-the-suns-atmosphere-measured-for-the-first-time/article32307584.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||How can ‘tabletop’ airports be safer?||The story so far: On August 7, a Boeing 737 of Air India Express (the low cost subsidiary of national carrier Air India) on a special ‘Vande Bharat’ repatriation flight from Dubai to Kozhikode overshot the runway. There were ‘174 passengers, 10 infants, 2 pilots and 4 cabin crew on board’. In what was its second attempt, flight IX-1344 touched down on runway 10 of Calicut International Airport at 7.40 p.m., went past the runway end and safety area, and fell into a valley. The fuselage split in the impact. Both pilots lost their lives; there were casualties and injuries of varying degrees among passengers. There was no fire on board. The Digital Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder have been recovered. The accident has once again turned the spotlight on operations to what are called ‘tabletop airports’ in India. What is a ‘tabletop airport’ and how many are there in India? As the name suggests, it is an airport located and built on top of a plateau or hilly surface, with one or both ends of the runway overlooking a drop. The airports in the country which would count as “tabletops”, are namely Lengpui (Mizoram), Shimla and Kullu (Himachal Pradesh), Pakyong (Sikkim), Mangaluru (Karnataka), Kozhikode and Kannur (both Kerala). A retired aviation official says there is no such term as a ‘tabletop airport’ in any International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) technical document. But India’s statutory aviation body, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), refers to these airports in this manner by way of highlighting safety measures during operations to these runways. The official adds that there are not many differences between a ‘normal’ airport and a ‘tabletop’ airport. Why are these airports drawing attention now? While there have been some aviation incidents at these airports, it was the accident in Mangaluru on May 22, 2010, that highlighted operational risks. Here, an Air India Express flight again, from Dubai to Mangaluru, overran the runway while landing on runway 24. Flight IX-812 hit an antenna and then went down a steep embankment after which there was a fire. Of the 160 passengers and 6 crew, 158 lost their lives. The case focused attention on the nature of operations to such airports, especially their shorter runways. Kozhikode has two runways of 2,700 metres in length. It was 2,860 metres but ‘shortened’ to accommodate a safety feature called RESA, or Runway End Safety Area (of 240 metres), which is a means “to limit the consequences when there is an aircraft overrun during landing, a rejected take-off, or even undershoots the landing area”. In “tabletop” airport operations, the ICAO says a RESA of 90 metres is mandatory, while 240 metres is recommendatory. The runways are Instrument Landing System (ILS) CAT 1 enabled and the airport has a range of visual aids which include simple approach lighting. In addition, all obstacles are lit. Both runways have Required Navigation Performance approach. The retired official says there have been Code E aircraft (based on wingspan) operations to Kozhikode airport. Kannur and Mangaluru too have had widebody aircraft operations. The largest aircraft at Kozhikode (and at any tabletop airport so far) has been Air India’s 423-seater Boeing ‘jumbo’ 747, operating on the Kozhikode-Jeddah sector. What were the recommendations made after the Mangaluru crash? In its report on the crash, the court of Air Marshal B.N. Gokhale, former Vice-Chief of Air Staff, Indian Air Force (and its team of aviation expert assessors) made a series of recommendations in a 191-page document of October 2010. These were addressed to the airline operator (Air India and Air India Express). To the Airports Authority of India, it pointed out issues like “avoidance of the downward slope in the overshoot area particularly on ‘tabletop’ runways; the need for a ground arresting system for aircraft — such a facility is maintained at almost all airfields of the Indian Air Force’; a visual reference system to alert the pilot (while landing) of the remaining distance to be covered; location of the ATC tower, approach and area radars; the role of the Rescue and Fire Fighting service, aerodrome risk assessment and, finally, recommendations for the DGCA. Is there any ICAO document on operations? The retired official says there is an ICAO document 9981 for airports, which also serves as a guideline for compatibility study of the operation of larger aircraft in a comparatively smaller aerodrome. The issue of growth versus aviation services is a worldwide issue requiring the development of small aerodromes for the use of bigger aircraft in a safe manner, especially as demand for air services grows from existing airports. In this document, the elements to be assessed include aerodrome infrastructure and its ground handling capabilities, and aeroplane characteristics. Each element is assessed technically to see whether these are compatible for new types of aircraft proposed to be operated in such aerodromes. Thereafter, a proper safety assessment is done to assess the risk associated with the operation of higher category of aircraft. Risk mitigation measures are suggested in order to bring those risks  within “tolerable limits”. Such a compatibility study and safety assessment report will be scrutinised by the regulatory aviation authorities and if found satisfactory, the no objection certificate for operation of such higher category aircraft is issued. When a need was felt to upgrade services at Kozhikode, the airport undertook a runway recarpeting and strengthening exercise between 2015 and 2017. Could safety measures be better in terms of the ground infrastructure? While RESA is in vogue, the term EMAS has been tossed up, which is mandatory at all international airports in the United States. Called Engineered Materials Arrestor/Arresting System, it is made of engineered lightweight and crushable cellular cement/concrete. Used at the runway ends, it acts as a safety barrier and successfully stops an aircraft overrun Its retarding effect increases as one moves away from the runway edge. In demonstrations in the West, it ensured good aircraft safety. It must be noted that these are laid in easily replaceable blocks in the overrun area. The material is engineered specifically for the airport it is to be used, says the retired official. It is said to be ideal for use in ‘tabletop’ airports. About 75m of EMAS can serve the purpose of 240m of RESA without causing any damage to the aircraft. How are operations from a pilot’s point of view? A senior airline commander, who is also an instructor and check pilot, says that in reality, there is no specific training that can be given for ‘table top’ runways. However, airlines conduct route checks for short runways. He says that one needs to understand that the landing technique and precautions taken are the same for all runways except that there is no scope for error on short and/or ‘tabletop’ runways. As aircraft accident data show, “runaway overshoots” (excursion) occur as often on non-‘tabletop’ runways. But in such cases, the aircraft, for obvious reasons, has a much better probability of surviving. However, an overrun by even a few metres can turn catastrophic for ‘tabletop’ runway landings. During pilot training, the emphasis is on aiming for 1,000 ft from the beginning of the runway and landing within the touchdown zone. Pilots are also trained to execute a go around if they do not make contact within the touchdown zone. Now, the senior commander says, there is a lot of emphasis on this aspect and pilots are asked to have this uppermost in mind while operating on a short or ‘tabletop’ runway . Further, Crew Resource Management is a mandatory training for all pilots following the recommendations made after the Mangaluru crash, which include classroom and simulator training. Here, the senior commander says, emphasis is placed on training the copilot to ask the commander to initiate a go around in case of an unstable approach or if the aircraft has not touched down within touchdown zone. He or she is even trained to take over as a last ditch measure in case the commander does not heed the copilot’s safety advice to initiate a go around. Other than this, classroom training and simulator training are provided to explain various types of optical illusions including those caused by ‘tabletop’ runways. There is a lot of training done on the simulator for landing in low visibility, heavy rain and winds. This happens during initial induction training and every six months thereafter. As the monsoon is a major factor in Indian aviation, monsoon training is given during initial command training before release. The senior commander adds that certain restrictions are placed before releasing the pilot in command for monsoon operations. Such comprehensive training helps in any landing on any runway and can especially be life saver in ‘tabletop’ operations. The DGCA has mandated a Monsoon Minimum Equipment List as far as aircraft operations are concerned. Here it is mandatory that aircraft devices used in braking or slowing such as brakes and reversers are completely operational. What is the role of the air traffic control? The ATC only has jurisdiction to provide the pilots with weather conditions including visibility, rain and winds. The minimum visibility is already prescribed, says the senior commander. The ATC will not give clearance to commence approach if visibility is below this minima, but if the visibility meets the requirements then the ATC cannot stop the pilot. The pilot commences approach when visibility is within minima and descends towards the runway to land. At a point called Decision Height, or DH (normally around 200 ft) in case of ILS, and at a point called Minimum Descent Altitude, or MDA, in case of a non precision approach, the pilot must be aware of the runway environment in order to make a safe landing. If he has not, then he has to initiate a go around, circle and return for another attempt at landing. Many a time, the runway cannot be seen even when reported visibility conditions meet the requirements as the conditions measurable on ground by the meteorological department are not the same as the instantaneous condition on the approach path. Only a pilot can observe this. So essentially, after a point, the ATC has a limited role, says the senior commander. If the declared visibility meets the prescribed minima, there is nothing wrong in the pilot attempting an approach. But trying to come in below DH and MDA, if the runway is still not visible is illegal, says the senior commander. No pilot does that, he adds. One needs to understand, he says, that in heavy rain, even if the runway is visible in time, sometimes due to sudden burst of heavy rain during the final touchdown, it is very difficult for the flight crew to fine tune their judgement of flare height. This may even cause a pilot to land beyond the touchdown zone. Finally, he says, all airline companies ask their pilots to divert in case of a thunderstorm and in their opinion if the weather is unsafe even if it meets the minima. But if there is only rain and no thunderstorm seen on aircraft radar then a pilot will attempt an approach and take decision at DH/MDA. What must Indian aviation do? Aviation safety expert Captain Mohan Ranganathan says India needs to move away from the culture where, after every fatal incident, officials say runways will conform to ICAO standards, the investigation will identify the accident cause, and steps will be taken to rectify the deficiencies. He says if the government is serious it needs to declare Kozhikode as a Code 3C airport, for only narrow body aircraft; ban landings on runway 10 during the monsoons; ensure that all runway condition standards are enforced; ensure approach and landing accident training for pilots is enforced strictly and, finally, be transparent and safety-oriented and not look at commercial interests.  A senior airline commander says that the landing technique and precautions taken are the same for all runways except that there is no scope for error on short and/or ‘tabletop’ runways||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-can-tabletop-airports-be-safer/article32307506.ece
09 August 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees spurt in active virus cases||With 1,404 new COVID-19 cases being reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, the active cases increased for the fourth consecutive day after decreasing for 15 days continuously in July, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The total number of cases stood at 1,44,127. Of the total, 1,29,362 people have recovered and 10,667 are active cases. Also, 16 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,098. Number of tests The number of active cases, which was 27,007 on July 1 had fallen to 9,897 — below the 10,000 mark in months — on August 4, but since then it has been increasing. The number of new cases is also the highest in the past 21 days, but the number of tests done in the past 24 hours as per the bulletin is also the highest since at least July 1. The number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 23 consecutive days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 — highest so far — and since then it has been dropping. Of the total 24,592 tests done in the past 24 hours, 77.6% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. Though Delhi has a capacity to do around 11,000 RT-PCR tests in a day, only 5,500 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. From July 1 to Saturday, the number of COVID-19 positive people in home isolation has also decreased from 16,703 to 5,372. Positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% to 5.7%. The number of containment zones in the city was 478 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/capital-sees-spurt-in-active-virus-cases/article32307750.ece
09 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Bajwa’s security withdrawn||The Punjab government has decided to withdraw the police security for Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa after an assessment showed that he had virtually no threat perception. An official spokesperson on Saturday said the security provided to the Rajya Sabha MP had become redundant since he had procured personal security directly from the Union Home Ministry. At loggerheads with CM Notably, Mr. Bajwa has been at loggerheads with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ever since the Congress came to power in 2017. Recently, he and Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo had approached the Governor seeking a CBI and Enforcement Directorate probe into the production of illegal liquor amid the hooch tragedy. Following this, State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and all the Cabinet Ministers demanded strict action against both the MPs for their alleged “anti-party and anti-government” activities. On the security issue, the spokesperson added that Mr. Bajwa had been getting enhanced security from the Punjab police, way beyond what he was entitled to as Rajya Sabha MP. This was because the government had decided not to withdraw it as he was the party’s State chief. Mr. Bajwa was given Z Category security cover by the MHA on March 19 and has 25 CISF personnel deployed for duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bajwas-security-withdrawn/article32307771.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Why are Confucius Institutes under the scanner?||The story so far: On July 29, India’s Ministry of Education (previously the Ministry of Human Resource Development) sent a letter to several institutions seeking information about the activities of their Confucius Institutes (CIs) and Chinese language training centres. This was said to be part of a review of work being done by higher education institutions in partnership with foreign entities. The move has brought the spotlight to China’s CI programme, a key pillar of Beijing’s global soft power effort, and raised questions about the future of India-China cooperation in the education space. What are Confucius Institutes (CI)? Starting with a CI in Seoul in 2004, China’s National Office for Teaching Chinese as a Foreign Language (NOCFL), known as Hanban, has established 550 CIs and 1,172 Confucius Classrooms (CCs) housed in foreign institutions, in 162 countries. The Hanban is under the Ministry of Education. As the Hanban explains on its website, following the experience of the British Council, Alliance Française and Germany’s Goethe-Institut, China began “establishing non-profit public institutions which aim to promote Chinese language and culture in foreign countries”. These were named CIs. What is the presence of CIs in India? India is reviewing the presence of CIs in seven universities, in addition to 54 MoUs on inter-school cooperation involving China, which is not connected to the CI programme. The Hanban website lists three CIs in India (University of Mumbai, Vellore Institute of Technology and Lovely Professional University) and three CCs (School of Chinese Language Kolkata, Bharathiar University, and K.R. Mangalam University) but in some of these cases, it is understood that plans did not materialise. How have CIs been viewed around the world? The CI arrangement has generated debate in the West, where some universities have closed the institutes amid concern over the influence of the Chinese government on host institutions, which receive funding for running the CIs. Closures of some CIs have been reported in the United States, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, France and Sweden. In January, the CI in the University of Maryland, the first in the U.S., closed down, citing new U.S. rules, referring to the 2018 National Defense Authorisation Act, barring universities receiving certain government assistance from also accepting Chinese funding. Faced with this backlash, China is now rebranding the programme. According to a recent directive from the Ministry of Education reported by the South China Morning Post , the Hanban has been renamed as a Center for Language Education and Cooperation, with suggestions that the Confucius Institute brand may even be dropped. While the closures in the West have made news, these cases still represent a minority. Most of the 550 CIs and more than 1,000 CCs around the world are still active, with a presence spanning Africa, Central Asia, Latin America, and across Asia, including in India’s neighbourhood in Pakistan (seven), Nepal (four), Sri Lanka (four) and Bangladesh (three), according to Hanban’s figures. What does the CI review mean for India-China relations? On August 6, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) suggested the government was merely following guidelines established in 2009 requiring Indian institutions entering into such agreements “supported/sponsored by an autonomous foreign organisation, including any Confucius Centre” to seek the MEA’s approval. In a statement on August 4, the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi pointed out that CIs and CCs had already been in India for more than 10 years and called on India “to avoid politicising normal cooperation”. Even prior to the June 15 India-China border clash, Indian authorities had viewed the CI arrangement somewhat warily and as treading a fine line with regard to its rules for how foreign educational institutions can operate in India, but the government has at the same time worked with Hanban in other areas, for instance, signing an agreement in 2012 to train 300 Indian teachers in Mandarin with a view towards encouraging the study of Mandarin in Central Board of Secondary Education schools. Along with the new move to review CIs, Mandarin has been dropped from the list of foreign languages that can be taught in schools in the new National Education Policy. If the messaging from Delhi is that it cannot be business as usual with China after the border clash, less clear are the long-term objectives. De-emphasising learning Mandarin, experts say, is neither likely to impact China’s stance on the border, nor help India in developing the expertise and resources it needs in dealing with China.  Even prior to the June India-China border clash, Indian authorities had viewed the Confucius Institutes warily and as treading a fine line with regard to its rules for how foreign educational institutions can operate in India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-are-confucius-institutes-under-the-scanner/article32307508.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for posing as police officer, extorting money||A 44-year-old former Transport Department employee was arrested for allegedly extorting money from a delivery boy after posing as a police officer, officials said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said that the accused has been identified as Subash Chander, a resident of Ghaziabad’s Loni. On July 23, one Rajat Kumar, a resident of Loni, approached the police and stated that he works with a food delivering application. He said that after delivering food at Pandav Nagar, he was returning on his bike via Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg. When he reached near Aam Aadmi Party office, a person wearing a police uniform, sitting in an auto, stopped him. Pay fine “The accused threatened him of challan for rash and negligent driving and asked Rs. 8,000 as fine,” Mr. Bhatia said, adding that Kumar did not have cash, following which the accused forced him to sit in the auto and asked to withdraw money from an ATM. He also threatened that if the fine was not paid, he would be implicated in a case. The police said that the two went to Connaught Place and the accused sent Kumar to an ATM to withdraw money. “Finding an opportunity, the victim fled and reached DDU Marg where his bike was parked. However, his phone was taken by the accused,” the officer said. After a case was registered and investigation was taken up, the police analysed the CCTV cameras, identified and arrested Chander. During interrogation, the police said, it was revealed that Chander used to work in Delhi Transport Department and was dismissed in 2005 on corruption charges. After being dismissed, he did not have work and started extorting or cheating people either in the name of Delhi Transport or police He has committed several such incidents in the area. The uniform which he was wearing at the time of incident was also recovered from his house, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-posing-as-police-officer-extorting-money/article32307753.ece
09 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Hapur rape victim still critical||A six-year-old girl, who was kidnapped and raped in the Garh area of Hapur on the intervening night of August 6 and 7, continues to be critical. Pradeep Kumar, Medical Superintendent of Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Hospital, Meerut, said on Saturday, “She was brought to us with severe injury in the perineum. Our doctors operated upon her today. She is still not out of danger.” A video of her father purportedly pulling a stretcher also went viral on Saturday on social media. “We are looking into the footage. If any dereliction of duty is found, strict action will be taken against the guilty,” Dr. Kumar told reporters. The police, meanwhile, has not been able to nab the accused. The girl was allegedly abducted from outside her house in a village in the Garh area on Thursday evening. She was found more than 12 hours later in the nearby jungle in a semi-conscious state, the police said. “The medical report confirmed rape and internal injuries. An FIR was registered against an unidentified bike-borne man,” said Hapur ASP Sarvesh Mishra. The girl was first admitted to a Hapur hospital but shifted to Meerut on Friday evening. “Four persons had seen a person with the girl on a bike. At least 50 policemen have been put on surveillance job,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hapur-rape-victim-still-critical/article32307769.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Pakistan map and border disputes||The story so far: On August 4, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan announced a new political map of Pakistan ( picture ). With this, Pakistan became the third country to launch a new political map after India and Nepal did the same in November 2019 and May 2020, respectively. India had reiterated its territorial claims in Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh with the new map; this triggered a reaction from Nepal which contested Indian claims in the Kalapani region of Pithoragarh district. The territorial claims of Pakistan are, however, of a far greater extent and challenge many of the past understandings and treaties. What are the features of the new map? The new political map of Pakistan has claimed the entire region of Jammu and Kashmir stretching all the way to the edge of Ladakh. The map also claims Junagarh and Manavadar, a former princely State and territory, respectively, that are part of present-day Gujarat. It leaves out a claim line at the eastern end of J&K indicating Pakistan’s willingness to make China a third party in the Kashmir issue. This clearly runs counter to the Simla Agreement which treated Kashmir as a bilateral matter. At the launch of the map, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said the border in that area will be fixed after resolving the Kashmir issue. Pakistan also claimed the entire territory and water bodies that fall in the Sir Creek region in the westernmost part of India. How different is it from previous ones? A similar map has been part of school textbooks of Pakistan for many years which highlights the territorial aspiration of Pakistan over the northern part of the subcontinent. The document also maintains bits of reality on the ground as it shows the Line of Control in Kashmir in a red-dotted line. What will be the impact of this cartographical warfare? The map is likely to lead to changes in Pakistan’s position on territorial disputes with India. By demanding the entire Jammu and Kashmir region, Mr. Khan is changing the main features of Pakistan’s Kashmir discourse as it includes the Jammu region prominently. The inclusion of Junagarh and Manavadar opens fundamental issues of territorial sovereignty of India. Manavadar, a princely territory, joined India on February 15, 1948 and Indian troops marched into Junagarh in September that year incorporating it into Indian territory. By normalising Islamabad’s claims over these former princely territories, Pakistan is most likely to assert its rights over the former princely State of Hyderabad as well. The map may be used to provide legal cover for some of Islamabad’s territorial ambitions, especially in Kashmir and Sir Creek. What does Pakistan plan to gain by this exercise? Sir Creek is a collection of water bodies that extend from the Arabian Sea deep inside the territory of Kutch and is rich in biodiversity and mangrove forests. India’s position on Sir Creek is based on the Kutch arbitration case of 1966-69. The new map can be used to reassert Pakistan’s claims regarding the Rann which it had lost in the arbitration conducted in Geneva. India’s position regarding Sir Creek is based on the fact that the arbitration had granted the entire Rann and its marshy areas to India while leaving the solid land across the Rann to Pakistan. By demanding the demarcation to shift towards the eastern bank, Pakistan appears to be going back also on the spirit of the Rann of Kutch arbitration where the overwhelming evidence of maps supported India’s claims over the Rann and its marshlands. Are there any claims on its western borders? The map is silent about territorial claims in the west and northwest of Pakistan. It indicates Islamabad’s acceptance of the Durand Line as the border with Afghanistan.The reality on the ground however shows problems that continue to haunt Pakistan on that front as well where law and order has been difficult to maintain because of free movement of armed fighters. A deadly clash between Afghan civilians and Pakistani troops led to the loss of at least 20 Afghan lives during the last Eid ul Azha holidays when Afghans wanted to cross to the other side of the traditional Pakhtoon territory which is part of Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtoonkhwa province. The resultant situation has placed Afghan and Pakistani troops in a confrontational position. Will the map trigger a diplomatic battle? While launching the map, Mr. Khan described it as a document that depicts the aspiration of the people of Pakistan. However, by describing it as the new political map of Pakistan that will be showcased to the world, Mr. Khan has indicated that the map will eventually trigger diplomatic battles with India as it negates previous understandings. In Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs said Pakistan’s new political map is an exercise in “political absurdity”.  By leaving out a claim line at the eastern end of J&K, near Ladakh, Pakistan has indicated its willingness to make China a third party in the Kashmir issue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pakistan-map-and-border-disputes/article32307510.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Embracing unwritten protocols to ensure safety||There is an unwritten code of conduct among the sex workers at the Swami Shradhanand Marg, the city’s age-old red light area, where business has slowly resumed. Only regular clients are entertained; they need to wash their body with sanitisers and they should wear masks and gloves. Sitting on a narrow stairway are Guddi and Kajal. Their lipstick and kohl are markedly visible, as is a mask around their neck. They are ready, but the business is grim. “For the last few weeks, we have been getting ready but there is hardly any guest. One in a day or two; that too, not a regular occurrence,” complained Guddi, as Kajal went to the window facing the main road. “ Abhi kuch din se hi khade hona shuru kiya hai [We’ve started standing at the window only a few days ago]”, she chimes in. At this moment, a lean youth wearing mask and spotting jeans, a blue check shirt and sport shoes climbs up. The women check him thoroughly. He is then splashed with sanitiser from shoulder to toe and then taken inside. “This is the only way to at least feel safe. They are sanitised completely. Also, we mostly don’t entertain new guests,” said Guddi. In another brothel, the women revealed that several of their colleagues have left for their hometowns. Dull business Rupa, who arrived here from Bengaluru 15 years ago, held her one-and-a-half-year-old son Rohit as she sat on the stairs. She was unkempt and without make-up. “No one has been coming, so what is the point in getting ready? There are hardly any girls left also. Men only come when there are more girls. Let’s see when the situation gets better,” she said. So has been the case at a ‘posh’ brothel, which offers ‘mujra’ every night. The cook and caretaker, who identified himself as Inderjeet, said that many women have left for their villages. And those living in Delhi return to their residence every morning and return late evening. “Ours is a very selective clientele. These days, they call and inform in advance if they are coming. Those we don’t recognise are not allowed to come upstairs,” he said, standing in a huge room on the second floor of the building. The “selected and old clients” also take care of the needs of the brothels, he added. Surviving, not thriving “Everything touched by the client is sanitised, including the doorknobs and edges, chairs and sofas. In fact, there are some clients who have been associated with us for years and take care of our essential needs,” he said. Talking about essential needs, all the women The Hindu spoke to said that they’ve had no hassles in managing the food. Every 15 days, they are provided with ration, which they can collect from government schools. “Everything, including sugar and tea leaves, is provided. None-essential expenditure is taken care by some means or the other,” said Kajal. Inderjeet, however, said that while business has come down significantly, the area lights up after sunset and “hasn’t lost its glory”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/embracing-unwritten-protocols-to-ensure-safety/article32307761.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wanted criminal lands in police net||A wanted criminal, involved in more than 32 cases of heinous crime, including charges of MCOCA has been arrested, the police said on Saturday. His accomplice was also arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said that the accused has been identified as Rishi Raj alias Lambu who had a bounty of Rs. 1 lakh on his arrest and his accomplice Love Tomar who had a reward of Rs. 25,000 on his arrest. The two were arrested on a tip-off on Friday. The police said that the accused’s father was a farmer and he was also involved in agriculture. However, he fell in bad company and started keeping firearms. He was first arrested in 2004 in a theft case and then arrested several times in cases of robbery, attempt to murder, Arms Act, assault on police among others. The police said that in 2019, he came in touch with one Naresh Shetty in Bhondsi jail and both planned to extort money from jewellers in Najafgarh and adjoining areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wanted-criminal-lands-in-police-net/article32307751.ece
09 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. CM inaugurates COVID-19 hospital||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister on Saturday inaugurated a dedicated 400-bed government COVID-19 hospital in Noida. Spread across eight floors with its own diagnostic facility, dialysis unit, and blood bank, the Chief Minister also reviewed the facilities at the hospital that has come up in collaboration with the Tata Trusts and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. District Magistrate Suhas L.Y. said once fully operational, the hospital would be the largest State-run COVID-19 facility in the State. He said the hospital will start with around 200 beds, catering to symptomatic patients, and subsequently, 200 more beds will be added for infected persons with mild symptoms. Located in Sector 39, it was originally mooted as a district hospital. It will function as the premier health facility in the district after the pandemic is over. The construction of the building was completed in 2019 by the Noida Authority. At present, Noida has GIMS, Child PGI and Sharda Hospital as its government-run COVID-19 care facilities, besides private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-cm-inaugurates-covid-19-hospital/article32307756.ece
09 August 2020||Dibrugarh,||All set for capping blowout: OIL||PSU major Oil India Limited on Saturday said that preparations have been made for capping the blowout in its well at Baghjan in Assam. The well head and its plinth have been made ready for the fire control operation, a release by OIL said. The rig-up load testing of the complete wagon is planned for Saturday and treatment of well killing fluid is underway, it said. Well number five at Baghjan has been spewing gas uncontrollably for the last 66 days since May 27. It caught fire on June 9, killing two of OIL’s firefighters at the site, besides injuring three foreign experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/all-set-for-capping-blowout-oil/article32307768.ece
09 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Complaint filed against AAP leader||An advocate lodged a complaint against Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh in connection with a tweet he made on Friday regarding the recent Ram temple stone foundation event in Ayodhya. The complainant stated that Mr. Singh has hurt religious sentiments of the Hindu community and insulted the Dalit community. In the tweet, Mr. Singh questioned the presence of Dalit leaders at the Ayodhya event. The complainant alleged that the Minister was trying to cause riots by making such statements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/complaint-filed-against-aap-leader/article32307758.ece
09 August 2020||August 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamhane’s Venice challenge||Venice-bound filmmaker Chaitanya Tamhane is concerned about the sophomore jinx. “You know what they say when your début film does so well,” he laughs, as we speak over a video call on a rainy evening. It has been over a week since the lineup for the 77th Venice International Film Festival was announced, which includes Tamhane’s second film, The Disciple , competing for the prestigious Golden Lion. It is his return to the world’s oldest standing film festival, where his first venture, Court , won the Best Film in the Orizzonti category and the Luigi De Laurentiis award for best début filmmaker. “It was the third time in the history of Venice that one film won two Lions,” he recalls. The pressure with The Disciple — a coming-of-age Marathi saga set “on the fringes of Indian classical music and its subculture” in Mumbai — is palpable. Tamhane is no longer a novice director with limited resources, who emerged out of nowhere in 2015. His second film not only has the backing of celebrated filmmaker Alfonso Cuarón as the executive producer, but is also a product of various cross-border collaborations. It is shot by Polish cinematographer Michal Sobociński; Polish independent distributor, New Europe Film Sales, and California-based Endeavor Content are handling its sales; Los Angeles-based film company, Participant, has mentored the project; and the film was mixed in Germany. “You feel a sense of responsibility and it is surreal to know that too many people have invested in this and you have to do justice,” says Tamhane, 33. Cuarón’s backing of the film has been an “organic extension” of the Rolex Mentor and Protégé Arts Initiative, which enabled Tamhane to spend a year with the Mexican director on the sets of the Oscar-winning film,Roma.As the programme came to an end, Cuarón evinced interest in The Disciple which Tamhane had just begun to write. “He told me certain traps to avoid. For example, I told him I don’t know how to do any kind of exposition with Indian classical music because most people won’t be aware of this kind of music,” he says. “Cuarón said, ‘Don’t even bother. That’s not your job, don’t do it’, and that liberated me.” Tamhane has learnt to sidestep expectations. Even though The Disciple is the first Indian film to compete in any of the three big European film festivals — Cannes, Berlin and Venice — in the last two decades, he is unsure about what clicks with programmers. “Courtwas accused of being made for a western audience,” he observes. “ The Disciple might seem like it was made for festivals because Indian classical music may look like a very exotic subject, but the music is completely alien to western ears and it is not instantly palatable.” He has refrained from providing context or explaining the heritage of Indian classical music for an international audience. “I don’t want to have the burden of representing Indian classical music with all its complexities,” he says. In the mind Tamhane has a distinct approach to cinema. He believes in immersing himself in a particular setting — often the one he is alien to — before writing a script. He has described it to be a “journalistic approach”. With The Disciple , he first travelled around the country — from Ahmedabad, Delhi, Pune, Varanasi to Kolkata — to understand the world of Hindustani classical music and he developed a friendship with musicians.Tablamaestro Aneesh Pradhan designed the music for the film and was a research consultant. “Even while writing, I would call them up and ask them ‘what would you do in this particular situation?’,” he recalls. Once the script was ready, the casting process involved extensive auditions with actors who could sing. After auditioning professional actors for the primary cast, he realised that they lacked authenticity and opted for non-professional actors. “The human face boils down to texture,” he says. “I am into magic quite a bit and if I’m working with an actor who I have seen many times onscreen, the illusion for me is not real.” The genesis of The Disciple lies in his fascination with magic. “The film is a spiritual adaptation of a play I had written when I was 21 called Grey Elephants in Denmark ,” he informs. “It was about the journey of a magician and we would do mind-reading experiments with the audience and break the fourth wall.” The filmmaker is inspired by the concepts of the Spanish school of magic, which is reflective in the editing, sound and grading of his films. “It is about controlling not just the eye but also the mind, because the film and magic actually happens in the mind and not what you see onscreen,” he declares. Rooting for Indie cinema While The Disciple competing at Venice is a milestone for Indian independent cinema, Tamhane says that there’s a “gaping hole” at international film festivals for a country that makes the most number of films. Unlike many western countries, India lacks institutional funding and international co-productions, he says. “A lot of other countries support films through taxpayers’ money. In India, most filmmakers are working with very limited resources and film is a very capital intensive medium,” he says, adding, “My film is an exception, rather than the norm.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tamhanes-venice-challenge/article32307889.ece
