19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||No need to audit PM CARES: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday endorsed the PM CARES Fund as a “public charitable trust” to which donors contribute voluntarily. There is “no occasion” for the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) to audit a public charitable trust independent of budgetary support or government money. The court said that it is “not open” for a PIL petitioner to question the “wisdom” that created the fund in an hour of need. “At this need of the hour no exception can be taken to the constitution of a public charitable trust, namely, PM CARES Fund,” a Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, observed in a 75-page judgment. ‘No public scrutiny’ NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, had argued that the PM-CARES Fund was not subject to CAG audit. It was not under “public scrutiny”. Contributions to it were “100% tax-free”. The court dismissed the idea that the PM CARES was constituted to “circumvent” the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) — the statutory fund already in existence under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 to receive contributions to finance the fight against a calamity. “Outbreak of COVID-19 in India as well as other countries of the world required immediate enhancement in the infrastructure of medical health and creation of a fund to contain COVID-19,” the court reasoned. The Bench refused to direct the transfer of funds from the PM CARES Fund to the NDRF. It said they were two separate entities. “The funds collected in the PM CARES Fund are entirely different funds, which are funds of a public charitable trust. There is no occasion for issuing any direction to transfer the funds to the NDRF,” Justice Bhushan wrote. Besides, who is stopping potential donors from contributing to the NDRF, the court asked. “Any contribution of any individual or institution is not prohibited to be credited into the NDRF,” Justice Bhushan noted. ‘No need for fresh plan’ The court rejected the need for a fresh national disaster management plan to take on the COVID-19 challenges. “National plan and guidelines is by its very nature prior to the occurrence of any disaster. It is a measure of preparedness. It is not conceivable that a national plan would be framed after the disaster has occurred,” the court reminded. It said there was already a plan uploaded on the government website since November 2019. The authorities have been supplementing it with various orders and measures, leaving no occasion for a new plan. Justice Bhushan also found no reason to interfere with the “minimum standards of relief” the government should provide in relief camps during the pandemic. The Disaster Management Act lists these “minimum requirements” under Section 12 as shelter, food, drinking water, medical cover and sanitation, among other things. “There being already guidelines for minimum standards in place even before COVID-19, the said guidelines for minimum standards holds good even for those who are affected by COVID-19,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-need-to-audit-pm-cares-sc/article32389179.ece
19 August 2020||Belagavi,||Avaradi villagers argue with MLA over delay in compensation||Residents of Avaradi village picked up an argument with MLA Mahadevappa Yadavad and revenue officials on Tuesday for allegedly neglecting them and delaying release of compensation for losses they suffered in last year’s floods. The MLA had brought along with him Tahsildar Girish Swadi and Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Muralidhar Deshpande for an inspection in the village and to set up a relief centre away from the village. The former gram panchayat president Yallamma Mote and farmer leader Channabasayya Kulkarni asked the MLA why the government had delayed compensation to most of the people who suffered losses due to house collapse. Ms. Mote said that the process of disbursing compensation had been politicised. She added that officials had released compensation to ineligible people as they were followers of the MLA or were BJP members. Mr. Yadavad denied the allegations and said that enough funds were released for the development of the village. He said that he would attend a gram sabha to select beneficiaries for flood relief this time around.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/avaradi-villagers-argue-with-mla-over-delay-in-compensation/article32389411.ece
19 August 2020||Belagavi,||Farmers gherao Hegde||Farmers gheraoed BJP leader and MP Ananth Kumar Hegde in Mugat Khan Hubballi on Tuesday after he refused to answer their questions about pending compensation for losses they suffered in last year’s floods. Mugat Khan Hubballi is in Kittur taluk in Belagavi district, which is part of the Canara parliamentary constituency that he represents. He, along with officers, had arrived to inspect flood-affected villages near Kittur. A group of farmers that was waiting at Mugat Khan Hubballi Cross asked him to get out of his vehicle and answer its questions. The farmers complained that the State government had not released appropriate compensation to those who lost crops or families whose houses had collapsed. They wanted to know why the Union government had not released flood relief amount sought by the State. Mr. Hegde said that he could come once again to discuss such issues with them. But he did not get off his vehicle to talk to them. This angered the farmers who then raised slogans against the former Union Minister. Mr. Hegde and other officers drove away from the village towards Kittur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-gherao-hegde/article32389410.ece
19 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Scribe held by U.P. police on charge of posting fake tweet||Freelance journalist Prashant Kanojia, charged last year with trying to malign the image of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, has been held again for allegedly posting a forged tweet, his family said on Tuesday. He was “arrested” by the Uttar Pradesh police from his Delhi residence, said his wife Jagisha Arora on Twitter, and reportedly being brought to Lucknow.  No formal statement yet Police are yet to formally issue a statement about his detention or arrest and the exact nature of allegations against him. However, according to an FIR registered at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow, Mr. Kanojia is accused of posting on Twitter the screenshot of a forged post attributed to Sushil Tiwari, a member of a little known fringe group called Hindu Army. In the post, Mr. Kanojia allegedly makes a sarcastic remark on the poster shared in the name of Mr. Tiwari about barring entry to the Ram Mandir for OBC, SC and ST communities. The post could not be found on Mr. Tiwari’s timeline. In the complaint, a Lucknow police sub-inspector said the post allegedly circulated by Mr. Kanojia was not only meant to malign the image of Mr. Tiwari but could also disturb public peace, hurt religious sentiments and spread discord among communities. The FIR cites a number of sections under the Indian Penal Code, including 153A, 153B, 420, 456 and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act. Last year, Mr. Kanojia was arrested for allegedly posting an “objectionable comment” on Twitter. He had shared a video of a woman claiming before the media about having sent a marriage proposal to Mr. Adityanath and mocking the Chief Minister over it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scribe-held-by-up-police-on-charge-of-posting-fake-tweet/article32389385.ece
19 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Rain wreaks havoc at Arts College||Osmania University (OU)’s Arts College building has suffered extensive damage due to the recent spell of rain. Parts of slab and false roofing caved in sections of English and Telugu departments housed on the first floor of the building. “A big chunk of the roof of Board of Studies chairperson Y. L. Srinivas’ room caved in. Luckily, there was nobody in the room; only the table and computer have been damaged. Almost all the first floor rooms in the building are affected,” said Arjun Rao, principal of OU. Various departmental libraries as well as a common library are also housed on the first floor. On Tuesday afternoon, the corridors of the first floor had pools of water. In some of the rooms, the sound of a steady drip of water could be heard. Patchwork repairs with cement showed seepage and wet walls. According to sources, there are three reports with the Telangana government for carrying out the repairs of the Arts College, a Grade 1 protected heritage building under HUDA regulations. While the first report was made by the Central Public Works Department, another was by the university and a third report was commissioned by in-charge Vice-Chancellor Arvind Kumar and was submitted by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority. The expected cost of the repairs is Rs. 2 crore. “A carpet of tar was laid in the ’90s but over the past few years, there have been leakages across the building. Over the past one year, the situation has become bad,” said Mr. Rao, who cited paucity of funds for lack of maintenance. “It is a shame that something like this is happening to a building which is hardly 80 years old. The pattern that was followed for Madrasa-i-Aliya’s destruction is being followed here. Starve the building of funds and over a short period of time declare the building as unstable and destroy it,” said T. Vijay Kumar, former head of OU’s English department. Madrasa-i-Aliya was among the first schools established in the region in 1835 and evolved into the Nizam College. The building was razed in mid 1990s. Inaugurated on December 4, 1939, the Arts College building of OU was designed by Belgian architect Ernst Jasper and executed in pinkish granite stone with lime mortar cladding. The iconic building has elements from Moorish, Qutb Shahi architecture with a dash of influence from Ajanta caves and frescoes. The building formed the key stage for the struggle for separate Telangana with university students playing a lead role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-wreaks-havoc-at-arts-college/article32389439.ece
19 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||A day of 1,758 new cases, 1,365 recoveries||The State’s COVID-19 cumulative case graph climbed to 47,898, with the reporting of 1,758 new cases on Tuesday. With 1,365 recoveries reported on the same day, the active cases or the number of patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals in districts is 16,274. Till date, the State has recorded 31,390 recoveries. The death toll in the State rose to 175 with the Health Department confirming six more fatalities as due to COVID-19. Two of these deaths were in Kozhikode, two in Thiruvananthapuram and one each in Palakkad and Wayanad.  The local transmission in the State reached a new high when on Tuesday, 95% of the new cases reported – 1,677 out of the 1,758 new cases – turned out to be locally acquired infections. This includes the cases of 25 health-care workers. In 81 cases, the authorities have not been able to ascertain the source of infection yet. Distirict cases Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram continued to have the highest number of new cases daily, with 489 cases, of which all except three are locally acquired infections, including that of 10 health-care workers. Malappuram reported 242, Ernakulam 192, Kozhikode 147, Alappuzha 126, Kannur 123, Kottayam 93, Kollam 88, Pathanamthitta 65, Palakkad 51, Thrissur 48, Wayanad 47, Kasaragod 42, and Idukki five cases. The State has quarantined over 1.675 lakh people across districts, of whom, 13,633 with mild symptoms have been isolated in hospitals. The number of samples tested in the State in the last 24 hours is 29,265. The areas designated as hotspots in the State at present is 565.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-day-of-1758-new-covid-cases-and-1365-recoveries/article32389469.ece
19 August 2020||T. Appala NaiduMURAMALLA (EAST GODAVARI),||Many families await evacuation in East Godavari||The flood in the Godavari has directly affected nearly 50,000 people, mostly downstream of Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage, flooding over 3,800 houses in the East Godavari district by Tuesday. Nearly 28,000 of those affected by the flood have been evacuated, while evacuation of the rest is progressing at a slow pace, owing to unfavourable conditions to operate boats in the flood waters. Dozens of habitations near the branches of river Godavari — Vynateya, Vasistha and Vridha Gowthami — are under water and people in these villages are spending sleepless nights, waiting to be evacuated. As many as 158 villages have been affected, mostly in the Konaseema area. According to an official release, at least 82 among the affected 158 habitations have been inundated and are mostly under water in East Godavari district. Crop damage Standing crops of banana and other horticulture crops in P. Gannavaram and Amalapuram in the Konaseema region have been under the water since Monday. The horticulture crops in over 3,822 hectares have been damaged due to the flood water. The evacuation operation had come to a halt in many parts of Konaseema area owing to unfavourable conditions to run small boats due to heavy flood water and lack of evacuation measures. In the villages affected by Vridha Gowthami near Yanam, many families were seen arguing with the government staff on duty, appealing for timely evacuation. Affected by Vriddha Gowthami at Muramalla village, Malladi Kumari and her family told The Hindu : “Our family has been spending time on boats for the past one day. We want someone to rescue us as children can no longer be on boats”. In Yanam, the flood has inundated the entire beach road and entered the town. East Godavari in-charge Minister D. Krishna Das and other officials promised Rs. 2,000 as relief to the each affected family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-families-await-evacuation-in-east-godavari/article32389174.ece
19 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. clears 2 tribunals for riot damage recovery||The Uttar Pradesh government has given its approval to the constitution of property damage claims tribunals in Lucknow and Meerut to recover damage to public and private property during riots and protests.  Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath gave his approval to the constitution of the tribunal under the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Law, 2020. The State government had earlier this year notified an ordinance and armed itself with a stringent new law to recover compensation from those accused of vandalism. It came months after violence was reported during the anti-CAA protests in parts of the State, following which the government issued notices to several accused under existing laws to recover damages. While the accused challenged the notices issued to them, several PILs were also filed in the Allahabad High Court challenging the legality of the new law. The hearing in the public interest litigations against the ordinance is under progress in the Allahabad High Court, said Shashank Tripathi, a lawyer who had filed a PIL challenging its constitutional validity. The case would be listed after constitution of a new Bench, said the lawyer. 12 divisions in Lucknow Twelve administrative divisions, including Kanpur, Jhansi, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur, will be under the jurisdiction of the Lucknow tribunal. Six divisions in west Uttar Pradesh, including Moradabad, Saharanpur, Agra and Bareilly, will fall under Meerut. The designated claims tribunals will be authorised to investigate complaints and assess the damage. The chairperson of the tribunal would be a retired district judge while its members would be of the rank of additional commissioner. The tribunal will have the power to attach the property of the respondents and publicise their names, addresses and photographs to warn the public against purchasing the property. It will have the powers of a civil court for the purpose of taking evidence on oath and enforcing the attendance of witnesses and compelling the discovery and production of documents and material objects, the notification issued earlier this year said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-clears-2-tribunals-for-riot-damage-recovery/article32389379.ece
19 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Major overhaul in PSC examination process||The examination process for Kerala Public Service Commission’s (PSC) appointments to government posts is set for a major overhaul, with the introduction of a two-phased system, including a preliminary screening test. Announcing the decision here on Tuesday, PSC Chairman M.K. Sakeer said the new pattern, which followed the Union Public Service Commission’s model, would be implemented from December this year. “The screening tests will be based on different standards, for Class 10 and below, higher secondary, and graduate levels. This reduces the disadvantage of a common test. The second exam will have questions related to the post. Since the main exam is conducted for a smaller number, the results can be announced in a month or two. The marks of the preliminary test will not be added to the final result,” said Mr. Sakeer. He said 400 new job notifications were in force at present. The PSC exams that were postponed due to COVID-19 would be held in September, by following all safety protocols. The first online exam would be on September 12. Many job aspirants who lived in containment zones or were in quarantine or in COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTC) were unable to appear for the verification process. But since the rank list preparation could not be delayed due to this, some leniency was being allowed considering the situation. Online verification Those aspirants who had a permanent certificate number need not appear in the PSC office for verification. The documents could be uploaded online, from where it could be verified. Those thus verified would be included in the temporary rank list but they would need to physically verify the documents before issuance of advice memo. The results of the preliminary exams conducted for the Kerala Administrative Service (KAS) would be published on August 26. The preliminary exams were held in three streams, with 3.27 lakh aspirants writing for stream 1, out of which 3,000-4,000 would be chosen for the next level. Stream 2 had 22,000 aspirants, out of which 2,000 were expected to be chosen, while stream 3 had 1,000 aspirants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/major-overhaul-in-psc-examination-process/article32389471.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Speed up water projects in T.N.’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday urged Union Minister for Jal Shakthi, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, to speed up work on various water projects for Tamil Nadu. The Chief Minister urged the Centre to reject Karnataka’s proposal to construct a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu and also asked for the corrections pressed for by Tamil Nadu to be made in the Dam Safety Bill, before it was introduced in the Lok Sabha. During a video conference meeting on Tuesday morning, Mr. Palaniswami requested the Centre to instruct the National Water Development Agency (NWDA) to complete the preparation of a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the Godavari-Cauvery Link Project and take up the work at the earliest. The NWDA had prepared a DPR and sent it to the States concerned for their comments in March 2019, and Tamil Nadu had sent its comments in September 2019, with a request to re-work the alignment to Mayanur Barrage instead of Grand Anicut. He also requested the Centre to instruct the NWDA to forward the DPR of the Cauvery-Gundar Link project to the State government so that the work can be fast-tracked. Request for funds Mr. Palaniswami urged the Centre to sanction funds for Nadandhai Vaazhi Cauvery project as a special programme like the ‘Namami Gange’ Project, and also to take it up as a national project. “I have announced rehabilitation and rejuvenation of river Cauvery and to abate pollution in the river, on the lines of Namami Gange Project. “The estimate has been prepared for an amount of Rs. 10,700 crore and WAPCOS is preparing the DPR. Cauvery is the lifeline of Tamil Nadu, not only for agriculture but also for drinking water,” Mr. Palaniswami said. “Tamil Nadu has requested certain corrections in certain clauses in the proposed Dam Safety Bill and conveyed to the Government of India. The State which owns, operates and controls the dam should have full operational control with regard to dam safety. The Government of Tamil Nadu’s request for corrections in the Dam Safety Bill may be included before the introduction of this Bill in Lok Sabha,” the CM said. Tamil Nadu also reiterated its opposition to Karnataka’s proposal to construct a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu and further urged the Centre to reject and return the proposal of the neighbouring State. “You are well aware that the Cauvery is the lifeline of Tamil Nadu and any attempt to restrict its flow by an upper riparian State is a violation of the Supreme Court order. Therefore, I request you to instruct the CWC and CWMA authorities to reject and return the proposal of Karnataka.” Form tribunal As for Karnataka constructing an anicut across the Penniyar against the agreements in force, Tamil Nadu has filed a case before the Supreme Court and based on its order, the Negotiation Committee meetings have been held by the Central Water Commission (CWC). “As there is no progress in these meetings, we have requested the Government of India to form a tribunal immediately,” he said. Over 34 lakh households are proposed to be covered with tap connections under the Jal Jeevan Mission during this year and against an allocation of Rs. 2,375 crore, allocations have been made for Rs. 2,265 crore to effect 20 lakh household connections in 2020-21. “The remaining 14 lakh households will be covered by converging funds of the various scheme. We have already covered about 4 lakh connections and propose to complete the rest by March 2021,” he said. Pointing out that Tamil Nadu has not been included in the World Bank-supported Atal Bhujal Yojana implemented by the Centre in seven States, Mr. Palaniswami urged the inclusion of Tamil Nadu in the scheme during the current year. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Chief Engineer of the Cauvery Technical Cell, R. Subramanian and other senior officials were also present during the video conference meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speed-up-water-projects/article32389309.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Curbs on China FDI hit GM car plant sale||Continuing tensions with China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) could impact the government’s decision on a major U.S.-China auto plant deal in Maharashtra, with thousands of jobs on the line. The deal by U.S.-owned General Motor India (GMI) to sell its car manufacturing plant in Talegaon MIDC Industrial Area, near Pune, to Chinese company Great Wall Motors (GWM) is awaiting clearance from the Ministry of External Affairs, Home Ministry and others, sources told The Hindu , for more than a month. The MoU for the acquisition was announced in January 2020, before the government brought in strictures over foreign direct investment (FDI) from neighbouring countries. However, no clearances have been granted for Chinese FDI in the past few months, complicating matters for the U.S. company, which wants to exit India with this deal. GM India had on January 17, 2020, entered into an agreement to transfer the fully operational car manufacturing and export hub plant to GWM, which wanted to immediately start manufacturing its Havel range of SUVs and EVs in India. The MEA and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry did not comment on the status of the application (5339/2020). Sources said the application for the investment proposal had been submitted to the Department of Trade Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DTPII) by GMI and GWM on July 9 and forwarded to the MEA, the MHA and the RBI for clearances on July 13. According to the application, GMI would be acquired by GWM’s Wholly Owned Subsidiary (WOS) Billion Sunny Development of Hong Kong.  The GMI-GWM proposal is one of more than 200 investment proposals from China received by the DPIIT awaiting security clearance, since the government notified the new FDI policy on April 18, making prior government approval mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-on-china-fdi-hit-gm-car-plant-sale/article32389181.ece
19 August 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Avoid crowding during Ganesha festival: Uddhav||From mellowed down celebrations to vigil on social media rumours, from expansion of tele-ICU medical services to increasing tests, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday chalked out its strategy for Ganesh chaturthi in a jumbo review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The meeting was attended by all divisional commissioners, municipal commissioners, district collectors, zilla parishad CEOs, superintendents of police, and district medical officials. The Home department has been asked to issue uniform guidelines for the State-wide celebrations. Mr. Thackeray appealed to Ganesha mandals to observe austerity measures during the celebrations against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, directing the administration to focus on Konkan area which has seen influx of devotees from across the State. “Care should be taken to avoid crowding and it should be ensured that the disease does not spread,” he said. Vigilance committees across all villages have been tasked with undertaking public awareness campaigns to ensure all safety measures are followed. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope were also present. Mr. Tope asked the administration to increase contact tracing across districts and use tele-ICU medicine system to treat COVID-19 patients. “Tests should be increased by keeping the rates under control. District administration must take guidance of the State-level task force to keep deaths under control,” he said. Mr. Tope also appealed to the sarvajanik mandals to make online darshan facilities available. Mr. Deshmukh said the cyber cell has been instructed to keep watch on rumour mongering on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/avoid-crowding-during-ganesha-festival-uddhav/article32389577.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,||High Court rejects plea to reopen Sterlite plant||The Madras High Court on Tuesday refused to order reopening of the Vedanta-owned Sterlite copper smelting plant, located in a government industrial park in Thoothukudi district, due to environmental concerns. Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and V. Bhavani Subbaroyan rejected the argument that the closure of the unit by the State government and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) was a knee-jerk reaction following the deaths of 13 protesters in police firing on May 22, 2018. They held that the copper unit fell under the ‘red category industry’, and therefore, it ought not to have been established inside the industrial park. Such highly polluting industries must be permitted only in areas classified as ‘special hazardous use zones’, they said. National park Pointing out that the copper plant was situated within a radius of 25 km from the ecologically sensitive Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park, the judges said it had escaped relocation only because of a delay in notifying the national park since 2003. “It is not clear as to why Tamil Nadu is sitting tight on the proposal. Are there any hidden beneficiaries who would benefit by delaying the publication of the notification?” the judges asked. The court said the plant would have no option but to be shifted out after the notification. The Bench recalled that the plant had long been accused of polluting the environment, and the Supreme Court too had directed it to pay Rs. 100 crore as compensation. Though the company argued that past incidents could not be taken into account now, the judges said the theory of ‘washing off’ could not be applied to the present case, and that it was fallacious to argue that past misconducts would stand wiped off on payment of compensation. The judgment upheld the powers of the State and TNPCB to order closure and permanent sealing of the copper plant under the provisions of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1981 and the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1974. Dismissing all 10 writ pleas by Vedanta challenging orders passed by the government and TNPCB refusing consent to operate, disconnecting power supply and closing and sealing the premises, the Bench said, “The petitioner has no fundamental right to establish a polluting industry.”  Copper slag Authoring the verdict, Justice Sivagnanam held the petitioner responsible for having dumped 3.52 lakh tonnes of copper slag by obstructing the course of Uppar river, thereby causing floods. He said compensation for the damage should be recovered from the company. The Bench also pointed out that the Sterlite copper plant was given permission in 1999 to produce 391 tonnes of blister copper per day and 1,060 tonnes of sulphuric acid. However, the quantum was allowed to be increased gradually to 2,400 tonnes of blister copper per day in 2010. Public hearing was given the go-by while granting permission. “The chain of events will clearly reveal that the petitioner has been a chronic defaulter taking advantage of the slackness on the part of the regulator,” the court said. Senior counsel C. Aryama Sundaram, representing Vedanta, urged the court to order maintenance of status quo for three or at least two weeks so that no coercive steps could be taken by the government until the company goes on appeal to the Supreme Court. Pointing out that the copper plant was situated within a radius of 25 km from the ecologically sensitive Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park, the judges said it had escaped relocation only because of a delay in notifying the national park since 2003. “It is not clear as to why Tamil Nadu is sitting tight on the proposal. Are there any hidden beneficiaries who would benefit by delaying the publication of the notification?” the judges asked. The court said the plant would have no option but to be shifted out after the notification. The Bench recalled that the plant had long been accused of polluting the environment, and the Supreme Court too had, in 2013, directed it to pay Rs. 100 crore as compensation for the damage it had caused to the environment. Though the company argued that past incidents could not be taken into account now, the judges said the theory of ‘washing off’ could not be applied to the present case, and that it was fallacious to argue that past misconducts would stand wiped off on payment of compensation. The judgment, running to 815 pages, also upheld the powers of the State government and TNPCB to order closure and permanent sealing of the copper plant under the provisions of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1981 and the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1974. Dismissing all 10 writ petitions filed by Vedanta challenging orders passed by the government and TNPCB refusing consent to operate, disconnecting power supply and closing and sealing the premises, the Bench said, “The petitioner has no fundamental right to establish a polluting industry.” Authoring the verdict, Justice Sivagnanam held the petitioner responsible for having dumped 3.52 lakh tonnes of copper slag by obstructing the course of Uppar river, thereby causing floods. He said compensation for the damage caused due to the floods should be recovered from the company. The Bench also pointed out that the Sterlite copper plant was given permission in 1999 to produce 391 tonnes of blister copper per day and 1,060 tonnes of sulphuric acid. However, the quantum was allowed to be increased gradually to 2,400 tonnes of blister copper per day in 2010. Public hearing was given the go-by while granting permission for increasing the production capacity in 2010. “The chain of events will clearly reveal that the petitioner has been a chronic defaulter taking advantage of the slackness on the part of the regulator,” the court said. After the delivery of the verdict, senior counsel C. Aryama Sundaram, representing Vedanta, urged the court to order maintenance of status quo for three or at least two weeks so that no coercive steps could be taken by the government until the company goes on appeal to the Supreme Court. However, Justice Sivagnanam refused to pass any such orders, on the ground that the court becomes functus officio after the delivery of the judgment. He also delinked a writ petition filed by an anti-Sterlite activist, Fatima, to order the immediate demolition of the copper plant. The judge stated that Vedanta had filed a case in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court challenging the cancellation of the allotment of land inside the industrial park, and had obtained an interim stay. Therefore, the plea for demolition could be heard along with that case, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-court-rejects-plea-to-reopen-sterlite-plant/article32389270.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID tally crosses the three lakh-mark||The State’s COVID-19 tally crossed the three lakh-mark on Tuesday with the registering of 9,652 new infections and 88 deaths in the last 24 hours. While the tally climbed to 3,06,261, the toll went up to 2,820. With this, Andhra Pradesh has become the third State in the country to witness over three lakh infections during the pandemic after Maharashtra and neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The State took only 11 days to detect the third lakh (0.99 lakh) of infections with 5.99 lakh tests after crossing the two lakh-mark (2.06 lakh) on August 7, while Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu took much longer time — 14 and 16 days respectively. Also, A.P. was faster in detecting the second lakh of infections in 11 days. The State has so far tested 29,61,611 samples. Tests per million ratio Despite being the smallest State in terms of population, A.P. has tested more percentage of its population than the other two. Its tests per million ratio is 55,461 – the highest among major States and third highest (after J&K and Delhi) among the States and Union Territories. While the ratio in Maharashtra is 25,690, it is 49,075 in Tamil Nadu. However, the State’s positivity rate has been increasing for every new one lakh cases. For the first one lakh cases, the positivity rate (16.8 lakh tests) was 6.06%. For the second one lakh cases, the positivity rate (6.75 lakh tests) was 15.47%. The positivity rate for the third one lakh cases (5.99 lakh tests) increased to 16.56%. The overall positivity rate is 10.34%. The recovery rate further increased to 71.28% with the discharge of 9,211 patients. So far, 2,18,311 patients have recovered and 85,130 cases are active. The death rate stands at 0.92%, which is lower than that of Maharashtra (3.35%) and Tamil Nadu (1.71%). Meanwhile, East Godavari continues to witness more new cases. It has reported 1,396 new cases and four eaths. It is followed by Chittoor (990 & 14), Visakhapatnam (928 & 5), Guntur (895 & 9), Kurnool (830 & 9), West Godavari (805 & 6), Kadapa (755 & 1), Prakasam (725 & 11), Nellore (684 & 7), Vizianagaram (513 & 5), Anantapur (445 & 9), Srikakulam (405 & 5) and Krishna (281 & 3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-tally-crosses-the-three-lakh-mark/article32389169.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan announces Rs. 2,000 to each household in flood-hit areas||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has announced a relief of Rs. 2,000 to each household in the flood-affected areas of East and West Godavari districts. The Chief Minister conducted an aerial survey of the affected areas on Tuesday and reviewed the situation through a video-conference with the district Collectors and Superintendents of Police of both the districts. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said people in the relief camps should get all help and there should be no difficulty in procurement of essential commodities. Food, ration, and medicines should be distributed on time, he said. “Designate one MRO at each relief camp to take stock of all the relief operations. Also, the people’s representatives should actively take part in the relief activities. Their ground report and inputs will be considered immediately,” the Chief Minister said. COVID tests The staff of Social Welfare hostels should also be drafted for relief operations, he said, and added that COVID tests should be conducted at every relief camp. The Chief Minister said that he decided to conduct an aerial survey of the affected areas as the officials were busy in overseeing the relief and rehabilitation works. “Flood water seems to be receding at Bhadrachalam, which is a good sign. The Joint Collector will supervise the relief camps across the district,” he added. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to also focus on the aftermath of floods. Sanitation drive should begin immediately, and power and communication networks should be restored at the earliest, he said. “Once the floods recede, health camps should be conducted. Within 10 days, the extent of crop loss should be assessed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-announces-rs-2000-to-each-household-in-flood-hit-areas/article32389176.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS COVID cases rise with increase in tests||Two days after recording low number of COVID-19 cases because of low number of tests, the cases in Telangana increased on Monday. On August 17, out of the 19,579 samples tested, 1,682 were detected with coronavirus and results of 560 are awaited. On August 16, only 894 cases were detected as only 8,794 tests were performed, which was lowest in the past one month. The new 1,682 cases include 235 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 166 from Rangareddy,107 from Warangal urban, 106 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 88 from Karimnagar district. Eight more persons died taking the toll to 711. The COVID-19 positive cases continue to increase in other districts. With this, more people in need of medical attention are being allotted oxygen and ICU beds in government hospitals. On the whole, 3,415 oxygen beds and 451 ICU beds were available at the State government hospitals. In case of private hospitals, 1,463 oxygen beds and 713 ICU beds were available on Monday. A total of 93,937 cases were recorded till August 17. Of them, 21,024 are active cases, 72,202 have recovered, and 711 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-covid-cases-rise-with-increase-in-tests/article32389433.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Ganesha Chaturthi: Only one public celebration per ward or village||The Karnataka government, while not imposing a blanket ban on public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi, has advised authorities concerned to encourage people to confine the number to only one per ward or village. This is in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and the need to dissuade installation of multiple idols to prevent big crowds from gathering. As part of precaution, the government has also banned any procession — either while bringing the Ganesh idol for installing or while taking it for immsersion. The government, which has come out with revised guidelines on the celebrations, said those installing Ganesh idol in public places have to ensure that no more than 20 persons congregate at a time by restricting the space around the idol. Similarly, all the entertainment programmes that used to be part of the festivities, including music and dance programmes, will not be allowed. On height of idols It has also prescribed that the height of the idol should not cross 4 ft for public celebrations and 2 ft for private celebrations confined to homes. While it is mandatory for those installing the idol within their houses to immerse it on their premises, those doing public celebrations are to find the nearest pond/mobile tank that has been designated or set up by the authorities. The guidelines issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, in tune with the Central norms, stated that it is mandatory to get permission from local authorities before embarking on any public celebration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ganesh-chaturthi-only-one-public-celebration-per-ward-or-village/article32389227.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Private hospitals facing shortage of liquid oxygen||After the shortage of liquid oxygen at Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Institute (KIMS) came to light on Monday, many private hospitals in the city say they too are facing similar problems. Some hospitals say the demand for liquid oxygen has shot up by nearly five to 10 times in the last few weeks as patients who are hospitalised with COVID-19 need more oxygen. R. Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said many private hospitals in the city have been facing a shortage since last Sunday. Vendors lack supply Most of the mid-size private hospitals have mini bulk liquid cylinders that are refilled every day by agencies they are tied-up with. Prasanna H.M., managing director, Pristine Hospital, which is now a hospital designated entirely for COVID-19 patients, said their vendor for liquid oxygen was unable to provide them with the supply they need. “The cost of liquid oxygen has increased and suppliers are not able to meet our requirements,” he said. Information sought On Tuesday, the government also woke up to the issue and asked the hospitals to submit data pertaining to the oxygen capacity at their facility. “In order to facilitate the required treatment for a COVID-19 patient, the oxygen supply chain, capacity of storage oxygen, and frequency of supply to the hospital from the distribution point need to be compiled to assess the capacity of the hospital for COVID-19 management,” stated Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, in a letter to all empanelled private hospitals where 50% of the bed capacity has been notified for COVID-19 patients. After visiting KIMS on Tuesday, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar also acknowledged the problem. “We had not anticipated that the number of cases and demand for oxygen would be so high about two months ago,” he said, adding that the government was in talks to reduce oxygen supply to steel industries and instead divert them to hospitals.  On rising costs, Dr. Sudhakar said, “The government will regulate the prices if it is feasible at the State level. For regulating the cost of vendors from other States, we may have to approach the Centre.” “I have directed the officials to make necessary arrangements to ensure an adequate supply of liquid oxygen to all hospitals in the State. Steps will also be taken to establish new liquid oxygen plants to meet the high demand,” Dr. Sudhakar added. According to sources in the healthcare sector, there are five main suppliers of oxygen in Bengaluru. However, one of them is reportedly having problems fulfilling orders, and all hospitals that were dependent on it have been affected. Many of them are now trying to get in touch with other suppliers to ensure that they do not run out of liquid oxygen. V. Narayana Swamy, MD, Vagus Super Speciality Hospital, said the demand for liquid oxygen had increased by three to four times. “We can manage for the moment, but it is getting very difficult. There is a need for the government to intervene and monitor this situation so that no lives are at risk,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-hospitals-facing-shortage-of-liquid-oxygen/article32389232.ece
19 August 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),||No let-up in flood fury||Flood in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam was receding and had come down to 52 feet at 7 p.m. on Tuesday. The Central Water Commission (CWC) officials withdrew the third warning, but the second warning continues. But, flood levels in the downstream in West and East Godavari districts were rising and an alarming situation was prevailing in many habitations in the Agency mandals. The level in the Godavari at Koida was recorded at 29.260 metres, cofferdam 30.720 metres, Polavaram 15.650 metres and Old Railway Bridge (Havelock Bridge) 18.710 metres. Discharge from the Sir Arthur Cotton barrage at Dowleswaram was 22.40 lakh cusecs. Officials were put on high alert as the flood level was increasing in tribal hamlets and in island villages. Milk, food and drinking water were being served at the rehabilitation centres. More than 100 villages were in knee-deep water for the last three days, and the Adivasis were taking shelter in hilly areas and rehabilitation centres. Power supply was disrupted in many habitations in the flood-affected mandals. Police, Revenue, ITDA, Irrigation, Medical and Health and other departments officers were moving on boats and were supplying essentials and medicines to the affected people. Police caution public “The situation may continue for three more days,” said a revenue employee. Police arranged pickets at vulnerable places and were cautioning the public through the public address system. The Pochamma Gandi temple located on the banks of the Godavari, the Sri Bhakta Anjaneya Swamy temple at Gutala in Polavaram mandal and the Mary Matha Shrine at Vegeswarapuram were inundated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-let-up-in-flood-fury-in-godavari-districts/article32389094.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for post-COVID care||Union Home Minister Amit Shah was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, at 2 a.m. on Tuesday with a complaint of “fatigue and body ache”, said a statement issued by the hospital authorities. “The Minister is currently under observation and is being admitted for post-COVID care. He came with a complaint of fatigue and body ache for the past two to three days. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from the hospital,” AIIMS media and protocol division chairperson Aarti Vij said. Doctors’ advice Doctors advised that the Minister be shifted to the hospital after he felt uneasy at his residence, sources said. Mr. Shah, who was earlier undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection at the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, was discharged last week after testing negative for the virus. The Minister had tweeted on August 14 that he would be in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of his doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amit-shah-admitted-to-aiims-for-post-covid-care/article32389381.ece
19 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘PSC works as per rule book’||Refuting allegations of back-door appointments by bypassing the Public Service Commission (PSC) and denial of opportunity to those included in rank lists, PSC Chairman M.K. Sakeer has said the commission has always worked as per the rule book. Presenting figures on rank lists and appointments over the years at a press conference here on Tuesday, he said all actions were as per the rules of procedures of the PSC. He said 3.4 lakh aspirants were included in PSC rank lists in 2012, out of which 27,000 got appointments in various posts. In 2018, the list had 3.5 lakh aspirants, out of which 33,000 got appointments, matching the number of vacancies.  On demands for extending the validity of certain rank lists, he said the PSC could not pick and choose to extend validity of specific lists, as per the rules. As many as 2,000 rank lists are existing, with validity extending till 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/psc-works-as-per-rule-book/article32389533.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Rain fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-fury/article32389224.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 toll up by 139 in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 139 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, the highest single-day count so far. The total number of deaths now stands at 4,201. This is apart from the 16 deaths of COVID-19 patients due to other causes. Meanwhile, the number of new cases rose by 7,665. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State stands at 2.4 lakh. Of these, 79,782 are active cases and 697 patients are admitted in ICUs across different hospitals in the State. As many as 8,387 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of patients discharged to 1.56 lakh. As many as 59,088 tests were conducted on Tuesday, again a single-day record. While 30,221 tests were RT-PCR and other methods, the remaining were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-toll-up-by-139-in-karnataka/article32389225.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘States can’t unilaterally cancel exams’||The University Grants Commission argued in the Supreme Court on Tuesday that though its July 6 directive to conduct final-year exams by September-end was not a “diktat,” States could not unilaterally cancel the exams citing the pandemic. “If the State governments had an issue, they cannot change the exam schedule on their own. They should meet with the Centre and consult with the UGC about their apprehensions,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the UGC, submitted before a three-judge Bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-cant-unilaterally-cancel-exams/article32389388.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 warrior||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-warrior/article32389332.ece
19 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Flood fury abates at Bhadrachalam||A day after it peaked to 61.6 feet posing a severe threat of floods in the Agency areas, the Godavari dropped below the danger mark of 53 feet at Bhadrachalam on Tuesday evening. As the Godavari receded below the danger mark at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, the authorities have withdrawn the third flood warning. At 8 p.m., the water level in the river further dropped to 51.5 feet. However, the second flood warning for the flood prone areas of Bhadrachalam and other Agency areas in the district remained in force. Collector M V Reddy held a teleconference with the sectoral officers and senior officials of the line departments to take stock of the situation in the aftermath of the rain fury in Agency areas. He reviewed the sanitation and other precautionary measures to be implemented in the flood affected areas of the Bhadrachalam Agency to prevent outbreak of seasonal diseases in tribal habitations He monitored the ongoing operations to drain out the stagnant water from the low-lying areas of Bhadrachalam town and provision of amenities to those sheltered in the relief camps. The Collector asked the officials concerned to ensure urgent repairs to the damaged portion of roads and uninterrupted supply of drinking water and electricity to the remote tribal habitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-fury-abates-at-bhadrachalam/article32389440.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Caught in a bind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caught-in-a-bind/article32389442.ece
19 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal cross 1.2 lakh mark||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 3,175 news cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 1,22,753. The State also recorded 55 more fatalities due to the viral infection, taking the death toll to 2,528. While the number of active cases in the State rose to 27,535, the recovery rate has also improved to 75.51%. Of the 55 deaths on Tuesday, 17 were recorded in Kolkata, taking the number of people who have succumbed in the city to 1,110. North 24 Parganas, the second worst-affected district due to the outbreak, recorded 11 deaths, taking the number of mortalities in the district to 580. The district also recorded more cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours than Kolkata. While 600 new cases were reported from Kolkata, North 24 Parganas reported 664 new cases. The total number of cases in Kolkata now stands at 33,467 while that in North 24 Parganas is 25,904. A total of 35,107 samples were tested in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-cross-12-lakh-mark/article32389510.ece
19 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||No permission for roadside vending of fish||Roadside vending of fish cannot be permitted as yet in the State given the spread of COVID-19, the Fisheries Department made it clear on Tuesday. Retail vendors should shift to authorised regional fish markets monitored by the Local Self-Government Department, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma said. If more markets are to be opened, panchayats can assess the situation and take an appropriate decision on the basis of discussions with the officials concerned, said the Minister. Earlier, the Fisheries Department had ordered fish markets to close as these crowded places threatened to become hubs for local transmission of the disease. Markets have been reopened subject to the condition that COVID-19 prevention protocols would be stringently observed, the Minister said. As per the guidelines, the catch offloaded at fisheries harbours and fish-landing centres can be marketed elsewhere only under the strict supervision of Matsyafed and other government agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-permission-for-roadside-vending-of-fish-in-state/article32389470.ece
19 August 2020||KOCHI,||Poothrikka church taken over||A day after it took over the churches in Mulanthuruthy and Onakkur, the Ernakulam district administration on Tuesday took possession of the St. Mary’s church at Poothrikka, near Kolenchery, following a High Court directive. The takeover was peaceful. A police team from Puthencruz arrived at the church in the morning and informed Fr. Shaji Meppathadathu and parishioners about the takeover. Around 100 Jacobite members were on a hunger strike inside the church at the time. The keys were handed over to the police as soon as the vicar completed the prayers. An attempt earlier this month to take over the church had to be dropped following stiff opposition from parishioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poothrikka-church-taken-over/article32389472.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Blow to Rahul, says Nadda||The BJP on Tuesday termed the verdict a “resounding blow” to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. BJP president J.P. Nadda said it “shows that the truth shines despite the ill-intent and malicious efforts of the Congress party and its associates”.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blow-to-rahul-says-nadda/article32389171.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||It got Rs. 3,076 cr. in five days||The PM CARES Fund collected more than Rs. 3,076 crore in the first five days of its formation, according to data available on its website. It does not provide any information on contributions made from April onwards.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-got-rs-3076-cr-in-five-days/article32389170.ece
19 August 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. govt. jobs reserved for locals, says CM||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday announced that government jobs in the State would now be reserved for local people only. Calling it an “important decision”, Mr. Chouhan, in a video message, said, “We are making the required legal provisions for it. Resources of Madhya Pradesh are for the children of Madhya Pradesh.” He further said, “From today, the youth of Madhya Pradesh will have the first right over its resources. All government jobs will be reserved for its youth only. Our aim is to include the State’s talent in its development.” “Whoever is a native, they work for the State’s future by entering government services, this is my dream,” he said on Twitter. Former Chief Minister Kamal Nath said Mr. Chouhan had acted in accordance with decisions of the previous Congress government. “Anyway, you woke up from sleep after 15 years today regarding the employment of youth.” He cautioned the government that it should not just remain an announcement. “This should not just remain an announcement in view of the forthcoming byelection. Otherwise, the Congress won’t stay quiet.” Recalling the decisions taken by his government, Mr. Nath said he had made it compulsory to give 70% jobs to the local youth by changing the industrial policy. “The state of unemployment in your 15-year rule is not hidden from anyone. With degrees in their hands, the youth went from pillar to post for jobs. You should also bring to the fore how many youths got jobs under your government,” he addressed Mr. Chouhan. Former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah said on Twitter, “Jobs in J&K and Ladakh for everyone but jobs in MP exclusively for people from MP. No surprise there!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-govt-jobs-reserved-for-locals-says-cm/article32389182.ece
19 August 2020||Srinagar,||Army begins probe into J&K encounter||The Army has initiated a court of inquiry (CoI) into the July 18 encounter at Shopian in south Kashmir, where three alleged militants were killed. “A high-level CoI into Operation Amshipora, Shopian, is under progress. Statements of key witnesses are being recorded and progress is being monitored closely,” an Army spokesman said on Tuesday. The encounter came under a cloud after three families from Rajouri district claimed that the three killed were their kin and were labourers by profession. “Additional civil witnesses are being asked to depose before the CoI. Concurrently, DNA samples have been collected from Rajouri under the aegis of the J&K police and sent for matching with the terrorists killed on July 18, 2020,” the Army said. The spokesman said the Army was “committed to ethical conduct of all counter terrorist operations”. “Cases where doubts are raised are investigated under due process as per the law of the land. Since the case is under investigation, further details will be shared periodically, as appropriate without affecting due legal process.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/army-begins-probe-into-jk-encounter/article32389167.ece
19 August 2020||GUNTUR,||‘Phone-tapping’: HC directs petitioner to file affidavit||A Division Bench of the High Court, headed by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari, has directed the petitioner who filed a PIL over reports in a section of the media that alleged tapping of telephones of the High Court judges, to file a supporting affidavit on Wednesday and postponed the hearing to Thursday. The court has also asked the petitioner to name the IPS Officer, who has allegedly been overseeing the operation, and produce all the evidence in an affidavit. Advocate Sravan, arguing on behalf of the petitioner, said he had conclusive evidence on the role of the IPS officer who allegedly led the operation. Additional Advocate General P. Sudhakar Reddy and Government Pleader Sumon, who argued on behalf of the government, said the source of information was important for the PIL to be “maintainable.” They said that in the present PIL, the petitioner’s source of information was not reliable and looked like a “childish play.” The CJ said it was not a “child’s play” when media reports appear suggesting that phones could have been tapped. The court would go into the depth of the issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/phone-tapping-hc-directs-petitioner-to-file-affidavit/article32389099.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Property tax arrears add up to Rs. 1,211 crore||Property owners owe Rs. 1,211 crore as property tax, which has been pending for more than one year, said BBMP. With most revenue officials deputed for COVID-19 duties, the civic body has not been able to focus on revenue mobilisation, resulting in a slump in property tax collections this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/property-tax-arrears-add-up-to-rs-1211-crore/article32389230.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||PRR public meet held amidst confusion||It was amidst much opposition and confusion that the public consultation for the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project was held on Tuesday morning at Nityotsava convention hall, Doddaballapur Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prr-public-meet-held-amidst-confusion/article32389229.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Two Cong. councillors questioned by CCB||Two Congress councillors from Pulakeshinagar Assembly segment — former Mayor Sampath Raj representing D.J. Halli and Abdul Rakhib Zakir from Pulakeshinagar ward — were questioned for nearly six hours by the CCB on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-cong-councillors-questioned-by-ccb/article32389231.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Fresh COVID-19 cases again cross 1,000 in Delhi||As many as 1,374 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,54,741. Also, 12 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 4,226, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fresh-covid-19-cases-again-cross-1000-in-delhi/article32389383.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Metro announces 50% cut in perks, allowances||The Delhi Metro, which has not been operating since March 22, on Tuesday announced 50% cut in perks for all employees with effect from August till further orders. All sanctions for house building advance, multipurpose advance etc. will be kept on hold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-announces-50-cut-in-perks-allowances/article32389387.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||SC approves elevation of 6 advocates as HC judges||The Supreme Court has approved the names of six advocates to be elevated as judges of the Delhi High Court. This will increase the strength of judges at Delhi High Court from current 32 to 38. The apex court collegium approved the proposal in its meeting on August 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-approves-elevation-of-6-advocates-as-hc-judges/article32389386.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,||8,394 coconuts sold through auctioning||A total of 8,394 coconuts were sold through auctioning for around Rs. 1 lakh at the regulated market at Vadipatti on Monday. Officials say that this is the first time coconuts were auctioned through a regulated market in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8394-coconuts-sold-through-auctioning/article32389542.ece
19 August 2020||Pune,||State records highest COVID-19 deaths in a day||Maharashtra reported a record-high single-day fatality spike of 422 deaths due to COVID-19 on Tuesday, coupled with a surge of 11,119 new COVID-19 cases, taking the State’s total death to 20,687 and its case tally to 6,15,477. There are currently 1,56,608 active cases in the State, with the recovery rate rising to 71.14%. With 9,356 patients being discharged, the number of recoveries reached 4,37,870.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-highest-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day/article32389578.ece
19 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC rejects G. N. Saibaba’s emergency parole plea||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday rejected the emergency parole plea filed by Professor G.N. Saibaba to attend his mother’s post-funeral rites at Hyderabad. Saibaba (50) is a former professor of the Delhi University and is incarcerated in the anda cell (solitary confinement) at the Nagpur Central Jail. He has been convicted for Maoists links and is sentenced to life imprisonment. After the prison authorities rejected his parole application , Saibaba moved the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-g-n-saibabas-emergency-parole-plea/article32389579.ece
19 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||Discharged patients exceed new cases||The number of COVID-19 positive patients getting discharged from hospitals exceeded the number of new cases in some of the districts in North Karnataka on Tuesday. In Belagavi district, 459 patients were discharged against 395 new cases. In Dharwad district, 351 patients were discharged while the number of new cases stood at 279. Meanwhile, Belagavi and Dharwad recorded seven and 10 deaths, respectively. Gadag too saw a rise in the number of patients being discharged. Against 186 new cases, 206 patients were discharged. The district reported two deaths. In Vijayapura, 220 were discharged against 64 new cases. On Tuesday, Davanagere recorded a spike with 332 new cases and one death, while 42 were discharged . In Haveri, 109 new cases were recorded, while 55 were discharged. Haveri and Vijayapura registered three deaths each, Gadag two deaths, Bagalkot and Uttara Kananda recorded one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/discharged-patients-exceed-new-cases/article32389412.ece
19 August 2020||Chennai,||T.N. COVID-19 death toll tops 6,000||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,709 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,49,654, while 121 more deaths pushed the toll to 6,007. With 5,850 patients getting discharged from various hospitals, the recoveries outnumbered the new infections. Chennai reported 1,182 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-covid-19-death-toll-tops-6000/article32389267.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Swiggy agents continue protest; restaurants hit||Restaurants that are already struggling to stay afloat due to the COVID-19 lockdown, have been hit again by Swiggy delivery executives going on strike. Some 5,000 delivery persons are on strike since Friday, demanding the restoration of their old pay structure. “Among food delivery apps, Swiggy has the largest share and it has a wide network coverage. Even though we can allow up to 50% of our capacity, restaurants are mainly dependent on takeaways these days since customers prefer to order from home,” said a restaurant owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swiggy-agents-continue-protest-restaurants-hit/article32389268.ece
19 August 2020||COIMBATORE,||Drones keep a watch over wild elephants||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday urged Union Minister for Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, to speed up work on various water projects in the State. The Chief Minister urged the Centre to reject Karnataka’s proposal to build a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu and also asked for the corrections sought by Tamil Nadu to be made in the Dam Safety Bill before it was introduced in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-urges-centre-to-speed-up-water-projects/article32389269.ece
19 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||T.N.’s tally nears 3.5 lakh as 5,709 test positive||Maintaining its trend of growth in COVID-19 infections, Kerala reported 1,758 new cases on Tuesday, its cumulative tally touching 47,898. With 1,365 more recoveries, active cases or the number of patients under treatment in hospitals stood at 16,274. The death toll rose to 175, with the Health Department confirming six more fatalities due to COVID-19. Two of these deaths were in Kozhikode, two in Thiruvananthapuram and one each in Palakkad and Wayanad. Local transmission touched a new high on Tuesday, as 95% new cases – 1,677 of 1,758 cases – were locally acquired infections. This included 25 health care workers. In 81 cases, the source of infection was not traced. Thiruvananthapuram had the most new cases at 489. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 29,265. Cases rose in Telangana on Monday, two days after recording lower numbers because of reduced tests. On August 17, of 19,579 samples tested, 1,682 were positive and results of 560 were awaited. On August 16, only 894 cases were detected. Eight more persons died taking the toll to 711. The 1,682 new cases included 235 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 166 from Rangareddy,107 from Warangal urban, 106 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 88 from Karimnagar district. On August 8, State Health officials estimated that cases would come down in GHMC by the end of the month. The gradually declining cases were seen as moving towards this estimate. However, experts cautioned about a second wave of infections. The tally in Andhra Pradesh crossed the three lakh-mark on Tuesday with 9,652 new infections and 88 deaths. While the tally rose to 3,06,261, the death toll went up to 2,820. With this, Andhra Pradesh became the third State to witness over three lakh infections after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The State took only 11 days to detect the third lakh of infections with 5.99 lakh tests after crossing the two-lakh-mark (2.06 lakh) on August 7, while Maharastra and Tamil Nadu took much longer - 14 days and 16 days respectively - for the third lakh. The State has so far tested 29,61,611 samples. Andhra Pradesh tested a higher percentage of its population than the other two States. Its tests per million ratio at 55,461, was the highest among major States and third-highest among States and Union Territories after Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi on Tuesday. Maharastra’s tests per million ratio was 25,690 and that of Tamil Nadu at 49,075. As a result, the State’s confirmed cases per million ratio (CPM) was also higher than the other two. A.P.’s CPM was 5,732, Maharashtra’s 4,838, and Tamil Nadu’s 4,467. The overall positivity rate was 10.34%. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally moved closer to 3.5 lakh as another 5,709 persons tested positive on Tuesday. With 121 more persons succumbing, the toll crossed 6,000. Till date, 3,49,654 persons tested positive, of which 53,860 were under treatment.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-case-ratio-higher-than-maharashtra-tn/article32389116.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 3,076 cr. in 5 days in PM CARES||The PM CARES Fund collected over Rs. 3,076 crore in the first five days after its formation, according to information available on its website. “During 2019-20, an amount of Rs. 3,076.62 crore was collected under PM CARES Fund,” says the response to a query on the quantum of money collected last year, as part of the Frequently Asked Questions section of the site. “During 2019-20, an amount of Rs. 39.68 lakh was collected in foreign currency in PM CARES Fund,” it added. The Fund was registered as a public charitable trust on March 27, 2020, five days before the end of the financial year. It was announced through a Press Information Bureau press release the following evening, with donors pledging crores of rupees within the first hour. It is not clear when the information on 2019-20 collections was added to the website. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has repeatedly denied Right to Information (RTI) requests for details on donations and donors, on the grounds that the Fund is not a public authority under the Act. No info April onwards The FAQs do not provide any information on contributions made from April onwards. Publicly announced donations include over Rs. 1,000 crore from public sector oil and gas companies, Rs. 500 crore from employees of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces, as well as Rs. 500 crore each from the Tata Group and Reliance Industries. In early May, a senior official, when asked for details about donations and disbursals, told The Hindu that an announcement would be made “once a respectable amount of money” had been collected. As announced by the PMO on May 13, the FAQs also note that Rs. 3,100 crore have been sanctioned from the Fund to be spent on ventilators, migrant worker welfare and vaccine development. The Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF), which is also headed by the PM, also publishes information on contributions and disbursals, including foreign contributions, on a yearly basis. The latest data available on the PMNRF website is for 2018-19, when more than Rs. 534 crore was collected. It had an unspent balance of Rs. 3,800 crore as of December 2019. The two Funds currently share an independent auditor — Delhi-based chartered accountants SARC and Associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-3076-cr-in-5-days-in-pm-cares/article32389130.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Vaccine candidates progressing well’||“We cannot afford to relax and lower our guard against COVID-19 as this can prove to be dangerous for India,” NITI Aayog Member V.K. Paul warned on Tuesday. The fight is far from over, he said. At a press conference organised by the Health Ministry, he said that “while our vaccine candidates are progressing well, there is no 100% guarantee that they will succeed”. India then needed to remain strict about its containment and surveillance efforts, he said. “India on Tuesday conducted a record high of 8,99,864 COVID tests in a single day — the highest tests per day so far. With this, the cumulative tests have reached 3,09,41,264,” the Ministry said. “Even with such a high level of testing, the positivity has remained low at 8.81%,” Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. He said India had recorded the highest single-day recoveries of 57,937 in 24 hours. “This is higher than the confirmed cases added during the same period [55,079]. With more patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals and home isolation [in mild and moderate cases], the total recoveries have reached nearly 20 lakh [19,77,779]. With this, the gap between the recovered patients and the active cases has crossed 13 lakh today [13,04,613],” Mr. Bhushan said. Replying to a question on whether India is now in a stable position and has contained the virus, Mr. Bhushan said that with the continuous increase in average daily recoveries, India’s recovery rate is now touching 73.18%, and “we have a low case fatality rate [CFR] of 1.92%”. ‘No room for laxity’ “But there is no room for laxity. This number has been seen for a very small window of time right now and cannot be taken as a trend. We still have to be alert against the devastation that this virus can cause. The collaborative efforts by the Centre and State/UT government continues to be on test, track and treat. Aggressive testing leads to early identification and isolation of positive cases. This, coupled with efficient clinical treatment, has ensured a fall in fatality rate. The actual case load of the country — the active cases [6,73,166] — is only 24.91% of the total positive cases. This figure is also exhibiting a steady downward trajectory,” Mr. Bhushan said. The Ministry said that the country currently had a national network of 1,476 operational labs with 971 labs in the government sector and 505 private labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-candidates-progressing-well/article32389139.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘States can’t unilaterally cancel exams’||The University Grants Commission (UGC) argued in the Supreme Court on Tuesday that though its July 6 directive to conduct final-year exams by September-end was not a “diktat,” States could not unilaterally cancel the exams citing the pandemic. “If the State governments had an issue, they cannot change the exam schedule on their own. They should meet with the Centre and consult with the UGC about their apprehensions,” Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the UGC, submitted before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan. Mr. Mehta said the guidelines for conducting the exams involved multiple options for students. “They can take the exams online, offline or hybrid [partly online and partly in the physical format],” he said. “If the student is unable to appear in the exams for any reason, another opportunity can be given to him even after the September deadline is over,” the law officer submitted. Mr. Mehta said the July 6 directive was issued for the “benefit of students” as the universities had to start admissions to postgraduate courses, and the State authorities could not override the UGC’s guidelines. “There is a statutory supremacy… This is the UGC’s domain,” he said. Verdict reserved The Bench is hearing the question whether States such as Maharashtra and Delhi could have cancelled the UGC final exams unilaterally while overruling the UGC directive. The court reserved the case for judgment. The question came up while the court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by over 30 students, represented by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, questioning the validity of the UGC’s directive. The counsel appearing for one of the States argued that not holding final year exam did not lead to dilution of standards and even premier institutions such as the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) had said that they would give the degree without holding exams. The UGC questioned the logic of cancelling the final term exams for fear of COVID-19, but at the same time opening up universities and educational institutions for the next academic session. The UGC said if institutions could be opened up for the next academic session, there was nothing to prevent the conduct of final exams. “If universities cannot function to hold final examinations, circumstances should then prevent even the commencement of the next academic session,” the UGC said. A separate affidavit by the Union Home Ministry said the decision to open up educational institutions for final exams and evaluation was made in consultation with the Education Ministry after “taking into consideration the academic interest of a large number of students”. The UGC reiterated that the “UGC Guidelines on Examinations and Academic Calendar for Universities in view of COVID-19 Pandemic” was revised on July 6 in consultation with the Professor K.C. Kuhad expert committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-cant-unilaterally-cancel-exams/article32389159.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘SC order on PM CARES a resounding blow to Rahul’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday termed the verdict of the Supreme Court (SC) refusing to transfer funds from PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) a “resounding blow” to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and for his “band of ‘rent a cause’ activists.” BJP president J.P. Nadda, tweeting right after the court’s verdict, said it “shows that the truth shines despite the ill intent and malicious efforts of the Congress party and its associates”. Mr. Nadda’s tweet said, “Rahul Gandhi’s rants have been repeatedly dismissed by the common man who has overwhelmingly contributed to PM CARES. With the highest court also pronouncing its verdict, will Rahul & his ‘rent a cause’ activist army mend their ways or embarrass themselves further?”. The Gandhi family had, for years, treated the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) as its “personal fiefdom” and “brazenly transferred citizens’ hard-earned money from the PMNRF to its family trusts”, Mr. Nadda alleged. “The country very well knows that the orchestrated smear campaign against PM CARES is an attempt by the Congress to wash its sins,” he said. Subject to audits: Prasad Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, at a press conference held on the same issue, said the BJP welcomed the Supreme Court’s verdict. “PM CARES is a registered public trust made under Chairmanship of PM Narendra Modi for emergencies like COVID19 whereas PMNRF was made in 1948 by an oral observation of the then PM to serve the needs to refugees,” said Mr. Prasad, explaining the differences between various funds, and added that the PM CARES fund was subject to audits. “Out of the funds collected under PM CARES, Rs. 2,000 crore has been spent procuring 50,000 ventilators, Rs. 1,000 crore for relief work for inter-State migrant workers and Rs. 100 crore as a research grant for COVID-19 vaccine candidates from India. It’s all there in the website as well,” he said. On the Facebook row, Mr. Prasad said people whose political base had “shrunk like anything” were seeking to dominate discourse on these platforms. He asserted that everybody, regardless of his ideology, had got the right to air his views on these platforms. “Rahul Gandhi believes that any organisation that does not work to his liking is acting under the pressure of the BJP and the RSS,” he stated. It was for Facebook to decide what to do as far as the story in The Wall Street Journal was concerned, the Union Minister noted. Hundreds of pages of BJP supporters were also removed by Facebook, he said. “If the platform is public, then every Indian regardless of his ideology and commitment has got the right to convey his view. It is a hard fact we need to know that people whose political base has shrunk like anything seek to dominate discourse on these platforms”, Mr. Prasad said. ‘Instigating violence’ Mr. Gandhi’s comments during the Delhi Assembly polls that youth would hit Prime Minister Narendra Modi with sticks in six months if he did not address the issue of unemployment was a “textbook case of instigation for violence,” he said. “Wasn’t it a hate speech,” Mr. Prasad asked. He also referred to Congress president Sonia Gandhi's call for “ aar par ki ladai ” at a public meeting to protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in this regard.  The Gandhi family has, for years, treated the PMNRF as its personal fiefdom J.P. Nadda BJP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-order-on-pm-cares-a-resounding-blow-to-rahul/article32389120.ece
19 August 2020||Chennai,||Integrate depression and diabetes treatment: study||A joint Indo-U.S. research study found that integrating depression and diabetes treatment (‘INDEPENDENT’) improved parameters for both conditions. The study was published in a recent issue of the peer-reviewed journal JAMA . The study, performed over a one-year period and followed up at the end of the second year, found that a low-cost one-year collaborative care model delivered in diabetes clinics can lower depressive symptoms and improve cardio metabolic health at the same time. The study was a collaboration between Emory University, Atlanta and the University of Washington, Seattle; the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi; Madras Diabetes Research Foundation (MDRF), Chennai; Diacon Hospital, Bengaluru, and Endocrine and Diabetes Centre, Visakhapatnam, and was funded by the National Institutes for Health, U.S. Researchers compared an integrated care model with regular care among 404 patients with diabetes and moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms. These patients were attending four diverse diabetes clinics (one government and three private) in India over a two-year period. Mohammed Ali, principal investigator, Associate Professor of Global Health and Epidemiology at the Rollins School of Public Health, said: “People with diabetes have a higher risk of experiencing depression, which worsens their likelihood of managing their diabetes well, resulting in higher risk of heart attacks and other diabetes complications and mortality. Too often, mental health is overlooked due to fragmented care, stigma of psychiatric illnesses, and shortages of mental health professions”. V. Mohan of the MDRF, explained: “The key takeaway from the study was that we should not work in silos. Depression and diabetes have a bi-directional relationship. Depression causes counter regulatory hormones to be secreted — adrenaline and noradrenaline — which nullify the effect of insulin on the body.” This study has showed that treating both together has an ameliorative impact on both diabetes and depression among patients. Due to the shortage of psychiatrists in India, the researchers worked with care coordinators who were specially trained to screen and provide counselling for depression. Everyone who came to the clinic was screened for depression using a standard questionnaire, Dr. Mohan said. That helped identify if people were depressed. “We developed a simple electronic health record with decision-support prompts [based on evidence-based guidelines] to assist clinicians in prescribing interventions,” he said. Attesting to the support provided by this e-health record, G.R. Sridhar of the Endocrine and Diabetes Centre, said it made sure that the intervention was low cost and would be sustainable. “There was definite improvement in both depression and metabolic scores at the end of one year of active intervention,” he said. The difference in reaching the intended target between the control arm and intervention arm of the trial was at least 16%, marking a significant impact of the latter, Dr. Mohan added. However, researchers found that improvements in cardio metabolic parameters waned after the active one-year period which thereby suggested the need for continued support for blood sugar, blood pressure and cholesterol levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/integrate-depression-and-diabetes-treatment-study/article32389142.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No-Go’ forests approved for mining||Since 2015, of the 49 blocks cleared for coal mining, nine were in ‘No-Go’ areas, or regions that were once classified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests and Climate Change as containing very dense forests and hence closed to coal mining. In 2020, of the 41 blocks put up for auction, 21 feature in the original No-Go list, the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said at a webinar on Tuesday. The meeting was organised to present results of an investigation into coal block auctions. On June 18, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction of 41 coal blocks through video-conference. A two stage e-auction is being adopted for the allocation of mines. The decision was part of the announcements made by the Centre under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Though new blocks were being auctioned, the CSE investigation, published in the organisation-owned magazine Down To Earth (DTE), pointed out that currently India was not utilising its existing capacity fully and that a Right To Information response by the Union Coal Ministry revealed that 67% of the mines auctioned since 2015 are were not operational yet. From 2015-2020, the government tried to auction 112 mines, but succeeded in only 42 cases. Several potential coal reserves are located in dense forests particularly in Chattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. The government determined which of them were too ecologically important to touch, and which were amenable to be opened up using a ‘decision support system software’ that rated forest lands on environmental parameters. In some cases, the CSE investigation found that results of the software evaluation were “tweaked” to make ‘No-Go’ land into ‘Go-forests’. It also found that officials from the Coal Ministry, the beneficiary organisation, were “deputed” to work with the Forest Survey of India to “rework” conditions and clear forests for mining. DTE editor and CSE Director-General Sunita Narain said in a statement: “Our forests are where our coal reserves are — forests and coal are intrinsically linked in India. And our poorest people live in these areas, which also hold our most abundant watersheds. If at all we must mine coal, which itself has serious pollution implications, we need to do so after careful consideration that we have taken utmost care not to destroy forests needlessly and this means the need to optimise on current mines — not mine more”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-go-forests-approved-for-mining/article32389157.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. writes to Zuckerberg on ‘bias’||The Congress on Tuesday made an official complaint to Facebook (FB) CEO Mark Zuckerberg on the social media company’s “bias”, and asked for a “thorough and impartial investigation and inquiry into the Facebook India operations and practices”. Separately, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news & hate speech. As exposed by @WSJ, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians.” Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal wrote to Mr. Zuckerberg on behalf of the party, and cited The Wall Street Journal ’s  report, which said Facebook India officials provided the ruling BJP with “favorable treatment on election-related issues”. Mr. Venugopal asked FB to “publish and make transparent all instances of hate speech posts since 2014 that were allowed on the platform”.  Mr. Venugopal said, “As you are well aware, India is one of the biggest markets in terms of users for Facebook and WhatsApp. Therefore, the expectations of social and moral responsibility of Facebook are even higher in nations such as ours.” “The starting point for a remedial action is a thorough and impartial investigation and inquiry into the Facebook India operations and practices... Set up a high-level inquiry by Facebook Headquarters into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations and submit a report to the board of Facebook Inc. within a reasonable period of time such as one/two months,” he said. “Until the completion of the internal investigation and submission of the report, please consider to lead Facebook India operations by a new team so as to not influence the investigation.” ‘Willing participant’ The company, Mr. Venugopal stated, may be a “willing participant” in interfering with India’s electoral process, and asserted that the issue of bias was raised by them as well as other Opposition parties in different fora, including Parliament. “Separately, the Congress party has also demanded a Parliamentary Committee probe in India to be initiated to probe this very serious issue of Facebook’s interference in the world's largest electoral democracy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-writes-to-zuckerberg-on-bias/article32389128.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Body blow to transparency: Congress||Opposition leaders and transparency campaigners criticised the Supreme Court’s decision on Tuesday not to order the transfer of contributions from the PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund. “The SC judgment is a body blow to transparency & accountability of Govt to people,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a tweet. He added that it was a sad day for the answerability of rulers to the electorate, speaking of the need to “remind them that they are not ‘Monarchs’ but ‘servants of the people’”.  Senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan said in a tweet, “Unfortunate that the SC allows the non-transparent & unaccountable PM-Cares fund set up as a secret trust to garner money in the name of Covid relief, rather than transferring such funds to the Statutory NDRF which is accessible under RTI & audited by CAG.” Commodore Lokesh Batra (retd) said, “Now when the nation is going through an unprecedented pandemic situation, additional funds are needed to meet the challenge ... Why is the National Disaster Response Fund not being publicised by the Government in campaign mode as was and is still being done for PM CARES Fund, which is being mentioned as a private registered trust?” he asked, noting that the National Disaster Management Authority’s website now has details on contributing directly to the statutory fund. “The PM CARES Fund has amassed huge amounts of money from PSUs, concerned citizens and foreign sources. The government has been stonewalling all attempts at accessing information regarding the utilization of the fund, claiming that it is not a public authority,” said Anjali Bhardwaj, co-convenor of the National Campaign for People’s Right to Information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-blow-to-transparency-congress/article32389132.ece
19 August 2020||COLOMBO,||‘India committed to strengthening ties’||Continuing New Delhi’s high-level outreach with the newly elected government in Colombo, Minister of External Affairs S. Jaishankar on Tuesday called his Sri Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena, and underscored India’s “commitment to taking bilateral ties to greater heights.” Mr. Gunawardena, who served as Foreign Minister in the caretaker government under President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, was re-appointed to the post following the August 5 parliamentary polls, in which the Rajapaksas’ ruling party secured an impressive two-thirds majority. Congratulating Mr. Gunawardena, Mr. Jaishankar reiterated India’s earlier message that the strong mandate would “play a key role” in strengthening bilateral ties. ‘Emphatic victory’ Mr. Jaishankar’s call follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s earlier call to Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa on August 6, when his party’s big win seemed certain, although the Election Commission declared the official, final results only the following day. Indian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Gopal Baglay had called on Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa on the eve of his swearing-in ceremony, and congratulated him on the “emphatic victory”. New Delhi’s apparent swiftness and consistent messaging from the highest levels follows the Rajapasas’ decisive mandate, and signals India’s intent to strengthen ties with an administration that, in its previous term in office, was accused of a China-tilt. Further, the outreach comes in the backdrop of Mahinda Rajapaksa’s request in February for a debt moratorium from India that the two countries are discussing. In May, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa sought a special $1.1-billion currency swap facility from Prime Minister Modi to boost Sri Lanka’s foreign exchange reserves, badly hit by the pandemic. This is in addition to the $400 million currency swap facility that the Reserve Bank of India recently approved for Sri Lanka. Apart from ongoing negotiations of Sri Lanka’s debt repayment and currency swap, New Delhi will be keen on reviving talks on the East Container Terminal development project at the Colombo Port that Sri Lanka, India and Japan agreed to jointly develop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-committed-to-strengthening-ties/article32389141.ece
19 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rs. 455-cr. for tourism sector||Giving much relief to the State’s tourism industry hit by COVID-19, the government has come up with a Rs. 455-crore package for small and big entrepreneurs and 50,000 employees. Working capital loans for Rs. 355 crore will be made available to 5,000 small and big entrepreneurs and Rs. 100 crore for the Tourism Employment Support Scheme. The State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC), at a recent meeting, had agreed to make available Rs. 355 crore to entrepreneurs through various banks as loan, Minister for Tourism and Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran said on Tuesday. In the first year, the Department of Tourism will pay 50% of the interest as subsidy and there will be a six-month moratorium on loan repayment. As many as 2,500 small entrepreneurs in the sector will get Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 3 lakh as loans and another 2,500 big entrepreneurs will get Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh. The government has made available Rs. 15 crore from the Plan fund for paying subsidy. Through Kerala Bank Under the Tourism Employment Support Scheme, Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000 will be disbursed as loan through Kerala Bank to 50,000 workers engaged in the sector. Of the 9% interest, the Department of Tourism will pay 6%. The rest will have to be borne by those availing themselves of the loan. There will be a four-month moratorium on the repayment of loans provided by Kerala Bank. The government has provided Rs. 9 crore for part-payment of the interest to 50,000 workers. They would have to submit applications through the Deputy Director, Tourism, of the district concerned. The State’s tourism sector, which generated a revenue of Rs. 45,000 crore last year, had suffered a loss of Rs. 20,000 crore already. E.M. Najeeb, chairperson, Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry, said the package would help the sector overcome the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-455-cr-for-tourism-sector/article32389475.ece
19 August 2020||MANGALURU,||‘ESZ around Kudremukh park will not affect life’||The administration has said that declaring areas within 1 km from the border of Kudremukh National Park spread in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, and Chikkamagaluru districts as Eco Sensitive Zone (ESZ) will not affect the life of residents inside the identified areas. An official release from the Udupi district administration here said there would be no displacement of residents or change in land ownership. Residents can continue to conduct agricultural activities with revenue and patta lands continuing to remain the same. Public amenity infrastructure, including roads, power lines, drinking water lines, bridges etc., were not banned activities inside the ESZ, the administration has said. It said the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) had declared areas around the Kudremukh National Park as ESZ under Section 3 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986 on July 2.  The administration said the national park was regarded as the natural overhead tank as it was the birthplace of major rivers, Tunga, Bhadra, Netravathi etc. The park has rich flora and fauna, including evergreen forests, Shola lands, Lion-tailed Macaque and other endangered species of animals. Declaration of ESZ was aimed at protecting the park from unbridled commercial activities including industrialisation and was not aimed at local communities, the administration clarified. It was intended to prevent damage to the ecology in and around the park and to help reduce man-animal conflicts. The move would also help local population to preserve their valuable water sources. It would prevent human-induced landslips, reduce pollution of air, water and soil thereby helping people to lead quality life.  However, commercial mining, stone quarrying, new sawmills, opening hazardous industries, handling dangerous goods, erecting major hydel power plants and such other activities were banned inside the ESZ, the administration noted. The government would introduce zonal management for this region by preparing a Zonal Master Plan in consultation with NGOs, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, environment experts and people’s representatives from Mudigere, Karkala, Belthangady and Sringeri Assembly constituencies. The jurisdiction of the ESZ would be limited to the bear minimum requirement in consultation with the local residents. The ESZ border was fixed for 1 km from the border of the national park instead of the earlier proposed 10 km, according to the park’s Deputy Conservator of Forests, Karkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/esz-around-kudremukh-park-will-not-affect-life/article32389235.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Hyderabad-London flight operations resume||GMR-led Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL) has been re-connected with London’s Heathrow airport from August as a result of the efforts of the government of India to re-start the international air connectivity with other countries, according to GMR. According to a release, British Airways resumed operations between Hyderabad and London on Monday with its first flight leaving for London. A GHIAL spokesperson said: “The resumption of this connection between Hyderabad and London would help restore vital economic and social links between Telangana and UK, enabling much-needed movement of people and goods.” A British Airways spokesperson said: “Following months of uncertainty caused by the global lockdown, we are delighted to be able to once again provide a direct flight between Hyderabad and the UK. We know many of our customers in India have been waiting to be reunited with friends and family. We look forward to welcoming them back on board.”  Safety first All persons who flew were serviced through the fully sanitised Interim International Departures Terminal (IIDT) of the airport. Besides mandatory screening, safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling to protect against the COVID-19 threat, including thermal screening prior to terminal entry, mandatory social distancing enforced through special queuing arrangements at all passenger processing points, they said. British Airways would be operating four services a week on every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderabad-london-flight-operations-resume/article32389620.ece
19 August 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,||Spillway gates of Srisailam dam likely to be lifted today||The much awaited event of lifting of spillway gates of Srisailam dam, a common water storage facility for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and a source for several irrigation and drinking water systems in the two States, is likely to take place on Wednesday with about 3.5 lakh cusecs of flood reaching it from Krishna (Jurala) and Tungabhadra (Tungabhadra dam-Sunkesula). The Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast that Srisailm would realise over 14 tmcft of water in 12-hour period from 6 p.m. on Tuesday to 6 a.m. on Wednesday. The water storage in the reservoir crossed 180 tmcft against its capacity of 215. 8 tmcft around 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday in spite of about 72,000 cusecs of water from the reservoir being let into the river course after power generation by Telangana and AP. According to a CWC bulletin, the flood arrival into Srisailam is expected to keep rising through Wednesday as the discharge of flood from Narayanpur (Krishna) and Tungabhadra dams is on the rise. In the upstream, Almatti was getting a flood of about 2.06 lakh cusecs and discharging over 2.5 lakh cusecs. Narayanpur was getting over 2.55 lakh cusecs with supplementation from Malaprabha, a tributary of Krishna that joins its course downstream of Almatti. At Jurala, over 3.15 lakh cusecs of flood was being discharged from the 39 spillway gates and another 19,000 cusecs with power generation. The water storage in Nagarjunasagar has crossed 256 tmcft against its capacity of 312 tmcft with supplementation of about 70,000 cusecs from Srisailam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spillway-gates-of-srisailam-dam-likely-to-be-lifted-today/article32389432.ece
19 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘No duty waiver for UAE consulate’||The State government had not granted immunity to the UAE consulate here to import freight without Customs examination or assessment via air and seaports in the State during 2019-20 and 2020-21, according to a report given by the State Protocol Officer (SPO) to the Customs Department. The SPO told the Customs that neither had the consulate sought such a duty exemption from the government nor had any waiver been granted. The norm Any ‘foreign representation’ in the country could import goods below the value of Rs. 20 lakh without the prior approval of the ‘Protocol Special Section’ of the Union Ministry of External Affairs. However, the embassy would have to seek the sanction of the State Protocol Officer for import of goods below the estimated value of Rs. 20 lakh. The Customs had last week sought details of duty exemption certificates granted by the SPO to the UAE consulate during the period as part of its investigation into the smuggling of gold in bulk via air cargo consignments addressed to the diplomatic mission here. The probe The department is investigating how P. Sarith and Swapna Suresh could repeatedly obtain immunity from Customs examination for air cargo consignments they had imported in the name of the diplomatic mission. In a bid to find out whether any entity had abetted the smuggling operation, Customs investigators had also asked for the details of the consulate officials or their nominees who might have sought duty exemption certificates from the State government. The Customs has also sought the specimen signatures of UAE diplomats who worked in the consulate during the period. It was examining the declarations provided by the UAE consulate to cargo inspectors here. An official said the accused could have possibly submitted fake documents for duty exemption at the Customs check-post here given the latest declaration of the State government. He said investigators had to send the material to the government examiner for questioned documents to verify their authenticity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-duty-waiver-for-uae-consulate/article32389101.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru doctor arrested by NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested an ophthalmologist from Bengaluru in connection with a case related to Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) on August 18. The arrested was identified as Abdur Rahman, 28, a resident of Basavanagudi and working as an ophthalmologist at M.S. Ramaiah Medical College, Bengaluru. The ISKP is the Islamic State’s Central Asian province that the IS announced in 2015, which covers Iran, Central Asia, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. The group is accused of carrying out several attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan, especially targeting American and native security forces. This is the fifth arrest in the case. Delhi Police Special Cell arrested a Kashmiri couple — Jahanzaib Sami Wani and his wife Hina Bashir Beigh — from Delhi in March 2020 who were allegedly found to have links with the ISKP and another known IS operative Abdullah Basith, arrested in another IS case. The NIA that took over the probe arrested a journalism student, Sadiya Anwar Sheikh, 20, and Nabeel Siddick Khatri, both residents of Pune, who were also allegedly part of the ISKP module in July 2020. The NIA had alleged they were part of the conspiracy to carry out “subversive activities in the garb of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests”. “During interrogation, arrested accused Abdur Rahman confessed that he was conspiring with accused Jahanzaib Sami Wani and other Syria-based IS operatives on secure messaging platforms to further IS activities,” a statement from the NIA said. The NIA also claimed that Rahman was in the process of developing a medical application for helping the injured IS cadre in the conflict-zones and a weaponry-related application for the benefit of IS fighters. “Significantly, he had visited an IS medical camp in Syria in early 2014 for treatment of IS terrorists and stayed with IS operatives for 10 days and returned to India,” it said. The NIA carried out searches on three premises belonging to the arrested in the city and seized digital devices, a mobile phone, and a laptop containing incriminating material, added the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-doctor-arrested-by-nia/article32389113.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Report predicts 12% rise in India’s cancer burden||Cancer cases in the country are likely to increase to 15.6 lakhs by 2025 — a 12% increase from current estimated cases — based on current trends, according to the National Cancer Registry Programme Report 2020. The figures were released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Centre for Disease Informatics & Research (NCDIR), Bengaluru, here on Tuesday. The report also found that in 2020, tobacco-related cancers are estimated to contribute to 27.1% of the total cancer burden, and highest in the northeastern region of the country. Cancers of the lung, mouth, stomach and oesophagus were the most common cancers among men. Cancers of the breast and cervix uteri were the most common cancers among women, the report said. According to a release issued by the ICMR, the report estimates that in 2020, cancer cases in the country will be at 13.9 lakhs. “These estimates are based on information related to cancer collected from 28 Population Based Cancer Registries [PBCRs],” it added. Among women, breast cancers are estimated to contribute 2.0 lakhs (14.8%) and cervix cancer are estimated to contribute 0.75 lakhs (5.4%), whereas for both men and women, cancers of the gastrointestinal tract is estimated to contribute 2.7 lakhs (19.7%) of the total cancer burden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/report-predicts-12-rise-in-indias-cancer-burden/article32389137.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Naga row: Assam Minister, Nagaland CM met Muivah||Earlier this month, Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio reached Delhi to meet Nationalist Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isaak-Muivah) chief T. Muivah amid indications that the Naga peace talks were on the verge of collapse, The Hindu has learnt. Union Home Minister Amit Shah directed Mr. Sarma, the North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convener, to speak to Mr. Muivah, who has been camping in Delhi since July. Mr. Sarma did not respond to requests for a comment. The I-M faction of the NSCN, one of the largest Naga groups that had signed a framework agreement with Centre in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 3, 2015, has demanded the removal of interlocutor R.N. Ravi, accusing him of creating an “imbroglio”. Mr. Ravi has been heading the talks with Naga groups for the past five years to end the decades-old insurgency and he was appointed as Nagaland’s Governor last year. Last week, the group released a copy of the original 2015 framework agreement, which stated that the Centre had agreed on “sharing the sovereign power”. After the NSCN (I-M) issued statements accusing Mr. Ravi of derailing the peace process, the Centre deputed Intelligence Bureau (IB) officials to keep the talks going.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naga-row-assam-minister-nagaland-cm-met-muivah/article32389144.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Heroin racket plan may have been hatched in Tihar Jail||The foundation of a network through which heroin in large quantities was being pushed into India via the maritime route was laid in Delhi’s Tihar Jail. It was in this prison that two key figures — arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) after the seizure of 191 kg of contraband at Nhava Sheva Port in Mumbai on August 9 — had first met. Suresh Bhatia and Mohammed Nauman were part of the syndicate that had already pushed three consignments using the same modus operandi, according to the enforcement agencies which are also probing the suspected links of Nauman with some ISI-backed elements in Pakistan. Foreign funds “Nauman runs a non-government organisation named Jai Hind Sewa Kendra, based in Delhi’s Yojana Vihar, which provides legal help to the Pakistan nationals lodged in Indian jails and assists them in deportation. The NGO has been receiving foreign funds despite the fact that it is not registered under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act for the purpose,” an official said. Bhatia was serving a sentence for offences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Nauman was in prison in connection with a fraud case when they came in contact with each other a few years ago. “Bhatia later came out on parole and was on an extended parole, while Nauman was released after he served four years of jail term,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heroin-racket-plan-may-have-been-hatched-in-tihar-jail/article32389148.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ashok Lavasa quits EC, set to join ADB||Election Commissioner Ashok Lavasa has submitted his resignation to the President, asking to be relieved by August 31, an Election Commission source said on Wednesday. His appointment as a Vice-President at the Asian Development Bank was announced in July. Mr. Lavasa, a retired IAS officer of the 1980 batch, was appointed Election Commissioner in 2018 and was in the running to become the Chief Election Commissioner when Sunil Arora retires in April 2021. However, the Manila-headquartered ADB announced his appointment as the Vice-President for private sector and public-private partnerships. “He [Mr. Lavasa] will succeed Diwakar Gupta whose term will end on August 31. He has a long and distinguished career in the Indian civil service ... He has extensive experience in public-private partnerships and infrastructure development at the state and federal levels, with deep knowledge on public policy and the role of private sector,” an ADB statement had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ashok-lavasa-quits-ec-set-to-join-adb/article32389153.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways deploys ‘Ninjas’ for surveillance||The Railways on Tuesday said it has introduced a drone-based surveillance system to enhance security at railway stations, tracks and workshops. “Eye in the Sky: Improving Surveillance System, Railways has recently procured Ninja Unmanned Aerial Vehicles [UAV]. With real-time tracking, video streaming & automatic fail safe mode, the drones will enhance monitoring of the railway assets and ensure additional safety for passengers,” Railways Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. Training given An official statement said that the Railway Protection Force (RPF) had planned extensive use of drones for security purpose and had so far procured nine drones at a cost of Rs. 31.87 lakh at South Eastern Railway, Central Railway, Modern Coaching Factory, Rae Bareli and South Western Railway. Additionally, 17 more drones are planned for purchase at an estimated Rs. 97.52 lakh. In total, 19 RPF personnel have been trained in operation and maintenance of drones, of which four have received licences for flying drones. The Ninja UAV procured by Railways will be able to help inspect safety of railway assets, yards, workshops and car sheds. “It can be used to launch surveillance on criminal and anti-social activities like gambling, throwing of garbage, hawking etc in Railway premises. It may be deployed for analysis of data collected which may prove to be extremely useful in vulnerable sections for safe operations of trains,” the statement said. In addition, these drones can also be utilised at disaster sites for helping in rescue, recovery, restoration and coordinating efforts of various agencies as well as mapping of railway assets to assess encroachments. “A drone camera can cover a large area which requires 8-10 RPF personnel,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-deploys-ninjas-for-surveillance/article32389164.ece
19 August 2020||IDUKKI,||In Idukki, a coin box, an astray vehicle remain as untold stories||What does a coin box found in the debris of a landslip, buried deep under earth and boulders, say? It is among the objects recovered in Idukki’s Pettimudy, along with LPG cylinders, utensils, furniture, textbooks, toys and other children’s play items, after the landslip. The human toll of the natural disaster that occurred here on August 7 is estimated at 70, including the missing. “It looked like a war zone,” said Sebinstine Francis, who was in a search team right from the first day of rescue work after the landslip. “A vehicle sitting on a huge rock by a nearby river — it is a pointer to the powerful flow of water and debris from the hill, with the landslip carrying huge quantities of debris into the river.” About 10 vehicles, many motorbikes and cars were destroyed in the landslip. That most of the victims were asleep exacerbated the magnitude of the tragedy. Those who escaped said the landslip occurred around 11 p.m. The initial search was limited to the area where the estate lanes were located. Later, bodies washed away in the stream were recovered from a distance of over four kilometres. People from the nearby estate lanes were shifted to safer areas and only rescue workers are seen at the abandoned small junction now. Hadley Renjith, a resident of Munnar, said he found a glass-framed photo of a family intact from the debris. He said it belonged to his friend’s, whose body was later recovered. The coin box and the photograph are indicative of the simple, reclusive life of estate workers, whose travels were limited to their native villages in Tamil Nadu for functions there. They were mostly economically disadvantaged fourth generation workers. Life in the estate lanes did not change much even though the plantation town of Munnar morphed into a popular hill station over the years. The practice of community living in the lanes is a part of life here, and became one of the reasons for the high death toll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-idukki-a-coin-box-an-astray-vehicle-remain-as-untold-stories/article32389107.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED records statement of Sushant’s father||The Enforcement Directorate has recorded the statement of Sushant Singh Rajput’s father in connection with the money laundering probe. “We examined K.K. Singh under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,” said a senior ED official. Mr. Singh, in his complaint to the Patna Police, had alleged that Rs. 15 crore was transferred from his son’s bank accounts within a short period of time. He suspected a conspiracy involving Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and others. The ED has already questioned Rhea, her father Indrajit, brother Showik, former manager Shruti Modi and her chartered accountant. The statement of Sushant’s chartered accountant has been recorded. Financial records of the companies floated in his name are being scrutinised. The agency also quizzed Siddharth Pithani, who worked for Sushant and lived with him in the house where the actor was found hanging on June 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-records-statement-of-sushants-father/article32389155.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Madras HC rejects plea to reopen Sterlite plant||They held that the copper unit fell under the ‘red category industry’, and therefore, it ought not to have been established inside the industrial park. Such highly polluting industries must be permitted only in areas classified as ‘special hazardous use zones’, they said. Pointing out that the copper plant was situated within a radius of 25 km from the ecologically sensitive Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park, the judges said it had escaped relocation only because of a delay in notifying the national park since 2003. “It is not clear as to why Tamil Nadu is sitting tight on the proposal. Are there any hidden beneficiaries who would benefit by delaying the publication of the notification?” the judges asked. The court said the plant would have no option but to be shifted out after the notification. The Bench recalled that the plant had long been accused of polluting the environment, and the Supreme Court too had, in 2013, directed it to pay Rs. 100 crore as compensation for the damage it had caused to the environment. Though the company argued that past incidents could not be taken into account now, the judges said the theory of ‘washing off’ could not be applied to the present case, and that it was fallacious to argue that past misconducts would stand wiped off on payment of compensation. Dismissing all 10 writ petitions filed by Vedanta challenging orders passed by the government and TNPCB refusing consent to operate, disconnecting power supply and sealing the premises, the Bench said: “The petitioner has no fundamental right to establish a polluting industry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/madras-hc-rejects-plea-to-reopen-sterlite-plant/article32389236.ece
19 August 2020||Kochi,||Complete hydroelectric projects, says Kerala HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the State government and Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) to complete the various pending hydroelectric projects without further delay. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali issued the directive on a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to complete and commission various hydroelectric projects, including the Pallivasal extension scheme, Thottiyar hydroelectric project, and the Wanchiyam small hydroelectric project. Entrusted to KSIDC The court also directed the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) to look into the feasibility of the Wanchiyam project and other aspects put forth by the government and the KSEB and take a decision within six months. The government had earlier submitted that the project was entrusted to the KSIDC for studying the project’s feasibility. The government submitted that there had been 84.08% progress in the work on the Pallivasal extension scheme in Idukki district. Besides, the progress of its implementation was being monitored at various levels to avoid further delay. In a report, the government said that the Thottiyar project in Idukki district was expected to be commissioned in March 2021. As for the Wanchiyam project in Kannur, it was decided to transfer the project to the KSIDC for implementation through private participation and the corporation would take the necessary steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/complete-hydroelectric-projects-says-kerala-hc/article32389473.ece
19 August 2020||Mysuru,||Cheetahs from South Africa reach Mysuru zoo||The century-old Mysuru zoo has become the second Indian zoo to house the African cheetah, the fastest land animal, as it managed to get one male and two females from a cheetah conservation centre in South Africa under an animal-exchange programme. The big cats landed at the Kempegowda International Airport on Monday and were safely brought to the zoo here on the same night. They will remain in quarantine for 30 days under close observation. The zoo claimed it was the country’s first international animal exchange post-COVID-19. “The animals to be given in return for the exchange are being finalised,” said zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cheetahs-from-south-africa-reach-mysuru-zoo/article32389096.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Naidu failed to submit proofs on phone-tapping’||Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita has blamed the former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu for allegedly conspiring against the government by making false allegations on phone-tapping. She came down heavily on Mr. Naidu for failing to submit proofs on tapping of phones of TDP workers, lawyers and some VIPs, even after 24 hours after levelling the allegations. Alleging that the former Chief Minister had hatched a conspiracy against the government just to divert the officers, who were probing the scam in the capital region, Ms. Sucharita in a statement claimed the phone-tapping charges were false.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naidu-failed-to-submit-proofs-on-phone-tapping/article32389623.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Curbs on China FDI hit GM car plant sale||As FDI is allowed in non-critical sectors through the automatic route, earlier these proposals would have been cleared without the MHA’s nod. Announcing the agreement, Liu Xiangshang, V-P, global strategy, GWM, had said in January that the investment in the Talegaon plant, reportedly worth Rs. 700 crore (approximately $94 million), would boost the government’s “Make in India” programme. Responding to a detailed email on the progress made on the deal so far, a General Motor official spokesperson said, “We continue to work towards end of production and deal closing.”  The Hindu also reached out to GWM India for its comment on the delay in obtaining regulatory permissions, but the company declined to respond. “Thank you for your mail but we would refrain from participating [in the story],” texted an external communication professional working for GWM in India. In 2017 GM decided to shut down it domestic operations in India, 22 years after it first entered the market. At the time GMI sold its Halol plant in Gujarat to another Chinese major, SAIC, which now produces its Morris Garages (MG) ‘Hector’ and Electric Vehicles (EVs) cars there. In September 2019, GM also transferred the operations of its Technology Centre in Bengaluru to TCS, which has taken over the facility to run it along with GM India’s 1300 employees. The Talegaon plant is currently used only for 100% exports of Chevrolet ‘Beat’ cars and engines to Latin America and other markets, as GMI is making its final exit plans from India after failing to make any profit in its country operations. Significantly, just two months ago, GWM had made a commitment to invest as much US $1 billion in India, announcing its entry with an MoU with the Maharashtra government on June 16, 2020. Part of the investment would generate employment for over 3,000 people at the car factory and R&D Centre in Bengaluru. As per the MoU, part of the “Magnetic Maharashtra” initiative, GWM had proposed a total investment of Rs. 3,770 crore. With the permissions for the Talegaon plant acquisition still awaiting clearance, the future of the larger commitment is unclear .  (With inputs from Vijaita Singh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curbs-on-china-fdi-hit-gm-car-plant-sale/article32389109.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||M.P. govt. jobs reserved for locals, says CM||He cautioned the government that it should not just remain an announcement. Recalling the decisions taken by his government, Mr. Nath said he had made it compulsory to give 70% jobs to the local youth by changing the industrial policy. “The state of unemployment in your 15-year rule is not hidden from anyone. With degrees in their hands, the youth went from pillar to post for jobs. You should also bring to the fore how many youths got jobs under your government,” he addressed Mr. Chouhan. Former chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir Omar Abdullah said on Twitter, “Jobs in J&K and Ladakh for everyone but jobs in MP exclusively for people from MP. No surprise there!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-govt-jobs-reserved-for-locals-says-cm/article32389111.ece
19 August 2020||Bhopal,||Ankhi Das, two others booked by Raipur police||The Raipur Police have registered a case against Ankhi Das, Public Policy Director of Facebook for India, South and Central Asia, and two other users of the social media platform, for allegedly hurting religious sentiments and intending to incite communal violence. The case was registered on Monday night at the Kabir Nagar police station based on a complaint by Awesh Tiwari, a Raipur-based journalist, hours after the Delhi police registered a case against him and others as Ms. Das on Sunday accused them of sending her offensive messages and threats.  In his complaint, Mr. Tiwari said that after he shared a Facebook post referring to a recent The Wall Street Journal article on Sunday, users Ram Sahu and Vivek Sinha said Ms. Das was a Hindu and therefore speaking in their interest. Mr. Sahu allegedly posted a derogatory photograph intending to incite religious sentiments and threatened Mr. Tiwari. He also received threatening calls after the post, Mr. Tiwari claimed. TheWSJarticle, published on August 14, reported that Ms. Das opposed applying hate-speech rules to certain Hindu nationalist leaders, including BJP members, as it could hurt the platform’s business prospects in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ankhi-das-two-others-booked-by-raipur-police/article32389126.ece
19 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Uttar Pradesh Minister tests positive for virus||Atul Garg, Minister of State for Medical and Health in Uttar Pradesh, has tested positive for COVID-19, two days before the scheduled session of the Assembly. Mr. Garg said on Tuesday that he tested negative in the RT-PCR test done on August 15 but the rapid antigen test result came out positive late on Monday. The 62-year-old legislator from Ghaziabad asked those who came in contact with him from August 16 to get tested. Around 20 employees of the Assembly recently tested positive. Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit said all preparations had been done to convene the session from August 20. All legislators would have to get tested before the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttar-pradesh-minister-tests-positive-for-virus/article32389135.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Eastern U.P. funeral was a super spreader event’||The first COVID-19 death in eastern Uttar Pradesh sparked a “super spreader event”, according to a study published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) by scientists of the the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The study also warns of the potency of “asymptomatic carriers” and the importance of contact tracing, quarantining to break the transmission chain. The ICMR study was done in Basti, Uttar Pradesh, where the first COVID-19 death, on March 30, of a 25-year-old man was reported. From May 12-31, scientists then interviewed the individuals contacts, relatives, associates and also followed up with those who had attended the man’s funeral. All of them were swabbed to check for presence of the virus as well and case histories of family members, who had been tested by district authorities, were also extracted. Transmission chain The deceased had infected three others in his seven-member family and at his funeral, that was attended by 50 people from where seven were confirmed positive. The scientists couldn’t establish the exact chain of transmission, that is who infected how many others and whom, but could trace 16 RT-PCR (rapid polymerase chain reaction test) cases to the index case who had died. “The index case had associated co-morbidities and succumbed to death. Most of the cases were asymptomatic except two individuals, who developed mild symptoms,” say the scientists in their article that appeared online Monday, ahead of print, in the peer-reviewed journal. “The funeral acted as a super spreader event for the transmission of infection among family members, relatives and others. Active contact tracing and confirmation of infection among the contacts led to the isolation of 16 SARS-CoV-2 positive cases and hence the limited spread of the disease.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eastern-up-funeral-was-a-super-spreader-event/article32389146.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Unpardonable wrongdoing||Among the acts that have to be avoided, one should be wary of committing sins against the Lord's bhaktas for He holds them close to His heart and will not brook any harm befalling them. The Lord is equally disposed towards all jivatmas and has no personal foe. He remains unperturbed even when a Hiranyakasipu claims to be an opponent or a Sisupala hurls abusive names at Him. But He considers any offence towards His bhaktas, any form of Bhagavata Apachara, as unforgivable and deserving of severe punishment, pointed out Sri Asuri Madhavachariar in a discourse. So He unfailingly rushes to the aid of His bhaktas when they are threatened as in the case of Prahlada. When questioned by Duryodhana why He had declined to accept his hospitality and had instead chosen to spend the night in Vidhura's humble abode, Krishna explains His stance in clear terms. Krishna says the Pandavas are His very breath. They are close to His heart and He would always protect them. Duryodhana being an open enemy of the Pandavas automatically is also His enemy. During the Rama Ravana Yuddha, when Rama and Lakshmana, borne by Hanuman on his shoulders, are engaged in a fierce fight, Hanuman takes on himself the dreadful arrows of Ravana. Rama, realising this, is angered to such an extent that He decides to finally bring the long drawn out battle to an end by killing Ravana without any delay. Likewise, Rama is very much upset when Sugriva, on an impulse, rushes to Ravana's palace, fights a fierce duel with him and gets back to Rama's presence. Had anything untoward happened to Sugriva owing to Ravana's magical tactics of combat, Rama would be really be so heartbroken that even rescuing Sita would seem to be of no use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unpardonable-wrongdoing/article32389147.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to look into issue of land use change for Central Vista||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it will first look into the allegation of ‘change of land use’ in connection with the Central Vista project. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said it will then go into charges of violation of municipal and environmental laws raised in a batch of petitions filed on the project. The court scheduled the hearing for Thursday. Advocate Shikhil Suri, for petitioner Rajiv Suri, has alleged that the government is “churning out approvals” for the project regardless of pendency of the challenge in the apex court. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for another petitioner, said clearances have been sought and obtained continuously. The petitions have challenged a notification issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on March 20 authorising the change of land use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-look-into-issue-of-land-use-change-for-central-vista/article32389389.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Rich harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rich-harvest/article32389118.ece
19 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,||Police detect gun, silver items in raid||Police conducted a raid on a house at SC Colony of Bukkarayasamudram and detected cash, gold, a gun and silver articles in eight iron trunk boxes allegedly belonging to Manoj, an employee Manoj of the District Treasury Office here, on Tuesday night. Acting on a tip off, Anantapur DSP G. Veeraraghava Reddy and Central Crime Station DSP E. Srinivasulu with their teams raided the house. Cash counting machines were brought and ‘panchanama’ (enumeration) was being done by Revenue Department officials when reports last came in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-detect-gun-silver-items-in-raid/article32389621.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||D.J. Halli riots: 2 councillors questioned||Two Congress councillors from Pulakeshinagar Assembly segment — former Mayor Sampath Raj representing D.J. Halli and Abdul Rakhib Zakir from Pulakeshinagar ward — were questioned for nearly six hours in connection with violence by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Tuesday. There have been several allegations, including by those in the Bharatiya Janata Party, of infighting within the Congress that led to Pulakeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house being targeted. However, CCB officials said they were questioned as the police had some suspicions and needed clarity from them. The CCB sleuths had detained Arun Kumar, a close associate of Sampath Raj, after the police discovered that he had made several Whatsapp calls to the prime accused in the riots case — Muzammil Pasha, an SDPI leader, as the riots were happening. “There is a suspicion that it was Sampath Raj who spoke on those calls to Muzammil Pasha, so he was called for questioning. He denied speaking to Mr. Pasha or having any role in the violence,” sources in the CCB said. Meanwhile, CCB sources said they have call detail records to show that Abdul Rakhib Zakir was in touch with some of the accused in the riots case. He too denied any role in the riots. The police have seized the mobile phones of both councillors for forensic analysis, sources said. “They were also asked to explain why they did not come to the spot and try to pacify the mob despite being in the area. The duo will likely be called again for questioning,” police sources said. While leaving the CCB office, Mr. Sampath Raj told mediapersons that he had no role in the violence. “I have cooperated with the police and hope the truth will come out during the probe,” he said. Abdul Rakhib Zakir said he was at home that night, trying to ensure the violence didn’t spread to his ward. “I have good relations with the MLA and I have done no wrong,” he said. The riots also came up for discussion in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council on Tuesday. Govindarajanagar councillor Umesh Shetty suggested that on the lines of the Uttar Pradesh model, the loss should be recovered from those involved in rioting. Opposition Leader Abdul Wajid and others said that as the riots were currently being investigated, there should be no discussion on the same. “This does not come under the BBMP’s purview. The State government and police are investigating. Any decision on this should be taken by the State government alone,” said Muneendra Kumar, ruling party leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dj-halli-riots-2-councillors-questioned/article32389103.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Satya Pal Malik is Meghalaya Governor||Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik has been appointed Governor of Meghalaya, a statement from the Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Tuesday. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has been given the additional charge of Goa, it added. Mr. Malik, who was Governor of Jammu and Kashmir when its special status under Article 370 was revoked last August, will replace Tathagata Roy in Meghalaya. “The above appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/satya-pal-malik-is-meghalaya-governor/article32389121.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian copters fight oil spill in Mauritius||The indigenous Dhruv Advanced Light helicopter (ALH) and Chetak helicopters given by India to Mauritius are being used extensively for rescue missions to clear the oil spill in the country, after a Japanese owned cargo ship, MV Wakasio, ran aground 40 km off the capital Port Louis, the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) said on Tuesday. A 10-member specialist pollution response team of the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has also been deployed on the request of Mauritius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-copters-fight-oil-spill-in-mauritius/article32389122.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPI(M) flags fairness of web campaign||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday raised concern over the fairness of the proposed digital campaign for the coming Bihar election, citing the issue of poll funding, in a letter to the Election Commission. The CPI(M) said its general secretary, Sitaram Yechury, had written to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on Tuesday.   “After holding 60 virtual rallies, the BJP has claimed that its election campaign efforts would involve 9,500 IT Cell heads who will coordinate 72,000 WhatsApp groups ... The amount of expenditure that would be involved to put together such manpower for a technology driven system is simply mind boggling,” he said. He also added that the gap between the BJP and all other parties in terms of funding had widened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-flags-fairness-of-web-campaign/article32389123.ece
19 August 2020||Srinagar,||Third militant killed in Baramulla||Security forces on Tuesday gunned down a militant who was hiding in an orchard at Kreeri in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district during the the resumption of a combing operation in the morning. In an attack on a joint check-post on Monday, militants killed two CRPF jawans and a policeman. After the attack, two Lashkar-e-Taiba militants were killed in a day-long operation launched immediately by security forces.  Two injured soldiers also died in the operation, according to Army sources. Inspector-General of Police, Vijay Kumar, told The Hindu , “The third militant was killed in the ongoing operation. Two slain militants, Usman, a non-local, and Sajjad alias Haider, were behind the killing of BJP leader and his two family members in Bandipora recently.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/third-militant-killed-in-baramulla/article32389124.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS||Union Home Minister Amit Shah was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, at 2 a.m. on Tuesday with a complaint of “fatigue and body ache”, said a statement issued by the hospital authorities. “The Minister is currently under observation and is being admitted for post-COVID care. He came with a complaint of fatigue and body ache for the past two to three days. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from the hospital,” AIIMS media and protocol division chairperson Aarti Vij said. Doctors advised that the Minister be shifted to the hospital after he felt uneasy, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amit-shah-admitted-to-aiims/article32389134.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Talks on with 13 nations to resume flights||India is in talks with 13 countries to resume scheduled flights, Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said on Tuesday. So far, India has entered into bilateral agreements with the U.S., the U.K, France, Germany, the UAE, Qatar and the Maldives to start flights on a limited basis. India is exploring tie-ups with Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea and Thailand, the Minister posted on Twitter. There are also plans to start scheduled flights to neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/talks-on-with-13-nations-to-resume-flights/article32389165.ece
19 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||GST scam mastermind arrested in Odisha||The Odisha GST enforcement squad has arrested a person for his alleged involvement in generation of fake invoices worth Rs. 712 crore and passing of bogus input tax credit (ITC) of Rs. 129 crore. The accused, Kashmira Kumar Agarwal, Director of Madhumita Steels Industries Pvt. Ltd., was arrested from Sambalpur. He had been under the scanner of State GST Enforcement Squad for long and had been frequently changing his address from Rourkela to Haryana and from Jamshedpur to Sambalpur. The accused had created 14 fictitious firms in the names of rickshaw pullers, plumbers and roadside vendors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-scam-mastermind-arrested-in-odisha/article32389390.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC seeks Air India’s response on pilots’ plea||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked national carrier Air India to respond to a plea by several pilots challenging its decision to terminate their services with effect from August 13. Justice Jyoti Singh gave the direction on a fresh batch of petitions by four pilots challenging the airline’s August 13 order. Air India had earlier terminated services of more than 40 other pilots. The HC also orally asked the AI to desist from seeking surrender of the ID cards and other documents of the four pilots till Wednesday, when similar pleas by other Air India pilots are to be heard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-seeks-air-indias-response-on-pilots-plea/article32389391.ece
19 August 2020||Kolkata,||BJP president has asked me to stay away from controversies, says Dilip Ghosh||Brushing aside speculation over a rift in Bengal BJP, State unit president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday said all leaders will work together in the run up to the 2021 Assembly polls. Party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and senior leader Mukul Roy met Mr. Ghosh at his residence. The development comes days after a series of meetings in Delhi where party president J.P. Nadda met Mr. Ghosh. “Nadda ji has asked me to stay away from controversies and not to reply to all your questions,” Mr. Ghosh told journalists on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-president-has-asked-me-to-stay-away-from-controversies-says-dilip-ghosh/article32389515.ece
19 August 2020||KALPETTA,||Unaccounted money seized at checkpost||The police on Tuesday arrested two persons and seized Rs. 92.5 lakh from them at the excise checkpost at Thakarappadi, near Muthanga, on the Kerala-Karnataka border. The arrested were identified as P.K. Navas, 55, of Palakkandy House, and N.K.Harun, 44, of Nadukkandy House, at Kuttiadi in Kozhikode district. They were taking the cash from Mysuru to Kozhikode in a vehicle, District Police Chief R. Ilango said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unaccounted-money-seized-at-checkpost/article32389102.ece
19 August 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. nod for two tribunals to recover riot damage||The Uttar Pradesh government has given its approval to the constitution of property damage claims tribunals in Lucknow and Meerut to recover damage to public and private property during riots and protests. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath provided his approval to the constitution of the tribunal under the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Law, 2020, the State government said. The tribunals will be authorised to investigate complaints and assess the damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-nod-for-two-tribunals-to-recover-riot-damage/article32389149.ece
19 August 2020||Kolkata,||Visva Bharati accuses TMC leaders of violence||Accusing Trinamool Congress MLA Naresh Bauri and local leaders of Bolpur Municipality for the violence inside the university campus on Monday, the Visva Bharati University (VBU) on Tuesday sought an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the violence. In a press statement, the VBU condemned “police inaction” and said that the university would remain closed till the situation improved. “Unless the miscreants who committed the vandalism with TMC leaders at the lead are booked and until we are at ease on the campus through the creation of conditions in which members of Visva Bharati parivar are absolutely free from bodily harm and humiliation perpetrated by outsiders instigated by unforeseen forces, Visva Bharati will remain closed,” a press statement signed by the Assistant Registrar in-charge of public relations of the university said. The university authorities also called for a 12-hour fast to protest the violence which erupted over the construction of a boundary wall at the Poush Mela ground. In the statement, the university also demanded withdrawal of the “false FIR slapped on vice chancellor and other university officials”. The police also filed an FIR in connection with the vandalism and arrested eight people on Monday. The FIR against the V-C was filed by the Bolpur Tradesh Association. The university also made it clear that construction of the boundary wall next to Poush Mela ground does not affect the natural beauty of the area. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said on Monday that construction of the wall would affect the natural beauty. Meanwhile, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar wrote a letter to the CM, saying that there is “outrage all over at vandalism at Visva Bharati University, Shantiniketan”. “Urged @MamataOfficial to enforce accountability of those who engaged in desecration of VBU premises. Time to practice his sublimity and preserve the pristine character of VBU so dear to Kobiguru,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visva-bharati-accuses-tmc-leaders-of-violence/article32389161.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||MHA relaxes visa restrictions for foreign journalists||The Home Ministry has relaxed visa restrictions to allow foreign journalists and their dependents to enter India. As per an August 17 order of the Ministry, in addition to the categories of foreigners who are permitted to enter India, it has also been decided to “permit foreign nationals holding Journalist (J-1) visa and their dependents holding J-1X visa to enter India.” If the visas had been suspended, they shall stand restored but fresh visas have to be obtained in case of validity expiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-relaxes-visa-restrictions-for-foreign-journalists/article32389162.ece
19 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Scribe accused of posting fake tweets, arrested: family||Freelance journalist Prashant Kanojia was arrested for allegedly posting a fake tweet about barring Dalits, tribals and Backward caste people from entering the Ram Mandir, his family said on Tuesday. According to an FIR registered at Hazratganj police station, Mr. Kanojia is accused of posting a screenshot of a fake post attributed to Sushil Tiwari, a member of a little known fringe group, the Hindu Army. The said post could not be found on Mr. Tiwari’s timeline. A Lucknow police sub-inspector said the post had the potential to disturb public peace, hurt religious sentiments and spread discord among communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scribe-accused-of-posting-fake-tweets-arrested-family/article32389166.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Political leaders welcome HC judgment on Sterlite Copper||Political leaders in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday welcomed the Madras High Court’s judgment refusing to allow the reopening of the Sterlite copper smelting plant in Thoothukudi. Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam welcomed the High Court’s verdict upholding the State government’s decision to seal the plant which, he said, was “a reflection of the sentiments of crores of people”. DMK president M.K. Stalin said the judgment had “saved mankind”, and urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to convene a Cabinet meeting and adopt a resolution welcoming the HC order. ‘13 lives lost’ He said the people will not forget the 13 lives lost in the police firing. “Though the AIADMK government resorted to police firing, the court has stood by the people and pronounced a judgment. I bow in respect to the order,” he said. “The government should also file a caveat in the Supreme Court to ensure that the apex court does not grant a stay without consulting the government,” he added. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi said the order had reiterated the message that any development at the expense of environmental degradation was not acceptable. ‘Justice done’ MDMK general secretary Vaiko, who has been at the forefront of the struggle against the unit, said the HC order was a victory for the rule of law and the people’s struggle. “Justice has been done to the 13 lives [lost in police firing]. It is a joyous occasion for the MDMK, which has been fighting for the closure of the unit for 26 years,” he said. Pointing out that the government had not taken a policy decision on the closure of the unit, he said it should do so at least now. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan said the HC order had respected the sentiments of the people of Thoothukudi. PMK founder S. Ramadoss said the verdict was “a milestone for Tamil Nadu”. Its youth wing leader and Rajya Sabha member Anbumani Ramadoss said, “The State government should wage a legal battle in the Supreme Court and ensure final victory in this case.” VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan said he hoped the verdict would be enough to maintain status quo  even if the company goes to the Supreme Court against it. AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran said the government should take “all legal steps” to ensure that the status quo  was not disturbed.  Though the AIADMK government resorted to police firing, the court has stood by the peopleM.K. StalinDMK leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/political-leaders-welcome-hc-judgment-on-sterlite-copper/article32389293.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor outlets reopen to poor response||Amidst opposition from political parties and activists over the risk of COVID-19 spreading faster because of overcrowding, the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) shops reopened in the city on Tuesday. However, of the 640 outlets that reopened, crowds were observed only in a handful. “On an average, only 300 tokens, out of the 500 announced per day, were used. There was no crowd in many shops. Even Elite shops did not see much rush,” said a source from Tasmac. Premises sanitised The cash cow of the State government had put up shamianas in front of most shops, sanitised the premises, installed barricades to ensure physical distancing and provided protective equipment to all employees. On their part, the police had made elaborate arrangements to prevent traffic problems around the shops. “In shops on main roads and those near big retail outlets, we deployed teams headed by inspectors. In other areas, sub-inspectors headed the teams. They were assisted by personnel from the Armed Reserve and the Home Guards,” said a senior police officer. Physical distancing “Circles were drawn to indicate personal distancing and barricades were placed to regulate customers. The tokens were given 50 m away from the shop,” said the officer. At the Tasmac shop in Mylapore, customers started to collect coupons as early as 8 a.m. Hundreds were standing in queues at this particular shop while the police were monitoring them. Thavamani, who walked into the Mylapore outlet, said that all arrangements were in place to ensure personal distancing. “I was not wearing the mask properly. The staff and the police chided me,” he said. Of the 26 liquor outlets that reporters visited in the city, only the Mylapore and Triplicane shops were crowded and the rest had only 10-15 people standing in the queue. By 11.30 a.m, only select outlets in the city witnessed good crowd, some of them throwing physical distancing norms to the wind, and all other shops hardly had 5-10 persons standing in queue. The same was the case in Anna Nagar, Kilpauk, Ambattur, Padi and Poonamallee. Available in black market A Tasmac shop employee in the city said, “Unlike the crowds that surged in districts when Tasmac shops reopened, there is not much rush in the city as liquor bottles were already available in black market.” Once shops opened in neighbouring districts and on Chennai’s outskirts, people started procuring and stocking liquor, said a Tasmac official. Also, a majority of migrant workers from other States have left Chennai and those working in Chennai from other parts of Tamil Nadu had moved to their hometown — this particular crowd constitutes 50% of liquor buyers in Chennai, he said. For shops near markets like Koyambedu, daily wage workers are their regular customers. With the main markets closed, sales in these outlets were hit, he said. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Rajeshwari Priya of Anaithu Makkal Arasiyal Katchi staged a protest outside a Tasmac shop in Anna Nagar. She condemned the government’s decision to reopen the shops at a juncture when people had lost their jobs due to COVID-19. She courted arrest and was detained at a marriage hall. On an average, the Chennai market contributes Rs. 12 crore to Rs. 15 crore a day to the State coffers with liquor sales being Rs. 130 crore to Rs. 140 crore a day across Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-outlets-reopen-to-poor-response/article32389278.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,709 new cases in State; toll crosses 6,000||Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 moved closer to 3.50 lakh as another 5,709 persons tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. With 121 more persons succumbing to COVID-19, the State’s toll has crossed 6,000. Till date, 3,49,654 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State of which 53,860 were presently under treatment. A total of 6,007 persons have died in Tamil Nadu, according to the Health Department’s medical bulletin. Among the 121 deaths, which were brought on record, (89 in government and 32 in private sector) was that of a 16-year-old girl from Dindigul. She died on Tuesday due to seizure disorder, hypothyroidism and COVID-19 at the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai. Four persons aged in their 30s also succumbed to the infection. One of them — a 32-year-old man — was admitted to Government Vellore Medical College Hospital on August 15. He had diabetes and systemic hypertension and died on August 17 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another 5,850 persons were discharged after treatment. As of date, a little over 2.89 lakh persons were discharged in the State. In Chennai, 1,182 more persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the overall tally to 1,19,059. On Tuesday, 1,097 persons were discharged from hospitals in the city, while 24 deaths were recorded. The city’s toll stood at 2,501. The neighbouring district of Tiruvallur recorded 489 fresh cases of COVID-19, while the surge continued in Coimbatore with 392 persons testing positive for the infection. Chengalpattu recorded 344 cases, while Theni had 295 cases. Salem and Cuddalore had 286 and 250 cases respectively. A total of 249 persons tested positive in Kancheepuram. Nine other districts recorded 100-plus cases. Three districts — Tiruvannamalai, Tirunelveli and Tiruchi — had 119 cases each. While Dindigul had 150 cases, Madurai and Virudhunagar reported 77 and 54 cases respectively. A total of 67,025 samples were tested during the last 24 hours in the State. Till date, a total of 38,45,803 samples were tested. Nine deaths in U.T. Puducherry recorded nine COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday taking the toll to 123. All the deaths were in Puducherry with the patients, including two women, belonging to the 39-70 age group. The Union Territory saw 370 new cases.  Tiruvallur recorded 489 fresh cases of COVID-19, while the surge continued in Coimbatore with 392 persons testing positive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5709-new-cases-in-state-toll-crosses-6000/article32389299.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police seize huge haul of ganja, arrest three||The Chennai police on Tuesday seized a huge haul of ganja, being illegally transported hidden in onion bags, from Andhra Pradesh, and arrested three suspects. This is said to be a major catch of ganja by the city police during the lockdown period. Personnel attached to the Red Hills police station were checking vehicles at M.A. Nagar on the city’s borders when, following information, at 1 a.m., they intercepted a goods carrier coming from Gudur, Andhra Pradesh, at the checkpoint. On searching the vehicle, the police found bundles of ganja concealed in the bags of onion. The owner of the goods carrier had followed the goods carrier in a taxi. Additional Commissioner of Police, North, A. Arun told The Hindu , “Owing to the lockdown, smugglers are carrying ganja in vehicles meant for transporting essential commodities. More than 1,000 kg ganja was seized from drug peddlers in the North Chennai area from the first week of July.” Red Hills police arrested three suspects — Arun Pandi, 31, M. Vigenesh, 28, of Madurai and K. Babu, 49, of Purasaiwakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-seize-huge-quantity-of-ganja-arrest-three/article32389305.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An unusual debate over Chief Ministerial candidate in T.N.||Tamil Nadu witnessed an unusual political drama this Independence Day within hours of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami unfurling the national flag at Fort St. George. The subdued celebrations, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, were overtaken by dramatic scenes of Ministers shuttling in SUVs between the official residences of Mr. Palaniswami and his deputy in government O. Panneerselvam, ostensibly to resolve a row over who will be the AIADMK’s Chief Ministerial candidate for 2021. The development, eight months ahead of the Assembly elections, was unusual, as the State dominated by personality-based Dravidian parties since 1967, hardly witnessed any debate about the Chief Minister candidate in the past. For the time being, the AIADMK has decided to keep in abeyance a decision on the candidate. In the Opposition camp, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) K.S. Alagiri on Monday declared that DMK president M.K. Stalin would be the Secular Progressive Alliance’s choice for the post. In the last 60-odd years, the general practice with major parties was not to make any formal announcement about the nominee for the Chief Minister’s post prior to the Assembly polls. It was well known that K. Kamaraj, C.N. Annadurai, M. Karunanidhi, M.G. Ramachandran and J. Jayalalithaa were the natural choices for the post. A few exceptions There were a few exceptions. In the 1980 Assembly polls, when the DMK and the Congress had agreed to contest 110 seats each, a controversy erupted on whether the office of Chief Minister should go to the DMK or the Congress, in the event of the alliance getting a majority. The delay in resolving the issue had even led to suspension of talks between the two parties at one stage. Eventually, it was left to the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to announce that the office would go to the DMK, which meant Karunanidhi. Then, Karunanidhi came under criticism within the party as the perception was that the Congress had been allotted seats disproportionate to its actual electoral strength. But the DMK chief was looking for the political resurrection of his party, given the fact that it had been out of power for four years since the dismissal of his Ministry in January 1976. At the same time, there was another view in the DMK that the partnership with the Congress was needed to stage a comeback, as the national party was regarded as a catalyst in elections in the State, ensuring the success of whichever party joined hands with it. This was based on the victory achieved by the DMK-Congress combine during the 1971 Lok Sabha-Assembly polls and the 1980 parliamentary elections, and that of the AIADMK-Congress alliance in the 1977 Lok Sabha polls. It was another matter that in 1980, the DMK’s arch rival, AIADMK, whose Ministry too was dismissed in February 1980, made a triumphant return to power and its founder M.G. Ramachandran became Chief Minister again. In 2006, DMDK founder Vijayakant entered the poll fray as the Chief Minister candidate but he was the lone candidate to win. Ten years later, when the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) contested alone, it had announced that Anbumani Ramadoss would be the Chief Minister candidate. But, the party drew a blank. A senior AIADMK leader felt that the advent of 24/7 electronic media have pushed parties to declare Chief Minister candidates, making it a campaign of sorts. A. Saravanan, DMK spokesperson, however, said, “While there is confusion in the rival camp about the Chief Minister candidate, we want to send out a message that we have a strong and reliable leader in Mr. Stalin.” Projecting a potential Chief Minister candidate or the absence of it sometimes makes no difference for the electorate. For instance in 2001, the electorate voted for the AIADMK alliance though Jayalalithaa’s nominations were rejected in four constituencies. The absence of “charismatic” leaders in the AIADMK may, however, leave the floor open, it is felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-unusual-debate-in-aiadmk-over-chief-ministerial-candidate/article32389286.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) seeks action against abuse of women journalists||Cadre of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) staged a protest in front of the Police Commissioner’s office in Vepery, demanding action against those who put up abusive posts in social media against women journalists. The protest was led by G. Selva, CPI (M) Central Chennai district secretary, with cadre holding placards. They were stopped close to Periyar statue on their way to the Commissioner’s office. Mr. Selva said: “Miscreants have been continuously indulging in slanderous and abusive attacks on women journalists. Though the police have taken action on a few complaints, the action is not commensurate with the gravity of the offences. We wish to point out that the police, however, swiftly acted on complaints from right-wing forces and quickly froze portals.” Appropriate action There are 14 complaints lodged on this issue, but action had not been taken. The protesters demanded that the police take appropriate action on the complaints received from women journalists and disclose the action taken. The police should not show any partiality in receiving complaints and in their subsequent action, they said. K. Kanagaraj, CPI (M) State secretariat member, said: “Police personnel are not servants of any political party. As per the provisions of the Constitution, the police have the power to act independently. If they fail to do so, it is the responsibility of political parties and civil society organisations and the public to make them act independently. Abuse is on public platforms daily. When you [the police] do not take any action on the complaint about abuse,, should we sing paeans about police? We will not do it. There is no place for this in a democracy.” “This protest is only our first step. The Commissioner should take action. We met the Director-General of Police too and he promised us that action would be initiated. But there is no action till today so far. If there is no action, we will continue to protest with other political parties. We demand that the Commissioner of Police take immediate action against those who indulge in abusive comments against women journalists,” said Mr. Kanagaraj. Police arrested the CPI(M) cadre and detained them in a wedding hall.  Though the police have taken action on a few complaints, the action is not commensurate with the gravity of the offences G. Selva,CPI (M) Central Chennai district secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-seeks-action-against-abuse-of-women-journalists/article32389284.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Shifting plant out of T.N. is not an option’||Shifting the Sterlite plant out of Tamil Nadu is not an option at all right now, Sterlite Copper CEO Pankaj Kumar has said. “Nothing can be shifted, and we have to exhaust all our legal options before we can even think about [doing] it. As of now, we are not even thinking of that,” he told The Hindu . “The shutdown largely seems to be political. In five years, we have not got a single non-compliance report from the government or anybody for that matter. Even in the court, none of the opposing counsels could produce even a single [piece of] evidence of non-compliance,” Mr. Kumar said. Asked what his next move would be, he said, “We will be pursuing all available legal remedies.” In a statement earlier in the day, he said, “We firmly believe in the safe and environmentally sound nature of our operations, and are discouraged by the wilful reliance on anecdotal evidence and half-truths by certain parties to spread falsehoods against our operations.” About Rs. 3,000 crore was spent on setting up the Thoothukudi plant and the company is currently losing Rs. 5 crore daily. “Sterlite Copper has been incurring losses for six consecutive quarters due to the ongoing closure,” Mr. Kumar said. In an affidavit filed in March 2019, the company said damage worth Rs. 100 crore had been sustained due to negligence in the maintenance of the plant by the authorities. Commenting on the economic impact due to the shutdown, Mr. Kumar said India had become a net importer of refined copper after 18 years. “Our country is now spending Rs. 14,000 crore on forex to import copper, which would have otherwise been produced by us domestically,” he said. The Thoothukudi smelter accounts for 40% of the country’s copper smelting capacity. Production fell by 46.1% during FY2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shifting-plant-out-of-tn-is-not-an-option/article32389301.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Swiggy stir hits city restaurants||Restaurants that are already struggling to stay afloat due to a drastic drop in business, thanks to the lockdown, have been hit again by Swiggy delivery executives going on strike. Some 5,000 delivery persons are on strike across the city since Friday, demanding restoration of their old pay structure. “Among food delivery apps, Swiggy has the largest share and it has a wide network coverage. Even though we can allow up to 50% of our capacity, restaurants are mainly dependent on takeaways these days since customers prefer to order from home,” said a restaurant owner. Another restaurateur said the government’s decision to have a lockdown on Sundays was killing whatever was left of the industry. “People prefer to order in or eat out on Sundays when they are free. But now both are not possible. The government must relax conditions on Sundays. This will prevent people from flocking to markets on Saturdays and Mondays,” he said. Meanwhile, Swiggy delivery executives marched to the Secretariat on Tuesday, seeking the intervention of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “The company is not adhering to any laws. It is making money due to our hard work. If we were earlier earning Rs. 20,000 a month, we don’t get even a third of that now. Many of us used to work from 11 a.m. to 4 a.m. to earn that,” said a delivery executive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swiggy-stir-hits-city-restaurants/article32389274.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Make Tiruchi second capital, says Thirunavukkarasar||Amid the call by some AIADMK Ministers to make Madurai the second capital of Tamil Nadu, former TNCC president Su. Thirunavukkarasar on Tuesday said the government should instead opt for Tiruchi. Mr. Thirunavukkarasar, who represents the Tiruchi constituency in the Lok Sabha, said the Tier-II city should be made the second capital of Tamil Nadu it was in the centre of the State and had good facilities. He said the idea was first mooted by former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran. “From any part of Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi is only about four hours away. To reduce congestion in Chennai and to enable people to travel to the capital easily, all the government departments’ facilities should be built in Tiruchi from now on.” “The city already has all necessities for a capital, such as land, water, roads, airport, railway, educational and medical institutions,” he said.  The idea was first mooted by former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-tiruchi-second-capital-says-thirunavukkarasar/article32389318.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-Madras tops in Atal ranking for innovation, again||The Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, retained its position as the top ‘innovative educational institution’ in the country for the second consecutive year. The ranking of institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) was announced on Tuesday by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. ARIIA was launched last year by the Innovation Cell of the Ministry of Education (formerly Ministry of Human Resource Development). IIT-Madras was selected as the topper in ‘Institutions of National Importance, Central Universities and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions’ category. As many as 674 institutions participated in the ARIIA rankings this year. Last year, 496 institutions participated. Mr. Naidu called for self-reliance, which requires the nation to innovate. “Innovation must become the heartbeat for education. To create a favourable environment for experimentation, India’s higher education system should play the role of an enabler and force multiplier, to drive Indian innovation and start-up ecosystem,” he said.  A new India Union Education Minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said, “Innovation, and hence, the ARIIA will be the foundation stone for the new India, which will be self-reliant. The rankings aim to acknowledge the efforts of institutes which are coming up with new innovations and bridging the gap between industry and innovation.” IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said, “IIT-Madras is known for its world-class innovation ecosystem consisting of the Research Park and several other centres that have already produced world-class companies and disruptive technologies for India.” The incubation cell houses incubators such as Healthcare Technology Innovation Centre, Rural Technology and Business Incubator and Bio-Tech Incubators. Incubation cell The cell has incubated over 200 deep tech start-ups (till June 2020) that have attracted VC/Angel Investor funding to the tune of $ 235 million and having a valuation of $ 948 million. They had a cumulative revenue of $ 61 million in 2019-20 financial year, creating over 4,000 jobs and generating over 100 patents. The start-ups are in sectors such as manufacturing, IoT, energy/renewables, healthcare/medical devices, water, edu-tech/skill development, agri-tech, robotics, AI, ML and, data analytics, among others. The Centre For Innovation has augmented the ‘tech’ space in the institute wherein their projects have gone on to produce high-profile start-ups and internationally acclaimed competition teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-madras-tops-in-atal-ranking-for-innovation-again/article32389322.ece
19 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Freshers gear up for never-before first day of college||For first year college students, it will be a novel experience on Wednesday when they start the first day. Unlike their seniors they will not go to the campus. They will log in from home and be introduced to their institution and the professors. This is the because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many city colleges have decided to start online sessions as planned though government arts and science colleges are still in the admission stage. Since neither the University of Madras nor the Directorate of Collegiate Education (DCE) has given any clear guidelines, college officials have decided to follow the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations for online classes, some institution heads said. Some colleges have decided to launch orientation programmes followed by co-curricular activities and then introduce classroom sessions. Others are awaiting instructions from government authorities. Madras Christian College principal P. Wilson said the institution would follow the UGC’s guidelines. “It will be a student induction programme. We will apprise them of the courses and give a virtual tour of the college. We will introduce the courses slowly.” Orientation programme The students would undergo orientation programme in the first week. Women’s Christian College has also planned a series of events to keep the new students engaged. Apart from a virtual tour of the campus, students will have an opportunity to listen to student senate members. They would also be given interactive Zumba lessons, said principal Lilian Jasper. The students would start with just two-hour class sessions and this would slowly be increased as weeks progress, these teachers said. Self-financing colleges in the suburbs have not yet considered inducting first year students though. Some colleges said they were waiting for the admission process in government colleges to be completed. Sindhi College principal K. Satyanarayanan said the institution would start a bridge course for its students in a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freshers-gear-up-for-never-before-first-day-of-college/article32389324.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ITI student’s idea fetches award||A. Karthi, a student of Padma Narasimhan Industrial Training Institute in Manjakudi in Tiruvarur district has brought laurels to his institute with his feat. The institute won platinum award in a competition conducted by the Chennai chapter of the Quality Control Foundation of India, thanks to an idea from Karthi. Karthi, who is training to be an electrician, hails from Kandiramanickam, a hamlet 12 km from Manjakudi. He and his brother are ITI students. His parents are casual labourers in nearby farms. He is a beneficiary of the government’s free bicycle scheme and has received partial scholarship to study at ITI. The institute has been teaching students the 5S programme, a Japanese technique that many companies in the country have adopted. The technique is about maintaining processes and procedures in industry. Karthi is not only adept at 5S processes but also Kaizen, another Japanese technique that is used to improve efficiency and cut costs for factories. The institute wanted to participate in a competition organised by Quality Circle Forum of India, and the final aspect of the contest required the contestants to make an online presentation. “We are in a remote village and the internet reception is not good. When we need to access the internet, we have to go outside and sometimes we manage to get signal there,” said S. Raju, computer tutor at the institute. When the institute was trying to work out a method to participate in the contest, Karthi came up with an idea. He suggested that his teacher download the Zoom meeting app. He then downloaded the presentation on a mobile and using the app and the data pack on his phone he made the presentation from the institute premises. “We sat under a tree where the signal was good and he made the presentation,” Mr. Raja said. While other institutions and companies have their staff make the presentation, ITI allows students to participate and Karthi’s suggestion helped, Mr. Raja said. Karthi will be completing the course this year. “The exams have been delayed due to COVID-19. Only after the exam results are out and he has his certificate will the placements happen,” he added. Karthi hopes to be placed in a company as an electrician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iti-students-idea-fetches-award/article32389604.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mega street projects to ease congestion in many areas||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch mega street projects in six locations in two months. Consultants submitted an inception report to the civic body on Tuesday. The projects will be launched in Anna Nagar (New Avadi Road), Tondairpet (Broadway), Nungambakkam (Cathedral Road), Mylapore (C.P. Ramaswamy Road), Velachery (Velachery Main Road) and Adyar (Ramachandra Aadithanar Road). At the meeting on Tuesday, officials stressed the need for public spaces in north Chennai similar to the pedestrian plaza in T. Nagar. The mega street project in Tondiarpet along the beach is expected to improve public spaces in congested parts of north Chennai. The project will be implemented by taking measures to prevent sea erosion in Tondiarpet zone. The project is expected to improve public spaces in the vicinity of metro rail stations in north Chennai. Similarly, the mega street project in Cathedral Road will cover stretches such as Nungambakkam High Road. The street project is expected to improve pedestrian infrastructure, public spaces and street furniture. Dedicated lanes for bicycles will be developed. All the mega street projects in the six locations will have metro rail connectivity, promoting public transport and non-motorised transportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-street-projects-to-ease-congestion-in-many-areas/article32389288.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Action against hospital for overcharging||The Health Department has suspended the permission granted to Appasamy Hospital in Arumbakkam for treatment of COVID-19 patients after it found the hospital charging more than the tariff fixed by the State government. The hospital had fixed Rs. 12.5 lakh for a patient for 18 days of treatment. The department, which conducted an inspection, found that the hospital had fixed Rs. 12.5 lakh. Apart from the advance amount of Rs. 2.5 lakh, the hospital insisted the patient to pay the remaining amount. On confirming this, the department suspended the permission granted to the hospital to treat COVID-19 patients, according to a press release. On August 1, the department acted on Be Well Hospitals, Kilpauk, for charging Rs. 12,20,000 for COVID-19 treatment. The State government had capped treatment costs in private hospitals on June 6. The department continued to monitor the treatment provided for COVID-19 and advised all private hospitals providing treatment to display the government-fixed tariff for the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-hospital-for-overcharging/article32389319.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seek NEET exemption, Alagiri tells CM||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri has asked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to immediately contact the Central government and take measures to get exemption for Tamil Nadu students from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), a day after the Supreme Court refused to stay the examination. “Around 15.93 lakh students from across India take the NEET. In Tamil Nadu, around 1.17 lakh students take the exam. Due to COVID-19, there are no chances of holding training classes. While students in urban areas have ample means to prepare for the exam, those in rural areas do not have such opportunities. If the exam is conducted, it will be the backward and most backward classes who will be affected the most,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said it was due to the Centre’s persistence that the Court gave the go-ahead for the exam. He said the Centre must ensure that students from the State were protected from the issues arising out of the judgment. “Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami must speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look at possibilities of giving exemption to students in Tamil Nadu. It is the failure of the Tamil Nadu government that NEET is being thrust upon the State as it was not a party to the case,” he claimed.  BCs, MBCs will be most affected if the exam is conducted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seek-neet-exemption-alagiri-tells-cm/article32389307.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two children receive part of liver from mothers||In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, two mothers donated a part of their liver to their children — a six-month-old baby and a 11-year-old girl — with rare liver disorders. Surgeons of Apollo Hospitals performed the living donor liver transplants on the two children. The infant weighed 8 kg when his family brought him. He had persistent jaundice since his birth in January 2020, and was diagnosed with biliary atresia, a rare congenital liver disorder. Hailing from Jharkhand, the family consulted online with the hospital’s doctors. The family travelled by car to Chennai owing to the lockdown. The mother, a nurse, was then evaluated for liver donation, while the child was put up in the paediatric intensive care unit, according to K. Elankumaran, surgical gastroenterologist and liver transplant surgeon, Apollo Children’s Hospital. The infant’s liver was damaged and the bile duct was malformed, which was not common. The surgeons performed living donor liver transplant. The child recovered and has returned home. The second child, a girl from Tiruchi, was diagnosed four years ago with congenital hepatic fibrosis, a rare disorder associated with polycystic kidney disease. She was under treatment in her hometown but her health deteriorated. Doctors said her liver had become enlarged, making it difficult for her to move. Her mother donated a portion of her liver for the transplant. Dr. Elankumaran said almost all organ transplants, except renal, were carried out on an urgent or semi-urgent basis. He said the risk of patients acquiring COVID-19 or re-activation after transplant in asymptomatic patients was real and utmost precautions need to be followed. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-children-receive-part-of-liver-from-mothers/article32389297.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Burglar arrested in Aminjikarai||The Aminjikarai police arrested a burglar who broke into a locked house and took away diamond and gold jewellery in Shenoy Nagar, thanks to CCTV footage. Police said the complainant Sudha, 40, had gone to her parental house on Friday. When she returned on Monday, she found that her house had been burgled. Eight sovereigns of jewellery, a diamond necklace and ear rings were stolen, besides the modem of the CCTV. Police arrested Dinesh Kumar, 38, of T.P. Chatram, based on CCTV footage and recovered the jewellery from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglar-arrested-in-aminjikarai/article32389275.ece
19 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Scribe attacked for trying to cover news about Dalit discrimination||A Tamil TV channel reporter, who had gone to a village in Tiruvallur to cover news about the alleged discrimination against a Dalit woman panchayat president, was attacked on Tuesday. According to a media report, V. Amritham, 60, Aathupakkam panchayat president, was allegedly prevented from hoisting the national flag on Independence Day. M. Ezhilarasu, a reporter with Puthiya Thalaimurai, had  gone  to Aathupakkam village to gather news about the incident. Angered over this, he was assaulted by Sasikumar, panchayat secretary, and Vijayakumar, the husband of Revathy, who is the panchayat vice-president. Based on a complaint from Mr. Ezhilarasu, the police have filed a case against the two. Meanwhile, Tiruvallur Collector Maheshwari Ravikumar has begun an inquiry into the alleged discrimination meted out to Ms. Amritham, based on a complaint from her. When contacted, Ms. Amritham’s son whose name is also Sasikumar, said the headmistress of the Aathupakkam elementary school called a few days before Independence Day and wanted his mother to hoist the flag. Later, she told them the plan had been cancelled due to COVID-19. But eventually the flag was hoisted in the school, he said. “In the high school too, the flag was hoisted but we were not even invited,” he said. He said the panchayat staff also did not cooperate when Ms. Amritham expressed her desire to hoist the flag in the panchayat office. “They told us there was no such practice. My mother was disappointed,” Mr. Sasikumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scribe-attacked-for-trying-to-cover-news-about-dalit-discrimination/article32389281.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After multiple complications, pregnant woman recovers from COVID-19||A 24-year-old woman, who tested positive for COVID-19 in her fifth month of pregnancy and became critically ill, recovered after undergoing treatment at MIOT International. According to a press release, the software professional was initially advised home isolation but was rushed to a nearby hospital as her condition deteriorated. Her family shifted her to MIOT International on July 19. She was admitted to the intensive care unit in the isolated respiratory block and given high flow oxygen. Critical care specialists decided to start her on remdesivir, while gynaecologists monitored the foetus. However, her condition worsened and she had to be put on a ventilator. On day four, she started to show improvement and gradually began to breathe half on her own and half on the ventilator. She was discharged from the hospital on August 4, after 16 days of treatment, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-multiple-complications-pregnant-woman-recovers-from-covid-19/article32389313.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGCA special audit throws up ‘minor issues’ at airport||A team from aviation safety regulator Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) conducted a special audit of Chennai airport on Friday, sources said. It was done in the wake of the crash-landing of the Air India Express flight from Dubai at Kozhikode during heavy rain on August 7 that left 19 dead and several passengers injured. The DGCA team on Friday visited the airport and inspected the airside, including the main and secondary runways, and various equipment to see if there were any issues that needed to be fixed. “This inspection was done from a safety point of view. Some minor issues were observed during the inspection. But these can be resolved and they are not a major cause for concern,” a source said. It was not clear what the minor issues were that need to be fixed. The DGCA will finalise the report and its comments, which will be forwarded to New Delhi and the Airports Authorities of India (AAI) will be given the evaluation of the audit subsequently, sources said. After that the DGCA’s recommendations will be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgca-special-audit-throws-up-minor-issues-at-airport/article32389279.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No admission to allied health science courses||The Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University has said that admission to allied health science courses will not be conducted this year by affiliated institutions. In a letter to the principals of affiliated colleges, the university instructed them to phase out all diploma courses under allied health sciences offered by them from the academic year 2020-21. University registrar M.B. Aswath Narayanan said the decision was taken at a meeting last year to regulate the courses offered by affiliated institutions in allied heath sciences since the courses were conducted by the Paramedical Board under the Directorate of Medical Education either as certificate or diploma courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-admission-to-allied-health-science-courses/article32389312.ece
19 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||SHRC seeks report on discrimination against Dalit panchayat president||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Tuesday called for a report from the authorities on a woman panchayat president, belonging to the Scheduled Caste, in Tiruvallur district allegedly being prevented from hoisting the national flag on Independence Day. SHRC acting Chairperson D. Jayachandran took suo motu cognisance of a media report on the incident and called for a report from the Director of Rural Development, the Tiruvallur Collector and the Superintendent of Police within two weeks. According to the media report, the woman was the first member of the Scheduled Caste to be elected president of Athupakkam panchayat in the local body polls held last year. Though she was invited to hoist the flag by a school, she was eventually informed that she need not come for the event, the report said. The report said that the panchayat president was subjected to the same treatment during the last Republic Day also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-seeks-report-on-discrimination-against-dalit-panchayat-president/article32389282.ece
19 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Aid for constable’s family||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday condoled the death of constable Subramaniam, who was killed in a country bomb attack, and announced a solatium of Rs. 50 lakh to his next of kin. He announced that a family member would be given a government job. Mr. Palaniswami said the police were looking for murder accused Duraimuthu when the bomb attack took place. A team led by sub-inspector Murugaperumal attempted to nab the accused when they were attacked with the bomb that killed Subramanian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aid-for-constables-family/article32389306.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No change in SPB’s health status||Singer and producer S.P. Charan clarified on Tuesday that reports about his father S.P. Balasubrahmanyam being taken off the ventilator were untrue. “His health status is the same as it was yesterday. He continues to be on the ventilator and is being taken care of well by the medical team,” said Mr.Charan. Mr. Balasubrahmanyam had been admitted to MGM healthcare hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. A health bulletin from the hospital on Monday said his condition remained critical and he was on life support. Mr. Charan also thanked fans and well wishers for their prayers. Members of the Tamil film fraternity continued to send wishes for the singer’s speedy recovery. In a video message, singer Mano said that Mr. Balasubrahmanyam was an inspiration to many and wished him a speedy recovery..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-change-in-spbs-health-status/article32389291.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corpn. to launch student enrolment drive||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will launch a campaign on Wednesday to admit students in 281 schools in various parts of the city. Parents who are unable to pay fees in private schools are likely to be offered admission for their kids by creating awareness of the modern infrastructure in Chennai Corporation schools. GCC Commissioner G. Prakash said more than 3,000 teachers in Chennai Corporation schools would identify students in each street. The drop-outs from each of the streets in the city would be admitted to the schools. Each teacher would compile information about 50 families and submit a report. The data would be used to identify and enrol students. The schools can admit 1.5 lakh students, and 67,000 seats remain vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-corpn-to-launch-student-enrolment-drive/article32389310.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exhumed body buried after post-mortem||The body of a man, who was murdered by a rival gang on August 14, was exhumed from a forest area near Madurantakam and again buried after post-mortem on Tuesday. According to the police, Karthik, who has a murder case against him, belonged to the gang of Bagyaraj, an anti-social. He is suspected to have been involved in the murder of Kumaresan in Arumbakkam recently. “It is suspected that in retaliation, Kumaresan’s gang used history sheeter Sengotuvan’s gang in Chengalpattu and murdered Karthik on August 14. His body was then buried in a forest area at Murugambakkam village in Madurantakam,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhumed-body-buried-after-post-mortem/article32389276.ece
19 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. uses drones to monitor wild elephants||Plagued by continuing deaths of wild elephants, the Forest Department recently started aerial surveillance of the pachyderms using drones, in some forest ranges of the Coimbatore forest division. The department had sought the expertise of a Coimbatore-based UAV geospatial service company to monitor the elephants using drones. Aerial monitoring using drones was introduced after 17 elephants died of various reasons in the division, this year. D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore forest division, said that visuals from drones were helpful to check whether an individual elephant or a herd was active in the forest. Weak or immobile elephants can also be identified through the visuals. The aerial surveillance is free from risks involved in patrolling through the forest. The department on Tuesday released a video of surveillance, using a drone from Sirumugai forest range, where eight elephants died of various reasons this year. The video shot as part of the programme named 'Drones for elephant protection and health monitoring' showed the movement of an elephant herd at Pethikuttai forest area, of Sirumugai range. Apart from Sirumugai forest range, drones were used to monitor elephants in Mettupalayam forest range too, where four elephants died this year. Though the department had procured two drones priced at Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 7 lakh in August 2018, they remain unused due to their weight and poor battery backup. Elephant calf found dead Meanwhile, an elephant calf was found dead at Sembukarai near Anaikatti on Tuesday, taking the death toll in the Coimbatore Forest Division to 18. The carcass of the calf was at least three-days-old. Veterinarians who inspected the carcass said the calf could have died of complications at the time of birth. Wild boars had eaten parts of the carcass, forest officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-uses-drones-to-monitor-wild-elephants/article32389290.ece
19 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery showroom closed||A jewellery showroom on 100 Feet Road was closed for fumigation late on Monday after 51 of its employees tested positive for COVID-19. The Rathinapuri police registered a case against the regional manager and manager of the showroom under Sections 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and 3 (penalty-any person disobeying any regulation or order made under this Act shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under section 188 of the IPC) of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Sources with the Health Department said that 92 staff worked at the showroom and their swab samples were collected for test. While results of 41 persons returned negative, 51 tested positive. Sources said that swab samples of people, who visited the jewellery, will also be collected for COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-showroom-closed/article32389361.ece
19 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries expect more workers to return with relaxations in getting e-pass||With the State government relaxing the system to issue e-passes, trade and industry here expect that worker turnout at industries and businesses will increase. According to data available, 7,938 applications were filed in the district under the work related travel category on August 17 and 18, and all were approved. For business related travel, 2,182 applications were filed and, except one all were approved. In the case of applications for guest workers returning here, 18 were approved and 50 are pending. District Collector K. Rajamani said e-passes for inter-district travel of individuals for death, marriage and medical emergency are approved under automatic route. In the case of industrial e-passes and passes for inter-State travel even of individuals, the approval is given by the district administration and it is given with caution. “With the new system, workers within the State will start returning to industries in larger numbers. Now, we should facilitate workers from other States also returning,” said president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association K. Ramamurthy. The construction sector saw a large number of workers returning to Coimbatore on Monday and Tuesday, said a leading builder here. According to C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tiruppur District Tiny and Micro Enterprises Association, small business operators who need to travel to Perundurai, Erode or Palladam from Coimbatore are able to do so now without hassle. Almost all the local workers have returned to workplaces in the district. In the case of guest workers, the transport cost works out to minimum Rs. 6,500 per person, even if the pass in available. Not all industries can afford this amount. Hence, the government should consider operating at least a few special trains. S. Surulivel, president of Railway Suppliers’ Association, said the feedback from the industries had been positive for the last two days. “Every one who applied have got the pass. This helps the industries for regular movement to nearby districts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-expect-more-workers-to-return-with-relaxations-in-getting-e-pass/article32389352.ece
19 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||70-year-old man held for sexual assault on minor||The Ramanathapuram police arrested a 70-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a 10-year-old girl at his grocery store near Ramakrishnapuram in Coimbatore on Monday. The arrested has been identified as Kanagaraj, owner of SKR grocery store in a residential area near Ramakrishnapuram. Police said the girl went to the store to buy buttermilk with the knowledge of her mother around 2 p.m. on Monday. As per the complaint lodged by the girl’s mother, her daughter returned home crying around 2.30 p.m. and told that the elderly man had sexually assaulted her. The accused had also threatened her not to disclose the incident to anyone. Kanagaraj was arrested and a case was registered under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody late on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/70-year-old-man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor/article32389343.ece
19 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP functionaries booked for violating prohibitory orders||Coimbatore City Police have booked BJP State general secretary G.K.S. Selvakumar, treasurer S.R. Seghar and several others for violating prohibitory orders while hoisting the national flag at the party office here on Independence Day. BJP Coimbatore district secretary president R. Nandakumar and secretary Ramesh Kumar were also among those booked for the offences, including unlawful assembling at the party office on V.K.K. Menon Road where cultural programmes were also conducted, said the police. A case was registered at the Kattoor police station under Sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 269 (negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and Section 3 (penalty - any person disobeying any regulation or order made under this Act shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under section 188 of the IPC) of the Epidemic Diseases Act. R.S. Puram police booked 40 members of BJP women wing led by district president Jeya Thilaga on similar charges for a gathering at Gandhipark roundabout where they paid respects to an image of Bharat Mata on August 15. The Saravanampatti police registered a case against Venkatesh, BJP president for Ganapathy area for hoisting national flag atop BJP party flag post at a bus stop on August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-functionaries-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders/article32389359.ece
19 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Sales pick up at Gani market in Erode||Three months after the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) was reopened, issue of instant e-pass to applicants led to traders from other districts arriving at the market here on Tuesday. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the market with 1,000-odd weekly and daily shops selling garments were closed on March 16 and reopened on May 22. However, due to restrictions on inter-district vehicle movement and traders unable to get e-pass, sales at the market was very poor in the past three months. Shops at the weekly market start functioning from Monday evening to Tuesday night are thronged by traders who place bulk orders and sell the products in other districts. On Tuesday, business transactions picked up as traders started arriving right from the morning and placed orders. “Almost six months, we did not come to the market due to the lockdown”, said V. Murugesan from Madurai. S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Traders’ Association, told The Hindu that they had lost their business completely in the past six months and added that easing of travel restrictions have given hope for them. “We expect good orders for Deepavali in the next two months”, he added. Since business transactions picked up, loadmen, vehicle operators and tea shop owners also heaved a sigh of relief and expect improved business in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sales-pick-up-at-gani-market-in-erode/article32389351.ece
19 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK men accused of irregularities at Nambiyur||Alleging that ruling party men were involved in various irregularities at Nambiyur here, Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan submitted a petition to District Collector C. Kathiravan seeking action against the persons concerned. Encroachments The petition said that affluent residents of Nambiyur were asked to join the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, failing which their properties were damaged. False case was registered against people for questioning the encroachment of a private land at Kuppipalayam and a bus stand that was in good condition was demolished to construct a new facility at Rs. 6 crore. Waterways near the bus stand were closed and a two-wheeler parking stand was being established illegally, the petition said Sand smuggling Sand was smuggled from the water bodies in Nambiyur Union to other districts in lorries and liquor bottles were sold in black markets at exorbitant prices, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-men-accused-of-irregularities-at-nambiyur/article32389344.ece
19 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three fined for hunting rabbits||Three persons who attempted to hunt rabbits in a forest area in Anthiyur were imposed a fine of Rs. 15,000 each here. During patrol at Kombuthuckiyamman Kovil beat, forest personnel found C. Murugan (55), B. Sivaraj (38) and M. Nagaraj (26), trying to hunt rabbits, quail and other birds in the area using nets. Officials also seized a net from the three persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-fined-for-hunting-rabbits/article32389335.ece
19 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||An off-colour Chathurthi fete this year||For the idol makers in Pazhayapettai here, Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations this year are off colour owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant prohibitory orders on pandals and processions. Life-sized idols of Vinayaka, usually installed in pandals, fetched good prices every year, but are missing this year. Idol makers said this was anticipated as the pandemic showed no signs of ebbing. They had scaled down operations this year in the idol workshops on Thiruneelakandar Street in Pazhayapettai that is normally abuzz with activity in the run-up to the Chathurthi fete. On Tuesday, idol makers were giving the final touch of colour to the mini idols that would be installed at home on Vinayaka Chathurthi on August 22. After consultations with the district police and Hindu organisations, Krishnagiri Collector S. Prabhakar said that following government orders, organisations and individuals were forbidden from setting up pandals or taking out processions for immersion of Vinayaka idols. Public have been urged not to crowd market places and shops in the run-up to the celebrations. They have been asked to adhere to physical distancing norms while worshipping in small temples that have been allowed to open. Dharmapuri Collector S. Malarvizhi also has issued orders prohibiting pandals and processions, and has asked people to wear masks and maintain physical distance while worshipping at temples.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  Erode Collector C. Kathiravan on Tuesday chaired a meeting with officials and representatives of various religious organisations towards celebrating Vinayaka Chathurthi. He said that installing of idols in public places, procession or immersion of idols in water bodies will not be allowed this year. He requested the people to celebrate the festival in their homes and asked them to wear masks and ensure physical distancing norms while stepping out for shopping. Mr. Kathiravan said that people would be allowed to worship in small temples, but the temple managements should ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure announced by the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-off-colour-chathurthi-fete-this-year/article32389337.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||8,394 coconuts sold through auction for the first time||A total of 8,394 coconuts were sold through auctioning for around Rs. 1 lakh at the regulated market at Vadipatti functioning under the Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business Department on Monday. Officials say that this is the first time coconuts were auctioned through a regulated market in Madurai. Deputy Director P. Vijayalakshmi said that a total of four farmers belonging to Vadipatti Integrated Farming System Farmers Producer Company sold their coconuts through auctioning. She said that 10 traders had participated in the auction. Each trader was separately asked to write down their bidding amount. The farmers checked the prices and accepted the highest bid made by V. R. Muthupeyandi, one of the Directors of Madurai Mavatta Tennai Matrum Idhara Payirgal Producer Company, an FPO based in Chellampatti. Each coconut was sold for Rs. 12 and the farmers were paid a total of Rs. 1,00,728, said Madurai market committee secretary V. Mercy Jeyarani. S. Manimaran, one of the farmers who sold his coconuts, said that selling coconuts through regulated markets was beneficial for them. “In the open market, a coconut is sold for Rs. 14. However, for instance, if a trader buys 1,000 coconuts, a farmer is supposed to give additional 150 coconuts, free of cost. Ultimately, a coconut is sold for around Rs. 12 only. This is an unofficial practice prevalent in the market,” he said. Also, traders often do not pay money for small coconuts when they purchase them directly from farmers. “But, through auctioning we were able to sell all sizes of coconuts,” he said. Regular auctioning of coconuts through regulated markets will help stabilising the price of coconuts in the open market, said T. Perumal, national secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh. “Coconut is raised on around 10,000 hectares in the district mainly in Vadipatti, Kottampatti, Melur and Alanaganallur blocks. If coconuts are sold through regulated markets throughout the year, then farmers will earn good profits,” he added. The other advantage is farmers can store coconuts at the godown in the regulated market and sell the produce when they are able to fetch a good price for it, said Mr. Manimaran. Mr. Muthupeyandi said that coconuts bought through auction will be dried to produce oil on behalf of their Farmers Producer Organisation. “We are planning to sell some of the coconuts to the public through our shop set up at Chokkikulam Uzhavar Sandhai,” he added. On every Wednesday Ms. Vijayalakshmi said that they have decided to conduct an auction for coconuts at the regulated market every Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8394-coconuts-sold-through-auction-for-the-first-time/article32389560.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||After e-pass relaxation, Madurai sees 200% jump in applications||A total of 9,877 persons from other districts and States applied for e-passes to enter Madurai on August 17, the first day since the State Government permitted e-pass relaxation for inter-district travel, making it a 200% jump from the average 3,000 e-pass applications the district has received till date. Of the 9,877 applications, a total of 9,823 were accepted, 33 were rejected and 21 are still pending, said a source from the district administration. Since May 5, a total of 3,56,518 applications have been received and 1,24,104 have been approved, the source added. According to Collector T. G. Vinay, a majority of the applications were from neighbouring districts. Data from the district administration states that a total of 1,168 e-pass applications were from Virudhunagar and 926 from Dindigul and they were approved on August 17. This was followed by Theni which had 788 applications. Coimbatore with 652 applications and Ramanathapuram with 625 applications followed closely. While 2,425 persons travelled into the district for medical emergencies, a total of 2,077 people who were stranded in other districts returned to Madurai. Many also travelled for work, marriages, deaths and government work supervision. M. Sridhar, who travelled from Coimbatore to Madurai on August 17 said that COVID-19 swab tests were taken only for those returning from Chennai. He added that though there was some traffic near the tolls, the opening of district borders was a good move. “I travel here for work regularly but the e-pass made it difficult. Although, travelling requires quarantining for two weeks, access to these important areas of business becomes important,” he said. A senior official from the health department said that swab test results are being provided in 12 hours and that those who test positive are traced as their phone numbers are usually taken down at the district borders where mobile health units are stationed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-e-pass-relaxation-madurai-sees-200-jump-in-applications/article32389567.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Olympic medal dream beckons this Madurai girl||On Monday evening, athlete V. Revathi, who is on a six-day break before joining the Indian Olympic training camp in Patiala, sits on the bleachers of Madurai Race Course ground - an area most familiar to her. This 22-year-old from Sakkimangalam who loves to run, has broken a number of national and university records in 400 metres and relay. She is now part of an eight-member team from across the country which is training for the Olympics to be conducted in 2021. Ms. Revathi says that she is confident of being selected to represent the country next year. In the last one year, Ms. Revathi has represented the country at the World Athletics Championship conducted in Doha. She has also taken part in a number of international championships till date. Ms. Revathi, however, says that it took a lot of hardwork and a stroke of luck to get to where she is today. “I was in Class 4 when my father died and Class 5 when my mother passed away. My younger sister and I stayed at Government-run hostels and studied in Government schools. When I was young, my physical education teacher at school would encourage me to take part in running competitions. At a Zonal Meet in Class 12, Kannan sir, my coach, saw me running without shoes. He thought I was talented and said that I could get a seat at a good college if I continued to train under the sports quota. Although I really did want to enter college, my guardian - my grandmother – could not monetarily support me and was hesitant. However, she later allowed me to do what I wanted,” she says. Ms. Revathi says that when she joined Lady Doak College (LDC), she was thrilled as she did not have to pay any fees under the sports quota. The college also provided her a free accommodation. However, a bout of ill health caused by an acute wheezing problem abruptly put an end to her studies right after she completed her first year in B. A. Tamil. “I was sent back home because my condition was getting worse. Neighbours in my village asked my grandmother why I was being allowed to go to college. I then began working at an automobile company, fixing springs in vehicles for a month. My coach came home, spoke to my grandmother and somehow persuaded me to continue both sports and studies,” she says. One year later, she clinched her first national medal while doing her second year at LDC. “After my name began appearing on papers, my grandmother and all neighbours began encouraging me. Many people on their regular morning walks at the Madurai Race Course grounds began recognising me as I trained there everyday. They bought me shoes and other training equipment when I did not have anything,” she says. Sports Development Authority of India Coach K. Kannan, who met Ms.Revathi eight years ago, says that she loved running barefoot and required only one correction in her technique. “I told people that she would definitely make it to the Olympics someday. They laughed. She is a natural and has tremendous speed,” he adds. Mr. Kannan says that it is only time until she unleashes her full potential. “Nothing is stopping her from becoming another Hima Das or P. T. Usha,” he says. Ms. Revathi, now works in the Southern Railways. She signs off by saying, “Olympics is the only thing on my mind now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/olympic-medal-dream-beckons-this-madurai-girl/article32389574.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Positive cases continue to rise in Kanniyakumari||A total of 77 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Tuesday. The total number of cases rose to 12,955. The number of persons discharged were 147. There are a total of 1,057 active cases as on date. The total number of discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities are 11,571. A total of three deaths were recorded in the district, raising the death toll to 327. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district recorded 54 fresh COVID-19 positive cases, the lowest in the last one month. The previous lowest was reported on August 5 with 67 cases. With this, the total number of cases increased to 11,455. As 159 patients got discharged on Tuesday (10,380 till date), the number of active cases came down to 916. With death of one patient, a man aged 65 years, on Sunday, the toll rose to 159. Theni Theni has 295 fresh cases with which the tally moved to 10,484. There were 446 people discharged from the hospital on a single day, according to the State medical bulletin. Dindigul Dindigul had 153 new cases and the tally went up to 5,063. The hospitals discharged 96 people. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram saw 49 fresh cases and the tally went up to 4,113. The number of people discharged was 55 and the total discharged number stood at 3,528. Sivaganga Sivaganga district had 55 fresh cases and the tally rose to 3,478. The number of discharges stood at 54. Southern districts Even as the number of fresh infections in Thoothukudi district is showing a decline, the number of new cases getting reported from Kanniyakumari is on the rise. As Kanniyakumari added 147 more new cases on Tuesday, the number of total infections touched 7,846 and the hospitals in the district now have 1,495 active cases. Another disturbing factor is that the district witnessed the death of seven COVID-19 patients that took the total number of fatality to 126. In Thoothukudi, the total number of infections so far has touched 10,108 after 68 more new cases were added on Tuesday. After 217 patients were discharged, the district, which has so far lost 90 patients to the viral infection, has 872 active cases. Tirunelveli recorded 119 new cases that took the tally to 7,743 and the number of active cases to 1,348 after 151 cases were discharged. After losing two more patients to COVID-19, the district has so far witnessed the death of 130 patients. Tenkasi’s tally touched 4,146 and the number of active cases stood at 1,173 as 93 more cases were recorded on Tuesday. The district also lost two more patients to the viral infection taking the fatality to 74 even as 120 patients were discharged from the hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positive-cases-continue-to-rise-in-kanniyakumari/article32389569.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Anti-Sterlite People’s Movement hails verdict||Welcoming the Madras High Court’s verdict rejecting the plea of Vedanta to reopen Sterlite Copper, the Anti-Sterlite People’s Movement termed it as a victory of the people and called for a special law to be enacted to protect the region. Advocate S. Vanchinathan said that the People’s Movement and Makkal Adhikaram will be filing caveats before the Supreme Court and urged the State Government to do the same. Industries like Sterlite Copper should not be allowed to operate in environmentally sensitive areas, he said. He pointed out that the plant was close to the Gulf of Mannar and said that the State should take appropriate steps to dismantle the plant in order to protect the environment. CBI inquiry Further, there was not much progress in the CBI probe into the Thoothukudi police firing incident in which 13 persons protesting against Sterlite Copper were shot dead. Though there were videos available and post mortem reports pointed towards the brutality of the incident, no one has been brought to book so far, he said. A Special Investigation Team should be constituted to probe the incident. The cases booked against the protesters should be withdrawn, he said and added that a memorial should be built for those who died in the police firing incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-sterlite-peoples-movement-hails-verdict/article32389300.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Household articles destroyed in fire||Household articles of a family that had moved to the city from Chennai on Tuesday were destroyed by fire after the truck carrying the goods came in contact with a live electric overhead cable near Athikulam. However, no one was injured in the incident. According to an eyewitness, R. Guna, 51, the truck was following the car in which the family members had come to Palanichamy Nagar. As the family members entered the house, the truck driver made a turn into Palanichamy Nagar and accidentally the roof of the huge truck hit the electric cable and the goods caught fire. Even as the local people attempted to put out the fire, a fire tender arrived there and doused the flame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/household-articles-destroyed-in-fire/article32389552.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Award for alms seeker||When M. Pulpandian walked into the Collectorate on Monday to give his ninth instalment of Rs. 10,000 towards COVID-19 relief efforts, Collector T. G. Vinay presented him with an award. Pulpandian, originally from Thoothukudi, has been seeking alms on the streets of Madurai since the lockdown was imposed by the Central Government in March. He contributed Rs. 90,000 till date for COVID-19 relief efforts. Officials from the district administration said that they searched for him in different locations to honour him at the Independence Day event held at the Armed Reserve Ground on Saturday but were unable to locate him. On Monday, he was taken to the Collector's chamber and was presented with a plaque and a certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-for-alms-seeker/article32389556.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||326 students of Thiagarajar College get job offers||A total of 326 students from Thiagarajar College have received placement/ job offers from 59 private companies, said college secretary Hari Thiagarajan. Principal D. Pandiaraja said 266 students from undergraduate and 60 from postgraduate courses got offers with a salary packages from Rs. 2.26 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh per year. Companies like BYJU’S - The Learning App, Larsen & Toubro Limited, Zoho, Deloitte Consulting, Zifo R and D Solutions, Wipro technologies and Cognizant Technology Solutions recruited students. Maximum number of students got job offers at Tata Consultancy Services with 59 selection followed by Cognizant Technology Solutions, which selected 36. Mr. Pandiaraja said employers preferred those with good communication skills, analytical thinking, reasoning and problem solving. Those with ability to take risks, leadership skills and a team spirit were recruited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/326-students-of-thiagarajar-college-get-job-offers/article32389564.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BJP man held in cheating case||Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Madurai City Police on Tuesday arrested one S. Alagarsamy alias Raja (47), on charges of cheating a cracker businessman, T. N. Govindaraj of Sivakasi to the tune of Rs. 2,72 crore. A team of officials led by Inspector of Police Pandian arrested Raja, a Bharatiya Janata Party cadre, and sent him to judicial custody. The complaint is that Raja had befriended Govindaraj and had struck a business deal of buying one lakh cracker gift boxes each at a cost of Rs. 1,000 in 2014. Meanwhile, he took a loan of Rs. 1.42 crore from Govindaraj and also bought crackers worth Rs. 1.30 crore by executing a bond in October 2015 with a promise that he would return the amount by April 2016. However, after he failed to return the money, Govindaraj lodged a complaint with the CCB following which a case was registered in November 2019. Along with Raja, 28 others, including his younger brother, S. Ramesh Kumar (37) and his company’s manager S. Sundarajaran (62) were booked for cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal conspiracy and criminal intimidation.. While Ramesh Kumar and Sundararajan were arrested on November 27, 2019, the Judicial Magistrate Court I had left them on bail after they promised to pay Rs. 1.50 crore and issued two cheques of Rs. 75 lakh each. However, the cheques bounced. Tiruchi City Police has also booked Raja, who also runs Elfin E-com private limited, in a different cheating case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-man-held-in-cheating-case/article32389561.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Appeal by advocates||A section of advocates practising in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday appealed to the Attorney General of India to recommend the Central Government to repeal Section 2(c) of The Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. In view of the Supreme Court finding Senior Advocate Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court for his remarks against Chief Justice of India S. A. Bobde, the advocates said that the criminal contempt jurisdiction of courts posed a threat to freedom of expression.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appeal-by-advocates/article32389545.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Nod to sell loose cooking oil extended||The Office of the Commissioner of Food Safety and Drug Administration has extended the permission to sell loose cooking oil in up to December 31. V. Krishnamoorthy, former secretary of Madurai Oil and Oil Seeds Association, said that earlier it was permitted to be sold only until Sept. 1. He said that they had written to the State requesting to extend permission to sell loose cooking oil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nod-to-sell-loose-cooking-oil-extended/article32389554.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC: Gandhi Market shall remain closed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed that Gandhi Market in Tiruchi shall remain closed till disposal of petition in view of the pandemic. It was hearing a PIL plea of K. Krishnamoorthy of Tiruchi. He said that though the market was closed, he apprehended that with relaxation of business it could be reopened. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam said Kallikudi Market was opened to traders. However, the district administration failed to persuade the traders to move to the new place from Gandhi Market. The court had earlier observed that if the Collector apprehended a law and order problem, it was for the Collector to handle it with the aid of the police. The court was informed that Gandhi Market was closed for the time being and trade was permitted in makeshift markets including G-Corner Grounds. The case was adjourned to September 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-gandhi-market-shall-remain-closed/article32389606.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tooth removed from boy’s bronchus||A tooth aspirated by a seven-year-old boy from Sivaganga district was removed from the right branch of his windpipe or the bronchus by doctors at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Parents of the child from Ilayangudi said that on July 5, he accidentally inhaled his tooth after falling down. Since the child did not show any overt signs of pain, the parents said that they presumed the tooth was not of any major concern. Ten days after the incident, the child developed fever and cough and was admitted to the Government Sivagangai Medical College on July 27. A CT scan at the hospital showed the presence of the tooth inside the right branch of the windpipe. This had resulted in the collapse of the lower part of his right lung. The child was admitted to the paediatrics department of the Government Rajaji Hospital. Professor N. Dhinakaran, GRH, who operated on the child said that the surgery took about two hours to complete. Dean, GRH, J. Sangumani, said that it was a team effort by the ENT department and the Paediatrics department. The child was discharged on August 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tooth-removed-from-boys-bronchus/article32389565.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Armed men rob couple of Rs. 4 lakh||Armed men allegedly robbed a family of Rs. 4 lakh and eight sovereigns of gold after breaking in to their house in Sikkander Chavadi past midnight of Monday. The complainant, K. Dinesh Kumar (27) reported to Alanganallur police that they were woken up by three masked men who were carrying knife and crowbar. Threatening him and his wife, Aishwarya (25), the robbers snatched the eight sovereign gold from her and also took Rs. 4 lakh from the almirah. Aishwarya’s sister was also at home. One of them damaged a television set with a pair of tailoring scissors kept at home, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-men-rob-couple-of-rs-4-lakh/article32389559.ece
19 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to register for machineries||A total of Rs. 77.84 lakh has been allocated for the district under the Sub-Mission on Agricultural Mechanisation (SMAM) scheme to provide agricultural machinery and equipment at a subsidised rate for farmers, said a press release from the Agricultural Department. According to the release, the district has been allotted 20 tractors, five rotavators and nine power tillers at subsidised rates. “By, procuring these machineries, farmers can undertake faster cultivation with less number of labourers,” said an official from the Agricultural Department. Interested farmers can register in Uzhavan app on their smartphones or atwww.agrimachinery.nic.inon or before August 21. The farmers will be given machineries in first-cum-first-serve basis, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-urged-to-register-for-machineries/article32389563.ece
19 August 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||‘Ban on visit to Velankanni’||The district administration has advised devotees against visiting Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Health at Velankanni for its annual feast in view of the pandemic situation. Prohibitory orders were in force due to rising cases of COVID-19, Collector Praveen P. Nair said. The shrine management had made arrangements for web streaming and live telecast of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-on-visit-to-velankanni/article32389605.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Vedanta’s lawyer expresses shock at Madras HC ruling||Senior Supreme Court advocate and Vedanta’s lawyer Aryama Sundaram on Tuesday expressed shock at the Madras High Court’s rejection of the plea by the company to reopen the Sterlite Copper smelting plant in Thoothukudi district of Tamil Nadu. Mr. Sundaram said an appeal would be filed against the verdict very soon. The plant has remained shut since April 2018. The High Court has upheld the decision of the State to close the plant. “We are shocked by the decision to close the Sterlite plant. We have always maintained that this was nothing but a knee-jerk reaction by the government on account of certain vested interests,” Mr. Sundaram said. The closure of the factory was a “very retrogade step,” he stated. “It is a very retrograde step not only against the interests of Tamil Nadu but of India itself. Instead of being self-sufficient in copper, a situation has been created by which India now imports two billion dollars of copper from China,” he stated. Thirteen people died in a police firing in May 2018 during protests raising pollution concerns in connection with the plant. “In fact, in the period prior to the closure, there was no notice or complaint regarding pollution... We shall be taking our legal remedies,” Mr. Sundaram said. NGT decision In February last year, the apex court set aside the National Green Tribunal (NGT) decision to reopen the plant. The tribunal had directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) to pass fresh orders of renewal of consent and issue authorisation to Vedanta Limited, which owns the plant, to handle hazardous substances. However, at the time, the apex court did not delve into the merits of the case while peremptorily setting aside the tribunal decision on the ground of maintainability alone. The top court's decision was based on an appeal filed by the State, through advocate M. Yogesh Kanna. The State had argued that the NGT failed to consider the entire gamut of data, documents and evidence placed on record in the case to show that the plant had “irreversibly polluted the ground water in and around the Thoothukudi district”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vedantas-lawyer-expresses-shock-at-madras-hc-ruling/article32389303.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||CBI arrests former Customs appraiser and three others on graft charge||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested the then Customs appraiser and three others for allegedly receiving Rs. 7 lakh in lieu of the import consignments earlier cleared by him at the Inland Container Depot (ICD) in Delhi’s Tuglakabad. Searches led to the seizure of about Rs. 1 crore in cash. The accused have been identified as Saurav Sharma, the then appraiser who is currently posted with the office of the Commissioner of Customs in Chennai, customs house agent Neeraj, alleged middleman Ram Krishan Mishra and one Kishore Kumar. It is alleged that the then appraiser at ICD-Tuglakabad had been regularly pursuing private parties and some officials for the payment of pending illegal gratifications as he had helped clear import consignments during his tenure. The parties approached the middleman to get the matter settled. At the official’s instance, the middleman paid Rs. 7 lakh to his contact person, Kishore Kumar. The agency arrested them and seized the alleged bribe amount. Subsequently, searches were carried out on the premises of the accused persons in Delhi, Noida and Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-arrests-former-customs-appraiser-and-three-others-on-graft-charge/article32389325.ece
19 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Shops shut, vehicles off the road in Puducherry||Puducherry came to a near standstill as people stayed indoors, vehicles kept off the road, and shops and business establishments remained closed as the complete lockdown imposed on Tuesdays took effect. The Puducherry Disaster Management Authority had last week decided to impose a total lockdown in Puducherry and Karaikal regions on Tuesdays, starting this week, in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Barring medical shops and milk parlours, all offices, business establishments and markets remained closed. Police sealed the border areas at Kanniyakoil, Madagadipet, Gorimedu and Kalapet, denying entry of vehicles from other States. The government decided to impose restrictions after the Union Territory recorded a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases over recent weeks. As on Tuesday, there were8,396cases. The number of active cases recorded were3,364. As many as 123 people succumbed to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-shut-vehicles-off-the-road-in-puducherry/article32389315.ece
19 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 hits war room operations||The novel coronavirus has struck at the nerve-centre of COVID-19 operations in Puducherry with positive cases being reported at the war rooms of both the health and police departments. While the control room at the health directorate was temporarily shut for several hours for disinfection after a staffer tested positive, the police war room at Gorimedu, too, had to be temporarily closed after a rash of cases were reported recently. Among those on the frontlines of COVID management, the police force has been among the worst-affected with about 100 policemen catching the infection so far. At the war room in Gorimedu, after four policemen tested positive, a section of police felt that it was ironical that the downtime of the war room, which was the pivot of operations, was too insufficient to offer any meaningful protection to other staff. "The premises were shut for a few days as four cases identified in quick succession were treated as a cluster,” said Rahul Alwal, SSP, who himself had gone into precautionary quarantine and resumed work only on Sunday. The department has been sticking to the Standard Operating Procedure for affected workplaces issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Due to the rising number of COVID-19 cases, the entire war room operations were carried out remotely during that period, Mr. Alwal said. Police stations where positive cases are confirmed are closed for disinfection with an average downtime of about 48 hours and routine work is shifted to a temporary work site to minimise disruption. Policemen who get infected or go into quarantine are being given a COVID kit with about 30 essentials items apart from financial aid, he said. Meanwhile, the COVID control room at the health directorate was shut for several hours after an employee tested positive. “We had to opt for as quick a turnaround as possible by rotating technical staff given the critical role of the facility in guiding the COVID response strategy in the Union Territory,” said S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-hits-war-room-operations/article32389317.ece
19 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||NHRC seeks report from Puducherry Collector||The National Human Rights Commission has sought a report from the District Collector on the alleged disrespect shown to the body of a COVID-19 victim at the time of burial. The Commission directed the District Collector to submit a report on the subject within six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhrc-seeks-report-from-puducherry-collector/article32389320.ece
19 August 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) stages demonstration||Seeking the intervention of the State government to set right the irregularities at the Government Hospital here, CPI (M) cadre staged a demonstration on Monday. The agitators said that there was a rise in complaints from the general public that they were not being treated properly and swiftly. After the pandemic, non-COVID-19 patients were facing innumerable hardships in the hands of some doctors, they charged. Accident victims were the worst affected as many ambulance drivers insisted on taking the patients to private hospitals and brokers thrived in the illegal trade. COVID-19 patients were also getting shoddy treatment, they said and pointed out that a nurse from the GH, who had tested positive was moved to a private hospital for treatment. The government can even order an inquiry and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) would provide all evidence, if required, the agitators said. There were also malpractice in issuance of birth/death certificates. On June 17, a patient identified as Thiagarajan from Keelakarai died due to COVID-19. Till date, the officials concerned have not issued the certificate. Likewise, emergency patients who needed to take scans were made to wait for hours together. Many patients were forced to approach private scan centres. Though, the government claims to have installed a scan facility at the Ramanathapuram Government Hospital, it was not being utilised, they charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-stages-demonstration/article32389547.ece
19 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Webinar series by Salem DIET attracts overseas participants||A webinar series launched by the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) for knowledge upgrade among teachers during the lockdown period has attracted international audience as well. The Pleiothematic lecture series conducted by the institute, which was originally planned only for teachers within the district, for moral development of the students, has now attracted audience from within the country and also from foreign nations such as Saudi Arabia, Bhutan, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, Syria and Cameroon. Principal of the institute M. Selvam said the adverse situation created by COVID-19 and the restrictions during the lockdown to prevent its spread had actually been turned into an opportunity to improve teachers’ knowledge on a variety of subjects through the online medium. The online webinar series was started as a 15-day programme only for teachers from Taramangalam block, but it went beyond boundaries. Resource persons from various other organisations such as UNICEF had also been invited to conduct sessions through the platform. E. Maanvizhi, a lecturer at the institute, who is involved in organising these sessions said “Flyers are being distributed through social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook and Telegram. Till date, about 15 sessions have been conducted online and 250 persons attend each programme. As many as 4,250 persons have attended these programmes till date, including those from different levels of the teaching profession such as secondary grade, graduate teachers, post-graduate teachers, college and university professors and representatives of non-governmental organisations involved in education-related activities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-series-by-salem-diet-attracts-overseas-participants/article32389340.ece
19 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Local body workers stage protest in Salem||Members of Salem District Corporation and Municipal Workers’ Union, affiliated to the AITUC, protested in front of the District Collectorate here on Tuesday to demand job permanency, revised salary and other benefits. Equal pay The protesters demanded revised salaries for conservancy workers and overhead water tank operators in village panchayats. They also demanded “equal pay for equal jobs” and that workers should be paid a minimum salary of Rs. 21,000. Filling of vacancies and safety gear for workers to protect them from COVID-19 were some of the other demands.  Compensation sought  The protestors also demanded a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh for families of workers who died of COVID-19 while on front line duty, and government job for one person in the family based on educational qualification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/local-body-workers-stage-protest-in-salem/article32389338.ece
19 August 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Constable killed in bomb attack near Murappanaadu||A constable was killed in a forest area close to Manakkarai near Murappanaadu on the Tirunelveli – Thoothukudi border on Tuesday, when a history-sheeter lobbed a country-made bomb at him. History-sheeter P. Duraimuthu, 29, of Mela Mangalakurichi near Vellur under Srivaikundam police station in the district was also killed in the incident. A special team, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Srivaikundam, Venkatesh, was searching for Duraimuthu, an accused in a double murder case in Eral police station limits in 2017 and a murder case in Pettai in Tirunelveli in 2019. The team came to know that he and his associates were planning to orchestrate one more murder in Srivaikundam sub-division. When the police got information about his movement near the Parvathi Amman temple in the reserve forest near Manakkarai, the hideout was raided on Tuesday. “The hideout close to the Vallanaadu Blackbuck Sanctuary is a small building belonging to Department of Forest, which is used by the forest personnel. To check trespassing, the forest personnel had erected barbed wire fence around the sanctuary. In the absence of forest personnel, the culprits had occupied the building where they were making a few improvised explosives,” said a policeman. On seeing the policemen approaching their hideout, Duraimuthu and three others came out of the building and ran towards the nearby hillock, part of the reserve forest area. Constable Subramanian, who joined Tamil Nadu Police in 2017, scaled the fence along with two others and started chasing the fleeing suspects. In a bid to escape from them, Duraimuthu lobbed a country-bomb that landed at a distance from Subramanian. While it did not explode, the second improvised explosive landed on Subramanian’s head and it exploded. The constable was killed on the spot. “With the police chasing him, a country-bomb that Duraimuthu was holding exploded and he ustained injuries. Though he was rushed to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, he succumbed to his injuries,” said Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, who visited the scene of crime at Manakkarai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-killed-in-bomb-attack-near-murappanaadu/article32389550.ece
19 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Sterlite verdict brings cheer to a tense Thoothukudi||There was widespread celebration in Thoothukudi on Tuesday as the Madras High Court rejected a plea by natural resources company Vedanta, seeking permission to reopen the Sterlite copper smelting plant in the town. Anti-Sterlite protesters, activists and leaders of political parties hailed the verdict, and were seen distributing sweets and bursting crackers. As the judgment came along expected lines, tension in the town subsided around 10.45 a.m. CPI(M) functionaries, led by Arjunan, the party’s district secretary and one of the petitioners against Sterlite Copper, distributed sweets to the public near Rajaji Park. Social media platforms, particularly WhatsApp groups, were awash with messages hailing the verdict and glorifying those who died or were injured in a police firing incident that took place in the wake of anti-Sterlite protests. Police deployment Ahead of the verdict, police personnel, led by Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar and drawn from four southern districts, took positions at vantage points in and around the plant’s premises and across the district’s entry/exit points. When a group of anti-Sterlite protesters assembled near Rajaji Park in the morning, the police asked them not to organise any celebration or protest after the judgement as the COVID-19 lockdown was in force. “Four Additional Superintendents of Police, 12 Deputy Superintendents of Police, 46 Inspectors and 85 Sub-Inspectors have been deployed in and around Thoothukudi as part of security arrangements,” Mr. Jayakumar said. After assembling at the District Police Office grounds on the Collectorate premises in the early hours of Tuesday, the police teams moved to various vantage points. Based on the nature of these points, categorised as sensitive and hypersensitive, additional personnel were deployed. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, was camping in Thoothukudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sterlite-verdict-brings-cheer-to-a-tense-thoothukudi/article32389295.ece
19 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Almighty has rendered justice’||“The almighty, through the judgment of Madras High Court, has rendered justice to innocent people whose blood was shed on the road in police firing during anti-Sterlite protest,” said Vanitha, mother of Snowlin, 17, who was killed in the police firing. Ms. Vanitha said the High Court’s verdict was on expected lines. She expressed hope that the State government would argue this case in the same vigour in the Supreme Court also if the Sterlite Copper appealed against the verdict in the apex court. Firing victim Selvakumar’s brother Jayakumar believes that Thoothukudi would live in peace only when the copper smelter was closed permanently. “This (High Court judgment) is only a painkiller to the wounds we’ve sustained in the anti-Sterlite protests and due to the pollution the copper smelter has emitted so far… Residents here will have permanent relief only when the Supreme Court gives its verdict against Sterlite Copper and ensures its permanent closure,” said Mr. Jayakumar urging the State government to pass a Cabinet resolution for permanent closure of the unit. At the same time, employees of Sterlite Copper, the contractors, contract labourers and owners of lorries that were hired by the copper major for its regular operations feel that the verdict would blow the death knell for their livelihood. “We’ve borrowed from the banks and private financial institutions for buying lorries that were once hired by Sterlite Copper for transporting (copper concentrate) ore from the Thoothukudi harbor. Since we’ve made certain modifications in these trucks for carrying the ore, we cannot use these lorries for other purposes so that these vehicles are rusting now,” said Rajakumar, an affected lorry owner. The contractors say that their livelihood and the sustenance of their labourers were in deep trouble ever since the factory was closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/almighty-has-rendered-justice/article32389572.ece
19 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||23 deaths, 630 fresh positive cases reported in Central region||The central region registered 630 fresh cases of COVID-19 and recorded 23 deaths on Tuesday. According to the media bulletin issued by the Health Department of the State, the maximum number of fresh cases was reported in Thanjavur district followed by Tiruchi district. While Thanjavur district recorded 129 cases, it was 119 in Tiruchi district. Pudukottai was close behind with 110 fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Ariyalur recorded 75 and 73 cases, respectively. Karur recorded 48 and Tiruvarur 41 cases. Fatalities  John Kennedy, 58, of Nagapattinam, district correspondent of Sun TV, died of COVID-19 at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Monday. He was admitted to the government hospital in Nagapattinam on August 9 with complaints of cold, fever and breathing difficulties. He was subsequently referred to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on August 10. He is also said to have had hypertension. His body was brought to Nagapattinam and buried in a cemetery on Tuesday. Media persons held a condolence meeting at Avuri Thidal later in the day. Out of 23 patients who died of COVID-19 in central districts, three patients had no co-morbidities. A 53-year-old female of Nagapattinam, who was admitted to Government Periyar Hospital in Mayiladuthurai with complaints of fever and breathing problems on August 14, was declared dead on Saturday. She was suffering from dizziness and breathing problems for three days.. A 62-year-old male patient of Tiruvarur died of acute respiratory distress syndrome at the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital on Sunday. He died within a few hours of admission. He too had no co-morbidities. Another patient, who died of COVID-19 but no pre-existing condition, was a 59-year-old patient from Thanjavur. He was admitted to the hospital on August 12 and declared dead due to respiratory viral pneumonia. Thanjavur With 129 fresh cases, the total number of patients who had tested positive for the virus in Thanjavur district so far went up to 5,130. There were 968 active cases in the district. A total of 4,082 patients were discharged so far in the district.  Nagapattinam There were 75 new cases in Nagapattinam district on Tuesday. With this, the total number of coronavirus cases shot up to 1,650.  Ariyalur Of the 73 new cases in Ariyalur district, Ariyalur, Thirumanur and Sendurai blocks accounted for nearly 60% of them. With Tuesday’s count, the total positive cases in the district went to 1,941. A total of 1,305 patients were discharged so far.  Discharged Meanwhile, 38 patients were discharged from K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi on Tuesday. In addition to them, 47 patients, who were treated at the COVID care centre at Khajamalai, were also discharged. With an addition of 119 new cases on Tuesday, the total number of active cases, including those getting treatment at homes, went up to 966 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-deaths-630-fresh-positive-cases-reported-in-central-region/article32389611.ece
19 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Water released in Pullampadi, New Kattalai canals||Water was released for irrigation into New Kattalai High Level Canal (NKHLC) at Mayanur in Karur district and into Pullampadi Canal at Mukkombu in Tiruchi district on Tuesday. Both canals are fed by the Cauvery. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami ordered the release of water in the canals from August 18 to December 31 for a period of 136 days. Collector T. Anbalagan, M. Geetha, MLA, PWD officials and farmers offered flowers as the water flowed into New Kattalai High Level Canal. The canal runs a distance of about 134 km from Mayanur Kattalai barrage to Pidari Eri near Thirumalaisamudiram in Thanjavur district, feeding 28 branch canals and 22 supply channels en route. The canal irrigates 16,164 acres in Tiruchi and 4,491 acres in Thanjavur district. Interestingly, the canal does not have any ayacut area on its 60 km course in Karur district. In Tiruchi district, water was released into Pullampadi canal from Vathalai near the Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) in the presence of Collector S. Sivarasu and senior PWD officials. The canal, which runs a distance of about 100 km from Vathalai to Sukkiran Eri in Ariyalur district, would irrigate 22,114 acres in Tiruchi and Ariyalur districts. Of this, 8,831 acres would be directly irrigated by the canal and 13,283 acres would get supply from tanks fed by it. The tank would feed three irrigation tanks in Tiruchi and 25 in Ariyalur district. Meanwhile, deputy secretary of Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association Koundampatti R. Subramanian urged PWD authorities to ensure release of adequate water in Kattalai High Level Canal (KHLC), downstream of the Nachalur regulator. “About 10,000 acres get supply downstream the regulator and authorities should ensure that adequate water was released so that the tail-end areas of KHLC got water for samba cultivation,” Mr. Subramanian said. He also urged PWD officials to conduct joint inspection with revenue authorities to assess the extent of permitted lift irrigation areas and take this into account while releasing water into the canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-in-pullampadi-new-kattalai-canals/article32389602.ece
19 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||RPF women recruits resume training||A month after training for 393 Railway Protection Force women constable recruits was suspended in view of the pandemic, the programme resumed again at RPF Zonal Training Centre in Tiruchi on Tuesday. The eight-month-long programme for the recruits selected from various parts of the country that began in November last at the centre was suspended in late March when the lockdown was clamped. The constable recruits, who went back to their native States, returned to the training centre in the last week of June. The programme comprising indoor and outdoor sessions resumed in mid-July after obtaining permission from the Collector. It was suspended again on July 19 on the directive of the Southern Railway General Manager after some RPF instructors tested positive. An RPF constable attached to the training centre died due to COVID-19. Some of the recruits, who displayed symptoms, were subjected to tests at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi. Those who tested positive underwent treatment, a senior RPF officer said. Follwing the recovery of instructors and recruits and end of quarantine period, training resumed on Tuesday after permission was accorded by the Southern Railway General Manager. “Everything is normal now,” the officer said. All standard protocols such as wearing of masks, use of hand sanitisers and personal distancing were being followed at the training centre. Enough space had been provided between the cots at their place of stay on the premises. After completing a three-month basic training schedule at the centre, they would be sent to various RPF posts for practical training, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-women-recruits-resume-training/article32389613.ece
19 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||This hospital never fails to deliver||The number of pregnant women admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) attached to K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College in Tiruchi has gone up during the pandemic. Sources say the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology performs about 700 deliveries a month. Between October and November, the number goes up to 900 to 1,000. However, data show that the number of women admitted to the maternity ward in recent months has gone by about 20%. The hospital performed 910 deliveries in June. Of them, 601 were Caesarean sections. The total number of deliveries in July was 794 including 523 C-sections. The sudden spike in the number of deliveries may be due to alleged reluctance of private hospitals to admit pregnant women for delivery in view of surging cases of COVID-19. K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical Hospital is the main hope for many pregnant women. Many affluent women too got admitted to the maternity wards of Tiruchi GH to give birth, officials point out. “Although the rapid spread of COVID-19 has changed the dynamics of hospital functioning, we have performed a record number of deliveries,” says R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH, Tiruchi. The hospital has performed 100 deliveries successfully of women who tested positive. There has been no death of pregnant women or their newborns. MGMGH Dean K. Vanitha says that out of 100 deliveries, 22 have been normal and 78 C-sections. Both the mothers and the infants are doing well. Out of 100 infants, two have found to be positive. All have been discharged from the hospital. MGMGH has also treated 44 babies born to positive mothers outside the hospital. One baby that tested positive is fine, Dr. Vanitha adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-hospital-never-fails-to-deliver/article32389609.ece
19 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Orientation programme concludes at IIM-Tiruchi||Conclusion of orientation programme in the virtual mode was followed by start of online classes for incoming students of Indian Institute of Management- Tiruchi. The online orientation programme included guest lectures by Alok Kumar Choudhary, Deputy Managing Director, State Bank of India, and C. Jayakumar, President and Head – Corporate Human Resources, Larsen and Tourbo Limited, for the 10th batch of Post Graduate Program in Management (PGPM), eighth batch of Fellowship Program in Management (FPM) and first batch of Post Graduate Program in Management – Human Resource (PGPM-HR). The future of education is going to be a blend of online and offline modes, IIM-Tiruchi Director Bhimaraya Metri said, encouraging the young generation to get accustomed to the new way of learning. At present, business houses had shifted their major focus from profit to people and planet. All needed to stay safe during the pandemic and adhere to the guidelines for healthy living, he said. Keeping in mind the safety factor, IIM-Tiruchi live-streamed the 74th Independence Day celebrations for virtual viewing by faculty, staff and their families. Speaking after hoisting the national flag, Mr. Metri said the New Education Policy would pave way for the country's development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orientation-programme-concludes-at-iim-tiruchi/article32389607.ece
19 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Father, son murdered near Tiruchi||An elderly man and his 33-year-old son were murdered allegedly by close relatives at Nadurakarai near Tiruchi on Tuesday. Police identified the victims as A. Rokeraj, 68, and John David, 33. Dispute over a pathway leading to farmlands belonging to the victims and their relatives ended up in the double murder, said police sources. The dispute was between Rokeraj from Vadakku Irungalur and his elder brother’s son A. Sesuraj, aged around 55 years and resident of Nadu Irungalur. Police sources said a wordy quarrel broke out between Rokeraj and Sesuraj over the pathway issue on Tuesday morning. It soon took a violent turn when they attacked each other with sharp weapons. In the attack, Rokeraj and his son John were killed on the spot. Sesuraj and his son Prince Fernandes, who allegedly committed the murders, sustained injuries and were referred to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi. Samayapuram Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/father-son-murdered/article32389575.ece
19 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Nexus with police alleged||When Vinodh and Ramachandran were hacked to death near Mela Mangalakurichi under Srivaikundam police station limits on November 24, 2018, the police would not have dreamt that one of the accused in this double murder case would kill a constable. After one of these two victims developed an illicit affair with the wife of a person, belonging to another community from Mela Mangalakurichi, he hired Duraimuthu and his associates to murder Vinodh and Ramachandran. In retaliation, Duraimuthu’s younger brother Kannan was murdered in 2019. When Duraimuthu and his associates unleashed an attack at Pettai near Tirunelveli, Ganesa Pandian, an accused in the murder of Kannan, was hacked to death. The police, after arresting Duraimuthu and a few others, recovered three machetes and two country-bombs from a hideout at nearby Sanganaankulam. After coming out on bail, Duraimuthu skipped bail conditions and an arrest warrant was issued. Even as the police were searching for him, he participated in the betrothal of his sister at Mela Mangalakurichi recently. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar deployed a special team in which Subramanian was included. After closely following Duraimuthu by tracking his mobile phone signal, the police found on Tuesday that he was hiding near Manakkarai. “Since a close relative of Duraimuthu is an anti-poaching watcher in Vallanaadu area, where Forest Department has the Blackbuck Sanctuary, he, along with his associates, could stay in the small room. As the room belongs to the Department of Forest, he might have believed that the police would not raid the building,” a police officer said. “We believe that the anti-poaching watchers there allowed these men to use the room even after fully knowing their plans. We recovered a carom board, a few country-bombs and batteries from this room. Three anti-poaching watchers are being grilled,” the police officer said. The association of Duraimuthu with a few policemen and forest personnel is being probed following the murder of Subramanian. One Ammamuthu, a cousin of Duraimuthu, is an accused in the murder of Alwarkurichi Police Sub-Inspector Vetrivel that took place on January 7, 2010 in a case of mistaken identity. The assailants were waiting to murder another Sub-Inspector following a domestic problem.  We believe that anti-poaching watchers in Vallanaadu area allowed them to use the room belonging to the Department of Forest Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nexus-with-police-alleged/article32389548.ece
19 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Official held for taking bribe||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption personnel caught an official red-handed on Tuesday while he was accepting bribe. Sources said retired Sub-Inspector of Police Kandan of Thimmarajapuram had submitted an application in the Palayamkottai Zone of Tirunelveli Corporation for changing a property in the name of his wife. As the application was pending in the zonal office for more than two months, Mr. Kandan went to the office to know the reason for the delay. When he learnt that the application was pending with superintendent Shanmugam, Mr. Kandan met him. Shanmugam demanded Rs. 5,000. Though he agreed to give the bribe on receiving the document, he filed a complaint with DV & AC. When Mr. Kandan gave the amount on Tuesday, Deputy Superintendent of Police Escol and Inspector of Police Anita trapped Shanmugam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-held-for-taking-bribe/article32389553.ece
19 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Veterinary College in Udumalpet to begin classes this academic year||The Veterinary College and Research Institute (VC&RI) in Udumalpet taluk will commence classes in the current academic year, of 2020-21, according to a Government Order (G.O) issued by the Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Fisheries Department on Tuesday. The VC&RI, which will be a constituent college of Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS), will offer Bachelor of Veterinary Sciences and Animal Husbandry (BVSc&AH) course for 40 students in its first academic year and the strength of students will be made 80 later. The college was initially proposed to be constructed at Pannaikinaru village in Udumalpet taluk at a cost of Rs. 255.87 crore and its academic year to begin from 2021-22. However, based on a report submitted by Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, the college will temporarily function from a private school building at Chinnaveerampatti village this academic year. The private building “[satisfies] the needs of starting the new Veterinary College and Research Institute now,” the G.O. said, as the construction will proceed at Pannaikinaru in the meantime. Requirements under the Minimum Standards of Veterinary Education (MSVE-2016) such as land and buildings, academic block, administrative block, lecture halls, laboratory, library and boys and girls hostel are available on the private building premises, the GO. said. The Veterinary Hospital in Udumalpet will be used for the requirement of Veterinary Clinical Complex and a Livestock Farm Complex will be established in the vicinity. Faculty and supportive staff members will be recruited or transferred from the constituent units of TANUVAS and a separate proposal will be sent by the district administration to purchase necessary equipment. The State government ordered an administrative sanction of Rs. 94.7268 crore for the construction of VC&RI in Pannaikinaru village, including the recurring and non-recurring expenditure and civil works. Out of this, Rs. 50 crore will be sanctioned for the civil works this year and the rest will be released “in the subsequent financial year based on needs,” according to the G.O. Once the construction is over, the VC&RI will be shifted from the private building at Chinnaveerampatti village to the new building at Pannaikinaru village in Udumalpet taluk, the G.O. said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veterinary-college-in-udumalpet-to-begin-classes-this-academic-year/article32389357.ece
19 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||10 minor girls, five women rescued from mill in Thekkalur||Officials from the Childline and other departments rescued 10 girls and five women from a private spinning mill at Thekkalur near Avinashi in Tiruppur district on Monday. Childline sources said on Tuesday that the 10 girls were teenagers. All 15 were allegedly forced to work against their will. Based on a call to the Childline’s helpline ‘1098’ by one of the minors in the spinning mill on Monday afternoon, officials from Childline, Revenue Department, Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health and Avinashi police visited the mill. Around six minors were found locked inside a room in the mill, sources said. The workers complained to the officials of alleged physical and verbal abuse by the staff members of the mill. The rescued workers underwent medical tests and no external injuries were found. They were also screened for COVID-19 symptoms. Upon completing the tests, the 10 girls were sent to a home at Karuvalur and the five women were sent to a home at Thaneerpandal in Avinashi Block, according to the officials. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the rescued workers were from Tiruvannamalai, Tirupattur, Dharmapuri, Cuddalore and Tirunelveli districts. While some of them were brought to the mill last month, others were working in the mill for nearly a year. The spinning mill allegedly transported them using industrial e-pass, while the workers themselves did not possess any e-passes, sources said. Avinashi Thasildar G. Santhi told The Hindu on Tuesday that the Revenue Department was verifying the particulars of the rescued workers using their Aadhaar cards. Investigations by the Revenue Department and Child Welfare Committee are on regarding the alleged violations, she said. Avinashi police said that a case would be registered against the private spinning mill once an official lodges a complaint. Children in distress may contact Childline’s 24-hour toll-free helpline 1098 for assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-minor-girls-five-women-rescued-from-mill-in-thekkalur/article32389342.ece
19 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Bank waives loan of deceased farmer||Over a month after the death of a farmer by suicide near Kundadam in Tiruppur district, a private bank waived off his loans that he was allegedly unable to pay back. P. Rajamani (55) died by suicide on July 4, following which various farmers’ organisations demanded waiver of his loans, compensation for his family and action against the bank officials. Dharapuram Tahsildar M. Kanagarajan said the bank officials agreed on Monday to waive Rs. 14.5 lakh, the loan amount with interest. They also returned the original land documents, pledged by the farmer, to the family members. Complaint withdrawn Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar said the family members withdrew the complaint they filed at Kundadam police station against the bank officials. However, as the bank did not provide any compensation, the compensation request will be forwarded to the State government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-waives-loan-of-deceased-farmer/article32389341.ece
19 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Rare 15th Century hero stone discovered near Tiruppur||A rare type of hero stone, dated to 15th Century, was discovered at Pongupalayam village near Tiruppur city. A four-member team of researchers from Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre discovered the stone during the second week of July based on informations from the residents of Pongupalayam. According to the team director S. Ravikumar, the hero stone might have been sculpted during the period of the Vijayanagar Empire, based on the style of the sculpture. “Discoveries of hero stones dating back to the Vijayanagar Empire are rare in Kongu region,” he said, noting it could have been sculpted around 1450 CE. In the sculpture, the hero is seen holding a sword in his right hand in a raised position and placing his left hand on his hip. “This posture indicates that the hero is going to the battlefield,” Mr. Ravikumar said. The tuft of his hair is upright and he is seen to be wearing ornaments on his neck, ears and hands. Beside him stands a woman, purportedly his wife, who is seen holding a flower in her right hand. The hero stone is around 120 cm high and 45 cm wide, he said. The hero stone might have been sculpted after he died during a battle, possibly to save the cattle of an ethnic group. The residents of Pongupalayam have been maintaining the hero stone since its discovery, Mr. Ravikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-15th-century-hero-stone-discovered-near-tiruppur/article32389349.ece
19 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Collector visits COVID-19 Siddha centre||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan visited the COVID-19 Siddha centre on Kangeyam Road in Tiruppur on Tuesday. The 100-bedded centre will provide 32 different Siddha treatments for COVID-19 and patients will be admitted here based on their preference, he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-visits-covid-19-siddha-centre/article32389353.ece
19 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Survey of buildings, villages at risk of flooding by River Kalampuzha begins||Following heavy rain in parts of the Nilgiris that led to flooding in parts of Gudalur town recently, the Revenue Department and the Slum Clearance Board are taking stock of illegal encroachments and hamlets at risk of flooding during extreme weather in the future. While rain in the first week of August affected many parts of the district, the worst-hit was Gudalur town. Fortunately, the district administration’s state of preparedness in evacuating people from their homes had ensured that there was no loss of life in Gudalur. However, anticipating more damage in the future due to extreme weather conditions, the district administration has tasked the Revenue Department to survey the hamlets and houses surrounding River Kalampuzha. Revenue Divisional Officer (Gudalur) P. Rajkumar said the course of the stream, which passes through First Mile, Padanthorai, and Puliyamparai would be surveyed. The list of homes, farms and villages most at risk of flooding when the river is in spate would be collected. The residents of a tribal village in Puramanavayal that was most affected by the floods would be moved to homes built for them nearby, officials said. Officials also said that they were not sure as to whether some of the homes built along the side of the river were illegal. “This will be ascertained after the entire exercise is completed and the records studied carefully,” an official said. Encroachments identified Revenue department officials have identified encroachments along River Coonoor. They said more than 150 families living along the river would be shifted to homes being built for them in Ketti within a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-of-buildings-villages-at-risk-of-flooding-by-river-kalampuzha-begins/article32389346.ece
19 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Search on for youth who assaulted woman||The Nilgiris district police are on the lookout for a 23-year-old autorickshaw driver for allegedly assaulting a woman with a log near Stanley Park in Coonoor on August 14. The accused, Subash (23), is said to have physically assaulted the 38-year-old woman. She was rescued by local residents and rushed to the Coonoor Government Hospital. Police have registered a case. Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan said teams have been formed to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-on-for-youth-who-assaulted-woman/article32389347.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore records 392 fresh cases, five deaths||Coimbatore district reported 392 new COVID-19 cases and five deaths on Tuesday. Salem district had 286 cases and six deaths. Coimbatore has so far reported 9,758 positive cases and 201 deaths. It said 253 persons were discharged after treatment. As per the COVID-19 bulletin issued by the Health Department, those who died were aged 50, 53, 63, 76 and 85. Of the six persons who died in Salem, three persons aged 53, 54 and 49 belonged to Villupuram, Namakkal and Erode districts. The others were aged 52, 56 and 70. Two persons, aged 71 and 49, died in Erode district, raising the toll in the district to 27. Of the fresh 286 cases in Salem, 284 were indigenous, including 195 from Salem Corporation limits. The other two patients had travelled to Namakkal and Coimbatore districts, health officials said. In Namakkal, 37 cases were reported, and a majority of the cases were contacts of previous cases. Four patients had traveled to Erode, Chennai and Karur.  58 in Erode Erode district reported 58 new cases, taking the districts’ tally to 1,640. Sixteen persons were discharged on Tuesday and 693 are under treatment. Tiruppur district reported 45 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the district's tally to 1,647. Two one-year-old girls from Avinashi and Tiruppur Corporation limits were among the new cases. Krishnagiri district reported 19 cases, and the district's tally is 1688. Eight persons tested positive in Dharmapuri. Nine in the Nilgiris Nine persons tested positive in the Nilgiris, taking the district's tally so far to 1,089. The district administration said 952 people have recovered and that 133 are under treatment. So far, four persons have died of the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-records-392-fresh-cases-five-deaths/article32389355.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spirit of ‘freshers day’ intact, as colleges extend virtual welcome||So what if the COVID-19 pandemic has altered the schedule of the academic year? The enthusiasm of colleges in the region to remain rooted in the culture of welcoming freshers through a function has not seemingly waned. To the maximum possible extent, the colleges left no stone unturned to create a sense of togetherness on the virtual platform. There was the usual lighting of lamp, speeches by college functionaries and dignitaries, and, yes, interaction too — all virtually. Cauvery College for Women (Autonomous) celebrated freshers’ day and student induction programme on Tuesday through Youtube live-streaming and garnering live comments from students over their smart phones. K. Thiruneelakandan, president of the college’s academic governing council, P. Vijayaraghavan, secretary, and S. Gopal, treasurer, joined the Principal, V. Sujatha, and teachers in lighting the lamp along with two first-year students and extending a grand welcome to the freshers. They familiarised the students with the college environment and infrastructure. Quotes from the holy scriptures were recited. “There was an overwhelming response. Students registered their live comments during the course of live-streaming of the event,” Ms. Sujatha said. At Valluvar Group of Institutions in Karur district, freshers’ day on Monday witnessed incoming students having a tete-a-tete with K. Annamalai, a son-of-the-soil IPS officer of Karnataka cadre who started ‘We The Leaders Foundation’ after resigning his job. “Unlike in schools where the focus is entirely on academics, colleges are where one identifies the skill areas and interests. Having a foresight makes people better humans,” Mr. Annamalai told the students. K. Senguttuvan, chairman, Valluvar Group of Institutions, and Hemalatha Senguttuvan, secretary, exhorted the students to develop a mindset at the very outset to undergo special skills training to become employable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spirit-of-freshers-day-intact-as-colleges-extend-virtual-welcome/article32389608.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madras High Court rejects Vedanta’s plea to reopen Sterlite plant||Pointing out that the copper plant was situated within a radius of 25 km from the ecologically sensitive Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park, the judges said it had escaped relocation only because of a delay in notifying the national park since 2003. “It is not clear as to why Tamil Nadu is sitting tight on the proposal. Are there any hidden beneficiaries who would benefit by delaying the publication of the notification?” the judges asked. The Bench recalled that the plant had long been accused of polluting the environment. Though the company argued that past incidents could not be taken into account now, the judges said the theory of ‘washing off’ could not be applied to the present case. The judgment also upheld the powers of the State government and TNPCB to order closure and permanent sealing of the copper plant. Dismissing all 10 writ petitions filed by Vedanta challenging orders passed by the government and TNPCB refusing consent to operate, disconnecting power supply and closing and sealing the premises, the Bench said, “The petitioner has no fundamental right to establish a polluting industry.” Authoring the verdict, Justice Sivagnanam held the petitioner responsible for having dumped 3.52 lakh tonnes of copper slag by obstructing the course of Uppar river, thereby causing floods. The Bench pointed out that the plant was given permission in 1999 to produce 391 tonnes of blister copper per day and 1,060 tonnes of sulphuric acid. The quantum was allowed to be increased gradually to 2,400 tonnes of blister copper per day in 2010. Public hearing was given the go-by while granting permission for increasing the production capacity in 2010. “The chain of events will reveal that the petitioner has been a chronic defaulter taking advantage of the slackness of the regulator,” the court said. Senior counsel C. Aryama Sundaram, representing Vedanta, urged the court to order maintenance of status quo for three or at least two weeks so that no coercive steps could be taken by the government until the company goes on appeal to the Supreme Court. However, Justice Sivagnanam refused to pass any such orders, on the ground that the court becomes functus officio after the delivery of the judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-high-court-rejects-vedantas-plea-to-reopen-sterlite-plant/article32389296.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In Tiruchi, physically challenged man discovers solace in philanthropy||For M. Kamaraj, who is in his late thirties and suffers from disability, reaching out to the needy with provisions during the pandemic has infused purpose into his life. On Monday, he rode through Thillai Nagar, Central Bus Stand area, Head Post Office and other parts of the city to hand over provisions to some 18 cobblers. “A package containing tamarind, garlic, biscuits and other daily requirements means a lot to the families of cobblers who have been out of work for months,” Mr. Kamaraj says. He drives for nearly 40 km in his customised two-wheeler to hand over the provisions to the cobblers and reaches home only after darkness falls. Though without permanent employment himself, Mr. Kamaraj says his well-wishers are behind the initiative. The expenses for the latest exercise was sponsored by Pushpa, a friend who lives abroad. The remaining cobblers in Subramaniapuram and Toll Gate area will be covered during the course of this week, he adds. In recent weeks, Mr. Kamaraj, a resident of Police Colony in Navalpattu, has handed over provisions to about 150 families of Narikurava community and a few migrant families in Cholamadevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tiruchi-physically-challenged-man-discovers-solace-in-philanthropy/article32389599.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work on new Pamban rail bridge gains momentum||Construction of a massive new Pamban rail bridge connecting the mainland with the pilgrimage island of Rameswaram has gained momentum after the work suffered due to the lockdown. “We are getting migrant workers from Jharkhand in batches and the work of sinking pile foundation on the seabed is under way,” said a senior official of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) that is executing the Rs. 248-crore project. The contract for constructing bridge with a steel superstructure parallel to the century-old Pamban rail bridge was awarded in August 2019 and the work started in October. However, even as mobilisation of special equipment and materials for sinking 333 pile foundations was under way, the work had to be halted after the lockdown announcement. RVNL officials have already brought a bus full of skilled workers from Jharkhand and another batch of workers was on the way. The project envisaged construction of the bridge connecting Mandapam and Pamban railway stations. The new bridge would be 50 metres away on the northern side of the old rail bridge. Though initially the Indian Railways had proposed to replace the Scherzer’s span (two arms lifting) that allows ships to pass through the Pamban Channel at a cost of Rs. 25 crore, it gave up the proposal and planned for the second sea bridge. The major difference the new bridge will have is a vertical lift span. “Instead of the 65.23-metre-long rolling lift span, the new bridge will have a vertical lift with a longer span of 72.5 metres that will help an easier navigation of ships through the channel,” the official said. While the old bridge has an open foundation, the new bridge will have deeper foundation. The foundation would be around 30 to 40 metres below the seabed. So far, work on 14 out of the 333 foundations has been completed. The official added that the sub-structure has been designed for a double line on the new bridge. “Though the second line on the bridge would come up when the doubling work is taken up on the section, the navigational span will be provided with double line,” he added. Stating that the rail bridges were located on highly corrosive environment, once the new bridge is constructed, the old bridge would be decommissioned and removed as it would be difficult to maintain the steel structure. The project is scheduled to be completed by August 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-new-pamban-rail-bridge-gains-momentum/article32389558.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lending a helping hand to colleague||The Perambalur district police and a few good samaritans have come to the aid of a woman police constable who met with an accident recently and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Tiruchi. Constable Divya Priya, attached to the Perambalur District Armed Reserve unit, was proceeding for duty when a lorry hit her vehicle. She sustained multiple injuries in the accident. The social media team of the Perambalur police flashed a message in the WhatsApp group seeking assistance. Sources said the message yielded positive results immediately as several police personnel in the district voluntarily donated money to meet the medical expenses of the injured constable. Contributions also poured in from some policemen of other districts and individuals. The collection, amounting to a little over Rs. 1.67 lakh, was given to the Superintendent of Police, Perambalur, Nisha Parthiban. She handed over the amount to a relative of Ms. Priya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lending-a-helping-hand-to-colleague/article32389600.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 18     No. of cases on Tuesday: 392 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 9,758 Indigenous cases: 9,720 Imported cases: 38 No. of active cases: 2,622 Persons recovered: 6,935 No. of persons died: 201    No. of cases on Tuesday: 45 Persons tested +ve so far: 1,647 Persons recovered: 1,108 Deaths: 48 Active cases: 491||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32389358.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||Southern Railway has said there is no reservation based on the state of residence in recruitment of candidates by Railway Recruitment Boards and not as mentioned in the report, ‘RRB conducts all exams in a fair and transparent manner,’ published in Tiruchi edition dated August 18, 2020. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article32389616.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PRR public meet held amidst confusion||It was amidst much opposition and confusion that the public consultation for the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project was held on Tuesday morning at Nityotsava convention hall, Doddaballapur Road. COVID-19 protocols, such as social distancing and masks, were followed by everyone. While the pandemic and distance of venue were cited among the major reasons for people staying away, reports in certain sections of the media that the meet had been cancelled added to the confusion. It was only after those present at the venue sounded out others that some more participants arrived. Urban conservationist and Biodiversity Management Committee member Vijay Nishanth, who lives in south Bengaluru, made it to the consultation an hour late as he got messages that the meet was on only after it had begun. “I was under the impression that it was cancelled. But those who were present at the consultation let me know, and I rushed to the venue,” he said. He said with fewer people making it to the consultation due to the confusion and COVID-19 protocols, it was only fair that another public consultation is conducted in the central business district. “Farmers present were against the project. Very few people made it to the consultation and a limited number of people were allowed due to protocols. Where is the question of objection? Many people didn't turn up though they wanted to,” he added. Similar was the case with the farmers who are losing land for the project. Mavallipura farmer leader B. Srinivas, who is losing 1.5 acres, said many of them left work midway when they heard of the consultation. But the farmers, he said, were not demanding another consultation. “We want the project shelved. The land acquisition was notified in 2006. Governments have come and gone. Around 4,000 families are dependent on the 1,810 acres notified. But we're stuck unable to do anything. They're playing with our lives. Now we don't want anything to do with this project. We want the government to drop it,” he said. Many farmers had organised protests in front of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) office last year against the long delay in commencement of the project. On Tuesday, 12 farmers were present at the meet, he said. The decision to hold the public consultation had come for bitter criticism from various quarters, including citizens and environmentalists, for the time and location chosen. To counter the objections, the BDA, on Monday, announced a virtual conference on September 3. BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev said  that an email address has also been given along with the virtual conference. “A public hearing was held earlier in south Bengaluru. We have done one in the north now. Whatever is legally a necessity, we are doing. We will collect all objections and suggestions, and submit them to the KSPCB,” he said, indicating that another public consultation was not on the cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prr-public-meet-held-amidst-confusion/article32389241.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP frets as property tax arrears add up to Rs. 1,211 cr.||Property owners – residential and commercial – owe Rs. 1,211 crore as property tax, which has been pending for more than one year, according to the BBMP. But with most revenue officials deputed for COVID-19 duties, the civic body has not been able to focus on revenue mobilisation, admitted senior officials. This has resulted in a slump in property tax collections this year. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad had reportedly directed the revenue officials to start identifying the defaulters in each zone and issue demand notices. From April 1 to August 5, the BBMP had collected Rs. 1,804.80. However, this was Rs. 165 crore less than the tax collected in the corresponding period last fiscal, said an official. The BBMP has set a target of collecting Rs. 3,500 crore this year. During the last financial year, the BBMP had garnered a total of Rs. 2,729.77 crore. As per the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, the civic body may serve demand notices to the property tax defaulters. If the property owners ignore the demand notices, there is a provision to seize movable properties of the defaulters. The KMC Act also allows the civic body to check if the property owners have under-declared and remitted less tax under the Self-Assessment Scheme. Recently, the report on Total Station Survey conducted on some commercial properties was tabled before the BBMP council. Kacharakanahalli councillor Padmanabha Reddy pointed out that the civic body had incurred a loss of not less than Rs. 500 crore for which he blamed officials giving exemptions in connivance with property owners. Citing the report, he said though there are many star hotels in the city, officials had classified them as just hotels and restaurants, due to which less property tax was paid to the BBMP. He urged the Mayor to direct the Commissioner to write to the government and Chief Secretary seeking powers to initiate disciplinary action against officials concerned. By May 31, 2021, the civic body hopes to not just bring more properties under the tax net, but also collect more tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-frets-as-property-tax-arrears-add-up-to-rs-1211-cr/article32389238.ece
19 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||THiS students bring laurels||Students who are part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme brought laurels to their respective institutions in the SSLC examinations, the results of which were announced on August 10. In Oxford English High School, Nagarabhavi, 18 of 64 students secured distinctions. Sandhya Raagaleena T., (98%) was the topper. Jnanavahini Public School, Nandini Layout, achieved 100% pass results with 15 of 34 students securing distinctions. Archana J H., (96.48%) was the topper. Students of MES Kishora Kendra High School, Malleswaram, brought laurels with 76 of 154 students securing distinctions. Omkar Sastry N R. (99.52%) was the topper. Widia Poorna Prajna School, Tumakuru Road, boasted 100% pass results with 71 of 97 students securing distinctions. Ankitha Gargya (99.68%) was the topper. The school percentage was 92 at Lourdes High School, Nandini Layout with 30 of 138 students securing distinctions. Ananya M.R. (96.96%) was the topper. In Poornaprajna Education Centre, Indiranagar, 49 of 87 students secured distinctions. Ruthu R., (99.68%) was the topper. In Sophia High School, Old Airport Road, six of 27 students secured distinctions. Monisha D Jagnani (96.8%) was the topper. In all, 21 of 32 students passed in first class at Radiant Shema School, Byrathi Village. Ranjitha (92%) was the topper. The school average was 98.98% at SEA School, K.R. Puram with 16 of 99 students securing distinctions. Prajwal G M., (99.2%) was the topper. In Jubilee School, Vijinapura, 32 of 119 students secured distinctions. Ranjith S., (99.2%) emerged the topper. The school average was 98.55% at Christ School, S G Palya with 68 of 207 students securing distinctions. Shivesh R., (98.88%) was the topper. In Prarthana High School, Padmanabhanagar, 15 of 177 students secured distinctions. Gaurav P., (96.3%) was the topper. The school percentage was 97 at Daffodils English School, Sanjaynagar, with five of 33 students securing distinctions. Lalitha K C., (98.8%) emerged topper. In St. Antony’s High School (English Medium), T C Palya, 20 of 38 students passed in first class. Irene Jovita (86.08%) was the topper. In St. Joseph Convent Girls’ High School, Fraser Town, 23 of 288 students secured distinctions. Fida Maryam (93.92%) was the topper. In Lady Vailankanni English High School, Varthur, 21 of 62 students passed in first class. Uday Pasodi (93.12%) was the topper. The school percentage was 94.73 at Nalanda English Primary and High School, Kurubarahalli with 13 of 38 students securing distinctions. Hamsa S., (98.24%) was the topper. Sri Vani High School, Basaveshwaranagar, achieved 100% pass results with 11 of 31 students securing distinctions. Vismaya M., (99.2%) was the topper.  (Concluded)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/this-students-bring-laurels/article32389237.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli riots: Legal experts question invoking of UAPA||The city police have termed the rioting in D.J. Halli on the night of August 11 as an “act of terror” and invoked Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. However, the decision has come under criticism from several activists and legal experts, who have argued this was a “misuse” of the provision. A senior police official defended it, saying that Section 15 of the Act defines a terror act as “whoever does any act with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the unity, integrity, security and sovereignty of India or with an intent to strike terror or likely to strike terror in the people or any section of the people.” What the Act says The Act further elucidates the means of this act as “by using bombs, dynamite, explosive substances or inflammable substances or firearms or other lethal weapons” to cause death, injuries, destruction or damage of property. These provisions further include “damage of any property intended to be used for the defence of India or in connection with any other purposes of the government of India, any State government or its agencies” or “overawes by the means of criminal force or attempts to do so and causing death of or intends to cause death of a public functionary.” A senior official leading the probe said that the incidents at D.J. Halli clearly included many of these acts. However, lawyers and activists have questioned this. “UAPA is intended to handle situations where the Indian State has been targeted. In the case of D.J. Halli violence, any violator has to be dealt with strictly, but the riots had no element of being anti-State. Yes, there was largescale arson and the police station came under attack. But it was triggered by a social media post and a perception that the police did not act against the person who made the derogatory post. The accused had been to the police station and lodged a complaint as well, which speaks for their commitment to the system,” argued noted human rights lawyer and former special public prosecutor of the State B.T. Venkatesh. Another lawyer and activist Vinay Sreenivasa alleged that of late, there had been “indiscriminate use” of UAPA, which is a draconian law. “The law is being used to intimidate a community, be it a minority community as in this case, or human rights activists and other dissenters elsewhere,” he said, adding the recent amendments had only further made the Act more “draconian.”  Of late, there has been indiscriminate use of UAPA, which is a draconian law. The law is being used to intimidate a community, be it a minority community as in this case, or human rights activists and other dissenters elsewhere.Vinay SreenivasaLawyer and activist   UAPA is intended to handle situations where the Indian State has been targeted. In the case of D.J. Halli violence, any violator has to be dealt with strictly, but the riots had no element of being anti-State.B.T. VenkateshFormer special public prosecutor of the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dj-halli-riots-legal-experts-question-invoking-of-uapa/article32389253.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Muslim delegation meets Commissioner seeking relaxations||A delegation of Muslim organisations, led by leaders of the community from Congress, met city Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on Tuesday in connection with the incidents at D.J. Halli. The delegation included legislators N.A. Haris, Tanveer Sait, C.M. Ibrahim, and Rajya Sabha member Syed Naseer. They requested relaxation of curfew in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli areas to ensure the daily life of innocent residents was not hit. “The Commissioner clarified that there were only prohibitory orders and no curfew in the area and shops can be opened and residents can go to work, even outside the area,” said Mr. Haris after the meeting. Mr. Ibrahim said while they have sought strict action against those who had indulged in violence that night, it was also true that several innocent boys, some even minors, have been detained by the police. “We requested the Commissioner to ensure all the innocents are let off and the families of the arrested are given proper information of the whereabouts of their kin,” he said. The delegation also requested the police to form a peace committee in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli. Meanwhile, the delegation demanded that there be a probe into the delay in police action against the person who made the derogatory social media post, which they alleged triggered the riots. However, the Commissioner is learnt to have refuted the charge that there was any delay in action against the man. The delegation also expressed concern over hate speech on social media spilling over to the real world, triggering unrest like in D.J. Halli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muslim-delegation-meets-commissioner-seeking-relaxations/article32389252.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COMEDK UGET today||The COMEDK UGET will be held across the country on Wednesday.The test, which is the gateway to undergraduate engineering courses in private colleges in Karnataka and select universities in the country, was rescheduled on account of the pandemic. A total of 61,290 students are expected to take it. On Monday, the government announced that the results of the Common Entrance Test will be declared on August 20. A COMEDK release said that it will be a computer-based examination, which will be held at 259 test centres in 160 cities in two shifts. The first shift will begin at 9 a.m. and end at noon. The second shift will begin at 2.30 p.m. and end at 5.30 p.m. The revised date for the exam was notified on July 24. Students have been asked to reach the exam centre as per the reporting time sent via SMS one day prior to exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/comedk-uget-today/article32389262.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State on plea against order on fixed-term workmen||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition questioning the extension of flexible hiring facility under the ‘fixed-term workmen’ (FTW) policy to all industries. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on the petition, filed by Karnataka Industrial and Other Establishments’ Employees Federation. While declining the plea of the petitioner to stay the operation of the amended order at this stage, the Bench said it would consider the plea after the government files its response. The federation had questioned the legality of the notification, issued by the State government on June 30, making changes to the Karnataka Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961, to expand the FTW facility to all industries. Earlier, it was available only for the apparel manufacturing sector in the State. It was alleged in the petition that the changes were made unilaterally, without consulting labour unions amid the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the petitioners, the State government had called for responses way back in November 2019 and the unions had submitted their objections, but the order was then unilaterally notified without holding consultations. Employment under the FTW category allows flexibility for industries to hire and fire employees easily. It is seen as more flexible than the contract system, as it enables industries to hire people when a necessary arises and terminate their services when the necessity ceases to exist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-state-on-plea-against-order-on-fixed-term-workmen/article32389257.ece
19 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||PAC: Book liquor shops for sales during lockdown||Liquor shops in the State which resorted to illegal sales during the lockdown period will now face the music. The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the State legislature on Tuesday directed the Finance Department to book criminal cases against liquor shops if there was a difference in quantum of their stocks between the commencement and end of lockdown. “If there is a difference in the liquor stock, it should be considered as illegal business,” the committee observed. PAC chairman H.K. Patil said members cutting across party affiliations had expressed concern that illegal liquor business had taken place during the lockdown. The committee members also took Excise Department officials to task for not being able to provide adequate information on various aspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pac-book-liquor-shops-for-sales-during-lockdown/article32389259.ece
19 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Aid sought for coffee growers||Tourism Minister C.T. Ravi, who is also in charge of Chikkamagaluru district, has appealed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to provide financial relief to coffee planters in the district who are reeling because of various reasons, including the vagaries of monsoon and COVID-19. In a memorandum submitted to the Union Minister in Delhi on Tuesday, Mr. Ravi also appealed to her to declare a one-year moratorium on repayment of short-term loans and developmental loans taken by coffee growers of the district with effect from April 1. He also called for restructuring of the principal amount and unpaid interest on short-term crop loans, term loans and other agricultural loans by consolidating them into a single loan account and providing easy instalment. Another demand is enhancing the limit on short-term loans by 25% to increase the working capital.Mr. Ravi appealed for income tax relief for coffee growers, besides increasing the export incentive from 3% to 5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aid-sought-for-coffee-growers/article32389260.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Allegations after death of newborn||A newborn’s father and his advocate have alleged that the mother’s family, after failing to abort a pregnancy, tried to dispose of the infant. The child, which was born out of wedlock, died on Tuesday evening. M.N. Anucheth, DCP (Central), said the police would file a report of Unnatural Death Registry and probe the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allegations-after-death-of-newborn/article32389244.ece
19 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||New administrator||In the wake of the postponement of elections to all cooperative organisations and banks in the State on account of COVID-19, the government has appointed K.M. Asha, Additional Registrar of the Cooperative Department, as administrator to Karnataka State Cooperative Federation Ltd. The term of the administrative board of the federation endedon Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-administrator/article32389258.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Links with terror suspects?||Sleuths from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) probing the D.J. Halli violence, who are tracking down mobile numbers active at the place, suspect that some who were present at the scene of violence had links with accused in previous terror cases. A senior official said that they may have had contacts with accused in the Malleswaram blast of 2013, Church Street blast of 2014, and Rudresh murder case of 2016. “These contacts seem to be very old and we do not know what was the nature of these contacts. That is part of the investigation now,” the officer added. He admitted, however, that the accused in the three cases belong to unrelated modules. The technical investigation is cross-checking all numbers at the spot, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/links-with-terror-suspects/article32389251.ece
19 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||GI tag handloom products soon under Priyadarshini brand||Chairman of Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation (KHDC) Siddu Savadi has said that soon handloom products with GI tag would be launched under the Priyadarshini brand of the KHDC. Speaking to presspersons after assuming charge in the presence of Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar and MLA Arvind Bellad at the KHDC office in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Savadi said that already Rs. 2 crore had been set aside in the 2020-21 budget for the expansion of the market for products with GI (Geographical Index) tag. Mr. Savadi said that the Priyadarshini outlets in major cities and towns of the State would be upgraded. Silk handloom products being manufactured in Anekal, Tiptur, Kollegal, Molakalmur, Chintamani and other places are now being sold through the Priyadarshini outlets. “Priyadarshini now does an annual turnover of Rs. 10 crore. We have already entered into agreements with Amazon and Flipkart for selling KHDC products on online platforms,” he said. Mr. Savadi said that of the 9,000 weavers who had registered with the KHDC, 6,000 were active. There were 5,183 handlooms active in Banahatti, Rabakavi, Ramdurg, Ilkal, Ranebennur, Kalaburagi, Gadag, Betageri, Molakalmur and Mangaluru. During the pandemic handlooms under KHDC had produced eight lakh metres of cloth, he said. He said that the Department of Public Instruction was yet to pay Rs. 21 crore to KHDC towards pending bills. Mr. Savadi said that the corporation was under cumulative loss of Rs. 155 crore for several years and the government would be urged to extend the necessary financial assistance to overcome the situation. Mr. Jagadish Shettar said that the government had given exemption to several departments to procure products directly from KHDC, which had helped it a great deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gi-tag-handloom-products-soon-under-priyadarshini-brand/article32389417.ece
19 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Several major railway works completed||Making good use of the suspension of normal passenger services, the Hubballi Division of the South Western Railway has taken up several major infrastructure development works, including track doubling and station development, Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division Arvind Malkhede has said. Addressing a press conference, along with Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railway E. Vijaya, through a video link on Tuesday, Mr. Malkhede said that track doubling on a 16.39-km stretch between Unkal-Dharwad would be completed by September. “Similarly, work on track doubling from Gadag to Hole Alur is expected to be completed by January 2021 and track doubling between Chikkodi Road-Kudachi is likely to be completed by December this year,” he said. Mr. Malkhede said that station buildings at Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Dharwad, Belagavi, Hosapete stations had been reconstructed. New goods sheds were being developed at Khajjidoni, Navanagar in Bagalkot and Aliyabad in Vijayapura. This apart, electrification work between Kariganur-Harlapur had been completed. He said that remodelling work at Hosapete, a major yard for train operations, had been completed. “Another major work completed by Hubballi Division during COVID-19 lockdown is the Kudgi Canal Crossing work of Krishna Bhagya Jal Nigam Ltd. Lachyan-Hotgi (33 km) track doubling, including the 670-m-long Bhima Bridge, and a 28-km new line between Gangavati and Karatagi have also been completed,” he said.  Mr. Malkhede said that the Business Development Unit set up in the division had been able to bring in additional freight by approaching clients directly and through video conference. Now, the division had additional freight in the form of bauxite, metallurgical coke, fly ash, pig iron and rice. Freight customers were also being offered discounts, he added. To a query on the utilisation of coaches converted into isolation wards, Mr. Malkhede said that they would be provided upon request from the State government and the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/several-major-railway-works-completed/article32389419.ece
19 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BRIMS nurses stage protest||Staff nurses working at the Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences (BRIMS) on Tuesday staged a protest outside the hospital with black bands on their arms demanding that the State government increase their salaries by 50 %. BRIMS Nurses Association president B. Prakash in a letter addressed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa stated that the association welcomed the State government’s decision of increasing stipends for resident doctors and Rs. 10,000 incentive for Group D employees in hospitals, but this has not been done for nurses, though it was a long-pending demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/brims-nurses-stage-protest/article32389415.ece
19 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE online entrance examinations conclude||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) has concluded live remote proctorin of its annual entrance exams — MET 2000 for undergraduate and Ph.D courses in collaboration with MeritTrac Services between August 1 and August 13. A release from MeritTrac here said that close to one lakh exams were remotely proctored live without any disturbances. Amid many universities planning to cancel or postpone exams, MAHE decided to hold entrance exams for the new academic year. Mock tests were conducted to help students get accustomed to the digital interface. A helpdesk number too was shared with candidates for any-time support. MAHE Registrar Narayana Sabhahit said that the (deemed to be) university saw no reason to cancel exams with the availability of the latest technology and tools. The entire process was meticulously designed, planned and executed without any interruptions. Besides the advanced AI-based tools, it was the exceptional quality of proctoring professionals who made the exams a success. MeritTrac’s large pool of professionally trained, seasoned proctors have hands-on training and in-depth expertise in the online examination and proctoring process. Administrators were assigned to manage the proctors, oversee the entire examination process and provide continuous updates to the MAHE leadership team. AI/ML-based remote proctoring tools were used to help combat issues such as duplication and impersonation. Features such as blocking virtual access, disabling Bluetooth devices, checking and disabling toggling of browsers or screens during the exam, monitoring consistency of face, eye movement, voice and background noise, webcam recordings, audio-video analytics ensured that the entire proctoring process was precise, accurate and secure. MeritTrack Services CEO Ambrish Sinha said that digital exams helped MeritTrac to manage student experience and learning outcomes during the pandemic. MeritTrac believes that remote and online proctoring would be used extensively in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahe-online-entrance-examinations-conclude/article32389422.ece
19 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||TAPMI begins online classes||The academic year 2020-22 of T.A. Pai Management Institute (TAPMI), Manipal, began on Monday with the commencement of online classes for 555 students of two-year post-graduate diploma in management (PGDM) programme. “The classes began through Webex platforms. Classrooms equipped with 14 interactive digital panels, e-books on Kindle platforms and unlimited Cloud space are enabling the institute seamlessly to transition to new ways of teaching and learning,” director of the institute Madhu Veeraraghavan said in a release. The batch comprises 394 students in the core PGDM programme, 60 students in the Banking and Financial Services programme (BKFS), 45 students in the Human Resources Management (HRM) programme and 56 in the Marketing programme, the release said. “This year’s admission process was as competitive as in the earlier years — about one out of 16 applicants made it to the core PGDM programme, 18 in the case of the BKFS programme and 22 in the case of the HRM and the Marketing programmes,” he said. The 555-member batch with an average CAT/XAT score at 87 percentile has students from diverse educational backgrounds (35 % non-engineers) with representation from 24 States. The percentage of female students is 31, the release said. All the new batches had been e-inducted into the institute last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tapmi-begins-online-classes/article32389426.ece
19 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bodies of 4 fishermen found||The bodies of all four fishermen who went missing after their boat capsized in the rough sea near Byndoor in Udupi have been found. Manjunath Kharvi, 38, Laxman Kharvi, 34, Shekar Kharvi, 35, and Naga Kharvi, 55, were among the batch of 24 who had gone for fishing in two traditional fishing boats from Koderi fishing harbour in Byndoor taluk. One on the two boats capsized at the mouth of the breakwater where Yedamavinahole joins the sea on Sunday afternoon. Eight fishermen swam to safety while four went missing. A team of Coastal Security Police (CSP) personnel, including CSP Inspector Sandeep, revenue personnel and local fishermen, carried out the search operation. The team first found the body of Naga Kharvi near the sea shore. Subsequently, they found the bodies of Shekar and Laxman. Late on Monday night, the body of Manjunath was found 1 km south of Koderi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bodies-of-4-fishermen-found/article32389261.ece
19 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MLA for enhanced relief for families of dead fishermen||Byndoor MLA B.M. Sukumar Shetty on Tuesday said that he will try to get more compensation to the families of the four fishermen who drowned in the Arabian Sea after their boat capsized on Sunday. Mr. Shetty told reporters at Byndoor in Udupi district that the Union government would provide Rs. 2 lakh compensation and the State government would pay Rs. 6 lakh compensation each under NDRF to the next of the deceased. Meanwhile, the body of the fourth missing fisherman Manjunath Kharvi was found late on Monday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-for-enhanced-relief-for-families-of-dead-fishermen/article32389427.ece
19 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||PM to virtually speak to two Mysuru civic workers||Two pourakarmikas from Mysuru are in the spotlight as they will be the only two among their fraternity from South India with whom Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to interact on a virtual platform on Thursday, on the occasion of the announcement of Swachch Survekshan-2020 results. Nanjundaswamy and Manjula, the civic workers employed with the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), have been chosen among the 10 shortlisted sanitation workers for the interactive session. The fact that they have a working knowledge of Hindi also weighed in their favour, say authorities. Arrangements are being made for the virtual interaction in the backdrop of Mysuru palace, the city’s prime landmark. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde told The Hindu that Mysuru is among four districts in the country selected by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, from where the stakeholders had been chosen for the interaction. The two would be representing the whole of South India since only Mysuru has got this opportunity. The two civic workers were shortlisted since they were familiar with basic Hindi. “We wanted our participants to freely interact instead of arranging a translator for them. They know basic Hindi. Moreover, they have been in the profession for a long time and can share their experiences better.” Mr. Nanjundaswamy, who recently recovered from COVID-19, said he was excited as he had never imagined that he would be speaking to the Prime Minister. “The initial fears and how we overcame the scare of COVID-19 in discharging our daily work as warriors with safety precautions will be explained if given a chance,” he said. Mr. Nanjundaswamy’s mother was a pourakarmika who died while in service. Ms. Manjula’s family has four pourakarmikas, with her three sons taking up the job like her with the MCC. She has been in this profession for 22 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-to-virtually-speak-to-two-mysuru-civic-workers/article32389250.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tenders for sweeping machines under review||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Tuesday announced that he would review and cancel the short-term tenders for sweeping machines after several councillors, mainly from the ruling BJP, alleged a scam in their procurement and operations, Raising the issue in the council on Tuesday, ruling party leader Muneendra Kumar alleged that the civic body had once again floated short-term tenders for procurement of 25 truck-mounted sweeping machines for an estimated Rs. 227 crore, despite several complaints that none of the existing machines were working properly. Govindarajanagar councillor Umesh Shetty claimed that none of the guidelines were being followed. As per guidelines, each of the 27 sweeping machines should sweep 40 km of arterial and sub-arterial roads. Not even 20 km was being swept, he and several other councillors claimed. Manjunath Raju, chairperson of the Standing Committee for Health, suggested that the BBMP invest in self-propelled sweeping machines instead. Former mayor B.N. Manjunath Reddy said the BBMP had earlier procured 70-odd compactors, of which just around 35 were working. “Many have become scrap. Given the current circumstances, we don’t need this tender,” he said. This alleged scam closely follows allegations of another scam in barricading of containment zones. Mr. Prasad admitted that the civic body had spent around Rs. 20 crore in barricading areas where COVID-19 positive cases were reported. A report has now been sought from all zonal chief engineers on the spend on barricading containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tenders-for-sweeping-machines-under-review/article32389246.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘No illegality in guidelines on selecting KSPCB chairperson’||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday found no illegality in the Government Order of prescribing guidelines issued by the State for selection of persons for nomination as chairperson of KSPCB. “Nothing in the Statute that the search and the selection committee cannot be the same. Per se there is no illegality in the guidelines issued by the State government,” the court observed. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order while disposing of a PIL petition filed by Geetha Misra. The petitioner had questioned the guidelines contending that the same committee cannot undertake the process of both search and selection. The guidelines were issued based on a judgment of the Supreme Court, which had directed all the States to frame norms for selection of eligible persons as per the qualifications prescribed under the Water Act. The search-cum-selection committee is headed by the Chief Minister and comprises the Minister for Forest and Ecology, and the Chief Secretary. As the guidelines refer to both the judgment of the Supreme Court as well as the qualifications prescribed for the post of chairperson of the KSPCB, the bench said any public spirited persons can question nomination of a person to the post of chairperson of the KSPCB if the committee chooses a person not having the required qualifications as per the law.  Nothing in the Statute that the search and the selection committee cannot be the same   High Court observation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-illegality-in-guidelines-on-selecting-kspcb-chairperson/article32389239.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bus stop gets a burial||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-stop-gets-a-burial/article32389243.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rain fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-fury/article32389425.ece
19 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||126 cases in Alappuzha, curbs in more areas||The COVID-19 pandemic is showing no signs of slowing down in the district with 126 people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. Local transmission cases continue to rise at an alarming rate as 117 patients out of the 126 contracted the disease through contact. The rest nine cases include six who came from other States and three from abroad. Details of contact cases Of the contact cases, Thumpoly in Alappuzha municipality and Kadakarappally—both large COVID-19 clusters—logged 56 and 28 cases respectively. The rest of the contact cases were reported from Panavally (10), Alappuzha (6), Cherthala South (3), Thrikkunnapuzha (2), Thaikkattussery (2), Vallikunnam (2), Thamarakulam (2) and one case each from Karuvatta, Keerikkad, Cheravally, Chengannur, Chunakara and Thuravoor. Both the Thumpoly and Kadakkarappally clusters are turning out to be a cause for concern. According to officials, Thumpoly so far registered 143 cases, while 202 cases were reported from Kadakkarappally. However, the spread of the disease in five other large COVID-19 clusters in the district—Kayamkulam municipality, Chettikkad, Vettakkal, Pallithode and Punnapra North—seems to have been brought under control. Meanwhile, 65 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,465. Wards 26 and 38 (Muttathiparambu and Palachuvadu areas) in Alappuzha municipality, wards 8, 9 and 11 in Kandalloor, wards 3 and 9 in Thrikkunnapuzha, ward 13 in Pandanad, ward 3 in Mannar, and parts of ward 7 in Mannacherry grama panchayat, were declared containment zones.  The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,465.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/126-cases-in-alappuzha-curbs-in-more-areas/article32389587.ece
19 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||16.5 litres of IMFL seized||Excise Department sleuths led by preventive officer Roy Jacob seized 16.5 litres of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from a house at Aryad on Tuesday. Officials said a case was registered against Vintumon, 34, in connection with the seizure. “We seized IMFL kept in 33 bottles. They were meant for sale,” said an excise official. The Excise Department has intensified raids to prevent brewing and sale of illicit liquor and drug trafficking during Onam season. The public can pass on information about the illegal activities in Ambalappuzha taluk to Excise Department by contacting 94000 69498/ 0477-2230182.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/165-litres-of-imfl-seized/article32389588.ece
19 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Three more bodies recovered at Pettimudy||With the recovery of three more bodies, the death toll in the Pettimudy landslip rose to 61 on Tuesday. Nine persons are still missing. Two of the bodies were identified as that of Aswinraj and his grandfather Anandaselvam. The body of the third person is yet to be identified. Close to river The bodies were recovered from close to the river where the search operation was being concentrated for the past few days. It was believed that more bodies were washed away in the flash flood and chances of them in the river or riverside were high, those in the search team said. Tribal youths The services of tribal youths were also used in the search operations. The estate area, where debris from the landslip had accumulated, was searched using scanners. Devikulam Subcollector S. Premkrishnan said ground penetrating radar was used to search the area. The radar team marked three spots at the site and the area would be searched on Wednesday. Signals He said radar signals could reach over six ft in the debris. The Eravikulam National Park had lost three staff members in the landslip. Officials on Tuesday handed over financial aid to the relatives of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-bodies-recovered-at-pettimudy/article32389589.ece
19 August 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Child falls into bucket, dies||A one-and-a-half-year-old boy died after falling into a bucket full of water in Kannur district on Tuesday. The deceased child was identified as Yashwin, the son of Jitesh and Jincy, of Meethalepunnadu in Iritty. Though he was rushed to a private hospital, the boy failed to respond to the treatment and died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-falls-into-bucket-dies/article32389484.ece
19 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Highest single-day spike in district||In the highest single-day spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam so far, 192 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Two people, a 73-year-old from Vennala and a 67-year-old from Kothamangalam, succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. They were being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, and both of them had co-morbidities, according to a release issued by the hospital. Their swabs have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha, for confirmation of COVID-19 death. Mayor Soumini Jain and Corporation Secretary R. Rahul will remain in self-quarantine for seven days, after a Kochi Corporation councillor tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. The councillor had visited the corporation office to get files cleared on Monday, placing the Mayor and other officials at the corporation, including the Secretary, on his primary contact list. “The list of his contacts is being prepared. But everybody who has come in contact with him at the corporation main office on Monday has been advised to go into quarantine,” the Mayor said. The councillor had been in quarantine for 14 days, and it was after the quarantine period that he visited the office and later tested positive, the Mayor said. A steering committee meeting was held at the corporation on Tuesday, but it was unclear whether those who attended the meeting and came in contact with the Mayor would also have to remain in quarantine, said Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar. Eleven personnel of the Navy tested positive for the virus and are being treated at INHS Sanjivani, said Dr. S. Sreedevi, Additional District Medical Officer. Four health workers — one health worker each at the Government MCH at Kalamassery, the Community Health Centre at Kumbalangi, the Primary Health Centre at Kanjoor and the Ernakulam General Hospital — have been infected. COVID-19 cases are now scattered across over 40 areas in the district. About 25 people from West Kochi, including Mattancherry, Fort Kochi, Palluruthy and Thoppumpady, have tested positive. From other parts of the Kochi Corporation, positive cases were reported from Vyttila, Kadavanthra, Kaloor, Vennala and Chalikkavattom. Eight people from the Ayavana panchayat area, which has seen a spurt in cases recently, have been infected. People continue to test positive from areas that were part of clusters, like Aluva, Chengamanad, Chellanam, Choornikkara, Edathala, Karumaloor and Kadungalloor. People have also tested positive from other areas like Kadamakudy, Kalamassery, Cheranalloor, Thripunithura, Udayamperoor, Vengola, Kumbalangi, Kumbalam, Kunnathunad and Angamaly. Seven people who arrived from outside the State, including three members of the Lakshadweep unit of the India Reserve Battalion, have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/highest-single-day-spike-in-district/article32389492.ece
19 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||ED disputes Swapna’s claim about locker||Swapna Suresh and the other accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case kept the proceeds of the crime in a bank locker, which was jointly opened with a third person as instructed by M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary of the Chief Minister, according to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The money and gold seized from the bank locker of the accused were inconsistent with her statement and the timeline and the purpose of operations of the bank locker do not match with the contents of the locker. The amount and the gold kept in the locker were the proceeds of the crime. The persons who knowingly assisted her in money laundering have to be further examined in detail, the agency submitted before the trial court, while opposing the bail application of Swapna. The accused in the case have committed offences under the Money Laundering Act, it said. The agency reiterated the argument that Swapna had considerable influence in the Chief Minister’s Office and, if released on bail, she would tamper with the evidence and influence the witnesses. Her release on bail would also hinder the progress of the investigation,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-disputes-swapnas-claim-about-locker/article32389506.ece
19 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||103-year-old patient recovers||A 103-year-old COVID-19 patient who was being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, has successfully fought the disease. Workers at the hospital gave the Aluva native a celebratory send-off after his discharge on Tuesday. On suffering from fever, he was tested for the virus and shifted to the hospital on July 28. He recovered 20 days later. Though he did not have any serious symptoms, a special medical team took care of him considering his age. His wife and son also received treatment at the hospital. Of the nearly 1,000 patients that the MCH has treated, the 103-year-old was the oldest. Health Minister K. K. Shailaja said in a press release that the 103-year-old’s recovery from the disease pointed to the quality of treatment he received in the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/103-year-old-patient-recovers/article32389487.ece
19 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Business establishments doing their bit to support contact-tracing||Registers that are being maintained by shops, hotels, supermarkets and salons in the city could prove useful while tracing contacts of people who test positive, making public participation an integral part of the COVID-19 fight. “Before the entire West Kochi area was declared a containment zone and tracing contacts of those patients who had visited shops, it was useful to have these registers with names and contact numbers,” said Sajini, a junior public health nurse. “In situations where people are hesitant about revealing where they went or who they were in contact with, the police usually get involved to trace calls or inspect such registers for information,” said Sreerekha, another junior public health nurse who has been involved with the contact-tracing process in West Kochi. Several establishments, ranging from larger supermarkets to small shops and salons, have been maintaining registers. Veni, who runs an electrical equipment and hardware store in Thykoodam, said that she collects contact details and names of people who visit, though she had received no specific directions to do so and no inspections were conducted. A rope tied a little distance away from the cash counter ensures that customers maintain distance from the counter. Sujith, who runs a salon in the area, said that the 10 to 15 customers he gets everyday are people he knows, and would be easy to trace. Regular inspections are conducted even in hotels to make sure that all COVID-19 protocol, including the collection of such details of customers, is followed, said a health inspector of the Kochi Corporation. “The data is not collected unless necessary for contact-tracing. But the register is maintained as a precautionary measure,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/business-establishments-doing-their-bit-to-support-contact-tracing/article32389490.ece
19 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Stone-laying for NH 66 widening gets under way||Laying of stones to mark the boundaries of the National Highway 66 stretch between Edappally and Moothakunnam that’s being widened has begun. District Collector S. Suhas held discussions with members of the National Highways Authority of India on the widening on Tuesday. Stone-laying over a distance of two kilometres from Moothakunnam was completed on Tuesday itself. The highway, with a width of just 10 metres, is being extended by 7.5 metres on either side. Stone-laying is expected to be over in two weeks, following which construction works will get under way. A press release on Tuesday said the widening process was delayed due to the pandemic situation. Meanwhile, the National Highway Joint Protest Committee has decried the move, saying survey for land acquisition and eviction should not have begun when people were battling a pandemic in the district. “Several villages along the stretch being widened are COVID containment zones and people have lost jobs, income and livelihoods. The widening has added to their anxiety, which can lead to unspeakable disasters,” a statement issued by Hashim Chennampilly and K.V. Sathyan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stone-laying-for-nh-66-widening-gets-under-way/article32389491.ece
19 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Strict curbs to be in place for Onam season||Strict regulations will be enforced in the district to check the spread of COVID-19 during this Onam season. A district-level COVID review meeting chaired by Collector S. Suhas on Tuesday took a decision in this regard. The meeting also decided to close down the Kothamangalam market on account of increase in the spread of the disease. More tests will be conducted in the area. Markets to function Aluva market will be opened on Thursday with restrictions. The market will be disinfected on Wednesday. Similarly, Champakkara market will also be opened this week with restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-curbs-to-be-in-place-for-onam-season/article32389488.ece
19 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New deputy chairman for Cochin Port||Cyril C. George has assumed charge as as deputy chairman of Cochin Port Trust. He was working as deputy chairman of Chennai Port. Mr. George, a native of Thodupuzha, started his career as Labour Officer in Kandla Port in 1987 and has earlier functioned as secretary of Cochin Port during which time he was involved in the development of ICTT, Vallarpadam, and Petronet LNG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-deputy-chairman-for-cochin-port/article32389489.ece
19 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||With 88 more testing positive, Kollam’s active cases at 657||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 657 on Tuesday with 88 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. It includes 86 contact cases and two others who had travelled from Oman and Punjab. Among them are 24 cases connected to a funeral at Nilamel, nine persons who attended a wedding at Pathanampuram, and six residents of a children’s home. Though the new clusters are a matter of concern, the situation in the district is still under control. “It has been instructed to avoid weddings in containment zones and limit the number of attendees in general. All children from the home will be tested and the department will provide all the psychosocial support,” said Dr R. Sandhya, Deputy DMO. Kollam district currently has 8,537 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 37,617. While 430 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 9,465 primary and 2,487 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. The district also reported 54 recoveries. Restrictions Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has directed imposition of micro-level restrictions in the district. “Taking into account the Onam rush, shops may be allowed to function till 9 p.m. but more than five customers will not be permitted at a time. Shop owners should follow the instructions. Arrangements should be made to open some shops at containment zones,” she said. While NHM project manager has been directed to post more doctors and nurses from private hospitals at COVID-19 treatment centres in consultation with IMA, coastal belt in the district will remain under close surveillance. More restrictions will be introduced in areas including Kadavoor, Mathilil and Anchalumoodu. Bystanders of a person who was undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, and a bank appraiser had caused some contact cases. The department is currently tracing their contact history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-88-more-testing-positive-kollams-active-cases-at-657/article32389590.ece
19 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||93 new cases in Kottayam||Even as authorities are considering a strategy shift to contain the COVID-19 spread, the number of new cases continued to rise in the district with 93 persons testing positive for SARS-Cov-2 on Tuesday. While 86 persons contracted the virus through contact, seven, who had landed from abroad, and two from other States also tested positive. Kottayam municipality led the tally of contact cases for the third consecutive day with 10 persons testing positive on the day. 49 recoveries The cases are also going high at Chempu and Panachikkad panchayats, which reported eight cases each while Vechoor and Kurichy reported seven cases each. Meanwhile, 49 persons were discharged from various treatment centres. Kottayam currently has 708 active cases and 9,377 persons under surveillance. In view of the rapid surge in cases, the health authorities are now looking to initiate reverse quarantine strategy for the vulnerable sections. As part of it, the district health wing has begun antigen testing at old-age homes in the district. As many as 1,600 aged persons are estimated to have housed in nearly 75 old-age home in the district. Though around 300 of them were subjected to antigen tests so far, no positive case has been detected so far. A total of 551 persons tested positive for the virus in the last seven days at a test positivity rate of 4.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/93-new-cases-in-kottayam/article32389592.ece
19 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU among top 25 in Atal rankings||Adding yet another feather in its cap, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, has become the only university from the State to be included among the top 25 educational institutions in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020. The university has been included in the category of government or government-aided universities for fostering innovation, innovation, and entrepreneurship. Other institutions The National Institute of Technology, Calicut, secured the eighth rank in the category of National Importance Institutions. The Indian Institute of Management in Kozhikode and Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology in Thiruvananthapuram also made it to the top 25. The ARIIA is an initiative of the Ministry of Education to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in the country on indicators related to Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development. The rankings of top 50 institutions were prepared after evaluating the performance of 180 universities or national educational institutions in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-among-top-25-in-atal-rankings/article32389494.ece
19 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||242 more cases in Malappuram, 147 in Kozhikode||As many as 242 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Tuesday. All but 16 of them were found to have contracted the virus through local transmission. The district also recorded 194 recoveries on Tuesday. The source of infection in 11 cases could not be traced. They included six health workers, said District Medical Officer K. Sakeena. While 12 of the newly infected persons came from abroad, four came from other States. Health authorities urged people to step up vigil in the face of a continuous increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Malappuram. As many as 2,350 infected persons are currently under treatment in the district. In Palakkad Palakkad district registered 51 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. As many as 41 of them were found to have been infected through local contacts. The source of infection could not be identified in five cases. There were 82 recoveries in the district on Tuesday. The number of infected persons currently under treatment in Palakkad is 889. In Kozhikode The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode rose on Tuesday when 147 people were diagnosed with the infection. As many as 195 others have recovered from COVID-19. One death was reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. The deceased is a 54-year-old woman from Randathani in Malappuram district. She was admitted to the hospital on August 11. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 135 of the new cases are through local transmission of the infection. The number of active cases in the district is 1,330. In Kannur As many as 123 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Tuesday. The number includes 111 persons who contracted the disease through local contact, three who arrived from abroad, eight from other States and a health worker. The district recorded 58 recoveries on Tuesday. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 42 more persons tested positive on Tuesday. Of the total cases, 40 contracted the disease through contact, while one came from abroad and one from another State. Meanwhile, 127 people who tested negative after COVID-19 treatment were discharged from hospitals. In Thrissur As many as 48 COVID-19 cases and 33 recoveries were reported from Thrissur district on Tuesday. There are 612 active cases in the district. On Tuesday, 43 persons were found to have been infected through contact. The source of infection in 11 cases is not known. Six persons, including two health workers, were tested positive from Amala Hospital. A total of 8,891 people are under observation in the district. In Wayanad Wayanad reported 47 COVID-19 cases and 46 recoveries on Tuesday. The fresh cases include 44 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission. Two persons who returned from abroad and one person from Chhattisgarh have also tested positive. There are 322 active cases in the district.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/242-more-cases-in-malappuram-147-in-kozhikode/article32389483.ece
19 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||NIT-C secures 8th place in national ranking||The National Institute of Technology Calicut ( NIT-C) secured the eighth position at the national level in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovations Achievements (ARIIA) of the Ministry of Education which was released on Tuesday. The NIT-C is the only NIT among the top 10 and the only one in Kerala in all categories. “This recognition is the best parting gift for me,” NIT-C Director Sivaji Chakravorti, whose tenure ended on Tuesday, said. In this year’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), the NIT-C secured the 23rd position at the national level in the engineering colleges category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-c-secures-8th-place-in-national-ranking/article32389480.ece
19 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Caseload rises by 65 in Pathanamthitta||A day after reporting just two fresh COVID-19 cases, new virus cases in Pathanamthitta rose sharply on Tuesday with 65 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the fresh cases, 52 persons contracted the virus through local contact while seven persons returned from other States. The remaining six cases landed from abroad. As many as 11 cases were linked to the Kadambanad cluster while the COVID-19 clusters at Kannamkodu and Malayalappuzha plantation reported eight cases each. Nellad, which reported four cases during the day, has been declared a limited community cluster. At the same time, the source of infection for at least three persons is yet to be traced. Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19-related deaths in the district rose to six on Tuesday as a 47-year-old patient from Oonnukal died at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kottayam. The person was suffering from kidney-related ailments, officials said. Active cases With 18 persons being discharged from various treatment centres, the district currently has 316 active cases. The number of persons under observation stood at 8,613.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caseload-rises-by-65-in-pathanamthitta/article32389593.ece
19 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Woman held on charge of killing mother-in-law||The police here on Tuesday arrested a 24-year-old woman who allegedly stabbed to death her mother-in-law. The accused was identified as Lincy, a resident of Kombankeri, near Niranam. According to the police officers, she allegedly stabbed her 66-year-old mother-in-law, Kunjoonjamma Chacko, using a pair of scissors. Incident The incident took place late on Monday when the accused had picked up an argument with her husband. She then stabbed her mother-in-law, who attempted to mediate. Lincy’s husband who tried to intervene too sustained stab injuries.  Custody A police team, which rushed to the spot, took the accused into custody. She was later produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-on-charge-of-killing-mother-in-law/article32389591.ece
19 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital adds 489 cases||COVID-19 cases continued to mount in the district with 489 fresh ones being reported on Tuesday. Two more recent deaths in the district were also confirmed to be due to the disease, taking the official death toll to 39. The deceased include a 54-year-old Sreekaryam native who died on August 2 and a 32-year-old woman from Kollapuram in Tamil Nadu who died on August 16. While 476 people contracted the infection through local transmission, 10 health workers also have been infected. The recovery rate also remained high with 310 people testing negative for the infection. As many as 4,306 persons are currently being treated for COVID-19 in the district. Jail cluster The COVID-19 cluster at Poojappura enlarged with many cases being reported from the Central Prison and the District Jail nearby. Four prison officers attached to the Central Prison and five others, including an employee of the Central Prison Press; her husband; and the wife and child of an infected prison officer; tested positive when 106 persons underwent tests. With this, the number of those infected in the particular cluster touched 486. In the District Jail, 36 prisoners were diagnosed with COVID-19 when 130 were tested. Six prisoners tested positive over the past two days there. One more medical team has been deputed for treating COVID-19 patients at the Central Prison. Among the other clusters, new cases were reported at Balaramapuram (14), Kallikad (four) and Anchuthengu (four). District Collector Navjot Khosa has appealed to the public to exercise self-restraint during the Onam festive season. Celebrations must be confined to houses as much as possible and crowding should be avoided in shopping centres. She reviewed the COVID-19 containment action plan being implemented by the police in rural areas at a meeting held on the day. New containment zones Meanwhile, the district administration has declared new containment zones at Puravoor ward in Kizhuvilam grama panchayat and Njekkadu and Thachodu wards in Chemmaruthy grama panchayat. Anavoor, Manavari, Koranamcode, Aruviyodu, Chavadi, Kuruvadu and Kottaikal wards in Kunnathukal grama panchayat; and Idinjar ward of Peringammala grama panchayat were excluded from the list of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-adds-489-cases/article32389536.ece
19 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||e-autorickshaws launched||Mayor K. Sreekumar on Tuesday launched the first batch of electric autorickshaws bought as part of the civic body’s Smart City project. The Corporation has bought 15 e-autorickshaws costing Rs. 2.30 lakh each. The e-autorickshaws provide more mileage. For the e-autorickshaws, running cost is 80 paise a km. It will run 80 km on a single charge. Charging stations are coming up in various parts of the city. The Corporation shortlisted the beneficiaries from a list of women applicants. The vehicle will be transferred to the beneficiary’s name after one to one-and-a-half years of operation. Shared ride Mr. Sreekumar said that the Corporation planned to have a shared ride system to reduce the cost for passengers and increase profits for the drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-autorickshaws-launched/article32389539.ece
19 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police adopt participatory COVID-19 control strategy||Bringing community participation at the centre of their COVID-19 control strategy, the Kerala Police have solicited the help of local self-government institutions and other departments to contain the spread of the pandemic. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police launched the initiative on Tuesday by bringing together people from various walks of life to generate views and take stock of the existing containment measures. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran led the discussions organised through a webinar. Shashi Tharoor, MP, was critical of the manner in which curbs had been imposed on coastal areas of the district. The deployment of armed commandos would only serve to antagonise the community, he said. Sanjay Kumar Gurudin, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, said the efforts hinged on a three-point enforcement strategy that included propagating awareness, ensuring community participation and strong enforcement measures. Referring to the formation of 121 market awareness committees and other closed groups in containment zones, Mr. Gurudin called for similar participatory efforts that could elicit greater support than imposition of restrictions. ‘Role for local bodies’ Echoing the views, District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu pointed out that the pandemic could no longer be tackled by curbs enforced by the Police, Health and Revenue Departments. The role of local self-government institutions was paramount in eliciting the wholehearted support of various cross-sections. On the social stigma associated with COVID-19, Dr. Shinu said that only a handful of infected people had been able to quarantine themselves in their houses. In spite of government guidelines that permitted home isolation, many had been unable to follow suit owing to public resistance, the DMO said. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) B. Asokan, Additional Police Superintendent (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) E.S. Bijumon, Deputy Police Superintendent Pramod Kumar and chairpersons of various local bodies also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-adopt-participatory-covid-19-control-strategy/article32389534.ece
19 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sprinklr probe committee recast||The State government on Tuesday reconstituted the two-member expert committee it had announced in March to find out anomalies, if any, in the State’s deal with U.S.-based data analytics firm Sprinklr Inc. The government had contracted the firm to analyse the personal health data of citizens to predict the pattern of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Kerala. M. Sivasankar was the Principal Secretary of the IT Department when the deal with Sprinklr was formalised. He had to leave the administration under a cloud after his alleged links with the accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case emerged in public. The new committee has the former Chief of National Cybersecurity Gulshan Rai and former Civil Aviation Secretary M. Madhavan Nambiar as members. The government has appointed Mr. Rai instead of former Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Sadanandan. Mr. Sadanandan’s continuation in the inquiry panel became legally and ethically untenable after he rejoined the government post-retirement as Special Adviser to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The government has roped in Mr. Rai on the recommendation of Mr. Nambiar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sprinklr-probe-committee-recast/article32389499.ece
19 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Be more cautious, health workers told||The Health Department has asked health-care workers to be more mindful of their social interactions within the hospital and during off-duty hours and to give more focus on physical distancing and other universal safety precautions to prevent themselves from getting infected by SARS-CoV-2. In its second volume exploring the extent of COVID-19 positivity amongst health-care workers, the department says it is the carelessness in interactions and congregations outside duty hours that are probably resulting in them contracting COVID-19. Individual hospitals should bring more focus on ensuring that all safety norms, including physical distancing, frequent handwashing, and mask wearing, are followed. The new report documents the details of health workers who contracted COVID-19 in July. Lack of PPE In the first volume, the department had reported that 14% of health workers had given the history of absence of adequate PPE (personal protective equipment) while at work, lack of PPE, and reuse of PPE. The department says 441 — including 98 (22%) doctors, 148 (33%) staff nurses, 85 (19%) nursing assistants/hospital attenders, 20 (5%) field staff, 17 (4%) ASHAs, 46 (10%) paramedical staff, and 28 (6%) office staff/support staff — contracted COVID-19 during the month till July 31. Of those who contracted COVID-19, 301 (68%) were involved in direct patient care, 103 (23%) were support staff, and 37 (9%) were field staff. Thiruvananthapuram had the most number of affected (30%), followed by Kannur (21%) and Kozhikode (12%). Among the affected, 24.5% of doctors and 44.6% of the nurses were from the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/be-more-cautious-health-workers-told/article32389497.ece
19 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||An indictment of CMO: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday said the recent averments of the Enforcement Directorate probing the money laundering angle in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case in the economic offences court in Kochi was an indictment of the dubious role of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) in the multi-faceted scam. Mr. Chennithala said the agency had told the court that the accused in the case wielded outsize influence on the State government. He said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan could not absolve himself of criminal liability in the gold smuggling case. The ED had revealed that Swapna Suresh, the second accused, was part of Mr. Vijayan’s official delegation to the UAE. “Mr. Vijayan owed the public an explanation. He has to clarify in which capacity the gold smuggler had transacted business on behalf of the government. He could not shrug of responsibility by scapegoating his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-indictment-of-cmo-chennithala/article32389498.ece
19 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Magistrate visits Fort police station||The probe into the unnatural death of a habitual offender in the Fort police station gained further momentum with the visits of a judicial magistrate and the investigation team to the station on Tuesday. Magistrate Aneesa A. of the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court III, Thiruvananthapuram, recorded statements and examined documents that pertained to the death of 38-year-old Ansari of Karimadom Colony, who allegedly committed suicide late on Sunday. Meanwhile, State Police Chief Loknath Behera issued a formal order to transfer the case to the Crime Branch. The case is being investigated by Crime Branch Dy.SP K. Harikrishnan under the supervision of A. Shanavas, Superintendent of Police. The Crime Branch teamwill collect evidence on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/magistrate-visits-fort-police-station/article32389537.ece
19 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protests||The All India Federation of Electricity Employees staged protests on Tuesday as part of a nationwide protest against the Electricity Amendment Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protests/article32389540.ece
19 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar on governance||The Institute of Management in Government (IMG) is organising a webinar series on Transformation in Governance from August 25. The first in the series, the webinar will focus on e-governance and its relevance in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Heads of various departments, IT nodal officers, students and faculty are expected to participate. Registration will be through the Google Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-governance/article32389501.ece
19 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Life Mission is Pinarayi’s second Lavalin, says Behanan||The Life Mission project at Wadakkachery is the second Lavalin scam of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, United Democratic Front convener Benny Behanan has alleged. Talking to mediapersons after visiting the controversial project site on Tuesday along with a UDF team, Mr. Behanan said the Unitech company is just a shield in the deal. Reiterating the allegation of Wadakkanchery MLA Anil Akkara that Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen had received kickback in the deal, the UDF team demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the alleged scam. ‘Norms flouted’ “The Chief Minister and the Minister knew about the deal. As there are strict guidelines for receiving foreign funds, the project is a blatant violation of these guidelines,” Mr. Behanan alleged. “All recent disasters, whether it’s floods or COVID-19, have been utilised by the LDF government for indulging in corruption,” he added. The UDF alleged that there was corruption of Rs. 8 crore in the Life Mission project. Mr. Moideen had flouted all guidelines. He did not involve even elected representatives in the discussions in connection with the project, the UDF said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-mission-is-pinarayis-second-lavalin-says-behanan/article32389496.ece
19 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||BRS opens value addition centre||The Banana Research Station (BRS) at Kannara in Thrissur district, functioning under the Kerala Agricultural University, has opened a post-harvest handling and value addition centre to minimise losses of the produce and to help boost production. Minimising post-harvest loss of bananas, which provides food and nutritional security to more than 400 million people globally, was a challenge, said Dr. R.Chandra Babu, Vice-Chancellor, KAU. “The value addition technologies developed at BRS, Kannara, can mitigate this challenge. The new propagation technique and other programmes to boost productivity also augurs well for the farming fraternity,” he said. The research station has developed 100-odd products using green and ripe bananas as well as other edible parts such as the pseudo-stem, rhizome, and the male bud, which are usually wasted. About 20 products have been commercialised, produced on a large scale and marketed. The station has opened an entrepreneurship development centre with the support of ICAR – AICRP (Fruits) – SCSP scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brs-opens-value-addition-centre/article32389479.ece
19 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Mannuthy police station wins CM’s Trophy||The Mannuthy police station has been selected for the Chief Minister’s Trophy for the best police station in the State. It shared the first prize with the Pathanamthitta police station. The Pampady police station in Kottayam secured the second prize while the Thampanoor police station in Thiruvananthapuram won the third prize. The Mannuthy station was selected for the prize considering the excellence in its functioning, usage of technology, time-bound investigations, clean offices and the systematic maintenance of the station and surroundings. City Police Commissioner R. Aditya congratulated the police officers at the Mannuthy police station on their success. Earlier, the Ollur police station in the district had secured the best police station award by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mannuthy-police-station-wins-cms-trophy/article32389485.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ganesha getting ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganesha-getting-ready/article32389595.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Veggies in power corridor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veggies-in-power-corridor/article32389509.ece
19 August 2020||DOWLESWARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials on their toes as flood fury continues||East Godavari district officials are on their toes preparing themselves to meet any exigency as the water levels in the Godavari remains at dangerous level at Sir Arthur Cotton (SAC) Barrage at Dowleswaram on Tuesday. The discharge of flood water at the barrage was above 22.24 lakh cusecs, and most of it was being released into the branches of the river Godavari – Vasistha, Vynateyi and Gowthami – that would expect to inundate more number of habitations. In an official communication to the officials who are on the flood duty, the authorities have stated that Polavaram project officials were getting the flood bank strengthened. The revenue and irrigation officials are arranging a huge number of sand bags by procuring sand from the stock points to plug the breaches developed along the bund of the Godavari. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya said that the flood water level in several habitations in the Devipatnam mandal was between 7 and 12 feet on Tuesday. Medical teams deployed “The flood level is expected to come down in the next 72 hours. As many as 32 medical teams have been deployed across Devipatnam mandal to,” added Mr. Adithya. At least four teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been posted in Devipatnam mandal to help the officials carry out the rescue operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-on-their-toes-as-flood-fury-continues/article32389630.ece
19 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flue Cured Virginia tobacco crop size cut to 115 million kg||Faced with uncertainty over Flue Cured Virginia Tobacco exports since the outbreak of COVID-19 and lack of support from trade, the Tobacco Board has drastically reduced the annual crop size to 115 million kg this year. The decision to reduce the crop size by 21 million kg was taken at the 152nd special board meeting held at Tobacco Board’s head office here on Monday through video-conference. Presiding over the meeting, board Chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu, said the decision was taken in the interest of the farmers. ‘Traders backed out’ The tobacco sector is in a state of crisis and since the traders have not raised the indent beyond 115 million kg, the board was forced to reduce the crop size, the lowest in a decade, he said. Sources said the traders gave an initial indent of 113.5 million kg and later revised it to 115 million kg. This could mean a severe blow for many farmers in the SLS/SBS areas in Prakasam district. Even in the year 2020, the traders refused to bail out the farmers by offering better prices for low and medium grade varieties, forcing the government of Andhra Pradesh to intervene and procure the produce directly from the farmers. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy had pressed Markfed to procure tobacco. Sources in the board said the government is now considering controlling the auctions and put pressure on trade to bail out the farmers. “Leading tobacco firms have profited immensely and have forayed into consumer products. Their apathy at time of distress is appalling and we will soon look into this,’’ said a CMO official. BJP MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, ED R Muthuraj, Director, Department of Ccommerce, Neetika Bansal, and traders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flue-cured-virginia-tobacco-crop-size-cut-to-115-million-kg/article32389628.ece
19 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA in a fix over water project||The ruling YSR Congress Party has found itself in the midst of a controversy over the release of funds for an irrigation project which the TDP alleges has already been completed. The government had released Rs. 15 crore for the Veligallu project in Rayachoti constituency, but the TDP claimed that the work for which the money was sanctioned has already been completed and bills cleared for the same. The opposition party was quick to corner the ruling party and its local legislator Gadikota Srikanth Reddy, who also happens to be the ruling party’s chief whip in the State Assembly. The Veligallu project is aimed at storing 4.6 tmc of water to irrigate 24,000 acres in Lakkireddipalli, Ramapuram, Galiveedu and part of Rayachoti rural mandals. The proposal gained momentum and secured the nod of the government in 1993 when the erstwhile TDP district president R. Rajagopal Reddy was MLA. The project continued to make progress under different regimes and tenders were called for digging canals, sub-canals, distributaries and feeder channels under the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy government in 2004. “Bills were settled with the company that executed the project, though work to the tune of Rs. 9 crore was not completed. Now, the present government has sanctioned Rs. 15 crore for the same,” TDP Kadapa district president R. Sreenivasa Reddy told reporters here on Tuesday. Mr. Sreenivasa Reddy, son of the late Rajagopal Reddy, accused Mr. Srikanth Reddy of being ‘hand in glove’ with the executing company and also flayed the officials alleging that they were party to the ‘misappropriation’ of funds and yielding to pressure. He also alleged that there was a Vigilance report confirming corruption in the project, which he said was relegated to cold storage after the change of guard in the State. “The government has to either admit that the work component for which Rs. 9 crore was released has not been executed, which has necessitated the release of Rs. 15 crore now. If it was really executed, it should explain the need for the fresh sanction of funds,” Mr. Sreenivasa Reddy said. The TDP leader said that even as the arid southern Kadapa mandals were reeling under perennial drought, the government was trying to make money out of the situation. He said the sanction of Rs. 15 crore was an avoidable drain on the State exchequer and demanded a reply from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-in-a-fix-over-water-project/article32389192.ece
19 August 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fall in positivity rate good, but more testing needed’||With the test positivity rate coming down from August 10, Kurnool District Collector G. Veerapandian on Tuesday has asked the medical officers to test more number of people and isolate the symptomatic in COVID Care Centres and ensure that death rate does not increase. There were 830 new cases in Kurnool district and 443 in Anantapur district as of Tuesday morning, with nine deaths recorded in both the districts taking the toll to 238 and 306. Compared to the national and State’s average of 1.93% and 0.92% respectively, the average death rate in Anantapur was 0.78% and 0.87% in Kurnool district. Taking the moment to appreciate the collective hard work put in by all officials for the past five months in bringing down the incidence of new cases, the Collector, on a cautionary note, added that testing should go on an equal, if not higher, pace. Currently, the district is collecting 8,000 samples every day, which should be maintained and increased whenever possible, he said. With an increase in sample testing, test positivity might also increase, but that was not of concern as it would enable the medical staff to act faster and isolate those infected and save others, the Collector said. More number of COVID Care Centres would be opened in the smaller towns of the district based on the need, he asserted. Plasma donation In all, 64 recovered persons volunteered to donate plasma in Kurnool district and registered their names and addresses for the same. A local organisation Spandana has been raising awareness on the need for plasma donation, at the TIDCO COVID Care Centres on the Ring Road, said its director Suresh. “Our aim is to bring together at least 100 donors who would be willing to donate as and when demand comes from the Government General Hospital,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fall-in-positivity-rate-good-but-more-testing-needed/article32389184.ece
19 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Return of migrants led to spike in Prakasam, says Collector||South coastal Andhra Pradesh continued to remain under the vice-like grip of coronavirus as 18 more patients, 11 in Prakasam and 7 in Nellore district, succumbed to the disease, while over 1,000 tested positive in the last 24 hours. The toll mounted to 185 in Prakasam where 304 new cases took the cumulative tally to 12,948, while Nellore district’s tally reached 18,468 as 725 more tested positive. The toll, on the other hand, stood at 155, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Tuesday. The number of discharged persons also increased, with 910 recovering in Nellore district and 572 in Prakasam. The number of discharges outnumbered the number of newly-infected persons by about 450 giving some respite for the health authorities grappling with the problem of overflowing patients at the hospitals. Attributing the spike in positive cases to migrants returning to their native places, Prakasam District Collector P.Bhaskar here on Tuesday said the district had zero cases for three days when all those who returned from New Delhi after attending a religious congregation recovered. Stating that there was no scarcity of funds, he said oxygen facility would be provided to all the beds in the Government General Hospital. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal, who had taken the initiative to make all the police stations in the district COVID-19 protocol compliant, said the incidence of coronavirus was 6 to 7% among police personnel at the grassroots level as against 0.7% among the general population. Despite the tough situation at the ground level, the personnel were contributing their mite in the long-drawn battle against the pandemic by educating the public and strictly enforcing lockdown. The number of active cases in the two districts stood at 10,000 as about 500 persons each in the two districts on an average got infected every day. The cumulative confirmed cases touched 3,000 in Ongole with 245 fresh cases. New cases came also from the villages of Jarugumalli(34), N.G.Padu(21), Pamur(21), Kothapatnam(20), Korisapadu(15), Lingasamudram(12) and Konakanamitla(9).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/return-of-migrants-led-to-spike-in-prakasam-says-collector/article32389187.ece
19 August 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasNARSAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New moon day may add to the woes||Even as the flood level in the Godavari keeps rising, officials and residents of coastal villages have a new problem to worry about — the new moon day (amavasya) on Wednesday. On new moon day, high tides occur in the sea and water will spill over. Tides rise up to 10 to 12 feet high and flood water will not flow into the Bay of Bengal, fishermen said. “Due to gravitational pull of the moon, the sea will reamin rough and backwaters will enter the coastal villages. As there is heavy flood, backwaters may aggravate the situation,” said P. Ranga Rao, a native of Pallepalem village . As the water level crossed 61 feet in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam, many island villages in the twin Godavari districts were flooded, and officials said the situation might continue for a few days. Precautionary measure Narsapuram Sub-Collector K.S. Visnathan said people residing in Ayodhyalanka, Kanakayalanka, Peddalanka and those staying on the coast in Narasapuram mandal had been asked to evacuate . “Due to backwaters, flood severity may be more. As a precautionary measure, we appeal to the people to vacate the island villages,” he said. “The situation will aggravate if new moon occurs during floods. As there was heavy rainfall for the last few days, people staying in the downstream areas should be careful as backwaters may enter villages,” said another fisherman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-moon-day-may-add-to-the-woes/article32389640.ece
19 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete lockdown in district on Sundays||There will be complete lockdown on Sundays hereafter, according to Srikakulam Municipal Commissioner P. Nallanayya. Sale of meat, fish, vegetables and other commodities will not be allowed on Sundays when markets are generally crowded. The COVID-19 norms, including physical distancing and wearing of masks, are not being followed in markets where the virus is reportedly spreading fast. The COVID-19 cases have already crossed the 15,000-mark in the district and nearly 1,700 positive cases have been reported in Srikakulam district headquarters. As many as 10 traders have lost their lives due to coronavirus and other diseases. Shops are allowed to function between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m.. Meanwhile, Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas has asked the public to observe Ganesh festival at home. No pandals will be allowed in streets or in apartments, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-lockdown-in-district-on-sundays/article32389189.ece
19 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Microsoft teams to train volunteers||Srikakulam Joint Collector K. Srinivasulu on Tuesday said that online training programmes would be held from August 20 to September 5 for village and ward secretariat staff. “Microsoft teams are helping the district administration to ensure training for 20,000 personnel. The training in administration is compulsory as village and ward secretariats have completed one year of existence,” Mr.Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/microsoft-teams-to-train-volunteers/article32389190.ece
19 August 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scores of dead fish wash ashore at Rushikonda, Sagar Nagar beaches||The visitors at Rushikonda and Sagar Nagar beaches in the city were surprised to see thousands of dead fish lying on the shore, on Wednesday. The entire 2-km sea shore stretch from Sagar Nagar to Rushikonda was littered with dead fish and it was quite an eyesore to the visitors, with stink emanating. D.E. Babu, a senior professor from the Department of Zoology, Andhra University, said that there could be a number of reasons for this. But the primarily it could be due to depletion of oxygen in the water or growth of harmful phytoplankton. Speaking to The Hindu , he said, “During this period, especially when there is depression or monsoon, there is a possibility that healthy phytoplankton might die due to the stress condition in the water. And the depletion of phytoplankton can reduce the oxygen level in the water, which can lead to death of fish in large numbers.” But observing that the variety of dead fish are predominantly the perch fish with one or two more species in smaller quantity, he said that the second reason could be growth of harmful phytoplankton. The present condition favours the growth of harmful phytoplankton, and the fish that have died such as the perch fish inhabit the inshore water (near to coast) and feed on phytoplankton. “If they have eaten the harmful phytoplankton, which is poisonous, they might have died. Most of these fish move in schools and that is why there is mass mortality,” said Prof. Babu. Such conditions were seen earlier, and it happened about five years ago, he added. However, fishermen claimed that the fish have died due to increase in the pollution level, as effluents were being pumped into the sea unchecked and in huge quantity by chemical and pharma companies. These fish have some commercial value in the local markets and small fishermen depend on it, said a fisherman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scores-of-dead-fish-wash-ashore-at-rushikonda-sagar-nagar-beaches/article32389655.ece
19 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI donates PPE kits to Ruia hospital||In a humane gesture, State Bank of India donated 1,400 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits worth Rs. 4.76 lakh to Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Government General Hospital here on Tuesday. The donation, made under the aegis of State Bank Foundation as part of its corporate social responsibility, was personally handed over by bank Deputy General Manager (Tirupati module) S. Giridhar to hospital Superintendent K. Bharathi for use by doctors and nurses. Bank DGM (financial Inclusion and micro market) Krishna Balaji, Regional Manager Krishna Mohan, Chief Manager (HR) Ramalingeswara Rao and Public Relations Officer B. Bhaskar Reddy and Ruia Resident Medical Officer E.B. Devi were among the participants. Face shields distributed Similarly, a social organisation, Shekina Ministries, led by its founder Pastor Arul Arasu, distributed face shields to sanitary workers employed in the city’s Jeevakona, which is predominantly home to the working classes. He appreciated the frontline warriors for rendering yeoman service by risking their lives and the distribution of face shields was a small gesture to safeguard them from the impact of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sbi-donates-ppe-kits-to-ruia-hospital/article32389193.ece
19 August 2020||VELERUPADU (W. GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||15 launches permitted to operate in Godavari||About 15 launches were permitted to operate in the Godavari after a gap of 11 months to facilitate rescue and rehabilitation operations during the floods. Launches were being operated in Devipatnam, Polavaram, Velerupadu, V.R. Puram and other mandals to rescue the stranded persons. Officials were using the vessels to visit the flood-ravaged villages in East and West Godavari districts. Boat services were suspended on September 15 last year after the Vasista Punnami Royal Boat mishap off Kachuluru village. The private tourist boat carrying 76 persons capsized around 1 p.m. in the Godavari, which was in spate. Local tribal youth managed to save 25 tourists belonging to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. A team led by expert swimmer of Kakinada, Dharmadi Satyam, retrieved the mangled boat stuck at a depth of 70 feet after more than 20 days. The government had constituted a committee for drafting safety measures. Earlier, about 70 launches and a few luxury boats, including some owned by AP Tourism, were operating in the river from the boarding points located at Bhadrachalam, Papikondalu, Singanapalli, Polavaram, Pochamma Gandi temple and Devipatnam. Boat operators, who were operating from Rajamahendravaram, closed booking points after the boat tragedy and anchored the vessels at different places. Following the requisitions from the West and East Godavari district Collectors, the port authorities permitted boats and issued orders on August 14. Accordingly, sarangs started operating the vessels from Monday. Word of caution Kakinada in-charge Port Officer G.V. Raghava Rao said technical staff declared about 19 vessels fit after thorough scrutiny. “We gave temporary licences for the vessels for 45 days,” Mr. Rao said. Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana said that only launches can be operated in the Godavari, which is in spate, with expert drivers and crew. “Instructions have been given to fishermen and tribal people not to venture into the river on country boats as it is not safe,” the Sub-Collector, who is also ITDA Project Officer, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-launches-permitted-to-operate-in-godavari/article32389639.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSCHE ties up with NRDC to promote quality research||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) to promote quality research in universities and colleges in the State. Council Secretary B. Sudheer Prem Kumar said the idea was to create awareness on Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) and patent rights, conduct seminars, workshops and other academic programmes to promote entrepreneurship, innovation and start-ups among students and the faculty, and to extend support to undertake research projects in various fields of study. Thrust areas The other thrust areas would be to develop network with research institutions, industry, public and private sector undertakings, promote research as per international standards, inter-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary research involving researchers from different organisations, and to facilitate collaborative research with international organisations. He said universities and college in the State would get funding for research projects, start-up projects and patent-oriented research, besides help for commercialisation of the patents. These institutions would further be connected with the industry and business organisations from public and private sectors and national and international research organisations, he added. Established in 1953, the NRDC works with the primary objective to promote, develop and commercialise the technologies, know-how, inventions, patents and processes emanating from different national research and development institutions under the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Ministry of Science and Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsche-ties-up-with-nrdc-to-promote-quality-research/article32389631.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu demands Rs. 5,000 aid to each of the flood-hit families||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Tuesday said the YSRCP had done nothing in the last one year to safeguard the interests of the residents of villages facing submersion threat in the Polavaram and Konaseema regions, and demanded a financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to each of the affected families. Two teams, one comprising Mr. Veerraju and party State vice-president Vishnuvardhan and the other comprising MLC P.V.N. Madhav and Kisan Morcha State president V. Suryanarayana Raju, toured the Polavaram and Konaseema villages. ‘No transport facility’ Mr. Veerraju said houses, schools, temples and crops were inundated and flood water had entered the island villages as a result of increasing the height of the cofferdam.  Mr. Veerraju said residents of nearly 19 villages in the mandal and Polavaram region did not have access to any transport facility. He said the YCRCP had gone back on its promise of rehabilitating the residents of the low-lying areas. The Relief and Rehabilitation package assured by the government in the past was yet to reach the victims, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somu-demands-rs-5000-aid-to-each-of-the-flood-hit-families/article32389635.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna turns out to be the least affected dist.||As the State crossed the three lakh-mark in COVID-19 infections tally on Tuesday, it was evident the spread of infection was rapid in about five districts where more than half of the cases came from. Of the total 3.06 lakh cases, East Godavari, Kurnool, Anantapur, Guntur and Visakhapatnam together reported 1.61 lakh. Krishna district, flanked by Guntur and West Godavari having over 25,000 cases, turned out to be the least affected in terms of the number of cases while East Godavari with 42,600 cases is on the top of the list. It accounts for 14% of the total cases. Heartening trend Krishna tally now stands at the bottom of the list with just 12,760 cases, which is 4.17% of the total. It is the only district to see a rapid rise in cases in the beginning of the pandemic and see fewer cases at present. It was the second district to cross the 1,000-mark and one of the last districts to see 10,000 cases after Prakasam and Vizianagaram. Along with them, Srikakulam and Nellore were also less affected. The district’s single-day peak in infections at 440 is also the lowest single-day peak of any district so far. Krishna’s death rate is, however, the highest at 1.82% with 232 deaths, which came down from 4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-turns-out-to-be-the-least-affected-dist/article32389624.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plans for accelerating growth ready: Mekapati||Andhra Pradesh offers vast opportunities for investors in the infrastructure sector, said Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Tuesday. In an interactive session on ‘Opportunities in Infrastructure Sector in Andhra Pradesh’, jointly organised by the Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers’ Association (ICEMA) and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), the Minister said that the government had readied micro and macro level plans for accelerating growth, develop infrastructure and bring convergence. Sector-specific clusters “Plans are afoot to establish three seaports, an international airport at Bhogapuram and upgrade the existing airports at Vijayawada and Tirupati, and provide world-class infrastructure in the State. Focus is also being laid on building roads for port connectivity,” said Mr. Gautham Reddy. Referring to the Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial Corridor, he said many sector-specific industrial clusters would be created for driving growth. The new industrial policy launched recently by the government would stabilise the existing industries and help overcome the challenges due to the COVID-19 crisis, he added. President, ICEMA and Managing Director of Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited Sandeep Kumar, immediate past president Arvind K. Garg, Chairman of CII, Andhra Pradesh chapter, D. Ramakrishna and ICEMA governing council members V.G. Sakthi Kumar and D.K. Vyas participated in the discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plans-for-accelerating-growth-ready-mekapati/article32389634.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘3 world-class stadiums will come up in State’||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday said the State would get three international stadia, adding that Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would unveil the new tourism policy on August 20. He said a Buddhist museum and a meditation centre would come up at Thotlakonda in Visakhapatnam. “People would be allowed to visit tourist destinations from the first week of September. Mr. Jagan will review the tourism projects on Thursday and as part of it, will also release the new tourism policy. The department will seek his permission to complete the pending projects in PPP mode,” he said. The proposal to establish star hotels in 12 places would also be discussed at the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-world-class-stadiums-will-come-up-in-state/article32389636.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Restore power supply on a war-footing’||Minister for Energy Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has asked the officials to ensure relief works are carried out in flood-hit areas effectively so that no village is left out without power. Mr. Reddy, who took stock of the situation in the Godavari districts over phone on Tuesday, asked the officials to stay in villages till power supply was restored. The Minister said the department should swiftly restore power supply in flood-hit villages on a war footing. Energy secretary N. Srikant said the officials were taking all possible steps to restore power supply in 133 villages in both the districts. S. Nagalakshi, MD of EPDCL, said two 11 kv feeders in West Godavari district, and 916 distribution transformers (835 in East Godavari and 81 in West Godavari) were hit. The staff have restored all 11 kv feeders and 907 distribution transformers. Mr. Srikant said men and material were deployed and they were constantly coordinating with officials and staff on the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restore-power-supply-on-a-war-footing/article32389626.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Junior colleges warned against violation of norms||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has responded strongly to reports that certain junior colleges in the State are insisting students and their parents to purchase study material, guides and other material from them, as a pre-condition for admission into Intermediate courses. In a statement on Tuesday, Board Secretary V. Ramakrishna said no private unaided junior college was allowed to sell any kind of study or coaching material, notebooks, gadgets, uniforms etc. Helpline He said, if an institution was found to be violating this rule, the Board would withdraw the affiliation of the college. He also advised students and parents to lodge a complaint on e-mail IDourbieap@gmail.comor Whatsapp No. 9393282578, and action would be taken immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/junior-colleges-warned-against-violation-of-norms/article32389632.ece
19 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Realtor arrested for ‘attempt to kill’ partners||The Central Zone police arrested a realtor, B. Venugopala Reddy, who allegedly tried to kill his business partners by dousing their car and setting it ablaze, in the city on Monday. D. Gangadhar, his wife Nagavalli, and V. Sivarama Krishna Reddy suffered burns in the incident. DCP-Law and Order V. Harshavardhan Raju said Venugopala Reddy, the couple and Krishna Reddy were in real estate business a few years ago. However, they stopped the business due to losses. The accused allegedly mounted pressure on the trio several times urging them to settle the amount invested in real estate trade. On Monday, Venugopal Reddy and three partners, met at Patamata to discuss the settlement. As they were not talking on returning any amount to him, Venugopal Reddy, who brought a petrol mixed with sanitiser in a bottle, allegedly sprinkled it on the car and set it on fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/realtor-arrested-for-attempt-to-kill-partners/article32389625.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||928 new cases take tally to 26,667||After a brief lull, the district reported as many as 928 new COVID-19 cases here on Tuesday. With the new cases, the total number of cases from Visakhapatnam district has gone up to 26,667. As per the State bulletin, the district has reported most number of cases in a day after East Godavari (1,396) and Chittoor (990) districts. Five more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 185. On a positive note, as many as 718 persons have recovered from the virus. The number of recoveries also includes people being treated in home isolation apart from COVID-19 care centres and hospitals in the district. The number of active cases in the district stands at 4,781 while the number of discharged is 21,701, said the district COVID-19 bulletin released on Tuesday. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), Visakhapatnam, P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district as on Friday is 737. Among them, very active clusters are 149. The number of active and dormant clusters is 73 and 515 respectively. Already 171 clusters have been denotified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/928-new-cases-take-tally-to-26667/article32389649.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chalasani re-elected as cooperative bank chairman||Chalasani Raghavendra Rao has been unanimously re-elected as the chairman of the Visakhapatnam Cooperative Bank for the second time. A total of 21 persons were elected Directors of the bank in the Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday, according to the Election Officer P. Durga Prasada Rao. Gudivada Bhaskara Rao was elected Senior Vice Chairman and Madhavarthi Raghava Rao of Ongole as Vice Chairman of the bank. The others, who were elected as directors are: Maanam Anjaneyulu, S. Nagabushana Choudhary, A. Joseph Stalin, Namana Kamaraju, Kaki Bhavani, Rao Venkata Jagga Rao, Veeraganta Chandrasekhar, G. Janardhana Rao, Tenneti Padmavathi, Chelikani Rama Rao, Cheruvu Anjaneya Sastry, Uppalapati Parvathi Devi, K. Prasad Rao, S. Janaki Ramachandra Raju, Potluri Venkataramana Rao, Jamisetti Venkata Satyanarayana Murthy, Chinnam Koteswara Rao and Palyam Narayana Swamy. After the election, the new body elected Manam Anjaneyulu as Chairman Emeritus in recognition of his services as chairman for several years and for putting the bank on the path of progress. The bank, which had commenced its activities 105 years ago in Visakhapatnam, today has 46 branches in 13 districts of the State and another four branches in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chalasani-re-elected-as-cooperative-bank-chairman/article32389642.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Not heeding advice of locals costs youth his life||Not heeding advice of the locals proved costly to the youth who was allegedly drowned at Sariya waterfalls in Valasi village near Devarapalle in Ananthagiri mandal of Visakhapatnam district on August 16. Ever since the COVID-19 broke out, the locals have been voluntarily following lockdown. However, a large number of people have been visiting unrecognised waterfalls in the interior areas of the Agency. On August 16, the 20-year old engineering student S. Meenank from Akkayyapalem area came to Sariya along with a few other friends. According to police, a few locals requested them not to go to waterfalls. “Since the beginning of the pandemic, the locals have arranged wood blocks at some areas like tourist spots to prevent entry of outsiders. On Sunday also, they asked the youth to return due to the pandemic situation. They also informed that the Sariya waterfalls is very dangerous and number of people have drowned in the past. But the students did not listen. After sometime, the youth went to the waterfalls,” Ananthagiri Sub Inspector Sudhakar said. According to the tribals, there are many waterfalls like Sariya which was dangerous without boundary walls. Many drowned being caught in mires at these unrecognised waterfalls, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-heeding-advice-of-locals-costs-youth-his-life/article32389651.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man allegedly duped of Rs. 20 lakh||An amount of Rs. 20 lakh reportedly stolen from a person at PM Palem area here. The incident came to light after police registered a case based on a complaint lodged by the man on Monday night. According to Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP-Crimes) Venu Gopal Naidu, complainant Koteswara Rao, a resident of Visakhapatnam, was carrying Rs. 20 lakh cash with him in his car. He was headed to PM Palem to meet a real estate broker, who asked him to come to see house sites. The broker asked the complainant to take the car to his house near YSR ACA-VDCA Stadium claiming that he was sick and he would have to take some medicine. In a few minutes, the broker returned. As per the complainant, all of a sudden, a white colour car came and stopped beside them. A person came out of the car and the real estate broker took the cash bag from his car and escaped in that vehicle, the Mr. Koteswara Rao said. Police said that they are verifying CCTV footage and other facts in the case. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-allegedly-duped-of-rs-20-lakh/article32389646.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Locked house burgled at Paradesipalem||Unidentified miscreants allegedly broke into a house and made good with about Rs. 13 lakh worth property which includes gold and cash, at Paradesipalem area under PM Police Station limits, here. The incident came to light after police registered a case based on the complaint lodged by the victims on Tuesday. According to Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP-Crimes) Venu Gopal Naidu, the resident of the house who is a bishop had gone to his second house near Beach Road on August 16. But when he came back on August 17, cash and gold were missing from the house. As per his complaint, unidentified miscreants gained entry into the house and stole the property from his bedroom, by breaking open the wardrobe. CLUES team inspected the spot. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/locked-house-burgled-at-paradesipalem/article32389645.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple road sanctioned||Sri Narasimhaswamy temple road from DIET College, Bheemunipatnam, in Bheemili constituency, will be completed by utilising the sanctioned amount of Rs. 75 lakh under PRR (plain) grant, according to a G.O. on Tuesday. The Panchayat Raj and Rural Development(programs-II) Department, had sought permission from the State government for completion of the work by utilising the sanctioned amount, said Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temple-road-sanctioned/article32389643.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New CPRO takes charge||Kaushalendra Kishore Khadanga has taken over as the Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO) of East Coast Railway (ECoR) at Bhubaneswar. Prior to his assuming charge as Chief Public Relations Officer, Khadanga was posted as Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineer in Mancheswar workshop, according to a statement issued here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-cpro-takes-charge/article32389644.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto driver arrested under POCSO Act||Airport Police have registered a case under various sections of POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and arrested one Chiranjeevi, auto driver, on Tuesday, for attempting to sexually assault a minor girl, who is in her seventh class. According Airport Police Station Inspector Ilyas Mohammed, the girl lost her mother sometime ago and her father deserted her. Ever since then she was staying with her maternal aunt at her home in Gowri Nagar, a slum, under Airport PS limits. It is learnt that Chiranjeevi is a paramour of the aunt and he was visiting the house in the absence of the victim’s aunt. Taking advantage of the girl being alone, when her aunt a daily wager would go out for work, he would show her adult movies and also click her nude pictures. As per the police, the accused also tried to sexually assault the girl a couple of times. Unable to bear the harassment, the victim narrated the incident to her friend, a minor boy, who is also her neighbour. The boy in turn spoke to his parents and a few residents of the colony and approached the police and lodged a complaint. The police have registered and case and arrested the accused who will be produced before the magistrate on Wednesday. The case is being investigated by ACP Swaroopa Rani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/auto-driver-arrested-under-pocso-act/article32389653.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven arrested in land-grabbing case||The city police arrested seven persons on the charge of grabbing a piece of land near NH-16 in Isukathota under MVP Police Station limits. While five persons were arrested on Monday night, two more persons were arrested on Tuesday. According to MVP police, among the arrested, six persons are locals and the remaining person is a real estate broker from Guntur. The intruders reportedly claimed that they were from Rayalaseema region and ransacked the marble godown run by one B. Santosh, who took the land on lease from one K. Srinivasa Reddy, who claimed to be the rightful owner. The intruders also erected a board in which it was claimed that the land belongs to G. Raghavi Reddy. Meanwhile, Ms. Raghavi Reddy said that she was the rightful owner of the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-arrested-in-land-grabbing-case/article32389650.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aadhaar services launched in Agency||Aadhaar services are now within the reach of the tribal people with the first Aadhaar Centre being established at the Project Monitoring Unit of the Tribal Welfare Department at Araku Valley. The service was inaugurated by Araku MP G. Madhavi, Araku MLA Chetti Phalguna and ITDA Project Officer Venkatswar Salijula on Tuesday. The facility enables registration, change of address in Aadhaar card, uploading of photo, biometrics, name, e-mail and download of Aadhaar card. The ITDA PO said that Aadhaar centres would also be opened at Araku Valley, Paderu, Pedabayalu and Chintapalli mandal headquarters. He called upon the local people to make use of the facilities. Seeds distributed Later, seeds of mango, jamoon, custard apple and ladies finger were distributed to farmers of Sagar village of Dumbriguda mandal and Chinalabudu of Araku mandal. The seeds were procured from the Indian Institute of Horticulture, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aadhaar-services-launched-in-agency/article32389641.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.V. Kattimani appointed V-C of tribal varsity||Former Vice-Chancellor, Indira Gandhi National Tribal University (IGNTU), Amarkantak, T.V. Kattimani, has been appointed as the first Vice-Chancellor of Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh (CTUAP). Andhra University Registrar, the mentor of CTUAP, has received the orders from Deputy Secretary Bharat Bhushan Bhagat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tv-kattimani-appointed-v-c-of-tribal-varsity/article32389652.ece
19 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag boxer tipped for Dhyan Chand Award||N. Usha from the city has been recommended by Boxing Federation of India for this year’s Dhyan Chand Award. Representing India, She won two silver in the World Championship and a gold in the Asian Championship. In her career, she has won 11 international medals and 12 national medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-boxer-tipped-for-dhyan-chand-award/article32389637.ece
19 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Infections spreading due to forcible discharge of patients’||Patients being forcibly discharged from COVID-19 Hospitals and COVID Care Centres after 10 days in order to make way for new admissions is being cited as a major reason behind the spike in coronavirus cases in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. “Only patients who test negative for COVID-19 should be discharged. But here, hospital authorities are sending even those who are COVID-19-positive to their homes without further tests, advising them to remain in home quarantine. However, there is no monitoring and those patients resume moving freely after being sent home,” said a senior medical officer on condition of anonymity. Another official who The Hindu spoke to pleaded helplessness. “The virus can remain inside for another two weeks and forcible discharge can lead to health complications for the patients as well as a further spread of the virus. We are in a helpless position due to registration of new cases. We need to ensure beds for patients who are coming to the hospital in a critical condition. That is why patients with mild symptoms are being discharged after ten days,” the official said, also requesting anonymity. The total number of positive cases has already crossed 15,000 in Srikakulam district and 13,000 in Vizianagaram district. However, availability of beds in the two districts is hardly 6,000. This is said to be another reason behind the government’s decision to allow home isolation for new patients. Earlier, the government was not allowing home isolation and was testing COVID-19 patients at least three times before discharging them. Now, the situation has changed so drastically that the government has made home isolation the only option for new patients. Sources said that there is no mechanism for conducting a final round of tests for patients who are in home isolation. Lok Satta State executive president Bhisetti Babji asked the government to ensure medical kits for patients in home isolation and compulsory tests for them after 14 days of isolation. He said that the forcible discharges should be avoided from the hospitals since it would lead to spread of the disease to others within no time. “The patients whose condition is critical after discharge cannot come to government hospitals. They will be forced to depend on private hospitals by paying hefty fees. That is why the government should ensure medical tests and only patients with negative reports be discharged,” he said. ‘10-day stay enough’ Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer (in-charge) T. Balamurali Krishna on Tuesday clarified that there was no need to conduct medical tests for those who have stayed at COVID hospitals for more than ten days. “Patients who don’t have a fever continuously for three days can also be discharged as per COVID order-62. Patients who have multiple complications and are suffering from other diseases need to be discharged only after completion of final medical tests,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infections-spreading-due-to-forcible-discharge-of-patients/article32389188.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Immunity booster||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/immunity-booster/article32389657.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Elective surgery at three depts of OGH on hold since a month||Elective surgeries under three departments at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) are not being performed for nearly a month. Elective surgeries are non-emergency procedures, but the condition of patients can worsen if the health complication is left unattended. As Gandhi Hospital, another government tertiary care centre in the State, has been converted into a COVID-19 centre, thousands of non-COVID patients rely on OGH for the surgeries which are now on hold. The result? People belonging to poor backgrounds either have to wait indefinitely for the elective surgeries to resume or have to rely on the option of shelling out big bucks for private hospital treatment. “We have no other way but to note down their details, counsel them, and ask them to come after some weeks. Resolving this issue is important for the welfare of hundreds of poor patients,” sources in the hospital said. Doctors’ representation Underscoring the crucial role of OGH in this pandemic, junior doctors from the hospital have requested OGH Superintendent and senior officials of Health department to provide alternative elective operation theatres (OTs) until permanent OTs are arranged. In a representation submitted to the officials on Tuesday, they have requested for central oxygen lines, and basic resources such as roller bandages, intubation tray, more rooms for the doctors attending duties. The problem began after the 102-year in-patient (IP) block had to be closed following rainwater flooding on July 15. The hospital has three blocks — the IP block, out-patient (OP) block and Quli Qutb Shah block. At least three OTs were functioning in the IP block. Elective surgeries under departments of Orthopaedics, General Surgery and Surgical Gastroenterology were performed in the OTs. After the flooding, orders were issued to vacate the building. OTs were shifted from there nearly three days after the incident. “Though emergency surgeries under the three departments are performed in the OTs in OP block, the elective surgeries have been on hold since July 20,” sources said. People in need of elective surgeries related to bones, varicose veins, removal of tumours from stomach or breasts, hernia, and other surgeries are taken up by the three departments. “All of them are on hold now,” doctors said. In the representation, they have mentioned about lack of oxygen central lines in Emergency OT. “Currently oxygen cylinders are used there. If a patient under surgery is in need of more oxygen, the pressure of oxygen can be adjusted if oxygen central lines are provided. This option is not available in oxygen cylinders,” sources said. Non-functional oxygen ports, monitors, ventilators in casualty and other sections of the hospital has been mentioned in their representation. The junior doctors have also said the rooms provided to them to take rest are cramped. “When we have a 24-hour shift, we get one or two hours of sleep. But we cannot relax due to want of space, and there are mosquitoes too. There is only one washroom in the lone female PG students’ Duty Doctors Room. To get some comfort, some of our colleagues take rest in their cars,” a postgraduate student said. Superintendent says OGH Superintendent B. Nagender, who resumed work two weeks ago after recovering from COVID-19, enquired about the issues with the junior doctors and nurses on Tuesday. Regarding the elective OTs, he said a temporary facility will be provided in seven to 10 days until permanent OTs are arranged. A committee comprising three senior doctors was formed to identify issues at the hospital and to improve patient care. “The committee’s report has been received. We will start taking action. We have provided a phone number to the junior doctors and asked them to alert us whenever there are issues with patient care,” Dr Nagender said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elective-surgery-at-three-depts-of-ogh-on-hold-since-a-month/article32389445.ece
19 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MGM hospital to be developed a la Gandhi||The State government has resolved to develop the MGM hospital in Warangal on the lines of Gandhi Hospital in the State capital to offer better treatment to novel coronavirus (COVID-19) patients. Announcing this at a press conference in Warangal, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said 340 beds with oxygen facility were kept ready for COVID-19 patients in the hospital and the bed strength would be increased to 750 soon. The Minister held a review meeting with medical officers after visiting the MGM along with Minister K. T. Rama Rao on Tuesday. He said facilities were created to conduct corona tests and offer treatment from the government side. Adequate number of doctors, staff, PPE kits, ventilators, medicines and other essentials were kept ready in the hospital. In addition, arrangements had been made to send special mobile labs to the district. The government had taken measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus and offer better treatment to those suffering because of the virus. The focus was more on Warangal, the second largest city after Hyderabad. A special COVID-19 ward had been set up in MGM and steps had been taken to treat any number of patients without having the need to go to Hyderabad or other places. More than 80% of people contracting the virus were asymptomatic and several of the patients were recovering with death rate below 1%. There was no need for apprehensions and patients affected by the virus should be confident of their recovery. Isolation kits were being provided to affected people and steps were being taken to set up isolation centres for patients whose relatives were not coming forward to help them. Arrangements had been made to perform last rites of patients in the event of their relatives not coming forward to do the same. The Minister exhorted doctors to simultaneously keep a watch on the outbreak of seasonal diseases, particularly contagious diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mgm-hospital-to-be-developed-a-la-gandhi/article32389463.ece
19 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drive to clear nala encroachments||The State government has decided to conduct a special drive for 30 days to remove encroachments on nalas in Warangal city. Teams of officials will identify the encroachments on nalas and other water channels and drainage systems and take steps to remove them. Municipal Administration Minister K. T. Rama Rao, during his visit to the city on Friday, announced constitution of a committee headed by Warangal Urban Collector to supervise the process. The committee would comprise senior officials of the police, municipal administration, NHAI and other departments as its members. Mr. Rama Rao announced immediate sanction of Rs. 25 crore for taking up restoration of roads, drainage and other civic infrastructure that was damaged during recent rains. The amount would be scaled up as and when needed. He recalled the complaints aired by people on the encroachments that resulted in the present state of affairs. "Their complaints are hundred percent right. The government will not compromise when it comes to removal of these illegal structures," he averred. He directed the officials to engage heavy machinery as required and the work on removal of encroachments should start with immediate effect. The Municipal Administration Secretary and the MAUD commissioner would personally monitor the progress of the works and one of them would visit the city once a week to supervise the operation. There should not be any consideration about the illegal structures and double bedroom houses should be assured to poor families that would be affected. The officials should at the same time ensure permanent measures like construction of retaining walls around the nalas to avoid encroachments in future. He said the government was committed to ensuring all-round development of Warangal which had over one million population. The new Municipalities Act was brought in with this aim and steps would be taken to ensure planned development of the city. He directed the officials to make assessment of losses on a scientific basis so that relief could be extended to all affected families. At the same time, officials should focus on precautionary measures in view of heavy rain forecast again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drive-to-clear-nala-encroachments/article32389460.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HMDA readies 50,000 green Ganeshas for free distribution||Several of the eco-friendly clay Ganesh idols to be distributed free of cost by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) this year, have in them the labour of engineering and medical students. HMDA has kept ready a total of 50,000 Ganesh idols for distribution, after commissioning them from the potter community of the Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts. Owing to the COVID lockdown and the subsequent closure of colleges, educational institutions and universities, youth from the community have been staying home. Several of them in their graduation, engineering and medical courses, have contributed their labour to making the idols as part of the traditional occupation, a statement from the HMDA said. HMDA has roped in the Telangana State Potters’ Association for making of the eight-inch idols for distribution, which has in turn, handed over the responsibility to 150 potter families in the three districts. Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration, and HMDA Commissioner Arvind Kumar will launch distribution of idols at the Press Club here on Wednesday. HMDA has undertaken the distribution of clay idols for the past eight years, to bring down pollution in the Hussainsagar, by discouraging chemical colours. Every year, idols are commissioned through Telangana State Potters’ Association. A price of Rs. 27.9 per idol is paid to the association by HMDA. A total of 320 potters had been trained in modern clay pottery two years ago at the Swamy Ramananda Teertha Rural Institute, facilitated by Telangana BC Welfare Department. The master trainers have, in turn, trained close to 4,000 potters in all 33 districts of the State, in making of clay containers, diyas, clay water bottles and Ganesh idols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmda-readies-50000-green-ganeshas-for-free-distribution/article32389449.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Why mum on graveyard land grab, HC asks Waqf Board||Expressing dissatisfaction over the response of Waqf Board in protecting its lands, the High Court on Tuesday sought to know why the board had not filed police complaints against illegal encroachments of the lands. Hearing a PIL plea on grabbing of lands belonging to Waqf Board, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the Waqf Board chairman to appear before it on September 11. Referring to allegations that graveyards were being encroached upon, the bench sought to know what steps the Waqf Board had taken to check the same. The bench said the Waqf Board, in a counter affidavit, stated that lands belonging to 63 graveyards were grabbed. However, the board did not mention how many complaints were lodged to initiate criminal action against the land grabbers. The silence of the board on illegal occupation of its properties gives rise to some suspicions, the bench observed. A social activist Mohd. Ilyas moved the HC through a PIL petition alleging that the State government and the Waqf Board were remaining mute spectators even as several Waqf properties were being illegally taken over. The counter affidavit filed by the board was not comprehensive, the bench said. The board gave a list of graveyards in Ranga Reddy district and twin cities. But it failed to explain the revenue survey numbers under which these graveyards were located. It was surprising that the board preferred not to lodge any complaints against the land grabbers under Section 447 of Indian Penal Code with the police, the bench said. Lawyer Saifullah Baig representing the Waqf Board informed the court that matters relating to grabbing of graveyards were pending with the Revenue Department authorities. But what prevented the authorities in lodging complaints with the police on the matter, the bench asked the counsel. The matter should have been taken to the notice of the Cabinet Minister in-charge of Wakf board properties, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-mum-on-graveyard-land-grab-hc-asks-waqf-board/article32389464.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three held for misbehaving with student||A female student who returned to the country through a Vande Bharat Mission flight has alleged misbehaviour by three persons at a lodge in Shamshabad area, police said on Tuesday. Native of Bengaluru  According to RGIA police, who are investigating the case, the student, a native of Bengaluru, who was studying medicine in Ukraine, landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport last night on a flight. She was supposed to board a bus to Bengaluru. However, the bus did not arrive. “She was in touch with her brother after she landed in Hyderabad. She told him that after landing, she was at the airport. When her bus did not arrive, on her brother’s advice, she checked into a lodge near the Annapurna X Road which is near the bus stop. There three persons, Vijay Kumar, Surendra Kumar and Upendra Kumar, pretended to help her, but later tried to enter her room. She had a non-Indian SIM card and made a call to her brother, who dialled ‘100’ from his phone. Within a few minutes police arrived at the spot,” said RGIA sub-inspector N. Krishna Goud. Case registered While two of the accused belong to Nandyal, the other is from Shamshabad. A case under sections 354 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and the accused have been apprehended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held-for-misbehaving-with-student/article32389453.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTI petitions of MP not related to land issues||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) probe into the seizure of Rs. 1.1 crore from Keesara Tahsildar Erva Balaraju Nagaraju and the subsequent recovery of certain RTI related documents appear to be two different issues. The RTI petitions filed by a sitting MP of a constituency on the city outskirts and the same being recovered from a real estate broker K. Anji Reddy appear to be purely coincidental. These RTI petitions filed by the MP and his followers are no way connected to the ongoing investigations of Nagaraju even as the MP and his followers maintain that filing them to expose any misdeeds was their right. Interestingly, all the RTI petitions, the ACB sleuths seized from Mr. Reddy pertain to a leading chain of educational institutions. What is intriguing is the institutions are owned by a senior politician. The petitions in fact were filed by an MLA, who went on to become an MP. The spate of RTI petitions against the educational institutions sought information on the land owners, violations, if any, by the technical education institutions, any default in paying taxes, fee reimbursement to the students studying in these institutions and payment of land conversion and development charges. All these petitions were filed between 2014 and 2019. The ACB sleuths who seized what it claims are ‘crucial’ documents include letters written by the said MP when he was an MLA to the Commissioner of Technical Education, RDO, Ranga Reddy East and other officials citing violations in building constructions. The MP, however, maintains that the government has so far not inquired into the alleged illegal constructions of the senior politician and claims the documents pertaining to the permissions given to the alleged illegal constructions are now missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rti-petitions-of-mp-not-related-to-land-issues/article32389461.ece
19 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Inspector suspended||An inspector working with the Special Branch was suspended on Tuesday for allegedly ‘improper’ behaviour with a woman. The issue came to light when Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar tweeted about it. “Inspector K Chander kumar working in Special Branch has been placed under suspension. His conduct has been improper with a lady. Any misconduct by an officer in uniform can't be tolerated at all. Send whatsapp msg at 9490616555. Help us identify black sheeps in police department (sic),” posted Mr. Kumar on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inspector-suspended/article32389452.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State seeks more urea||Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy, along with Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, called on Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadanada Gowda in New Delhi on Tuesday and requested the latter to increase the urea allotment to Telangana in the wake of increasing cultivation during the present Vaanakalam (kharif) season. The Minister and Secretary went to New New Delhi on the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao following a discussion over the fertilizer issue in the State on Monday. Mr. Niranjan Reddy explained to the Union Minister that regular crops were already raised on 1.25 crore acres and there were horticultural crops in another 8.5 lakh acres. Besides, paddy transplantation was planned in another 7 lakh acres this season. Overall, cultivation of crops this season would cross 1.41 lakh acres and accordingly the need for urea, a major soil nutrient, would also increase. Further, he explained to Mr. Gowda that use of urea was over 7 lakh tonnes so far this season in Telangana against 3.5 lakh tonnes by the same time last year. Stating that the Centre had allotted 10.5 lakh tonnes of urea for the season to Telangana, he said of the August quota of 2.5 lakh tonnes, only 80,000 tonnes had reached the State. Since the demand for urea would be high in August, he requested the Union Minister to increase the allotment and quota for August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-seeks-more-urea/article32389456.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New Secretariat complex estimates likely by weekend||The Roads and Buildings department has speeded up the process for preparing the estimates relating to construction of the new integrated Secretariat complex. The department, in consultation with the Chennai-based Oscar and Ponni Architects, is preparing the estimates along with the quantities of materials that will need to be procured for the construction of the new complex. “Estimates of all items that go into the building are being prepared. The tenders will be called once the department completes review of the estimates and gives its go ahead after obtaining the consent of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao,” a senior official said. Preparation of the estimates is taking time as the new complex is proposed to be environment-friendly complying with the norms set by the Indian Green Buildings Council. The State Cabinet had already given its approval for spending around Rs. 400 crore on the integrated complex that will have more than 50% space allotted to lawns, landscaping and other green measures. “We are working round-the-clock to complete the process so that the department can call for tenders. The exercise is likely to be completed before the week-end,” the official said. One-year tenure Meanwhile, the State government has resolved to create a supernumerary post in the R&B department to supervise the construction of the new complex. Accordingly, a post of the rank of Superintendent Engineer had been sanctioned and it was decided to utilize the services of retired Superintendent Engineer M. Satyanarayana. The new post had been created in suppression of three vacant posts of junior technical officers in the R&B department. The supernumerary post had been created for a period of one year and it would lapse as and when one year is completed or till the need ceases whichever is earlier, the government said in its orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-secretariat-complex-estimates-likely-by-weekend/article32389457.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. trying to scuttle Ganesh festivities: BJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the TRS government of trying to scuttle the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the twin cities and across the State under the guise of COVID-19 restrictions on Tuesday. Party president Bandi Sanjay told the media that the police and other authorities are resorting to threatening the Bhagyanagar Utsav Samithi members on the manner in which the festivities should be done. This was despite the Samithi and related organisations making it amply clear that the nine-day long festivities will be conducted taking all the necessary precautions. If ‘false’ cases are foisted against organisers, the BJP will stand by them, he warned. Mr. Sanjay said the party cadre would lay siege the houses of TRS leaders if the government continued to put hurdles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-trying-to-scuttle-ganesh-festivities-bjp/article32389462.ece
19 August 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM mourns former MLA||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed deep condolences over the death of former Member ofLegislative Assembly (MLA) Edma Krishna Reddy. In a message, he said Krishna Reddy gained affection of the people as a leader with social awareness and service motto. The Chief Minister conveyed his heartfelt condolences to members of the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-mourns-former-mla/article32389458.ece
19 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. leader offers to set up plasma bank in State||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy, who floated the Telangana Plasma Donors Association after recovering from COVID-19, on Tuesday offered to set up a plasma bank in Telangana if the State government provides necessary permission and space. Mr. Reddy made the proposal through his Twitter handle in response to an earlier tweet by IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on April 6. KTR had then tweeted, “Yesterday good friend @kiranshaw called me and suggested that we set up a ‘Covid blood bank’ in Telangana; with antibody-rich plasma from patients who had recovered from Covid. Have requested Health Secretary & Commissioner to explore further (sic).” Responding to Mr. Rama Rao’s tweet, Narayana Reddy said, “It’s been more than 4 months since you tweeted, govt has not set it up yet! If govt gives me permission and space, I am ready to set it up in 48 hours with my own funds! (sic).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-leader-offers-to-set-up-plasma-bank-in-state/article32389447.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IMH staff tested for coronavirus||After 37 patients at the Institute of Mental Health, Erragadda, tested positive for coronavirus, around 100 staff, including security personnel, were tested for coronavirus on Tuesday. Their results are awaited. Initially, doctors, nurses, a senior resident doctor and a post-graduate student were detected with COVID-19. Suspecting patients might have also contracted it, the institute administration took up tests on the patients starting from August 13 and they found out about the results from Saturday. Of the 37 patients, at least nine were shifted to Gandhi Hospital and the rest are isolated in a separate ward at the institute itself. On Tuesday, the staff were also screened for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/imh-staff-tested-for-coronavirus/article32389446.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power employees stage protest||Power sector employees across the State held protest demonstrations on Tuesday, demanding withdrawal of Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 and privatisation of distribution business in the Union Territories and five distribution utilities in Odisha and Uttar Pradesh. All employees and engineers affiliated to various unions and associations participated in the protests in response to a call given by the National Coordination Committee Of Electricity Employees & Engineers (NCCOEEE). In Hyderabad, the protest demonstrations were staged at Mint Compound, corporate offices and generating stations by Telangana State Power Employees Joint Action Commission (TSPEJAC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-employees-stage-protest/article32389454.ece
19 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||African cheetah dies in zoo||A female African cheetah at the Nehru Zoological Park died due to paraplegia, a statement from the zoo informed. Hiba was aged about eight, and was received from Saudi Arabia. She was suffering immobility in limbs for the past three years, the statement said. Post mortem was conducted and samples have been sent to Veterinary Biological and Research Institute, Shantinagar, for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/african-cheetah-dies-in-zoo/article32389450.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Amit Shah and other BJP leaders behind Delhi riots, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders were behind the north-east Delhi riots earlier this year. “Each person who understands Delhi will say that the Manthara and Shakuni of Delhi riots were those BJP leaders who made poisonous statements — Anurag Thakur, Parvesh Sahib Singh, Giriraj Singh, Yogi Adityanath, Amit Shah, Kapil Mishra. All these people made communal remarks in Delhi and created hatred for one community,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. He claimed that now when the people of Shaheen Bagh protest have joined the BJP, it was clear that the party was instigating the Hindus on one side and the Muslims on the other side. Mr. Bharadwaj said it should be found out as to which BJP leaders the Shaheen Bagh leaders, who have joined the BJP, were in touch with and “what directions they got from BJP leaders and what were their role in the Shaheen Bagh protest”. BJP polarisation “In February, the people of Delhi witnessed how the BJP polarised two different communities. Now, all the independent observers, citizens and others agree that in a very well-scripted manner, the BJP communalised and polarised the situation during and before the Delhi Assembly polls. The polarisation was such that a riot-like situation was created,” he said. “After the Delhi elections, in which the BJP lost, a sit-in protest was held on February 22 near Jafrabad metro station by anti-CAA protesters. Next day, senior BJP leader Kapil Mishra made a hate speech along with pro-CAA protesters. He delivered the speech in front of the local DCP, threatening the protesters that if they do not withdrawthe protest then the BJP will take the law in their hands. From that afternoon, various clashes started taking place across north-east Delhi,” Mr. Bharadwaj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amit-shah-and-other-bjp-leaders-behind-delhi-riots-claims-aap/article32389407.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Resolve financial crisis of civic bodies’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre, the city government and representatives of the municipal corporations here to hold a meeting to find a solution to the financial difficulties being faced by the civic corporations. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said, “We expect that this meeting shall be convened at the earliest”. It listed the matter for further hearing on September 8. Grant-in-aid pending The order came on an application moved by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation alleging that Rs. 90.60 crore payable as grant-in-aid under the sanitation/urban development head, for the first quarter ending June 30, has not been released yet and Rs. 181 crore under the same head for the second quarter is also due. The North Corporation has said that the funding was meant for payment of salaries of “safai karamchaaris” and sanitation activities. The application was filed in a pending writ petition by one Rahul Birla seeking directions to the Delhi government and the municipal corporations to pay the salaries with arrears of sanitation workers employed by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/resolve-financial-crisis-of-civic-bodies/article32389400.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP pushes back against AAP over allegations||The BJP on Tuesday took strong exception to allegations levelled by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) against its senior leadership in relation to the Shaheen Bagh protests. The Delhi BJP media head asked why these allegations were surfacing despite comments from the AAP’s own senior leadership, including Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, expressing solidarity with protesters. “Have they forgotten their own Manish Sisodia who said he is with Shaheen Bagh, have they forgotten their councillor Tahir Hussain who masterminded the Delhi riots,” BJP spokesperson Ashok Goel asked. “Why are they [the AAP] so rattled of our Muslim brothers and sisters joining the national mainstream?” he said. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta was unavailable for comment on the issue despite repeated attempts. Party insiders, however, said it was in the process of preparing an all-out attack against AAP in relation to the allegations against its senior leadership over the coming days. Several residents of Shaheen Bagh, which had served as ground zero for anti-CAA and NEC protests beginning mid-December last year, had joined the BJP at its State headquarters on Sunday triggering a political row.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-pushes-back-against-aap-over-allegations/article32389405.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||High Court to partially resume physical hearing from September 1 on trial basis||With Delhi High Court scheduled to partially resume physical hearing from September 1, after a hiatus of about five months due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on Tuesday appealed to the city’s lawyers to fully cooperate with the process. BCD Chairman K.C. Mittal said that though “a section of colleagues in the profession are against resumption of physical hearing”, it is not the appropriate time for raising voice in favour or against physical hearing. All bases covered “The model which is going to be implemented is on experimental basis and we hope it will protect the interest of all the stakeholders in the system,” Mr. Mittal said. The High Court had suspended its physical hearing from March 23 this year following the nationwide lockdown in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. It has since then restricted the hearings, which are now conducted through videconferencing, to cases which are of urgent nature only. On August 15, the Delhi High Court Registrar General Manoj Jain announced that subject to complete availability of public transport and the situation in Delhi remaining stable, a plan will be evolved for gradual opening of physical courts from September 1 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/high-court-to-partially-resume-physical-hearing-from-september-1-on-trial-basis/article32389401.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||SC approves elevation of 6 advocates as HC judges||The Supreme Court has approved the names of six advocates to be elevated as judges of the Delhi High Court. This will increase the strength of judges at Delhi High Court from current 32 to 38. The apex court collegium, in its meeting held on August 17, approved the proposal for elevation of the six advocates — Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna — as judge of Delhi High Court. Ms. Singh is currently in the panel of Central government Standing Counsels in the Delhi High Court. Advocate Mini Pushkarna is a panel counsel for the Delhi municipal corporation. Ms. Pushkarna is also a panel counsel for Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, and Land and Building Department, Delhi government. Advocate Anish Dayal specialises in commercial litigation and arbitration, media, entertainment and sports law, policy and legislation. He also writes regularly about broad range of developments relating to the law. The collegium, which is helmed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and top four senior-most judges of the court, has also approved the proposal for elevation of advocate Rajesh Kumar Bhardwaj as judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-approves-elevation-of-6-advocates-as-hc-judges/article32389403.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||AAP to protest outside Civic Centre today||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said that they will stage a protest outside Civic Centre on Wednesday against the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s proposals to introduce professional tax, 34% increase of house tax, increase in property transfer tax and electricity tax. The AAP called for immediate roll back of the proposals. “In 2017, when the BJP fought the Delhi municipal elections, they decided not to give ticket to all the sitting councillors. Then Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari gave a slogan that “ naye chahere nay udan ”. But these new councillors are more corrupt. The second promise the BJP made was that they will not hike taxes. But the BJP has completely failed in both these promises and they have betrayed the people of Delhi,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. The SDMC had also increased three taxes last month, the party said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-to-protest-outside-civic-centre-today/article32389402.ece
19 August 2020||Aurangabad,||Height curbs, raw material shortage hit idol trade||Ganesha idol makers, whose businesses used to thrive ahead of the annual Ganesh chaturthi festival in Maharashtra, are facing tough times this year due to restrictions on the height of idols and difficulty in procurement of raw material amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Craftsmen from Aurangabad and neighbouring Jalna say the rise in manufacturing costs due to shortage of raw material coupled with higher transportation expenses have added to their woes. Ganeshotsav is the most popular festival in Maharashtra. The pandals set up by various mandals across the State attract thousands of devotees during the 10-day festival, which begins on August 22 this year. The State government last month restricted the height of idols installed by the mandals to only four feet, and at homes to two feet. “This time, business is very less. The raw material required for making these idols is brought from Gujarat. This year, the transportation of raw material got hampered and so it affected our work,” said Ganesh Joble, an idol maker from Begumpura area in Aurangabad. “Many of us work round the year to make big sized idols. But this year, idols of more than four feet in height cannot be sold which is a loss for us. Now we also need to keep the big idols safe till next year,” he rued. Artisan Manoj Rakhe, from Partur in Jalna, said the lockdown affected the availability of raw material and moulds for making idols. “We have made lesser number of idols this time and also did not make big sized idols,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/height-curbs-raw-material-shortage-hit-idol-trade/article32389527.ece
19 August 2020||chandigarh,||Record 896 cases in Haryana||Haryana recorded the highest single-day jump of 896 COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 48,936 on Tuesday. The death toll rose to 557 with seven more fatalities, the Health Department said. There are 7,081 active cases in the State and number of recoveries rose to 41,298 with 688 more people being discharged. Four out of the seven new fatalities were from Karnal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/record-896-cases-in-haryana/article32389517.ece
19 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC asks State to reply to plea for reopening temples||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to file its reply in a plea urging the State to reopen temples during lockdown. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Revati Mohite-Dere was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an NGO, Association For Aiding Justice, seeking direction to authorities to take immediate effective steps to ensure that places of worship are opened for devotees with guidelines. The PIL seeks to permit Jain temples to be opened during period of Paryushana Parva with necessary safety precautions i.e. social distancing, restricting timing for devotees, restricting number of devotees at one time within temple premises. The PIL also seeks direction to authorities to permit Jain temples to open and conduct Samvatsari (yearly) Pratikraman, which falls on last day of Paryushana Parva, with the necessary precautions by allotting different time slots for the Pratikraman. .” Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the court that on August 12, the State had filed a reply in similar matter before another Division Bench, saying it did not intend to open any place of worship currently as it would pose a risk. With respect to the petition seeking Jain temples to be open for their on going festival Paryushan, that ends on August 23, he said the State maintained the same stand on any place of worship, “irrespective of its religion.” Advocate Dipesh Siroya representing the trust said the Tirupati temple in Andhra Pradesh has been opened for all devotees despite the COVID-19 pandemic. “The Tirupati temple is much larger than any of the temples in Maharashtra and receives a large number of devotees. Still it has been opened for public. Maharashtra can also frame guidelines to open temples and regulate devotees entering them,” he said. The court directed the State to file a reply on this in 10 days and adjourned the matter to be heard on September 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-asks-state-to-reply-to-plea-for-reopening-temples/article32389520.ece
19 August 2020||Mumbai,||Act against those spreading hatred on Facebook: Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday sought action “irrespective of party affiliations” against those who spread hatred and talk of disintegrating the country on social media platforms like Facebook. Companies like Facebook can’t ignore someone spreading hatred because the persons belong to the ruling party, the Sena said and asked the social media platform to observe rules and ethics of business. The party’s comments come a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused the BJP and RSS of spreading fake news using Facebook and WhatsApp to influence the electorate. Mr. Gandhi’s claim followed a Wall Street Journal report that said Facebook ignored applying its hate speech rules to politicians of the ruling party in India. “There is no objection to debates on a medium like Facebook. But action should be taken irrespective of party affiliation if hatred is spread and language of disintegrating the country and communities is used,” the Sena said in an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana . The Sena said India’s population forms a big market for Facebook. Politics is being played the most on social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp, it said. The world has come closer, but these platforms have also caused a divide between communities, the party said.  “You (Facebook) have come to our country to do business and will have to observe minimum ethics-rules of business,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/act-against-those-spreading-hatred-on-facebook-sena/article32389525.ece
19 August 2020||Mumbai,||What steps taken to rehabilitate beggars, HC asks State government||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked the Maharashtra government to explain the steps taken to rehabilitate and reform beggars, including child alms seekers. The court sought the State’s response while hearing a Public Interest Litigation filed by Pune resident Dhyandeshwar Darwatkar raising concerns over beggars not following social distancing norms or other rules like wearing face masks while approaching people on road at the time of COVID-19 pandemic. The petitioner’s counsel, Shekhar Jagtap, told the court that while the State and civic authorities had rescued some beggars and sent them to government-run homes, it was very likely that they might comeback on the streets once the lockdown norms were relaxed further. A Bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta said that one needed to take a holistic approach, and see what could be done to rehabilitate and reform beggars, particularly children involved in seeking alms. It directed Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to present the State’s views on the next hearing. Earlier last month, during a previous hearing, the Bench led by Chief Justice Datta had said it was “not right to blame only beggars” for the spread of novel coronavirus as even “civilised people did not follow rules of social distancing”. Meanwhile, the State government has decided to provide Rs. 25 lakh insurance cover to non-government organisations from rural areas performing final rites of people who die of COVID-19, according to Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif. The insurance cover will be provided till September 30, according to an official statement here. The cover is being offered considering the risk of members of such organisations getting infected by the disease, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/what-steps-taken-to-rehabilitate-beggars-hc-asks-state-government/article32389528.ece
19 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Hefty fine if hospitals found overcharging’||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday directed all district collectors to take strict action against those hospitals that were covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY), yet continued to overcharge COVID-19 patients. In a letter to all district collectors, Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of MJPJAY, asked the officials to impose a fine five times the amount of bills that was charged to patients. Apart from this, he also asked district collectors to cancel the registration of such hospitals and file a police complaint. The State government has already capped charges for various treatments under MJPJAY, but several hospitals have been violating guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hefty-fine-if-hospitals-found-overcharging/article32389529.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police officer succumbs to deadly virus||A 51-year-old Delhi Police Inspector died of COVID-19 on Tuesday morning after testing positive on August 15. His wife and son, who also tested positive, attended the funeral from a lonely house on video call while his brothers performed the last rites Inspector Sanjay Sharma, who was posted in the Police Control Room unit, was admitted to the ICU unit of the Indian Spinal Injuries Centre in Vasant Kunj after he felt breathlessness on August 15. The next day, plasma therapy was given to him, but the doctors couldn’t save him. “Ye gham zindagi bhar reh jaaga[This grief will stay with me forever],” lamented the officer’s wife, Aruna Sharma. Ms. Aruna’s only wish is that her husband’s ashes are preserved so that her son can do the final rites when he gets better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-officer-succumbs-to-deadly-virus/article32389516.ece
19 August 2020||Pune,||State records highest single-day deaths||Maharashtra reported a record-high single-day fatality spike of 422 deaths due to COVID-19 on Tuesday, coupled with a surge of 11,119 new COVID-19 cases, taking the State’s total death to 20,687 and its case tally to 6,15,477. There are currently 1,56,608 active cases in the State, with the recovery rate rising to 71.14%. With 9,356 patients being discharged, the number of recoveries reached 4,37,870. “Of 32,64,384 laboratory samples tested thus far, 6,15,477 (18.85%) have tested positive with nearly 58,000 samplesbeing tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 3.36%. Pune reported a huge spike of over 2,500 cases, taking its total case tally to 1,34,913. An equally high fatality count of 89 deaths pushed the total death toll to 3,336. The Pune district administration, however, said the number of active cases was just over 26,700 with the district’s recovery rate standing at 76.63%. 931 cases in Mumbai In contrast, Mumbai city reported another relatively low surge of just 931 new cases, taking its total case tally to 1,30,410, of which only 17,693 are active. With 49 new fatalities, the city’s death toll climbed to 7,222. Alarming fatality spikes were recorded in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, with Panvel reporting its highest single-day surge of 36 deaths, while Raigad reported 25 fatalities. Panvel’s death toll has now reached 265, while its case tally has risen to 10,108 with 167 new cases. Raigad’s death toll stands at 384, while its case tally reached 13,941 with 255 fresh cases. Thane district reported 22 fatalities as its death count climbed to 1,327. A relatively low surge of 295 cases saw its total case tally cross the 41,000 mark. The situation continued to be grim in Nagpur which saw sharp spikes in fatalities and cases. With 34 new deaths, the district’s total death toll climbed to 399, while a spike of 812 new cases took the case tally to 14,807 of whom 7,344 are active. Nashik in north Maharashtra, a major virus hotbed, reported another surge of 699 fresh cases as its total tally soared to 27,151 of whom 9,882 are active. The district reported 17 deaths as its total death toll rose to 692. Ahmednagar district, too, reported 17 fatalities as its death toll climbed to 159, while 535 cases saw its total tally rise to 13,671 of whom 3,174 are active. Jalgaon saw a spike of 467 fresh cases while reporting 11 new deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 18,766 of whom 5,192 are active ones, while the death toll has now climbed to 703. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur reported a big spike of 471 new cases, taking its case tally to 14,712, of which 6,902 are active. With 16 more fatalities, the district’s death toll has gone up to 398. Neighbouring Satara reported 11 deaths as its total death toll climbed to 246. With 353 fresh cases, the district’s total case tally has reached 7,944 of whom 2,833 are active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-records-highest-single-day-deaths/article32389524.ece
19 August 2020||Pune,||Flood threat follows heavy rain in Kolhapur, Sangli||With heavy rain battering western Maharashtra for the last four days, the threat of flood looms once again over Kolhapur and Sangli districts. Till Tuesday, 85 barrages in Kolhapur were currently under water with the Panchganga river flowing over 40 ft and inching towards its danger level of 43 ft. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the robust showers across the State has ensured that only three of the 36 districts — Akola, Yavatmal and Gondia — are rain-deficient at the moment, with most receiving above normal rainfall. Kolhapur district authorities said that two sluice gates of the Radhanagari dam had been opened, with an ongoing discharge of 4,256 cusecs of water. To preclude flooding in the border areas which the ditrict shares with neighbouring Karnataka, authorities have increased discharge off water rom the Almatti dam (in north Karnataka) to 2.5 lakh cusecs. Earlier, Shirol MLA, who along with Minister Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar surveyed the rising waters of the Panchganga at the Rajaram Bridge, said he had spoken to with the Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and requested an increase in the discharge of water from the Almatti dam. “Mr. Jarkiholi has assured me of proper coordination between the water resources department of the two States to control any potential flood situation,” said Mr. Patil-Yadravkar, after taking stock of the situation in the worst-hit tehsils of the district. The Warana dam, too, has filled to nearly 90% of its total capacity of 35 thousand million cubic feet (TMCft), prompting a discharge of 12,000 cusecs. Gaganbawda tehsil bore the brunt of the showers, receiving 108 mm rain in the last 24 hours. The taluks of Karveer, Panhala, Shahuwadi and Chandgadh, too, were buffeted with intense spells of rain. At least 25% of the populace of Chikhali village in Karveer – which had been severely hit by the 2019 deluge – were immediately evacuated to safer zones on high ground, said authorities, adding that the remaining citizens, too, would be shifted over the next 24 hours. The Sangli district administration has procured eight high-speed boats from The Netherlands to be deployed in the city and the low-lying areas if needed. The precaution has been taken keeping in mind the accident in Brahmanal village in August last year, in which at least 17 people drowned after an overcrowded boat capsized during a rescue operation. The showers in catchment areas have also replenished stocks in Pune’s dams, prompting water discharge from Khadakwasla and Panshet reservoirs. The cumulative water stock in the district’s four major dams – Khadakwasla, Panshet, Temghar and Varasgaon – is now more than 90% of the total capacity of 29.15 TMCft. While 9,361 cusecs was discharged from Khadakwasla, it was 2,407 cusecs in Panshet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/flood-threat-follows-heavy-rain-in-kolhapur-sangli/article32389522.ece
19 August 2020||Sonam Saigal Mumbai,||HC rejects G. N. Saibaba’s plea for emergency parole||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday rejected the emergency parole plea filed by 90% physically disabled Professor G.N. Saibaba to attend his mother’s post-funeral rites at Hyderabad. Saibaba (50) is a former professor of the Delhi University and is incarcerated in the anda cell (solitary confinement) at the Nagpur Central Jail. He has been convicted for Maoists links and is sentenced to life imprisonment. After the prison authorities rejected his parole application for attending the last rites of his mother, who died on August 1 of cancer, Saibaba moved the High Court. Special Public Prosecutor P. K. Sathianathan opposed the plea and said most of the post-funeral rituals had been completed. A Division Bench of Justices Z.A. Haq and A.G. Gharote said it would be difficult to arrange for security personnel to escort Mr. Saibaba from Nagpur to Hyderabad amid the COVID-19 pandemic. It, however, directed the jail authorities to make arrangements for Saibaba to talk to his family via a six-hour video call from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on a day of his choice. On April 21, Saibaba had moved the HC for an emergency parole to visit his mother, who was on the deathbed. However, on May 22, a Division Bench of Justices R.K. Deshpande and Amit Borkar had rejected the plea, primarily in view of the fact that the place in Hyderabad he intended to visit has been declared a containment zone amidst the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-rejects-g-n-saibabas-plea-for-emergency-parole/article32389530.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump can’t be who Americans need him to be: Michelle Obama||On the opening day of a four-day Presidential nominating Convention, Democrats of all backgrounds, and some former Republicans, got together virtually on Monday evening under the theme, “We the People”, to back the candidacy of the presumptive nominee Joe Biden. The main event of the evening was a speech by former U.S. first lady Michelle Obama, in which she launched a scathing attack on the character of U.S. President Donald Trump, urging voters to exercise their franchise to avoid a relatively low voter turnout as in 2016. “Donald Trump is the wrong President for our country. He has had more than enough time to prove that he can do the job, but he is clearly in over his head. He cannot meet this moment. He simply cannot be who we need him to be for us. It is what it is,” Ms. Obama, who delivered the last video address for Monday’s session, said. Ms. Obama, who has before expressed frustration at the 2016 voter turnout and worked to increase voter turnout in elections, used her air time to tell people to vote. “But this is not the time to withhold our votes in protest or play games with candidates who have no chance of winning. We have got to vote like we did in 2008 and 2012,” she said. Shared vision Like the other speakers at Day One of the convention, she vouched for Mr. Biden’s character and his vision, addressing parents, by couching the vision in terms of what Mr. Biden wanted for America’s children. “Joe Biden wants all of our kids to go to a good school, see a doctor when they’re sick, live on a healthy planet... He wants all of our kids to be able to go to a movie or a math class without being afraid of getting shot,” she said. Themes for the session included racial justice, the COVID-19 crisis and the state of the economy. Among the speakers was the brother of George Floyd, an unarmed black man who was killed by a policeman in May. The evening, significantly, featured progressives, centre-left and centre-right politicians, many of them former Republicans explaining why they had switched from supporting Mr. Trump to supporting Mr. Biden. Sanders bats for Biden Independent U.S. Senator from Vermont Bernie Sanders, who led the progressive vote in the Democratic primaries and was Mr. Biden’s main challenger for the nomination, appealed to his supporters to back Mr. Biden. “Our campaign ended several months ago, but our movement continues and is getting stronger every day. Many of the ideas we fought for, that just a few years ago were considered ‘radical,’ are now mainstream. But, let us be clear, if Donald Trump is re-elected, all the progress we have made will be in jeopardy.” Mr. Sanders highlighted parts of Mr. Biden’s policy platform that resonated with the progressive agenda, including his plans to increase the (federal) minimum wage to $ 15 per hour, allow for 12 weeks of paid family leave and abolish private prisons and cash bail. “While Joe and I disagree on the best path to get to universal coverage, he has a plan that will greatly expand health care and cut the cost of prescription drugs. Further, he will lower the eligibility age of Medicare from 65 to 60,” Mr. Sanders said. Speaking a while before Mr. Sanders, former Governor of Ohio John Kasich, praised Mr. Biden’s character and told viewers that he was going to vote for him this year. “I’m a lifelong Republican, but that attachment holds second place to my responsibility to my country,” Mr. Kasich said, assuring Republicans he was trying to sway that Mr. Biden would not turn “sharp left.” “They fear Joe may turn sharp left and leave them behind. I don’t believe that. Because I know the measure of the man — reasonable, faithful, respectful. And you know, no one pushes Joe around,” he said. The programme also featured three other Republicans — another former Governor and two former members of Congress. Message from citizens It was not all politicians and high-profile personalities though. There were video messages from citizens, who had been impacted by the pandemic or Mr. Trump’s policies like the trade war with China: a small business owner, a farmer, and a young woman who had lost her father, a Trump supporter, to COVID-19 earlier this year. “My dad was a healthy 65-year-old. His only preexisting condition was trusting Donald Trump, and for that, he paid with his life,” said Kristin Urquiza. Ms. Urquiza said her father had ended his social distancing in late May as he had believed that the novel coronavirus was under control. Also on Monday, Mr Trump campaigned in person in Minnesota and Wisconsin, promising to build the economy and warning of chaos if Mr. Biden and his running mate, U.S. Senator Kamala Harris, should win. Ms. Harris and Mr. Biden will formally accept the Democratic nomination on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-cant-be-who-americans-need-him-to-be-michelle-obama/article32389092.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘China’s provocation is a diversion’||The border clash between India and China was a result of the Chinese leadership “thinking of ways to divert the attention of the Chinese public”, a former professor at the elite Central Party School in Beijing has said. Cai Xia, who was on Monday expelled from the Communist Party of China (CPC) after a recording of her remarks criticising President Xi Jinping surfaced this summer, had previously served as a professor at the school for years. The Central Party School is the most important institution in Beijing that trains CPC officials. Mr. Xi served as the school’s president for over five years until 2013. The current president, Chen Xi, is a member of the Politburo, and past presidents include former leaders Mao Zedong, Liu Shaoqi and Hu Jintao. Outspoken views Ms. Cai, 68, has been known for her outspoken and liberal views, but her explicit criticism of the Party leadership is rare for an insider who worked within the system for decades. In the recording, she “called on the seven-member Politburo Standing Committee to replace a top leader” and “called for an overhaul of a wide range of domestic and foreign policies,” the South China Morning Post reported. Ms. Cai was then expelled for making speeches “with serious political problems” that “seriously violated the political discipline of the party”. On Tuesday, Ms. Cai reiterated her criticism of the leadership in an interview with The Guardian , speaking from the U.S. “You can see the confrontation between China and the U.S.,” she said. “[Mr. Xi] has made the world an enemy... Whether it is a domestic or international issue, it is very difficult for others to restrict him. It is inevitable that his judgment and decisions will be mistaken.” She said the emphasis on wanting “to consolidate his own position and authority” had led to “provoking conflict” with other countries, including India. “Considering domestic economic and social tensions, as well as those in the party of the last few years, he will think of ways to divert the attention of the Chinese public, provoking conflict with other countries, for example encouraging anti-American sentiment and the recent clash between China and India,” she said. On her expulsion from the CPC, she said, “My speech is free from any constraints. Now I am responsible only for my own conscience and principles.” ‘Unchecked powers’ Ms. Cai was particularly critical of Mr. Xi abolishing term limits in 2018, which she saw as a turning point for the country’s politics. “When no one can oppose him, that means that his power is unchecked,” she said. “Since people don’t tell him the truth or hide it from him, he doesn’t necessarily know the truth... Because people cannot speak the truth, Wuhan’s epidemic spread across the country and the whole world and everyone has been harmed. ” Stricter disciplinary codes that the CPC adopted in 2016, she added, had further constricted the freedom of expression. Ms. Cai said a growing number of people within the political elite in China were concerned at recent trends. “I think within [the Party] 70% and among middle and high level officials the proportion may be even higher,” she said. “For many of these cadres, their thinking was most deeply affected by the reform era under Deng Xiaoping. When China joined the World Trade Organization, we fully entered the global economy. Those within the party have experienced the last 20, 30 years and they understand in which direction is right and which is a dead end. We are among a group of cadres who took up our positions after reform and opening. So that is why I say everyone is very clear about what is happening.” At the same time, China’s relatively quick emergence from the pandemic, coupled with continuing troubles in the U.S., has for others burnished the position Mr. Xi and the CPC and deepened anti-American sentiment. Fang Fang, a popular writer in Wuhan who chronicled the trauma suffered by the city in a diary recording the early stages of the pandemic, subsequently faced backlash online for supposedly giving ammunition to China’s critics. Ms. Cai may soon encounter the same response. “When the U.S. is aiming an offensive against the Communist Party,” Hu Xijin, the editor of the Party-run Global Times was quoted as saying, “she should not, objectively speaking, stand on the side of the attacker.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-provocation-is-a-diversion/article32389085.ece
19 August 2020||Beijing,||Beijing slams U.S. over Huawei sanctions||Beijing on Tuesday hit out at new U.S. sanctions against telecom giant Huawei, accusing Washington of an “abuse of national power” to block the rise of Chinese companies. A U.S. Commerce Department statement on Monday barred an additional 38 Huawei affiliates from buying American computer chips and other technology. Tensions were already high between the two powers, and Washington has claimed that Chinese firms are used to spy for Beijing — an accusation the Chinese government and the companies deny. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian on Tuesday said there was no evidence that Huawei products contained security loopholes or backdoors. “The sanctions have completely punctured the last pretence of market principles and fair competition that the U.S. has always touted”, he said. Washington has engaged in “abuse of national power to apply all sorts of restrictions on Huawei and other Chinese enterprises,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-slams-us-over-huawei-sanctions/article32389088.ece
19 August 2020||Kabul,||Afghan President’s guards injured in rocket attack||Six members of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s honour guard were wounded on Tuesday when a rocket struck his palace compound, officials said. The rocket was one of a salvo launched into central Kabul just as officials were gathering in the capital to commemorate Afghanistan’s 101st independence day. Mr. Ghani had finished speaking outside the famous Arg Palace to mark the event when a rocket landed in the sprawling compound and wounded six members of his honour guard, two palace officials said. The President had already wrapped up his ceremonial duties and was not affected. Afghan Interior Ministry spokesman Tariq Arian earlier said 14 rockets were fired out of two vehicles in the capital, mostly hitting civilian homes, injuring 10, including four children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-presidents-guards-injured-in-rocket-attack/article32389083.ece
19 August 2020||Tripoli,||Libya’s GNA signs military accord with Qatar, Turkey||Qatar and Turkey have signed an accord to send military advisers and instructors for the armed forces of Libya’s Government of National Accord, the UN-recognised GNA said. “We have reached an agreement with Turkish Defence Minister Hulusi Akar and Qatar’s (minister) Khaled bin Mohammad Al-Attiyah on tripartite cooperation to build a military institute for training,” said the GNA’s deputy defence minister, Salah al-Namrouch. Both Sheikh Khaled, Qatar’s Minister of State for Defence, and Akar were in Tripoli on Monday for meetings with the GNA’s military and for talks on three-way military cooperation. Under the accord between the three countries, Turkey and Qatar will send military advisers and provide training at their military academies for Libyan cadets, Namrouch said. Also visiting Tripoli on Monday, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas warned that Libya faces a “deceptive calm” since fighting stalled in June around the coastal city of Sirte. Libya has been in chaos since a Western-backed uprising toppled and killed longtime dictator Muammar Gaddafi in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/libyas-gna-signs-military-accord-with-qatar-turkey/article32389090.ece
19 August 2020||Minsk,||Minsk, Aug 18, 2020 (AFP) -||Several hundred protesters rallied outside a prison in Minsk on Tuesday where blogger Sergei Tikhanovsky, the husband of Belarus’s main opposition figure Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, was being held. President Alexander Lukashenko is facing increased pressure to step down and hold fresh elections.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/minsk-aug-18-2020-afp/article32389087.ece
19 August 2020||Jerusalem,||Jerusalem, Aug 18, 2020 (AFP) -||Israel warned Hamas on Tuesday it was risking “war” by failing to stop incendiary balloon attacks from Gaza, as fuel shortages in the Palestinian enclave caused by Israel’s blockade caused widespread blackouts. Israeli Army earlier said its fighter jets had hit underground Hamas infrastructure.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jerusalem-aug-18-2020-afp/article32389089.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for India and Nepal to make up||When the Nepal-India dispute over the Himalayan territory of Limpiyadhura flared up in May, New Delhi opinion-makers presented it as the doing of an upstart nation run by a renegade Prime Minister thumbing its nose at India, that too at Beijing’s instigation. Kathmandu’s polity bristled at the accusation and the entire political spectrum came together in nationalist climax to adopt a new map which included Limpiyadhura. There has been much blood-letting over the past four months, with one side (India) petulant, the other angry. New Delhi pointedly says it will sit for talks only after the COVID-19 pandemic and some north Indian TV channels have targeted Nepal’s Prime Minister K.P. Oli with revolting coverage. In turn, he abandoned diplomatic decorum to question India’s commitment to ‘satyameva jayate’ and then claimed the true birthplace of Lord Ram was situated in present-day Nepal. This tailspin must be halted so that the most exemplary inter-state relationship of South Asia may recover. De-escalation must happen before the social, cultural and economic flows across the open border suffer long-term damage. Fear of abandonment Right off the bat, New Delhi analysts must try and understand why Nepal does not have an ‘independence day’. It would help them in unravelling the Limpiyadhura tangle and accepting the need to go back to the archival papers (and misdemeanours) of the East India Company and the successive Viceroys and Governors General — right down to the imperious present. From the Kathmandu perspective, Indian diplomacy seems increasingly unresponsive under the centralised control of the Prime Minister’s Office. As geopolitical capacity dwindled, Indian commentators have returned to lambasting hapless Pakistan while ignoring China, the true would-be adversary. With regard to China, New Delhi has nurtured a paralysing paranoia regarding the Himalayan range that goes back to the 1962 debacle, a condition now worsened by the Galwan intrusion. Nepal, Bhutan and India’s own Himalayan tracts are regarded merely as strategic buffers under this ossified policy. In addition, there is the constant preoccupation with neighbours who have supposedly ‘sold out’ to China. A confident nation-state without fear of abandonment would have behaved differently on Limpiyadhura. The cause of the chasm that has opened up between Kathmandu and Delhi relates to the disputed ownership of the triangle north of Kumaon, including the Limpiyadhura ridgeline, the high pass into Tibet at Lipu Lek, and the Kalapani area hosting an Indian Army garrison. New Delhi’s position on the dispute is based on its decades-long possession of the territory, coupled with Kathmandu’s implied acquiescence through its silence and the omission of Limpiyadhura on its own official maps. Nepal’s claim is centred on the Treaty of Sugauli (1815), whose language reads the “Rajah of Nipal renounces all claim to the countries lying to the west of the River Kali”. No agreement has superseded that treaty, and so no subsequent cartographic chicanery by the Company Sarkar or successor governments can undermine the 1815 document. Essentially, Nepal wants to stay with what was considered the upstream Kali at the time of the treaty’s signing 205 years ago. While the colonised parts of South Asia have had to deal western surnames that pervade their maps and frontiers, such as Radcliffe, McMahon and Durand, a historically evolved country such as Nepal would tend to rely more on proof of continuous state administration. Journalist Bhairab Risal (who celebrated his 93rd birthday on August 13) was the government official conducting the 1953 national census in the Limpiyadhura villages, whose citizens also voted in the first democratic elections of 1959. Land records were kept in Nepal’s district headquarters of Darchula and Baitadi until access was blocked in the 1960s by the Indian base at Kalapani. Kathmandu responded with sensitivity to Indian strategic concerns before and after the 1962 China-India war by allowing the Indian army post to be stationed within what was clearly its territory at Kalapani and not publicly demanding its withdrawal. However, following the advent of democracy in 1990, the demand for evacuation of Kalapani gained momentum. Kathmandu’s diplomats deny the accusation of passivity over the decades, saying that as the weaker power, Nepal preferred quiet diplomacy and that Kalapani had never been off the table since talks began in the early 1980s. As for the ‘possession’ argument, if control of a disputed region were to confirm ownership, then what of China’s continuous hold over Aksai Chin since Independence? Regarding the suggestion of Nepal acting on China’s ‘behest’, in fact Kathmandu considers China complicit on Lipu Lek, and has lodged strong protests with Beijing regarding its joint plans with New Delhi on use of the high pass. Road to Lipu Lek From the time when a joint communiqué was issued in 1997 during I.K. Gujral’s prime ministership down to the present time of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the two governments have agreed that a territorial dispute exists on upstream Kali and have assigned negotiators. A border demarcation team was able to delineate 98% of the 1,751 km Nepal-India frontier, but not Susta along the Gandaki flats and the upper tracts of the Kali. In 2014, India’s External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj agreed to the establishment of a Border Working Group, which was announced by Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Sushil Koirala. It too failed to make headway. In August 2019, India’s Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishanker and Nepal’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Pradip Gyawali assigned the task to the two Foreign Secretaries. That was where matters rested, with India dragging its feet on the Foreign Secretaries’ meeting, when things went awry. Nepal has been keen to sort out the matter away from the limelight. It was after India published its new political map in November following the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh that the pressure arose for Kathmandu to put out its own map incorporating the Limpiyadhura finger. The government cartographers got busy. Knowing full well the dangers of taking on the Indian lion, Prime Minister Oli held off on the map release while waiting for New Delhi to come to the table. But diplomacy did not get a chance, with the Ministry of Defence evidently having kept even South Block in the dark until India’s Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, with much fanfare, digitally ‘inaugurated’ the unfinished track to Lipu Lek on May 8. Prime Minister Oli’s position became untenable, and he proceeded with the constitutional amendment to certify the new map. Indian diplomats lobbied to keep Nepal’s Parliament from adopting the amendment, but Kathmandu needed it for the sake of cartographic parity with India in future talks. Truth be told — that the Limpiyadhura triangle exists now on the maps of both countries should not obstruct negotiations, when you consider that the smaller area of Kalapani, too, has remained on the maps of both countries for decades. And, life has gone on. Dousing the volcano The ice was broken on August 15 when Prime Minister Oli called Prime Minister Modi on the occasion of India’s Independence Day, but that is just the beginning. Talks must be held, for which the video conference facility that has existed between the two Foreign Secretaries must be re-activated. Delay will wound the people of Nepal socially, culturally and economically. As the larger country, India may think it will hurt less, but only if it disregards its poorest citizens from Purvanchal to Bihar and Odisha, who rely on substantial remittance from Nepal. India does have experience of successfully resolving territorial disputes with Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and even Pakistan bilaterally and through third-party adjudication. Given political will at the topmost level, it should be possible to douse the Limpiyadhura volcano just as quickly as it has erupted. One difficulty is the apparent absence of backchannel diplomacy between the two capitals, which helped in ending the 2015 blockade. Today, India’s Prime Minister’s Office exercises such exclusive power that all channels have dried up. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leadership might have been approached, but that was the very category Prime Minister Oli riled with his Ayodhya-in-Nepal claim. There is an immediate need to de-escalate and compartmentalise. The first requires verbal restraint on the part of Prime Minister Oli and India’s willingness to talk even as the pandemic continues. While India’s Foreign Office has thankfully remained restrained in its statements, India is required to maintain status quo in the disputed area. This means halting construction on the Lipu Lek track, which is the immediate cause of the present crisis. With the Prime Ministers setting the tone, the negotiating teams must meet with archival papers, treaties and agreements, administrative records, communications, maps and drawings. The formal negotiations should begin with ab initio public commitment by both sides to redraw their respective maps according to the negotiated settlement as and when it happens. Not to prejudge the outcome, if Nepal were to gain full possession of Limpiyadhura, it should declare the area a ‘zone of peace and pilgrimage’. The larger area must be demilitarised by both neighbours to ensure security for themselves, while the Kailash-Manasarovar route is kept open for pilgrims. The idea is certainly worth a thought: a Limpiyadhura Zone of Peace and Pilgrimage. Kanak Mani Dixit, a writer and journalist based in Kathmandu, is founding Editor of the magazine, ‘Himal Southasian’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-for-india-and-nepal-to-make-up/article32389070.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Aiming to decolonise through colonial logic||In July, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) constituted the Committee for Reforms in Criminal Law to undo the “colonial foundations of our criminal law”. The precise mandate of the Committee has not been put into the public domain, but it is apparent that the Committee aims to recommend an overhaul of the Indian criminal justice system. Among others, judges, lawyers, and activists have voiced their concerns about the composition and operation of the Committee. Reforms based on the Committee’s recommendations will have serious ramifications for every person who is subjected to the criminal justice system. A smoothly functioning legal system determines our freedom to live authentic lives as full citizens in a democratic polity. The (mal)administration of criminal justice shapes the boundaries of whom we love, what we say, whether we complain about violence, how we respond to hate, and many other foundational aspects of our lives. Despite the pervasive ways in which criminal laws interact with our most intimate decisions, the scope of these laws is now going to be determined by a process that is exclusionary for most of the Indian citizenry. If the aim is to decolonise the law, by disabling democratic deliberation, the Committee has set itself up for failure from its very inception. Decolonisation was not a moment in 1947. Decolonisation is an ongoing process, which requires a commitment to undoing the colonial logic of domination governing citizen-state relations. The Committee’s methods, on the other hand, entrench structures of oppression. As we analyse below, they treat a majority of the population as having nothing valuable to offer to the reform process. Disabling participation The Committee’s procedures are designed to disable broad-based participation. The exclusive route to participation is the Committee’s website. However, only about 40% of the population actively uses the Internet. Internet usage itself is linked to structural barriers. For example, women are less likely to have Internet access; and in Kashmir, Internet services that were suspended in August 2019 are yet to be fully restored. Further, all the Committee’s documentation and background resources, including 89 reports of the Law Commission of India (LCI), are in English. The most reliable estimates suggest that only 10% of the Indian population speaks English, and most such persons reside in urban areas. Moreover, the life cycle of the Committee coincides with the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic has wrought havoc on people’s lives and livelihoods. With several marginalised groups struggling to secure even rudimentary healthcare, education and employment, it is inconceivable that they could participate meaningfully in a reform exercise of this scale at this moment in time. Finally, there appears to be no representation on the Committee from subaltern caste, gender, sexual, or religious groups. As far as we can tell, there is no representation from working class or disabled communities. Let alone fraught areas of conflict, there are no members on the Committee based outside of a limited geographic region in north India. It is crucial for a Committee tasked with transforming criminal justice to be more representative. It must include members who can speak to the experience of the many publics governed by the criminal law. Oppressed communities across India are over-policed and under-protected. Religious minorities as well as the impoverished Dalit and Adivasi communities bear the brunt of criminal laws through police violence, long periods of undertrial detention, harsh punishments and poor legal representation. Women, transgender people, and sexual minorities, who overwhelmingly experience gender-based violence, are frequently let down by the criminal justice system. The Committee’s composition and operation render democratic participation from these groups impossible. Disabling deliberation Opacity has characterised the Committee’s mandate and working from the outset. There are no published Terms of Reference. There is nothing to explain why an ad hoc Committee was set up for a task of this relevance and magnitude when such questions of law reform are typically entrusted to the LCI, which has established procedures to ensure inclusion and transparency. The Committee has not undertaken to publish the representations it receives from the public during its consultation process. Nor has it explained the circumstances under which the MHA logo was added to its website and then removed, raising doubts about its autonomy. Why was the membership of the Committee, as originally advertised, altered without explanation? There can be no contestation, debate or deliberation without the Committee communicating openly and honestly with all its interlocutors. The Committee’s procedures also inhibit deliberation. The Committee is carrying out consultations from July to October. Within three months, respondents are expected to form and articulate reasoned opinions on almost every conceivable issue of criminal law, procedure or evidence. In contrast, the Malimath Committee, which had a comparable mandate, took five times as long as this Committee to submit its report. Just the first of the current Committee’s six consultative questionnaires contains 46 questions, several of them deploying controversial legal concepts as if they have a neutral or objective meaning. There is no formal documentation explaining the context and relevance of these questions, diminishing the prospects of productive deliberation among stakeholders. Deliberative democracy A deliberative vision of democracy requires that all members of society are able to participate in collective decision-making, and that decision-making takes place through reasoned deliberation. It recognises that participation in political processes is hindered by structural inequalities produced by interlocking systems of oppression, including caste, patriarchy, disablism and communalism. As a response to these hierarchies, deliberative democracy requires that everyone participates in decision-making by giving reasons for why they prefer a particular course of action. This reasoning must be made publicly available for others to contest. Where political decision-making takes place in an open and transparent manner, oppressed groups can influence it through the strength of their reasons. This can mitigate the extent to which a lack of economic, social or political power will otherwise compromise their participation. An inclusive, transparent and meaningful public consultation process for law-making is one practical way to implement a deliberative version of democracy. Unfortunately, the Committee falls patently short of these ideals. It locks subjugated groups out of the consultation process so that they have no way of challenging the dominant systems of knowledge and governance that currently shape our criminal laws. It is deeply ironic that a Committee underpinned by this colonial logic professes that its primary aim is to decolonise the law. Arushi Garg is a Lecturer in Criminal Law at the University of Sheffield and Rishika Sahgal is a DPhil candidate in Law at the University of Oxford||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/aiming-to-decolonise-through-colonial-logic/article32389078.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Empowered circles, impatience and injustice||The weirdest thing about mainstream Indians today is that, often, the very people who legitimately critique a police force for being corrupt, incompetent or unaccountable, turn around and demand that any ‘suspect,’ rounded up by the same police force, should be summarily lynched or ‘encountered’. Background and response Take the sad case, in July, of journalist Vikram Joshi, who was shot in the head in Ghaziabad, presumably by men he had accused of molesting his niece. It was reported that the local police had ignored a complaint by Mr. Joshi about the molestation. Social media was understandably incandescent with righteousness over the crime. A journalist, shot in open daylight, with a prior complaint ignored by the police: there were good reasons for protest. But soon, the same police announced that they had arrested the ‘culprits,’ and the people who had been criticising the police force started tweeting about the pressing need to decapitate, grievously torture, lynch or ‘encounter’ the suspects. These were educated people. Their blithe twittering on social media — Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and the rest — indicated that they were educated people. So, one assumes, they had the intelligence to notice a logical flaw in their posture: how can you trust a police force that you consider incompetent, corrupt or apathetic to arrest the right ‘culprits?’ That is why, in law, the people arrested are never ‘culprits’. They are only suspects, and their guilt needs to be proven by due process of law. I disagree with people who put absolute trust in any institution of power, but I understand their logic when they support any action whatsoever by these institutions of power. In general, such people are called ‘fascists’ — which is a system of power that is justified in and as power, and hence it can exist on both the ‘left’ (Stalin) and the ‘right’ (Hitler). However, what is the logic of people who mistrust, with good reason, an institution of power but then turn around and accept the ‘solution’ that the same institution puts forth? How, in other words, can you accuse a police force of not doing its job and then be ready to lynch any suspect produced by the same police force? How can you consider a force corrupt or incompetent in its approach to a crime and then accept it as having honestly and competently arrested the right ‘culprits?’ There is obviously no logic in such a position. But that does not mean one cannot understand it. One fails to understand it only if one sees it in the light of right and wrong, accountability and power, justice and injustice, law and crime. Because, even though its adherents think it is about these matters, it is about something else altogether. What it is about First, it is about impatience. Then, it is about self-righteousness. And third, it is about ‘getting it over with.’ These are all dominant ingredients of our age, particularly in circles with some degree of empowerment — perhaps best indicated in a country such as India by the index of twittering literacy. All three are ‘human’ tendencies, but then everything done by human beings is a human tendency. Human beings do not have the tendency to flap their arms and fly in the air, or grow their feet as roots into the earth. But when we talk of mercy, fairness, good, evil, tolerance, xenophobia, forgiveness, hate, love, trust, distrust, generosity, selfishness, etc., we can always talk of some human tendency or the other. Take patience, for instance. One can claim that patience is a trait of many complex organisms. When a cat crouches by the hole of a mouse, waiting to strike, it is being patient. By the same token, one can talk of a cat that gives up the crouching earlier than another cat as less patient. But ‘impatience’ might well have a more human dimension. For instance, certain lifestyles might breed impatience. Farmers, who depend on agricultural seasons, are characteristically seen as patient people — though often the derogatory word, ‘slow,’ is attached to them — compared to city dwellers. Neoliberalism, with its focus on short-term profit, arguably breeds an even more impatient lifestyle than classical industrial capitalism. ‘Getting on with it’ is an aspect of this lifestyle: most of us recognise it in the empty lamentation that we occasionally offer about the withering away of human relations, the ‘abandonment’ of aged parents, the shrinking ‘attention span’ of younger people, etc. And finally, self-righteousness is a particularly human tendency, because of our complex awareness of our self. A complexity Other animals can be said to be aware of their self in certain ways — obviously always in the present and, to a reduced degree, in the past and future (as is indicated by squirrels that hoard nuts). But the complexity of human self-awareness is unmatched on this earth: among other things, it consists of ethical issues that can only be encountered by a species with a highly developed, abstract language. One natural danger of this is self-righteousness, which is further exacerbated in an unequal world — where we need to justify our own privileges to ourselves. And hence, when we legitimately criticise a police force for corruption or incompetence but then want to lynch any ‘suspect’ arrested by the same force, without due process of law, we are not motivated by justice. We want to get it over with, and return to our zones of comfortable twittering. Tabish Khair is an Indian novelist and academic who teaches in Denmark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/empowered-circles-impatience-and-injustice/article32389072.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Resurrecting the right to know||A significant development in the right to information campaign has largely gone unnoticed. The resurrection of the right to know is momentous considering that we are increasingly witnessing an unfortunate denial of information while forgetting the right to know. Releasing the report A High Level Committee (HLC) chaired by a retired judge of the Gauhati High Court and including, among others, the Advocates General of two Northeast States was constituted by the Home Ministry through a gazette notification of July 15, 2019. Its mandate was, among others, to recommend measures to implement Clause 6 of the Assam Accord and define “Assamese People”. The HLC finalised its report by mid-February 2020 and submitted it to the Assam Chief Minister soon after. He handed over the report to the Union Home Minister on March 20. With the Central government apparently “sitting idle” over the report, the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), which was represented in the HLC, released the report on August 11. The proffered reasons for the release were the Central government’s inaction on the report and the people’s right to know. Sitting idle over a report is not an uncommon phenomenon. The Vohra Committee report on the alleged nexus between politicians and criminals was kept under wraps for almost two years. It was tabled in Parliament following a public uproar on the murder of Naina Sahni by a prominent politician. The right to know was recognised nearly 50 years ago and is the foundational basis or the direct emanation for the right to information. In State of U.P. v. Raj Narain (1975), the Supreme Court carved out a class of documents that demand protection even though their contents may not be damaging to the national interest. For example, Cabinet papers, foreign office despatches, papers regarding the security of the state and high-level interdepartmental minutes. A pragmatic view was canvassed by Justice Mathew who held that “the people of this country have a right to know every public act, everything that is done in a public way, by their public functionaries. They are entitled to know the particulars of every public transaction in all its bearing. The right to know, which is derived from the concept of freedom of speech, though not absolute, is a factor which should make one wary, when secrecy is claimed for transactions which can, at any rate, have no repercussion on public security.” This view was endorsed in S.P. Gupta v. President of India (1981) and a few other decisions. In S.P. Gupta , Justice Venkataramiah observed that “the tendency in all democratic countries in recent times is to liberalise the restrictions placed on the right of the citizens to know what is happening in the various public offices. The emphasis now is more on the right of a citizen to know than on his ‘need to know’ the contents of official documents.” In Yashwant Sinha v. Central Bureau of Investigation (2019), the Supreme Court referred to the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in New York Times v. United States (1971) wherein Justice Marshall declined to recognise the right of the government to restrain publication of the Pentagon Papers. Our Supreme Court held that a review petition based on three documents published by The Hindu was maintainable since the provisions of the Official Secrets Act, 1923 had not been violated. It held that there is no provision by which Parliament had vested power in the government either to restrain the publication of documents marked as secret or from placing such documents before a court of law which may have been called upon to adjudicate a legal issue concerning the parties. Justice K.M. Joseph referred to Section 8(2) of the Right to Information Act, 2005 which provides that a citizen can get a certified copy of a document even if the matter pertains to security or relationship with a foreign nation, if a case is made out. Therefore, it is clear that the right to know can be curtailed only in limited circumstances and if there is an overriding public interest. Being more transparent Keeping in mind the view expressed by the Supreme Court over nearly 50 years, it is clear that the Official Secrets Act is not attracted to the disclosure of the HLC report. There is no doubt that a bold and progressive decision has been taken by AASU to release the report in public interest. Hopefully, this will encourage governments to effectuate the citizen’s right to know and be more transparent in public interest, as long as the security of the country is not jeopardised. As observed by the Supreme Court in S.P. Gupta : “If secrecy were to be observed in the functioning of government and the processes of government were to be kept hidden from public scrutiny, it would tend to promote and encourage oppression, corruption and misuse or abuse of authority, for it would all be shrouded in the veil of secrecy without any public accountability.” Justice (retd.) Madan B. Lokur is a former Supreme Court judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/resurrecting-the-right-to-know/article32389081.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Erring on the side of caution||Last week, the Supreme Court deferred a pronouncement on the legality of the Centre’s now-lapsed controversial notification relating to the rules of the law banning sex-selective abortions. The judges viewed the matter as closed for now, as the April 4 notification pertaining to the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) (PCPNDT) Act was left to expire by the government on June 30. The apex court similarly erred on the side of caution in June, choosing not to stay the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s gazette notification. The inference was that such an option would be warranted only if the suspension of relevant rules was extended beyond June. The petitioner’s concerns have thus largely been allayed that the April 4 notification loosening the rules, ostensibly to cope with the pandemic, would dilute the law. Suspension of rules One of the impugned rules requires a five-yearly renewal of registration of genetic laboratories, ultrasound clinics and imaging centres, subject to the fulfilment of eligibility criteria. Another mandates these diagnostic establishments to submit monthly records on the conduct of pregnancy-related procedures to the designated authority. State governments and Union Territories are required to furnish quarterly reports to the Centre on the implementation of the law. The Union Health Ministry had maintained that various procedural deadlines were relaxed in the wake of the public health crisis and that such flexibility would in no way jeopardise the larger objectives of the law. On the other hand, activists saw no rationale whatsoever behind the suspension of rules, since the operation of diagnostic laboratories had been declared essential services. They were understandably apprehensive that the freeze would result in large-scale violations. It is one thing to condone delays in the completion of formalities via an administrative order, but altogether another to declare a freeze via a gazette notification, they argued. In any case, the 25-year jurisprudence around the PCPNDT legislation does not justify a sanguine approach on the enforcement of its various provisions. A case in point is the ongoing litigation regarding the eligibility of medical practitioners to conduct ultrasound procedures. In February 2016, the Delhi High Court struck down the requirement under the 2014 PCPNDT rules of a six-month training period for personnel carrying out ultrasonography. In challenging that ruling in the Supreme Court, the Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA) stressed the lack of preparation in an MBBS programme to conduct ultrasound procedures, which was part of the discipline of radiology. IRIA also cited the relevant Medical Council of India guidelines based on the law. The Supreme Court stayed the Delhi High Court judgment in 2018 as an interference in legislative policy intended to further the objectives of the law in the face of grave misuse of pre-natal diagnostic procedures.  Adherence to public policy The Supreme Court last year ruled that the non-maintenance of medical records as per Section 23 of the PCPNDT Act could serve as a conduit in the grave offence of foeticide. The Bench hence dismissed the plea of the Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecological Societies of India to treat inaccuracies in paperwork as clerical errors. In its 2016 judgment, in response to the Voluntary Health Association of Punjab petition, the Court authorised the seizure of illegal equipment from clinics and the suspension of their registration as well as speedy disposal of relevant cases by the States. Many of the court’s strictures go back to the litigation in the early years of the legislation spearheaded by the Centre for Enquiry into Health and Allied Themes. Crucially, the alarming decline witnessed in recent decades in India’s sex ratio at birth calls for an uncompromising adherence to public policy, more than is evident from evolving case law. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/erring-on-the-side-of-caution/article32389079.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Tussle in Tamil Nadu||The raging debate that Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK witnessed last week over its choice for the office of Chief Minister for the 2021 Assembly election might have been premature, but it highlighted the sharp divide between the camps of CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy CM O. Panneerselvam. For now, the leaders have decided not to address the issue and asked party functionaries not to discuss it in public. The debate, apart from the timing, was strange as Tamil Nadu, with a history of personality cult politics, is not known to have the tradition of principal parties declaring Chief Ministerial candidates. Until the debate erupted, Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam, who was briefly CM three times in the last 19 years, gave the impression of having worked out a successful cohabitation arrangement, in the party and the government. But, Mr. Palaniswami must be wondering why the issue came up. As the incumbent CM, he could have reasonably expected to be projected as the party’s nominee. Also, the controversy has much to do with the AIADMK’s relationship with its ally, the BJP. While Mr. Panneerselvam appears to be upset over the lack of prominence given to him in government events and the delay in the constitution of a steering committee for the party, his son, O.P. Raveendranath Kumar — the only AIADMK candidate elected during the 2019 Lok Sabha election — was not nominated to the Union Council of Ministers. To date, the Union government has no AIADMK representative. Mr. Palaniswami was evidently cautious, keeping in mind the presence of seniors in the parliamentary party and also of the advisability of sending his party’s nominees to the Centre when the popular mood in the State is not favourable to the BJP. There is a view within the AIADMK that any tie-up with BJP for 2021 would be as disastrous as it was in 2019. Besides, their differences on policy matters seem unending. In recent months, the Palaniswami regime has made known its opposition unequivocally, be it on the issue of the three-language policy, or free power for agriculturists or revision of norms for determining the creamy layer among OBCs, eligible for quota in education and jobs. The BJP’s State unit too has been adopting aggressive posturing, especially on Hindu deities and religious matters. Its leaders are aggrieved that even though the police have taken action on a row over ‘Kanda Sashti Kavasam’, a compilation of Tamil hymns, the AIADMK leadership chose not to comment on the matter, but Mr. Palaniswami was quick to condemn an incident in Puducherry, of the statue of AIADMK founder MGR being draped in a saffron shawl. Whether or not the alliance survives this phase, the signals from the ground are not encouraging. Before taking a call on its alliance with the BJP, the AIADMK should set things right and settle the issue of the Chief Ministerial candidate for 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tussle-in-tamil-nadu/article32389065.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Troubled waters||Tensions in the eastern Mediterranean soared last week, with Turkey sending an exploration vessel, accompanied by a Navy fleet, to the disputed waters and France despatching warships to assist Greece. The trigger for the recent hostility between Turkey and Greece, which have historically shared troublesome relations, has been the discovery of gas in the Mediterranean waters. The EU’s plans to transport the gas to its mainland, which would help reduce its dependency on Russia, have raised the region’s geopolitical profile. Turkey and Greece have overlapping maritime claims. But when EU members and its allies in West Asia and North Africa made plans to build a gas pipeline from the Mediterranean to Europe’s mainland, they kept Turkey out of it, which infuriated Ankara. Earlier this year, the EastMed Gas Forum was formed by Cyprus, Egypt, Greece, Israel, Italy, Jordan and Palestine, and Turkey was again excluded. But Turkey challenged the pipeline project and reached an agreement with Libya’s Tripoli-based government, which Ankara is backing, to form an exclusive economic zone (EEZ) from its southern shores to Libya’s northern coast across the Mediterranean. Greece claimed the Turkish zone violated its maritime sovereignty. Later, Greece announced its EEZ with Egypt, which clashes with Turkey’s zone. Immediately thereafter, Turkey sent its survey ship over. The highly complicated issue now has the potential to involve Europe, West Asia and North Africa. It is difficult to demarcate the maritime boundaries in the eastern Mediterranean, which is dotted with Turkish and Greek islands. Cyprus is physically divided with the southern part ruled by the internationally-recognised government and the northern part controlled by Turkey. Turkey’s survey ship plans exploration activities around Greece’s Crete Island, which lies just outside the Turkish-Libya economic zone, and Greece and Cyprus call it a violation of their sovereignty. France, the EU’s most powerful military force, has thrown its weight behind Greece and Cyprus. Now, an alliance is emerging among Greece, Cyprus, Italy and France, which is backed by Egypt, Israel and the UAE. Turkey stands almost isolated, but remains a key power in the Mediterranean, which requires the EU to tread cautiously. If the EU wants to transport gas from the coast of Israel to Europe via Cyprus and Italy, an open conflict with Turkey cannot help. What is in everybody’s interest is to dial down tensions and find a diplomatic and mutually acceptable solution to the gas contest. Excluding Turkey, which has a long Mediterranean coast, is unwise. Allowing a resurgent Turkey to bully smaller powers in the region would be strategically disastrous. The EU has to strike a balance between these two options.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/troubled-waters/article32389066.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Meston Award. (From an editorial)||Reuter’s summary of the Joint Committee Report seems to emphasise the obvious and leave the obscure points as they are, so that we think it better to defer comment on the latter. We shall for the present be content with referring to the Committee’s decision regarding the Meston Award. That decision unfortunately is that the Award, which is to be given legislative sanction by Rules 13 to 28 of the Devolution Rules under the Government of India Act, is to stand in all its essential features. This most arbitrary and unjust award, which has evoked the most bitter protest from all the provinces alike, one which has failed to satisfy anybody, neither the Provincial Governments nor the public, is defended by the Committee on the trite and easy grounds that it is inevitable and that it is impossible, “by a stroke of the pen, to remove inequalities which have resulted from long standing historical causes.” We are sorry that it did not occur to the Committee that the stroke of the pen which has the audacity and coolness to seek to perpetuate age-long injustices might as well have the power to remedy these injustices, if those who wielded it were so minded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-meston-award-from-an-editorial/article32389073.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Aichi meets PM||The Japanese Foreign Minister, Mr. Kiichi Aichi, who arrived here [New Delhi] last night [August 17] on a goodwill mission, had his first round of talks to-day with the External Affairs Minister, Mr. Swaran Singh, before calling on the President, Mr. V. V. Giri and the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, with special messages of greetings from Emperor Hirohito and Premier, Mr. Eisaku Sato, to them. Mr. Aichi’s talks with Mrs. Gandhi lasted 45 minutes. To-day’s talks with Mr. Swaran Singh which lasted 2 ½ hours were in the nature of a tour-de-horizon of South East Asia and the Pacific region — with the accent on what India and Japan could do to bring about a peaceful settlement of the Indo-China war. The two Foreign Ministers and their advisers will get down to detailed discussion on both regional and bilateral issues tomorrow before Mr. Aichi leaves for Pakistan on Thursday morning by the land route from Amritsar to Lahore. He will be the first foreign dignitary to cross the Indo-Pakistan border at the sensitive Wagah-Attari check-point after the 1965 conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/aichi-meets-pm/article32389074.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre targets PSBs’ stake sale by March||The Finance Ministry is working to expedite the sale of stakes in four state-owned banks — IDBI Bank, Bank of Maharashtra, Punjab & Sind Bank and UCO Bank — with the aim of completing the disinvestment process in the current fiscal, said an official. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a meeting on Tuesday with all Secretaries in the Ministry to discuss this issue, the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, added. The government is looking to divest its stakes in multiple public sector companies at a time when its finances have taken a hit from significant shortfalls in tax revenue amid the economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. The four banks mentioned were the only prospects currently being considered for divestment in the banking sector, added the official. “Work has started on these four, and the target is to complete it within this financial year, by March 2021,” said the official. The Centre holds majority stakes in all four banks through direct and indirect holdings. The Prime Minister’s Office wrote a letter to the Finance Ministry earlier this month asking it to expedite the sale of stakes in these lenders, Reuters reported on Tuesday, citing a government source with direct knowledge of the matter. ‘Strategic sectors’ The Centre’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, announced in May as a stimulus package in the wake of the pandemic, had promised a new Public Sector Enterprise Policy that would notify specific strategic sectors in which no more than four PSU players would be allowed, with the rest being privatised, merged or brought under holding companies. At the time, some economists had cautioned that the government could struggle to find buyers for its PSU stakes at a time of global recession. In June, Chief Economic Advisor Krishnamurthy Subramanian asserted that banking would be categorised as a strategic sector, meaning that apart from four public sector banks, all others would have to be privatised or merged. Earlier this month, a senior Finance Ministry official said that a proposal on strategic sectors was being prepared and would be taken to the Cabinet soon. The official also confirmed that the Centre intended to go ahead with the proposed sale of its stake in IDBI Bank. The government currently owns about 47% stake in IDBI Bank. In 2019, state-run insurance behemoth LIC completed acquisition of a 51% controlling stake in the lender, and infused Rs. 21,624 crore into it. Shares of IDBI Bank rose 2.7% to close at Rs. 39.65 on the BSE on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-targets-psbs-stake-sale-by-march/article32389053.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Defer statutory dues for pandemic-hit tourism, urges CII||To mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the tourism sector, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has made recommendations including waiver of fixed charges, deferment of statutory dues, and allowing all hotels to remain open without time restrictions. “With the new guidelines issued under Unlock 3.0 by the Government of India, we would be extremely grateful if economic activities and business are allowed to operate as permissible under the MHA guidelines,” said Puneet Chhatwal and Deep Kalra, the chairman and co-chairman, respectively, of the CII National Committee on Tourism & Hospitality, in a letter to Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel. The letter, dated August 13, requested the Ministry of Tourism to issue an advisory to all State Governments in this regard. To boost liquidity, the CII suggested that all fixed charges such as electricity, water, LPG and property tax, for the lockdown period be waived. It also sought a 12-month deferment of all statutory dues. The industry has also requested that loans be made more accessible via a long-term moratorium, interest rate reduction and/or longer repayment schedules which could “aid in salvaging an entire industry”. It also suggested the use of a ‘COVID Passport’ for easing travel-test certificate acceptance and a common protocol for quarantine among State governments for seamless inter-State travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/defer-statutory-dues-for-pandemic-hit-tourism-urges-cii/article32389055.ece
19 August 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI unveils framework for retail payments entity||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday released a framework for setting up of a pan-India umbrella entity for retail payments systems. This entity, to be incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013, would need to focus on retail payments systems, the RBI said. The umbrella entity will set up, manage and operate new payments systems in the retail space comprising ATMs, white label PoS, Aadhaar-based payments and remittance services. The entity will operate clearing and settlement systems for participating banks and non-banks, identify and manage relevant risks, monitor retail payments system developments and related issues in the country and internationally. The RBI said it will be the responsibility of the entity to frame necessary rules and the related processes to ensure that the system is safe and sound, and that payments are exchanged efficiently. The entity will be permitted to participate in Reserve Bank’s payment and settlement systems, including having a current account with Reserve Bank, if required. The formation of the umbrella entity has been authorised under the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-unveils-framework-for-retail-payments-entity/article32389051.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Data, AI may add up to $500 bn to GDP by 2025’||Data and Artificial Intelligence (AI) could add $450-$500 billion to India’s GDP by 2025 and contribute to the country’s economic recovery and growth, said industry apex body Nasscom. “AI has become a strategic lever for economic growth across nations and will continue to be one of the most crucial technologies of the future,” said Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of Electronics and IT, while releasing a Nasscom report titled ‘Unlock Value from Data and AI: The Indian Opportunity’ on Tuesday. “Digital India has reimagined how our government connects with citizens and the accelerated deployment of AI and other emerging technologies will help further this objective,” he said. “To harness its full potential, India needs to embrace AI innovation and regulation with an open, inclusive and a collaborative mindset,” the Minister added. Debjani Ghosh, president, Nasscom, said, “Data and AI’s true potential emerges from its ability to drive transformation across multiple sectors through a diverse range of applications.”  AI will continue to be one of the most crucial technologies of the future Ravi Shankar Prasad Mnister IT and Electronics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/data-ai-may-add-up-to-500-bn-to-gdp-by-2025/article32389057.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Farm exports rise 23% to Rs. 25,553 cr. in March-June||India’s farm exports rose more than 23% in value terms to Rs. 25,553 crore during March-June period amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, the Agriculture Ministry said on Tuesday. To promote farm exports, a “comprehensive action plan” has been prepared under which ‘Export Promotion Forums’ are being created and existing agri-clusters strengthened besides identifying certain destinations for promotion of agricultural exports, the Ministry said in a statement. Forex earnings Promotion of farm exports is extremely important not only for earning precious foreign exchange for the country but also for achieving the goal of an ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat,’ for which self-reliant agriculture is critical, it added. “Even during the difficult time of pandemic lockdown, India took care not to disturb the world food supply chain and continued to export,” it said. According to the Ministry, ‘clear and proactive interventions’ are required to be taken to ensure India becomes a top exporting nation in agriculture commensurate with the production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/farm-exports-rise-23-to-rs-25553-cr-in-march-june/article32389060.ece
19 August 2020||COIMBATORE,||CK Motors to set up Rs. 30-cr. EV unit in T.N.||CK Motors, a Tiruppur-based company, plans to invest Rs. 30 crore in Coimbatore to manufacture e-vehicles. The plant is expected to be commissioned in a couple of months. C. Gunasekaran, business head, CK Motors, said the year-old firm is now the joint manufacturing partner of Pure EV, an IIT Hyderabad-incubated start-up, that has patented its lithium-ion batteries. In the last one year, CK Motors had sold 1,000 e-vehicles in Tamil Nadu. It will commission a factory located on 10 acres here to manufacture electric scooters, mopeds, and cycles initially and gradually move on to make electric motorbikes and three-wheeler scooters for delivery personnel, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ck-motors-to-set-up-rs-30-cr-ev-unit-in-tn/article32389049.ece
19 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Deloitte to buy ad advisory Spatial Access||Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP has announced the acquisition of Spatial Access, a specialised advertising and marketing advisory and analytics firm, for an unspecified amount to enhance its advisory capabilities and help brands make efficient advertising and marketing decisions. “Deloitte strengthens its foothold in the advertising and marketing advisory space by enabling clients to enhance the effectiveness of their marketing spends which are directly aligned to their business objectives,” said Chandrashekar Mantha, partner, media and entertainment industry lead, risk advisory, Deloitte India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/deloitte-to-buy-ad-advisory-spatial-access/article32389058.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||“India ranks among lowest in terms of Internet quality”||India ranks among the lowest in the world in terms of Internet quality, an online privacy solutions provider SurfShark said in a research report. As per the “Digital Quality of Life Index 2020,” which researches on the quality of digital well-being in 85 countries (81% of the global population), in terms of e-infrastructure, India occupies 79th place, ranking below countries, including Guatemala and Sri Lanka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-ranks-among-lowest-in-terms-of-internet-quality/article32389048.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Toyota India unveils subscription service for cars||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Tuesday announced a car leasing and subscription programme in India. The auto major also set up a new vertical, Toyota’s Mobility Service (TMS), to drive future mobility initiatives in India. To start with, TMSToyota’s Mobility Service will provide leasing and subscription serivces to customers in Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru and Mumbai and expand them to 10 more cities in a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/toyota-india-unveils-subscription-service-for-cars/article32389056.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||People’s Bank of China picks up stake in ICICI Bank via QIP issue||After picking up a stake in HDFC, Chinese central bank People’s Bank of China has acquired a very small stake in ICICI Bank through the Rs. 15,000-crore share sale by the private sector lender. The Chinese central bank has picked up shares worth Rs. 15 crore in the qualified institutional placement issue, sources said. At current marke capitalisation, the stake in ICICI Bank is about 0.0065%, the sources added.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/peoples-bank-of-china-picks-up-stake-in-icici-bank-via-qip-issue/article32389064.ece
19 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Dream11 is IPL’s new title sponsor||Fantasy sports platform Dream11 has bagged the title sponsorship rights for the Indian Premier League’s 2020 edition with a bid of Rs. 222 crore. Three bids IPL chairman Brijesh Patel confirmed to The Hindu on Tuesday that Dream11 was finalised after “evaluating the three bids that were submitted during the prescribed window earlier today”. The other bidders were e-learning platforms Unacademy (Rs. 170 crore) and Byju’s (Rs. 201 crore). The eligible entities among those who had submitted their Expression of Interest (EoI) were asked to email their bids between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Tuesday. The Tata group, despite submitting the EoI document last week, pulled out of the race. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) was forced last week to invite bids for IPL’s title sponsorship rights following Vivo India’s withdrawal barely six weeks before the start of the tournament, to be played in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from September 19 to November 10. Chinese investor A combination of the Chinese firm seeking a reduction in the sponsorship amount because of the pandemic-caused economic crisis and the public sentiment in India following the border tension with China had led to Vivo’s exit. Dream11, which has been a partner of BCCI and IPL for a couple of years now, also has a minority investment from a Chinese firm — Tencent Holdings. Vivo India’s deal was valued at Rs. 440 crore per annum. FanCode, a live-streaming app launched last year by the Dream11 promoters, is under investigation by the BCCI’s Anti-Corruption Unit for its alleged links to a match played by locals on the outskirts of Chandigarh, that was passed off as a T20 contest staged in Sri Lanka. A BCCI official said that since the Punjab Police is investigating the matter and the two sites are different entities, the on-going investigation will not have any bearing on Dream11’s bid.  Money matters The evolution of IPL’s title sponsorship rights over time: 2008-2012: DLF: Rs. 40 crore per year 2013-2015: Pepsi: Rs. 79.2 crore per year 2016-2017: Vivo: Rs. 100 crore per year 2018-2019: Vivo: Rs. 440 crore per year 2020: Dream11: Rs. 222 crore per year   Money matters A look at how the IPL title sponsorship rights have evolved since its inception  2008-2012: DLF, Rs. 40 crore per year  2013-2015: Pepsi, Rs. 79.2 crore per year  2016-2017: Vivo, Rs. 100 crore per year  2018-2019: Vivo, Rs. 440 crore per year  2020: Dream11, Rs. 222 crore per year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dream11-is-ipls-new-title-sponsor/article32389222.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Cricket teams need both Simon and Garfunkel||Playing second fiddle is sometimes colourfully called being a Garfunkel, after the apparently lesser half of the Simon and Garfunkel duo which gave us memorable music in the 60s and 70s. Chetan Chauhan was, as it turned out, Garfunkel to two phenomenal cricketers. In his playing days, Sunil Gavaskar, his opening partner, was the world conqueror while he revelled in the supporting role. Then he was Garfunkel to Mahendra Singh Dhoni, whose retirement announcement took up more airwaves and newsprint and social media traction than Chauhan’s death a day later. Chauhan didn’t mind the former, it is unlikely he would have minded the latter. For he knew his place, as player, administrator or politician. Dhoni has been feted for his self-awareness, his self-knowledge; Chauhan had these qualities too. He was not as flamboyant, and was never spoken of as a potential India captain — but his value to the team was not calculated in such currency. He was that often overlooked player, the quiet man who knew what needed to be done, and how to go about doing it quietly. Brought calm to the team Just as every team needs fast bowlers, spinners, wicket-keeper and batsmen, every team needs a Chetan Chauhan too; someone who brings a calm, measured quality to it. Both as a player and a person. The great West Indies teams of the 70s and 80s, with a phalanx of stroke-makers and fast bowlers, had a Larry Gomes; not as celebrated as the Richardses, Greenidges, Lloyds, Marshalls, Holdings, but a crucial balancing factor. Mike Brearley once wrote that a cricket eleven works only by dint of differentiation. The skills are diverse, but every team looks for balance. Balance is essential in the temperaments too. When a hot-headed Sunil Gavaskar, then captain, miffed at being given out wrongly in Australia, asked Chauhan to walk off the field with him, Chauhan knew it would mean conceding the match, but as a disciplined soldier followed his leader. He walked slowly, in order to give Gavaskar time to cool down. Chauhan said later he knew the price India would have to pay. The situation was defused after Gavaskar crossed the boundary – Chauhan was still inside – and the Indian manager waved for Chauhan back and sent in next man Dilip Vengsarkar. When he was captain, Dhoni was the calmest player on the field; captains are not always the most composed, as his successor Virat Kohli has shown. But there is Cheteshwar Pujara for balance. Ajinkya Rahane too. They constitute — as Chauhan did — a version of the ‘elders’, tasked with (whether consciously or not) providing equanimity in the team. The Gavaskar-Chauhan combination delivered stability and allowed that generation to breathe a little easier than they had been used to. At the Oval in ‘79, when chasing 438, they put on 213, a start that brought India within nine runs of winning a match that was eventually drawn. In some ways they were similar, although Gavaskar had a far greater range. The late Mike Marqusee’s lovely little poem on opening batsmen says at one point: We play the same percentages/ to different rhythms…. Not written specifically about Gavaskar-Chauhan, it captured their partnership well. They were the last old-fashioned pair, their job to see off the new ball and protect the middle order. Chauhan played his final Test in Auckland in 1981. Gavaskar’s partner in the following Test (in Mumbai) was Krishnamachari Srikkanth. Opening batting was never the same again. Chauhan played only 40 Tests in a 12-year period when India played 81. It seems lopsided somehow. But he inspired in varied roles as administrator and politician. He will be missed in each of those fields. If Chauhan was the last in the line of a particular kind of opener, Dhoni was the first in another line: that of a creative wicketkeeper-batsman-captain who grabbed a match by the scruff of its neck and made it do his bidding. There had been attacking keepers before — Farokh Engineer and Budhi Kunderan, for example — but none who led as often or had so many calls on his various talents. Only five players — Sachin Tendulkar, Mahela Jayawardene, Kumar Sangakkara, Sanath Jayasuriya and Ricky Ponting — played more internationals than Dhoni’s 538; only one of them, Sangakkara, also kept wickets, and none of them led in as many matches. Significant contribution It is an incredible record, but Dhoni’s significance went beyond that. This Ranchi-born gave the cricketing backwaters of India something to aspire to; he led a democratisation drive that saw the game and its players prosper in unexpected places, beyond the main cities. There aren’t too many cricketing questions he leaves unanswered. There’s that business of the hour of retirement, though. 1929 hours. In all these years, we know about Dhoni only what he has allowed us to know. For someone stingy with personal details, 1929 might have been him having fun. Picasso or Joyce sometimes introduced tricky elements in their work just for the fun of having critics interpret them. Maybe that’s Dhoni’s intention too!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cricket-teams-need-both-simon-and-garfunkel/article32389203.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rohit Sharma among five recommended||In a record, five sportspersons — cricketer Rohit Sharma, wrestler Vinesh Phogat, table tennis star Manika Batra, hockey captain Rani Rampal and Rio paralympics gold medallist Thangavelu Mariyappan — have been recommended for the nation’s highest sporting honour, the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna. The previous best since the award was instituted in 1985 was four after the Rio Olympics. Olympic medallist wrestler Sakshi Malik and world champion weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, despite being Khel Ratna winners, had applied for the Arjuna award. The panel has requested the Union Sports Minister to consider their case. Naresh Kumar in the mix A dozen names have been put forth for the Dronacharya award, including that of 91-year-old Naresh Kumar, who had won his Arjuna award in 1962. Tennis, till date, doesn’t have a single Dronacharya. Along with Naresh Kumar, the others who figure in this list for the award in the life-time category are Dharmendra Tiwari (archery), Purushottam Rai (athletics), Shiv Singh (boxing), Krishan Kumar Hooda (kabaddi), Vijay Munishwar (para powerlifting) and O.P. Dahiya (wrestling). Former hockey captain Jude Felix in hockey and star shooter with multiple Asian Games gold medals, Jaspal Rana, were recommended for the Dronacharya award in the regular section.  The Arjuna Awards list has 29 names including cricketer Ishant Sharma, six-time Winter Olympian Shiva Keshavan, athlete Dutee Chand, star shooters Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary, Vishesh Bhriguvanshi (basketball), Ajay Anant Sawant (equestrian), Aditi Ashok (golf), Sarika Sudhakar (kho kho), Madhurika Patkar (table tennis), and Rahul Aware and Divya Kakran (wrestling). Among the 15 recommended for the Dhyan Chand award are Jincy Philips (athletics), Trupti Murgunde (badminton), Lakha Singh (boxing), Ajit Singh (hockey), late Sachin Singh (swimming), Nandan Bal (tennis) and Ranjit Kumar (para athletics). The Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puraskar in different categories will be bestowed on Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), Air Force Sports Board, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, Army Sports Institute, Lakshya Institute and International Institute of Sports Management. Since the awards function is unlikely to be held on August 29, the National Sports Day, the government is expected to announce the full list on that day.  Phogat, Manika, Rani and Mariyappan the other four Khel Ratna nominees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-sharma-among-five-recommended/article32389200.ece
19 August 2020||LISBON,||Bayern not taking Lyon challenge lightly||Corentin Tolisso says treble-chasing Bayern Munich should be wary of his former club Lyon in Wednesday’s Champions League semifinal as the “greedy” Bavarians look to build on their demolition of Barcelona. “From a German point of view, perhaps Lyon’s the least known team. But against Manchester City, we all saw what this team is capable of,” warned the Frenchman, who joined Bayern from Lyon in 2017. “We will never underestimate them. When the big games come up, Lyon is always there. No team can reach the semifinals by chance,” added the 2018 World Cup winner, who is likely to start on the bench on Wednesday. In the wake of the stunning 8-2 thrashing of Barcelona in the quarterfinals, there is an air of determination in the Bayern camp. Akin to 2013 squad Defender Jerome Boateng compared the current squad to the 2013 outfit which landed the first treble of Bundesliga, German Cup and Champions League titles in the club’s history. “To be honest, I noticed from day one that something was up,” remembers Boateng of the 2013 squad. “That was our big goal for the season. We played better in the Champions League from the start than we might have done in the Bundesliga. We were extremely greedy all the time.” The current crop of Bayern stars has the same insatiable appetite, earning the nickname ‘FC Never Satisfied’ by the German media.However, nothing is being taken for granted against Lyon. “The next game is always the most difficult,” said Boateng despite Bayern winning its last 20 games. “The thrashing of Barcelona now counts for nothing. Our opponent is not standing where he is for nothing,” he added. Coach Hansi Flick should have right-back Benjamin Pavard fit again after injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-not-taking-lyon-challenge-lightly/article32389201.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Raina could have scored more up the order’||Suresh Raina was a “terrific team man” who could have amassed more runs if he had batted up the order, said Rahul Dravid. Dravid, who had presented Raina with the ODI and Test caps, on Tuesday paid glowing tribute to the left-handed batsman. “A lot of success that India had in white-ball cricket, a lot of great moments and memories that India had over the last decade and a half, Suresh has been a really big part of that. I think his contribution in white-ball cricket has been fantastic,” he said in a video posted by BCCI on its twitter handle. “He is a World cup winner and Champions Trophy winner. He contributed so much on the field, his energy, the enthusiasm he brought, the way he raised the standard of fielding. “Honestly his numbers could have been a lot better if he had batted higher up the order, that has been shown in the success he had for CSK (Chennai Super Kings) in the IPL where he bats at No. 3.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/raina-could-have-scored-more-up-the-order/article32389208.ece
19 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Mariyappan excited about nomination||Rio Paralympic Games gold medallist Mariyappan Thangavelu is excited to be nominated for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award, but is not resting on his laurels. Working hard The high jumper said he is working hard to repeat his performance in Tokyo next year.  “Due to COVID-19, I am not training every day. I do cycling and gym at home and three to four days a week, I go to the Air Force ground in Bengaluru and train with my coach Satyanarayana. “With my training — the coach is giving me a heavy workload — I am confident of retaining the gold,” Mariyappan, who hails from Periya Vadagampatti village in Salem, told The Hindu on Tuesday. It has not been all smooth sailing, however.  There have been doubts raised over his qualification for the Khel Ratna in some quarters because of a 2017 case in the Madras High Court concerning the death of a youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mariyappan-excited-about-nomination/article32389218.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||A belated birthday gift, says Satwiksairaj||It was a belated birthday gift, said R. Satwiksairaj, who along with Chirag Shetty, were named to receive the Arjuna Award for their consistent performances in badminton. “Only last week (on August 13) I celebrated my birthday and now we have another memorable moment to cherish,” said Satwik in a chat with The Hindu on Tuesday from his Amalapuram residence in Andhra Pradesh. “I thought I had 50-50 chances of getting it and was a bit tensed when told that only one of us could get it. I am glad that both were named for the award which means a lot to me,” Satwik said. Very special “The award is special for me for I am getting it at a very young age (he just turned 20) and after being only four years into international competition. So, in terms of motivation it is a huge thing for me,” he said. “After the disappointment of the 2020 Olympics being postponed, this is real good news. Now, we will work much harder and realise the ultimate goal of winning an Olympic medal in the next edition,” Satwik said. Better understanding Satwik, who with Chirag won the Thailand Open Super 500 tournament last year and also reached French Open final, feels that better understanding with his partner, after early problems in communication because of his poor Hindi, should help their cause now. “I dedicate this award to my parents (Viswanatham and Rangamani), chief national coach Gopi Sir and all the support staff and fellow players at Gopi Academy for all the support,” he said. Dreaming big Chirag also felt with nothing happening around in what was originally an Olympics year, the Arjuna Award is a huge motivation and dedicated it to his parents (Chandrasekhar Shetty and Sujata Shetty). “It is great to be recognised by the whole country and certainly makes us dream big and chase the Olympics medal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-belated-birthday-gift-says-satwiksairaj/article32389429.ece
19 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||An unforgettable day for Usha||For the 36-year-old N. Usha, two-time silver medallist in the World championships, it was a moment to cherish when she was recommended for the Dhyan Chand Award. “I was terribly disappointed after missing the Arjuna Award last year and would have been even more disappointed if I had not got the Dhyan Chand Award this time around,” the Visakhapatnam-based boxer said in a chat with The Hindu.  “I was looking for some inspiration to work harder and contribute in my own way as the Indian Railways women’s boxing coach in order to produce international medallists,” Usha said. Family support “I dedicate this award to my parents Venkatramana and Uma Maheshwari and brother Satish Kumar for their solid support during my formative years,” said Usha, who was also the indoor Asiad silver medallist in 2009 and gold medallist in the 2008 Asian championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/an-unforgettable-day-for-usha/article32389430.ece
19 August 2020||BENGALURU:,||Fatorda to be BFC’s ‘home’ this season||Bengaluru FC (BFC) will play all of its ‘home’ matches in the upcoming ISL season at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, a Margao suburb. The decision was arrived at based on last season’s final League standings, with BFC sharing its venue with defending champion ATK (now ATK-Mohun Bagan) and FC Goa. With the Nehru Stadium serving as BFC’s ‘home ground’, Carles Cuadrat’s men are set to play 11 games at the venue, which would include home games against each of the other nine sides and ‘away’ clashes against ATK-Mohun Bagan and FC Goa. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the whole ISL 2020-21 season is set to be played in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fatorda-to-be-bfcs-home-this-season/article32389204.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen and Nakamura stay level||Magnus Carlsen and Hikaru Nakamura drew the first game of the crucial fifth set in the title-deciding clash of the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Tuesday. Though Carlsen enjoyed some advantage briefly, Nakamura neutralised the advantage by finding the precise continuation. The game ended in 54 moves. After four sets, the players are locked 2-2 in their race for the first prize of $140,000.    The results: Final (Set Five, Game One): Hikaru Nakamura (USA) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor); Set Four: Carlsen bt Nakamura 2.5-1.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-and-nakamura-stay-level/article32389206.ece
19 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,||India takes on China in chess Olympiad||Come August 23, India and China will square off on the chessboard online. The match between the two Asian giants could produce some intense battles at the Chess Olympiad, which opens on Friday. With the qualification phase coming to an end, the draw has been made for the final phase. India, which is directly seeded into the top division, finds itself in a tough group. China, the winner of both the open and women’s sections at the 2018 Olympiad at Batumi (Georgia), may be the only side stronger on paper than India in Group A, but teams like Iran, Georgia and Germany cannot be taken lightly, either. This time around there is no separate competition for women. Viswanathan Anand and Koneru Humpy are the pillars of this strong Indian side. Skipper Vidit Gujrathi, P. Harikrishna, D. Harika, Nihal Sarin, R. Praggnanandhaa, Aravindh Chithambaram, R. Vaishali, Bhakti Kulkarni, Divya Deshmukh and Vantika Agrawal complete the squad. Forty teams will play in the Olympiad’s top division, which will go on till August 30. The teams are split into four pools in the top division. Twenty five of them, like India, are seeded. Among them are the main contenders United States, China, Russia and Ukraine. The top teams from each group will qualify straight for the quarterfinals, while those finishing second and third will have to be involved in playoffs for a place in the last eight. The semifinals will be played on August 29 and the final on the following day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-takes-on-china-in-chess-olympiad/article32389330.ece
19 August 2020||DUSSELDORF,||Inter enters Europa final||Inter Milan is back in a European final for the first time in a decade, and the Italian team is playing like it’s never been away. Lautaro Martinez and Romelu Lukaku scored twice each as Inter demolished Shakhtar Donetsk 5-0 in the semifinals on Monday. Inter, which ground down Shakhtar in what was at first a tight, defensive game before scoring four times in the last half-hour, will face five-time winner Sevilla in the final on Friday. “We reached the final by beating a very strong team”, Inter coach Antonio Conte said.   The result: Inter 5 (Martinez 19 & 74, D’Ambrosio 64, Lukaku 78 & 84) Shakhtar Donetsk 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inter-enters-final/article32389211.ece
19 August 2020||BARCELONA,||Barca sacks coach Setien and Abidal||Barcelona has sacked head coach Quique Setien and Eric Abidal as sporting director after the side endured a trophy-less 2019-20 season. “The Board of Directors have agreed that Quique Setien is no longer the first-team coach,” the club said in a statement. “This is the first decision within a wider restructuring of the first team,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barca-sacks-coach-setien-and-abidal/article32389213.ece
19 August 2020||Johannesburg,||SA women’s tour of England cancelled||The South African women’s tour of England has been cancelled due to international travel regulations put in place for the country’s sportspersons in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The South African women’s team was scheduled to play four ODIs and two T20Is in a bio-secure environment in England. “It is frustrating that another opportunity for our Momentum Proteas to play against top quality opposition has again had to be cancelled but as always the safety of our players and support staff is the prime consideration,” Director of Cricket Graeme Smith said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sa-womens-tour-of-england-cancelled/article32389219.ece
19 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Proposal for multipurpose indoor stadium submitted||Sports Minister C.T. Ravi submitted a proposal for construction of a multi-purpose indoor stadium, and laying of synthetic track at Chikkamagaluru, to Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju at New Delhi on Tuesday. The proposal stated that the State is keen to develop sports infrastructure in the districts and sought a special grant of Rs. 18.5 crore from Government of India to take up the proposed construction work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/proposal-for-multipurpose-indoor-stadium-submitted/article32389205.ece
19 August 2020||ORLANDO,||Los Angeles, Aug 18, 2020 (AFP) -||Kawhi Leonard scored 29 points as Los Angeles Clippers held on to beat the Dallas Mavericks 118-110 in the opening game of their NBA playoff series. Donovan Mitchell’s 57-point performance was not enough as Utah Jazz went down 135-125 against Denver Nuggets. In other matches, defending champion Toronto Raptors beat Brooklyn Nets 134-110 and Boston Celtics got past Philadelphia 76ers 109-101.  The results: Nuggets 135 (Murray 36, Jokic 29) bt Jazz 125 (Mitchell 57); Raptors 134 (VanVleet 30, Ibaka 22) bt Nets 110 (Luwawu-Cabarrot 26); Celtics 109 (Tatum 32, Brown 29) bt 76ers 101 (Embiid 26); Clippers 118 (Leonard 29, George 27) bt Mavericks 110 (Doncic 42) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/los-angeles-aug-18-2020-afp/article32389215.ece
19 August 2020||August 19 2020 07:27 IST,||Sudoku - August 19, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-19-2020/article32389862.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||As tests pick up, fresh COVID-19 cases again cross 1,000 in Delhi||As many as 1,374 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,54,741, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 12 more deaths have been reported in the same period, taking the total number of deaths to 4,226. Of the total cases, 1,39,447 people have recovered and there are 11,068 active cases. Compared to the last two days — when the number of cases was less than 1,000 — more number of tests were done in the past 24 hours (20,266) and thus the number of new cases has also gone up.    After the Independence Day announcement made by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi government has started distributing two oxygen concentrators to each of the over 200 Delhi government dispensaries, according to officials. No eligibility criteria yet “The oxygen concentrators will be made available to COVID-19 patients who are out of hospital but still need oxygen support. The concentrators will be supplied to people’s houses from the dispensaries,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The government, however, is yet to come out with a standard operating procedure on how citizens can access the oxygen concentrators, which can be used by people whose oxygen levels are low. “We are yet to be told on who will be eligible to access the oxygen concentrators. We are waiting for an official order on it,” a district health official said. “We also found some patients who, after coming home fully recovered, lost their lives because their oxygen levels dropped even after being corona negative. We are going to send oxygen concentrators to the homes of the patients,” the Chief Minister had said during his Independence Day address. Padmini Singla, Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department of Delhi government, did not respond to calls and messages seeking information about when an SoP would be released. Meanwhile, the result of the second serological survey done in Delhi — to find out the percentage of people who have developed antibodies against COVID-19 — was submitted to the Delhi government by the Maulana Azad Medical College on Tuesday, officials said. The result is expected to be made public this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/as-tests-pick-up-fresh-covid-19-cases-again-cross-1000-in-city/article32389376.ece
19 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SYL issue can disturb nation’s security, Amarinder tells Centre||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday asked the Central government to be cautious on the contentious Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue — the focal point of a water-sharing dispute between Punjab and Haryana, saying it has the potential to disturb the nation’s security. A meeting was held on the SYL issue through video-conferencing on Tuesday in which Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat participated. It was decided that the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana will meet in Chandigarh, on a date to be fixed later, for further talks on the issue, and will then go to the Union Minister again, said a Punjab government statement. Mr. Shekhawat was of the view that carriers could be constructed and SYL could also be completed and kept ready while discussions on water sharing continue and the final formula could be decided later, the statement added. SC direction The meeting was convened following the Supreme Court’s direction to the Centre on July 28 to mediate between the two States to resolve the issue. The Punjab Chief Minister during the meeting reiterated the need for a tribunal to make a fresh time-bound assessment of the water availability, even as he sought full share of water for his State. “You have to look at the issue from the national security perspective. If you decide to go ahead with SYL, Punjab will burn and it will become a national problem, with Haryana and Rajasthan also suffering the impact,” said Captain Amarinder. He later described the meeting as “positive and cordial”. Pointing out that Punjab remains at risk from all ends, Capt. Amarinder said Pakistan had been making continuous attempts to foment trouble and to try and revive the separatist movement through the banned Sikhs for Justice organisation. “The water issue could further destabilise the State,” he said. ‘Need for tribunal’ Capt. Amarinder said it was necessary to set up a tribunal for fair adjudication of the water availability, and pointed out that the water sharing proposed by Eradi Commission was 40 years old, while international norms require a review every 25 years to ascertain the status. Mr. Manohar Lal, later told reporters in New Delhi that “the SYL canal should be constructed and even the Supreme Court has said the same. Discussion was held with an open heart today and soon the two Chief Ministers will meet again on the issue”. ‘Different issues’ As regards the claim of the Punjab Chief Minister that availability of water has gone down, Mr. Manohar Lal said the construction of SYL canal and availability of water were two different issues and completely unconnected and should not be confused. “Allocation of water between States shall have to be pro rata depending on current availability of water as provided in the1981agreement. In fact, in its judgement of January, 15,2002,the Supreme Court had clearly mentioned that its decision is to complete construction of the SYL canal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/syl-issue-can-disturb-nations-security-amarinder-tells-centre/article32389395.ece
19 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Well ‘killing’ work suspended||The operation to ‘kill’ the blowout gas well at Baghjan in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district was suspended on Tuesday after a valve in the well casing pipe gave way. Experts engaged by exploration major Oil India Limited (OIL) had begun killing Well No. 5 after capping it by placing a blowout preventer on Monday. Two earlier attempts to place the preventer, vital for stopping the outflow of gas, had failed. Killing is a technical term for injecting a viscous mud-cement mixture at high pressure through an inlet in the blowout preventer at very high pressure to stop the pores at a depth of 3.5 km underground from where the natural gas and associated condensates have been spewing since the blowout on May 27. Injecting the killing fluid can be done at a stretch for up to 10 hours. “The killing operation was unsuccessful due to the blowing out of a valve on the well casing pipe. Mud pumping was stopped and now the gas is escaping through the blowout preventer riser as earlier,” an OIL spokesperson said, adding that the foreign experts would suggest the next course of action. Officials said capping a blowout-affected well was a major success 83 days after the disaster took place. “Killing the well will help us stop the uncontrolled outflow of gas as well as the fire,” the spokesperson said. The well had burst into flames on June 9. The disaster affected more than 1,500 families living in the vicinity besides endangering wetlands and the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park close by, government and private agencies engaged in studying the impact said in their reports. OIL had flown in three disaster control experts from Singapore before the Baghjan well caught fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/well-killing-work-suspended/article32389399.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Expedite results of DU students who are going abroad to study’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday ordered Delhi University to make efforts to expedite the result of such courses for students who have obtained admissions in postgraduate courses in foreign universities. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad further asked the varsity to create a separate e-mail ID to enable students to submit their requests and relevant details of the foreign university. Provisional admission The Delhi University could then send a request letter to the foreign university for granting provisional admission to the student concerned with an assurance that the results would be communicated at the earliest. The Bench gave the order after it was informed by DU’s counsel that a single-judge Bench of the HC had on July 7, passed a similar order relating to results of students who were obtaining admission in postgraduate courses in foreign universities. The HC observed that in the context of those final-year students who would have obtained admission to postgraduate courses in foreign universities, if their results are not declared in time, the students are likely to suffer irreparable loss. It said that instead of the students writing individually to the foreign university concerned, seeking further time for furnishing a provisional certificate, the Delhi University ought to e-mail such a request to the university concerned on behalf of the student in question as it would “carry more weight”. On Monday, the HC had directed Delhi University to commence the physical examination for those final-year students who have not opted for the online mode of open book examination (OBE) from September 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/expedite-results-of-du-students-who-are-going-abroad-to-study/article32389366.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police officer succumbs to virus; wife, son attend funeral via video||A 51-year-old Delhi Police Inspector died of COVID-19 on Tuesday morning after testing positive on August 15. His wife and son, who also tested positive, attended the funeral from a lonely house on video call while his brothers performed the last rites Inspector Sanjay Sharma, who was posted in the Police Control Room unit, was admitted to the ICU unit of the Indian Spinal Injuries Centre in Vasant Kunj after he felt breathlessness on August 15. The next day, plasma therapy was given to him, but the doctors couldn’t rescue him. The officer’s wife, Aruna Sharma, recalled the night he returned from work and fell sick. “Being in the force is a tough job and all officers feel exhausted and overworked. My husband was extremely dedicated and was patrolling the city ahead of the Independence Day. On August 7, he returned and told me that he had spoken to a few civil defence officers deployed outside a red zone. That night, he complained of headache and uneasiness,” Ms. Aruna said. She said that the next two days were Saturday and Sunday, due to which they couldn’t visit the dispensary. However, between Monday and Friday, Sharma visited the dispensary thrice for check-up. “The dispensary staff also didn’t ask us to get tested. It’s strange. Everything went wrong,” she cried. On August 15, he felt uneasy when breathing, after which he was rushed to the ICU and tested for COVID-19. The result came positive. “I lost my best friend,” Ms. Aruna said.  Married in 1997, the couple from Kota made a life together in Delhi. “The last conversation we had was on video call on Sunday night. He sounded positive and asked me to hold myself. He was my strength and I was his. He also gave me a thumbs up,” she said. On Tuesday, the mother and son were confined to their home as they too tested positive. Neither the mother nor the son, who studies in IIT-Delhi, couldn’t see the officer for one last time. “Ye gham zindagi bhar reh jaaga [This grief will stay with me forever],” lamented Ms. Aruna. The last rites of Sharma were performed by his brothers. Ms. Aruna’s only wish is that her husband’s ashes are preserved so that her son can do the final rites when he gets better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-officer-succumbs-to-virus-wife-son-attend-funeral-via-video/article32389369.ece
19 August 2020||Guwahati,||Lockdown may return to Guwahati: Minister||Guwahati and some other parts of Assam may see a reimposition of the lockdown if the COVID-19 situation spirals out of control, State Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said. His warning came hours after a four-day lockdown was imposed in Mizoram’s capital Aizawl from Monday night after a spike in cases. “Many people have not been wearing masks and maintaining social distancing since the Unlock 3 from August 16. If the situation gets out of control, the government may consider another lockdown,” Dr. Sarma said as the COVID-19 fatality neared the 200 mark in the State. The COVID-19 positivity rate has been inching toward 6% after dipping to 3.2% on August 12. Positive cases in Guwahati and the Kamrup district have also been increasing over the past few days. The situation in Cachar, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts was also a cause for concern, the Minister said. Barring a few activities, the State government had lifted the lockdown restrictions from August 16 for reviving the local economy. The night curfew period was reduced by two-and-a-half hours and inter-State travel was extended from two to five days a week.  Over 79,000 cases Till Monday night, Assam had 79,667 positive cases, of which 22,733 were active, while 197 died. So far, 296 people have died of COVID-19 across the eight northeastern States. In terms of the highest death tally, Tripura, with 62 deaths, follows Assam, and Manipur comes third with 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdown-may-return-to-guwahati-minister/article32389393.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC notice to AIIMS on plea alleging institute not doing critical surgeries||The Delhi High Court has issued notice to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on a plea of a woman alleging that the premier institute has stopped conducting surgeries of critical patients due to the ongoing pandemic. Justice Navin Chawla asked AIIMS to submit its response on the petition filed by 37-year-old Gulshan Farooqi, who is suffering from large fibroid uterus and severe anaemia, by next date of hearing on August 21. Ms. Farooqi, in her petition filed through advocate Ashok Aggarwal, stated that she was earlier admitted in Newa Care & Gynae Centre at Kanpur. The hospital advised her to go to AIIMS, Delhi for treatment as it involved complications and needs higher medical set up. Ms. Farooqi said she came to Delhi on August 8 and strightaway went to AIIMS emergency, but was denied treatment despite her repeated requests. “No reason whatsoever for non-treatment was given,” she said. Mr. Aggarwal said since she needed continuous medical care, she got herself admitted in Sita Ram Bhartiya Institute of Science and Research (SRBISR), New Delhi and is still there under EWS category. However, SRBISR has advised her surgery at a higher tertiary care centre with in-house blood bank facility and ICU. Mr. Aggarwal submitted that such a facility is available at AIIMS and if AIIMS refuses to provide treatment, she would most likely die.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-notice-to-aiims-on-plea-alleging-institute-not-doing-critical-surgeries/article32389363.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘BJP-AAP clash impacting DU colleges’||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday said that due to the political war between the BJP and the AAP governments, thousands of teaching and non-teaching employees of 12 colleges of the Delhi University, funded by the Delhi government, have not been disbursed their salaries for the past four months. Governing body Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Ch. Anil Kumar said that the AAP government was giving a “flimsy plea” that the governing body of these colleges have not yet been constituted and as a result the future of over 35,000 students has been put on line. “The non-formation of the governing body in the said 12 colleges is primarily because both the BJP government at the Centre and the AAP government in Delhi are fighting for exercising greater control over these colleges,” Mr. Kumar said. The Delhi Congress demanded immediate payment of salaries to the employees as it is their basic right and should not be linked to the power struggle between the two parties.  Former Delhi Education Minister Kiran Walia said that Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had, shockingly, justified withholding of funding to these college alleging corruption. “The budget allocation of these colleges had gone up over the last five years due to annual increments, dearness allowance as well as the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, and starting of new courses after getting due approval from the Delhi government, and not due to corruption,” Ms. Walia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-aap-clash-impacting-du-colleges/article32389370.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Metro announces 50% cut in perks, allowances||The Delhi Metro, which has not been operating since March 22 due to the COVID-19 outbreak, on Tuesday announced 50% cut in perks and allowances for all employees with effect from August, till further orders. ‘Financial condition’ The office order announcing the move read: “In view of the extreme adverse financial condition due to non-operation of Metro services, it has been decided that all perks and allowances shall be reduced by 50% till further orders. Accordingly, starting with salary for the month of August 2020, perks and allowances shall now be payable @15.75% of the Basic Pay.” It added that with immediate effect, all sanctions for House building advance, multipurpose advance, laptop advance, etc. are to be kept on hold till further orders. Advances sought for medical treatment, TA & DA and Composite Transfer Grant will continue to be granted to facilitate the employees, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/metro-announces-50-cut-in-perks-allowances/article32389373.ece
19 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Medical society revamp set to create new posts||The reorganisation of the Rajasthan Medical Education Society (RAJMES) is set to create 210 new posts, as it will run the medical colleges opened recently in several districts of the State. The revamp will also facilitate the society’s control over academic and administrative tasks, construction works and management of financial resources of medical colleges. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot gave approval to a proposal for reorganisation of RAJMES here on Tuesday in view of an increase in its workload. Only 27 posts were earlier approved in the society, which was operating seven medical colleges. After the revamp, RAJMES will operate 15 new medical colleges as well as the colleges to be opened in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/medical-society-revamp-set-to-create-new-posts/article32389396.ece
19 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Uber auto demand at 80% of pre-COVID levels in city||Cab aggregator — Uber — on Tuesday said its mobility business is seeing green shoots of recovery with cities such as Delhi witnessing 80% of pre-COVID levels demand for autos. The growthwas led by low cost products like auto and moto. In the auto category, which is recovering at a faster growth rate, Delhi is followed by Jaipur and Chandigarh. “As citizens resume travel in the new normal, we are seeing low cost products, especially our auto category recover faster compared to other modes. With our comprehensive in-app safety measures, reliable door-to-door service and affordable prices, we are confident that autos will unlock demand as we scale up our service in new cities across India,” said Shiva Shailendran, General Manager, North and West India, Uber. The company said it has entered into a partnership with Bajaj to facilitate installation of safety screens in one lakh autos across the country. Additionally, the companies also distributed safety kits to one lakh auto-rickshaw drivers across 20 cities, including New Delhi, Gurugram, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/uber-auto-demand-at-80-of-pre-covid-levels-in-city/article32389371.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA hits out at Sisodia over graft charge||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Tuesday hit out at Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia over his allegations of corruption among DU colleges funded by the Delhi government, and demanded the release of dues to the colleges. “It is obvious this is another ploy for their callous and inhuman act of not releasing required grant-in-aid to these colleges,” DUTA said, adding that this has resulted in college employees going without salaries for several months. The union claimed that for about a year, sanction of grants to these 12 colleges, which are fully funded by the government, had been sporadic and inadequate. Delays in release of funds had led to a crippling effect on the institutions. The DUTA rejected claims of corruption arguing that three audits were carried out; and increase in required funds was on account of hike in minimum wage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duta-hits-out-at-sisodia-over-graft-charge/article32389367.ece
19 August 2020||Bhopal,||Review Bhopal development plan: NTCA||The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has called upon the Madhya Pradesh government to review parts of a draft Bhopal development plan that proposed development of public institutions in tiger habitats which may damage them and cause human-tiger conflict. Additional DGF (Project Tiger) and Member Secretary (NTCA) S.P. Yadav on August 11 wrote to State Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains drawing his attention to concerns regarding allowing Kerwa-Kaliasot revenue and forest areas for the development of public institutions under the Draft Bhopal Development Plan. He requested Mr. Bains to review the matter in consultation with the forest department “so as to ensure long term conflict-free management of tigers and its dispersal in the State, carrying forward the legacy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/review-bhopal-development-plan-ntca/article32389397.ece
19 August 2020||New Delhi,||Provide treatment to Sengar’s brother: HC||The High Court on Tuesday asked the jail authorities to provide adequate medical treatment to expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s brother Atul, who was sentenced to 10 years for his role in the custodial killing of Unnao rape victim’s father. The court gave the direction after it was informed that the convict, Atul Singh Sengar, has been diagnosed with oral cancer and requires extensive treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/provide-treatment-to-sengars-brother-hc/article32389364.ece
