21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||SC gives Bhushan time to reconsider statement||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan to take “two or three days” to “reflect on”, and possibly modify, a statement that he read out to judges, in which he refused to apologise for his tweets. One tweet was about a photograph of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde astride a motorbike and another on how posterity would perceive the role played by the top court in the past six years. On August 14, Mr. Bhushan was found guilty of contempt by scandalising the court. The one-page order on Thursday said the hearing in the case had concluded and the court had reserved its decision on his sentence. It, however, gave Mr. Bhushan time till August 24 to submit an “unconditional apology, if he so desires”. The case would be posted on August 25 if an apology is submitted, it stated. The three-judge virtual Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, wrapped up the oral arguments on Mr. Bhushan’s punishment. Mr. Bhushan said he shall cheerfully submit to whatever punishment the court imposed on him. The tweets embodied his bona fide belief. It would be contemptuous on his part to apologise for something he believed in. ‘A humble guard’ The senior lawyer quoted Mahatma Gandhi asking for neither mercy nor magnanimity from judges. He said he was neither a cheerleader nor a courtier. He had, after all, served for 30 years as a humble guard of the court’s majesty. But the Bench persisted, asking him to “think over” his statement. He politely agreed but observed that he may not at the end make any substantial changes in its text. “The statement I made is well thought-out and considered,” he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-gives-bhushan-time-to-reconsider-statement/article32408287.ece
21 August 2020||Srinagar,||Farooq allowed to meet NC leaders||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday allowed four senior National Conference leaders to attend a meeting called by party president Farooq Abdullah at his residence in Srinagar. It was the first meeting of the senior NC leaders at Dr. Abdullah’s house after August 5, 2019, when the Centre removed Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and detained most of the regional leaders. All-party meet Dr. Abdullah told mediapersons at his Gupkar Road residence that he held a meeting with NC general secretary Ali Muhammad Sagar; party provincial president, Kashmir, Nasir Aslam Wani; former Minister Abdul Rahim Rather; and former legislator Muhammad Shafi Uri. “Once all the leaders are set free, we will sit together and discuss the issues properly,” Dr. Abdullah said. “We will have the all-party meeting on the Gupkar declaration,” he added. Dr. Abdullah’s all-party meeting was not allowed on August 5 this year. He said he was in constant touch with incarcerated Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti. ‘Worried for Mehbooba’ “I am concerned about her prolonged detention. We do want to see her free and [also the] other leaders of Jammu and Kashmir,” he added. He said people were facing “miserable conditions”. “As my dad was today allowed to attend the meeting called by Dr. Abdullah sahib, my father paid obeisance at the Hazrat Syed Yaqoob sahib shrine at Sonwar on the way to Gupkar,” tweeted Mr. Sagar’s son, Salman Sagar. NC vice-president and former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah said it was “sad how we have normalised this illegal detention”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farooq-allowed-to-meet-nc-leaders/article32408289.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||25th IFFK likely to go online||If there is no let-up in the COVID-19 situation, the keenly-awaited 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) is likely to be an online event. Minister for Cultural Affairs A.K. Balan indicated on Thursday that the government would consider an online version if the silver jubilee edition cannot be held in cinema halls by February next year. The government hopes that the event can be organised by January or February, 2021, if it cannot be held in December this year, Mr. Balan said. An online version of IFFK would be considered if a regular event was impossible even by then, he said in a statement. Preparation time “Usually, we kick off activities related to the organisation of the IFFK by June-July every year. You need five to six months if you want to organise the event properly in December. This year, COVID-19 and the consequent lockdown in Thiruvananthapuram have affected our activities,” said Kamal, chairman, Kerala State Chalachitra Academy. “We hope that the event can be organised as it is done every year. If that is not possible by February, then an online version would be considered,” Mr. Kamal said. Meanwhile, the Docuscape IDSFFK Winners Online Film Festival organised by the academy is beginning on Friday. Mr. Balan added that the government had also initiated steps to select the winners of the State Film Awards. Entries for the State Television Awards also had been accepted, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25th-iffk-likely-to-go-online/article32408639.ece
21 August 2020||MADURAI,||Madurai ranks 42nd in Swachh Survekshan survey||Madurai Corporation secured the 42nd rank out of the 47 Urban Local Bodies (ULB) with more than 10 lakh population across the country in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 survey results, which were announced by the Union Ministry of Housing and Home Affair on Thursday. Madurai, with a total score of 2,255.81, secured the second spot among the three ULBs in this category in the State. The first slot was occupied by Coimbatore with a score of 2,337.12, and Greater Chennai Corporation stood third with a score of 2,010.93. This survey covered 4,242 cities across the country to assess the level of urban sanitation. According to the document, the survey aims to foster a spirit of healthy competition among towns and cities to improve their service delivery to citizens towards creating cleaner cities. The survey focussed on areas like collection of segregated waste and maintaining it till its processing; utilisation of the wet waste processing units; treatment and reuse of waste water; and adherence to the 3R principle – Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. Each ULB was ranked based on four components – league rankings; certifications; direct observation and citizen feedback. Each component was marked against 1,500. Out of the four components, Madurai scored the least in ‘certifications’ – 200. A senior Corporation official said that despite submitting relevant documents for the survey, the scores for this component had been lower. “Also, the civic body needs to address the issue of poor performance in the ‘citizen feedback’ component, in which a score of 700.13 was secured,” he said. But on the positive side, the highest score of the four components was 843.46 in ‘direct observation’ by the officials, he added.  The civic body needs to address the issue of poor performance in the ‘citizen feedback’ component Corporation official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/madurai-ranks-42nd-in-swachh-survekshan-survey/article32408770.ece
21 August 2020||Kolkata,||Heavy rain triggers breach of embankments in State||Large parts of south Bengal witnessed heavy rainfall over 24 hours on Thursday due to a low pressure over north Bay of Bengal, resulting in breach of embankments in coastal areas. Four people died in two separate incidents of electrocution in Kolkata and Howrah district. Two employees of a private firm, who were erecting a hoarding near the elephant enclosure near Kolkata’s Alipore Zoological Garden, died on the spot. The third employee working there was hospitalised. Two youths died in Howrah district when they came in contact with an electric pole on a water-logged street near the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanical Garden, Shibpur. The low pressure has resulted in rain in coastal areas, particularly in the South 24 Parganas district. Embankments in Sunderbans particularly Namkhana, Raidighi and Sagar suffered breaches resulting in saline water entering villages. According to villagers, the embankments had turned weak after cyclone Amphan and could not withstand the heavy rain over the past couple of days. In Digha in Purba Medinipur district, sea water rose above the embankments and submerged the adjoining area. The situation in Bankura district is alarming as large areas are waterlogged. There were reports of landslides in some areas of Kalimpong district. The Regional Meteorological Centre has issued “Orange Warning” in south Bengal till August 25. “The low pressure is very likely to move westwards gradually and concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours. A fresh low pressure area is likely to develop over the northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around August 23, 2020,” it said. It said because of these “consecutive two low pressure systems, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity along with heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to continue over the districts of south Bengal during August 19-25”. This may result in the rise of different rivers and water logging in urban and suburban areas, it said.  Heavy rainfall is very likely to continue over the districts of south Bengal during August 19-25  Regional Meteorological Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-triggers-breach-of-embankments-in-state/article32408727.ece
21 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports unprecedented 14,492 cases||Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day surge of COVID-19 cases on Thursday, with an unprecedented spike of 14,492 cases, taking its total case tally to 6,43,289. With 326 more deaths, the State’s total toll has now climbed to 21,359. The previous highest single-day jump of 13,165 cases was recorded on Wednesday. The State also reported a high number of recoveries, with 12,243 patients being discharged and taking the tally to 4,59,124. The number of active cases stands at 1,62,491, with the recovery rate rising to 71.37%. The State’s case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 3.32%. Pune reported nearly 3,500 fresh cases to take its total case load to 1,41,056, while 95 more deaths saw its total death toll climb to 3,517. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases is less than 28,500, with the district’s recovery rate at 76.13%. Mumbai city reported a total of 1,275 new cases to take its case load to 1,32,822, of which only 18,172 are active. With 46 more fatalities, the city’s total death toll has risen to 7,314. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported eight deaths as its toll rose to 1,349. A surge of 397 cases saw its total case tally nudge the 42,000 mark. Nagpur reported a record-high surge of 1,045 cases and 21 deaths. The total case tally has now reached 16,854, of which 8,428 are active, while the total death toll has touched 446. Kolhapur saw another big spike of 557 cases, pushing its total tally to 15,821, of which 6,748 are active. With 22 new deaths, the district’s death toll has gone up to 435. Sangli reported 15 deaths as its total toll climbed to 261. With 395 fresh cases, the district’s total case tally has reached 7,837, of which 2,950 are active. Nashik district recorded 1,050 fresh cases as its total tally soared to 29,687, of which 10,576 are active. The district reported 10 deaths as its toll rose to 709. Jalgaon saw a huge spike of 616 cases and reported 20 more deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 19,989, of which 5,532 are active ones, while the death toll has now risen to 732. Ahmednagar district reported 17 fatalities as its total death toll climbed to 189, while 551 cases saw its total case tally rise to 14,825, of which 3,093 are active. “Of a total of 34,14,809 laboratory samples tested so far, 6,43,289 (18.84%) have tested positive. Nearly 77,000 samples across the State were tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. A total of 11,76,261 people across the State are in home quarantine and 37,693 are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-reports-unprecedented-14492-cases/article32408837.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Nagarjunasagar spillway gates to be lifted today||The authorities of Nagarjunasagar dam have planned to lift the spillway gates of the reservoir on Friday morning with discharge of heavy flood continuing at Srisailam dam in the upstream of Krishna river. After commencing the flood discharge from the three crest gates of the spillway of Srisailam at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, the dam authorities increased the gates to 10 at 6 p.m. on Thursday to let a flood of over 2.75 lakh cusecs into the river in addition to the release of another 71,000 cusecs from the power houses of TS-Genco and AP-Genco. The flood released at Srisailam would approximately take eight hours to reach Nagarjunasagar. The dam authorities lifted two more gates around 10 a.m., another two more around 2 p.m., lifted one more gate around 4 p.m. and lifted two more around 6 p.m. on Thursday to take the total gates lifted to 10. The 10 crest gates are lifted for 10 feet height each as the flood to the reservoir increased gradually. At 6 p.m., around 4.18 lakh cusecs of flood was reaching the dam against the discharge of 3.5 lakh cusecs at Jurala (Krishna) and over 93,000 cusecs at Sunkesula Barrage (Tungabhadra). Superintending Engineer of Nagarjunsagar dam I. Madhusudan has informed the authorities of Nalgonda and Suryapet (Telangana) and Krishna and Guntur (Andhra Pradesh) districts along the Krishna river course downstream of the dam that they plan to let out flood from the project spillway on Friday morning in view of the increasing inflows into the dam. A forecast issued by the Central Water Commission (CWC) has indicated that over 22 tmc ft of flood would reach Almatti during the 24-hour period up to 8 a.m. on Friday and over 23 tmc ft into Narayanpur during the same period. Similarly, the organisation has forecast arrival of about 32 tmc ft flood into Jurala during the 24-hour period up to 6 a.m. on Friday and over 35 tmc ft of flood into Srisailam reservoir during the same period. On the other hand, Tungabhadra dam is expected to get over 5 tmc ft flood during the 24-hour period up to 8 a.m. on Friday. Nagarjunasagar dam was getting flood of over 2.52 lakh cusecs at 7 p.m. on Thursday with the water level crossing 576.2 ft against full reservoir level of 590 ft and the storage crossing 272 tmc ft against its capacity of 312 tmc ft. The TS-Genco has also taken up power generation at the dam site power house from 2 p.m. on Thursday letting about 26,000 cusecs water into the river course. According to the flood monitoring officials, Almatti dam was getting inflows of over 2.69 lakh cusecs at 6 pm and discharging 2.5 lakh cusecs flood, while about 2.7 lakh cusecs flood was reaching Narayanpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nagarjunasagar-spillway-gates-to-be-lifted-today/article32408556.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State to explore various steps to thwart leasing of airport||An emergency all-party meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked the Centre to drop the decision to lease the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to the Adani Group. The meeting held online on Thursday also decided to seek all legal measures and to move a resolution in the Kerala Assembly to retain the premier international airport of the State in the public sector. Mr. Vijayan said all registered political parties, except the BJP, opposed the Union Cabinet decision of Wednesday to hand over the airport. “It is against the wishes of the people. The BJP’s stance is technical and they will correct the opinion. The airport cannot be handed over,” he said. CM’s call The Chief Minister, tracing the State’s effort to retain the airport in the public sector, said all political parties should support the move of the Left Democratic Front government. The decision is in contravention to the assurance given by the Ministry of Civil Aviation in 2003 that contributions by the State government for the development of the airport would be factored in. Land transfer The State government had transferred 23.57 acres to the Airports Authority of India free of cost for the construction of the international terminal on the city side subject to the condition that the value of the land would be reflected as Government of Kerala share capital in the special purpose vehicle (SPV) which would be setup. The Chief Minister said the private bidder lacked proven experience the State had in successful management and operation of the airports in Kochi and Kannur. A private player cannot operate and manage the airport without the support of the State government, Mr. Vijayan said hinting at the collision between the Centre and State. Oppn. support Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala promised all support to the government to retain the airport in the public sector. “We will extend all support in the floor of the House if the government moves resolution,” he said. M.V. Govindan [CPI(M)], Thampanoor Ravi (Congress), Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan, C. Divakaran (CPI), P.J. Joseph (Kerala Congress-M), P.K. Kunhalikutty (Muslim League), Minister for Ports Kadannappally Ramachandran (Congress S), C.K. Nanu [JD(S)], George Kurian (BJP), P.C. George, A.A. Azees, (RSP), Sheikh P. Haridas (LJD) and Manoj Kumar [KC(J)] attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-explore-various-steps-to-thwart-leasing-of-airport/article32408637.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Swachh Survekshan: three cities in State in top 10 list||With three of its cities ranked in top 10 in the country, Andhra Pradesh has topped southern States with more than 100 Urban Local Bodies, in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 ranking, an annual cleanliness ranking survey by the Central government. It also became the only southern State to have three cities in the top 10. The State scored 1,785.65 points and stood sixth, while Chhattisgarh with 3,293.56 points topped the country among 12 States with more than 100 ULBs. Vijayawada, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam bagged places in the top 10 best performing cities in two categories. In the national ranking of cities with more than 10 lakh population, Vijayawada secured fourth place with a score of 5,280.32, and Visakhapatnam secured ninth place with 4,918.44 score. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation also bagged the award ‘India’s Cleanest Big City’, while Tirupati was awarded the title ‘Best Self Sustainable Small City’. In the national ranking of 382 cities with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh, Tirupati bagged sixth place with 5,142.76 points. Also, among the top 25 cities with more than one lakh population, Vijayawada bagged sixth place. It is followed by Tirupati at 12th place and Visakhapatnam at 17th place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swachh-survekshan-three-cities-in-state-in-top-10-list/article32408292.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID care centre fire: panel finds violations by hospital, hotel||The committee constituted by the State government has found many irregularities and violations by Ramesh Hospitals and Hotel Swarna Place that led to the fire accident killing 10 COVID-19 patients recently. The inquiry committee report submitted to the government reportedly revealed several wrongdoings by the hospital as well as the hotel. The report stated that the hospital had violated several COVID protocols and rules put in place by the Central and State governments. The committee found that the hospital had treated COVID suspects even as their tests turned negative. The hospital did not inquire about the fire safety of the hotel before taking it over to run the private COVID care centre, and went ahead with treating patients in it even before the government sanctioned permission, the report said. It was also found that the hospital had started plasma therapy without any permission and used Remidivisir pills on patients even though it was not necessary. The committee report further revealed that patients were moved into the hotel with any formal agreement.  As far as the fire safety in the hotel was concerned, the committee report revealed that the building did not have any firefighting equipment, fire NOC or fire alarm system. The report said the hotel building extended up to 19.4 metres height was being run without any occupancy certificate since many years. It also owed Rs. 33.69 lakh towards taxes to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation. Based on the preliminary inquiry report, the district administration had already revoked the permission of Ramesh Hospitals to treat COVID patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-care-centre-fire-panel-finds-violations-by-hospital-hotel/article32408294.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,||Jacobites sever ties with Orthodox faction||The Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church has said it is cutting off all sacramental and spiritual relations with the Orthodox faction in view of the takeover of churches now under its jurisdiction following the Supreme Court verdict of July 3, 2017. The verdict sought to end all parallel administration in the Malankara Church and hand over control of all parishes in Malankara to the Orthodox group. Joseph Mar Gregorios, metropolitan trustee of the Jacobite faction, told a press conference here on Thursday that the decision was taken in view of the alleged lack of Christian charity and adherence to the truth of the matter by the rival Orthodox group. The decision came into effect on Thursday with approval of the Patriarch of the East. About 50 parishes where, he claimed, there were only fewer members of the Orthodox faction had been taken over by various district administrations in view of the verdict. Judicial inquiry He said the Jacobite faction demanded a judicial inquiry into the way several churches were taken over even as the State-declared COVID-19 protocol was in place. The Mulamthuruthy Marthoman Church was taken over even as the High Court was slated to hear its petition a few hours later. The administrations took over the Pothrikka, Chalissery, Thiruvarpu, and other churches in the midst of the protocol even as the government had sought two-month time to take over the churches. There was violation of democratic rights and rejection of the truth in these actions by the district administrations. Four-hour synod The press conference was preceded by a four-hour synod of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church at the Puthenkurisu headquarters here. Catholicos Baselios Thomas I, head of the Jacobite faction in India, was among those who attended the synod meeting. Earlier in the day, Father Johns Abraham Konattu, speaking for the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, maintained that his Church, though armed with the Supreme Court verdict, did not want to expel anyone from the parishes and that all sacramental and spiritual needs of the Jacobites would be met by the Orthodox Church. Meanwhile, Yuhannan Ramban, head of the Malankara Action Council for Church Bill Implementation, began an indefinite fast demanding that the State government end takeover of parishes and that the law be implemented to bring accountability to the administration of property owned by the Church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jacobites-sever-ties-with-orthodox-faction/article32408630.ece
21 August 2020||Kolkata,||Hope there will be no cover-up in alleged irregularities: Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday expressed hope that a three-member panel formed by the Mamata Banerjee government to look into alleged irregularities in purchase of COVID-19 care material will name the beneficiaries and that there will be no cover-up. Mr. Dhankhar claimed that he had “flagged earliest irregularities in purchases” meant to upgrade the State’s health infrastructure amid the pandemic. “Indicated-scam was in making as usual ‘HOT FAVORITE MAN FRIDAY’ was beneficiary (sic),” he said in a tweet. The Governor said the CM has belatedly formed a three-member probe panel comprising Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Alapan Bandopadhyay, Additional Chief Secretary (finance) H.K. Dwivedi and Health Secretary N.S. Nigam. “Hope skeletons r out and NO COVER UP (sic),” Mr. Dhankar, who has had a slew of confrontations with the Trinamool Congress government since he took over as Governor, tweeted. On receiving complaints from different quarters, the CM, who also holds the Health portfolio, formed the three-member panel to probe allegations of irregularities in purchases after the Finance Department relaxed norms of tender process amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The State government has allocated over Rs. 2,000 crore for health infrastructure upgradation. A senior State government official said the panel will submit its findings to Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha, adding that strict action will be taken against any person involved, if the allegations are found to be true. Most of the money allotted was spent in purchasing sanitisers, gloves, masks, PPE kits, ventilators, oxygen and other material required to upgrade infrastructure of hospitals, safe homes and health centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hope-there-will-be-no-cover-up-in-alleged-irregularities-dhankhar/article32408720.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||GHMC improves ‘Swachh Survekshan’ ranking to 23||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has improved its ranking to 23 in the above 10 lakh population category for ‘Swachh Survekshan’ 2020. However, it got the first rank in ‘Best Mega City in Citizen Feedback’ (above 40 lakh population) for overall performance and ahead of Greater Mumbai, Bangalore,Chennai, North and South Delhi metro cities. While GHMC has moved from 275th rank in 2015 to 23 now, it should be interesting to note that neighbouring Andhra Pradesh has got two cities in the top 10 categories - Vijayawada is now ranked 4 while Visakhapatnam has been ranked 9. The rankings are based on assessment of progress from January 2019 till December 2019 under Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U) covering 4,384 cities. Mayor B. Rammohan said the improved ranking is because of the cooperation extended by the citizens, senior officials, public representatives and the work put in by the municipal corporation staff especially the sanitation workers in the last one year. He also claimed that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Municipal Administration & Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao have been showing keen interest in the development of the twin cities in expediting the permissions required for several projects. The Mayor, who had earlier participated in the video-conference with New Delhi for announcement of the awards, observed that it was not an easy task in getting the ‘Best Mega City in Citizen’s Feedback award’. GHMC has also been appreciated for the implementation of innovation and best practices like installation of ‘Green Kiosks’ or street food parks, special park for dogs, twin bins for recycled plastic and feed the need. About 7,200 public toilets are under construction across the city, he added. Medchal Municipality was selected under the Swachh Survekshan Award of the Government of India under the 25,000-50,000 population category. It was declared cleanest as well in South Zone. Medchal Municipal Chairman Deepika Narsimha Reddy and Municipal Commissioner, B. Satyanarayan Reddy thanked the Labour Minister, M. Malla Reddy and the Malkajgiri TRS parliament constituency incharge Marri Rajashekar Reddy for their continuous support in changing the face of the municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ghmc-improves-swachh-survekshan-ranking-to-23/article32408560.ece
21 August 2020||ERODE,||Tamil Nadu govt. supports two-language policy: Sengottaiyan||The State government supports the two-language policy and it is the opinion of all the people, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan told media persons at Punjai Kalamangalam village on Thursday. The Minister said that former Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa wanted the two-language policy to prevail, and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had stressed the same recently. To a question as to whether a Corporation school in Coimbatore issued an application form asking candidates about their preference to learn Hindi, the Minister said that it was not true. Mr. Sengottaiyan expressed confidence that over 2 lakh students would get admission to government schools in the current academic year. Mr. Sengottaiyan along with Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani and Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan inaugurated the trial run of a newly-established power sub-station at Rs. 13.38 crore in the village. Mr. Thangamani said that 112 sub-stations were inaugurated in the State in the current year, and added that farmers will continue to receive power supply without disruption. He said that inspection is in progress to study whether meter reading can be calculated every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-supports-two-language-policy-minister/article32408416.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruchi,||Tiruchi not among top 100 cities||Tiruchi, which was ranked the third cleanest city in the country in 2015-16 national ranking, has fallen out of the top 100 cities in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 ranking. Although it managed to retain its first position among the 25 cities in the 1 to 10 lakh population category in the State, it was relegated to the 102th spot at the national level. Tiruchi had a score of 3,360.47 out of 6,000. However, it has scored more than the State and national averages in service-level progress, citizen feedback and direct observation categories. But, it has done slightly below the national average in certification category. Thanjavur and other municipalities found themselves behind Tiruchi. Pudukottai has scored better than Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Karur and Nagapattinam. Pudukottai got the 245th rank, followed by Kumbakonam (320th spot). While the score of Pudukottai was 2,183.35, it was 1,649.49 for Kumbakonam. Thanjavur secured the 324th position with 1,595.19 marks. Karur and Nagapattinam got the 342nd and thye 346th spots respectively. When the clean city concept was introduced by the Centre in 2015-16, Tiruchi secured the 3rd spot at the national level. But, it went down to the 6th spot in 2017 and the 13th spot in 2018. The ranking further slumped to the 39th spot in 2019. It was widely expected that the city would improve its ranking and finish among the top 10 cities this year. When contacted, S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu that the civic body had been a frontrunner in creating civic infrastructure, solid waste management, Open Defecation Free status and others. Public grievances on civic issues were being addressed through various means. He would review the fact sheet of the ranking with officials. Modifications would be made to improve its ranking in 2021, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiruchi-not-among-top-100-cities/article32408774.ece
21 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||Shooter sent to kill BJP leaders tests positive||The 23-year-old man, who was caught by the Gujarat ATS following a tip-off that he was sent by gangster Chhota Shakeel to kill Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, an official said. He has been shifted to a city-based hospital for treatment and will be formally arrested only after he recovers and is given discharge, a senior official of the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) said. “We will follow the Central government’s guidelines for testing and isolation of our team members who nabbed Irfan Shaikh,” he said, when asked if the ATS officers who caught him would be tested or home quarantined. Mr. Shaikh, a ‘sharp shooter’, was allegedly sent to Gujarat by Chhota Shakeel to kill BJP leaders, mainly former minister of State for Home Gordhan Zadafia, the official said. Based on a tip-off, an ATS team raided a hotel here late Tuesday night and nabbed Mr. Shaikh, who is a resident of Mumbai. The ATS found Zadafia’s information and a video of the State BJP headquarters ‘Kamalam’ in his mobile phone, the official said, adding that search was on for his accomplice, who was not present at the spot when the police raided the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shooter-sent-to-kill-bjp-leaders-tests-positive/article32408839.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,||Swachh Survekshan: Mysuru is the only city from Karnataka in top 25||Mysuru was the only city from Karnataka that figured among the top 25 in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 ranking announced on Thursday. Mysuru, with a score of 5,298.61 out of 6,000 marks, is ranked fifth overall in the country across all categories based on population. Bengaluru is ranked 37th (2,656.82) among the cities with a population of more than 10 lakh, a category in which only 47 cities across the country were reckoned for ranking. The saving grace for the State capital was that it was ranked the best ‘Self-sustainable Mega City’ at the national level among ULBs with a population above 40 lakh. In the overall ranking, Bengaluru slipped to 214 spot from 194 last year. Citizen activists and waste management experts said the poor showing reflected the failure of the city to adhere to the basic fundamental concepts of solid waste management such as door-to-door collection of segregated waste, transportation and processing. There were some surprises for smaller towns in Karnataka. Places such as H.D. Kote, Hunsur, Periyapatna, Kadur, and Holalkere also find a mention among the top achievers in their respective categories. For instance, H.D. Kote was adjudged best for citizens feedback among towns and cities with a population below 25,000 for the south zone. Kadur was adjudged the best city for innovation and practices among ULBs with a population between 25,000 and 50,000 in the south zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swachh-survekshan-mysuru-is-only-city-from-karnataka-in-top-25/article32408334.ece
21 August 2020||Pune,||Think tank to suggest ways to Maharashtra govt. to revive economy||A group of economists and scientists, who recently held a meeting with Maharashtra Chief Minister on how to revive the economy hit by COVID-19, will submit a detailed action plan to the State government, listing suggestions for accelerating the state’s growth. They would provide inputs on what can be done to revive growth in the short-, mid- and long- term, eminent scientist Dr. Raghunath Mashelkar, who is the president of Pune International Centre (PIC), a think tank, told PTI on Wednesday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had a detailed virtual meeting on Tuesday with economist Vijay Kelkar, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh, former diplomats Vijay Gokhale and Gautam Bambawale, Dr. Mashelkar and other members of PIC.  Preparing action plan “Experts from PIC, chief secretary and other officials will prepare an action plan in which it will be decided what can be done in the short-term, mid-term and long term-period and what benefits the State can get,” Dr. Mashelkar said. Since PIC has members with diverse expertise, it had come up with some policy papers on agriculture, industries, education and other issues during last year’s Assembly elections. In January this year, those papers were shared with the Chief Minister, who liked them, he said. He said when the COVID-19 crisis started, Mr. Thackeray had sought inputs on how the economy can be revived post the pandemic and mandated them to submit the recommendations. Generating employment “We then shared recommendations in the form of papers on economic measures of accelerated recovery, foreign investment, measures to deal with COVID-19 health care crisis. We also gave inputs on big projects to accelerate the growth and create employment generations, in which a suggestion was made to consider starting the Konkan refinery project which has the potential to generate employment for one lakh people and garner Rs. 3 lakh crore investment,” he said. The crux of the meeting was how to revive the economy, Dr. Mashelkar said. “So it was decided to work on three issues — real estate, mega projects and how to improve ease of doing business,” he said. Both the CM and Deputy CM were extremely positive about the inputs, suggestions and recommendations. “We have now been asked to submit a detailed action plan on these topics,” Dr. Mashelkar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/think-tank-to-suggest-ways-to-maharashtra-govt-to-revive-economy/article32408833.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,||PIL plea to allow Chathurthi festival dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to the State to permit the conduct of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations by prescribing standard operating procedures (SOP). A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam dismissed the petition filed by B. Ramaswamy of Thoothukudi. The court observed that the whole country had turned into a hotspot / red zone and even advanced countries were struggling with the COVID-19 situation. During the hearing, Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted that the government had issued guidelines taking into account the pandemic situation. Installation and procession of idols in public and their immersion in waterbodies were not permitted. The government has urged the people to celebrate the festival in their homes, he said. Taking into account the submission, the court said that the decision taken by the government cannot be faulted with. In the considered opinion of the court, religious practices should yield to practical difficulties like the COVID-19 situation, the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pil-plea-to-allow-chathurthi-festival-dismissed/article32408440.ece
21 August 2020||Kolkata,||Two-day lockdown as cases hit new high||West Bengal on Thursday went into a 48-hour lockdown to contain the spread of the pandemic as the State registered a record 3,197 in the past 24 hours. The total cases stand at 1,29,119. The State also recorded 53 deaths, taking the number of mortalities to 2,634. North 24 Parganas recorded 14 deaths and 747 new cases of the viral infection while Kolkata reported 11 deaths 583 cases. The recovery rate increased to 76.51%. People largely stayed indoors during the day and there were not many vehicles on the road as the police ensured a complete lockdown. The number of prosecutions and arrests in the jurisdiction of the Kolkata police till 6 p.m. on Thursday was 541. Another 270 persons were booked for not wearing face masks. The Health department also started a 110-bed COVID-19 unit at the NRS Medical College and Hospital in Kolkata. A 40-day-old baby recovered from the infection. The baby, who was undergoing treatment at a health facility in the city, was put on ventilation and showed recovery in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-day-lockdown-as-cases-hit-new-high/article32408725.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID-19 cases at 97,424 in Telangana||COVID-19 cases in Telangana are a few thousand away from the one lakh mark. With 1,724 coronavirus-positive results on Wednesday, the total reached 97,424. Ten more COVID-19 patients died, taking the toll to 729. The new 1,724 cases include 395 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 169 from Rangareddy, 105 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 101 from Karimnagar, and 91 from Warangal urban. Of the total 97,424 cases, 21,509 are active, 75,186 have recovered, and 729 have died. Around 15,000 people are under home or institutional isolation. The total number of tests conducted till August 19 to detect coronavirus has crossed 8 lakh. On Wednesday, 23,841 tests were conducted taking the total tests to 8,21,311. Reports of 968 more samples are awaited. Though the number of tests performed in a day and the total are mentioned in the daily media bulletin, the break up between RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests, number of positive cases between the two tests, is not mentioned in the bulletin any time. In case of beds availability, 3,626 oxygen beds and 569 ICU beds were vacant in 42 State government hospitals on August 19. And 2,039 oxygen beds, 939 ICU beds were available in 155 private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-at-97424-in-telangana/article32408558.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,||No decision yet on seeking ban on SDPI||Despite several Ministers favouring a ban on the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for its alleged role in the riots in Bengaluru on August 11, the State Cabinet on Thursday refrained from taking a decision to seek a ban from the Centre. It also decided to collate more evidence before taking the next step. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told presspersons that the Cabinet meeting discussed progress of the investigation into the violence in two police station limits and the alleged role of the SDPI. However, no decision was taken on banning the SDPI. The Cabinet sought more information, including videos, about the outfit’s alleged involvement from the police. The Minister said the government was weighing all legal options. “At present, we do not have concrete evidence or a police report in the case before us. The government will certainly take the decision once we get the report,” he said. On recovering the damage to public property from rioters, the Karnataka Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Public Property Act, 1981, recommends that an authority be established to estimate loss and compensation. The government will constitute such an authority soon, he said. If required, the existing Act will be amended to ensure action against the culprits, the Minister said. “We will ensure compensation to all the innocent people who suffered damage to their property in the violence,” Mr. Madhuswamy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-decision-yet-on-seeking-ban-on-sdpi/article32408336.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||1,968 new cases, 1,217 recoveries in State||The State reported 1,968 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,217 recoveries on Thursday, taking the cumulative case burden of the State ever since the outbreak began to 52,199. The number of persons currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the district is 18,123. The State has till date recorded 33,824 recoveries. Nine more deaths have been added to the official toll of the State by the Health Department, taking the total fatalities in the State to 191. Eight of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram during the past one week and one death in Kozhikode. Over 90 % of the new cases reported on Thursday – 1,788 cases out of the 1,968 new cases – are locally acquired infections. These include the infection reported among 48 health-care workers across the State. In 100 of these cases, no known source of infection could be ascertained. Capital tops again Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram again reported the maximum number of cases with 429 cases, of which 415 were locally transmitted infections. The district also has the maximum number of health-care workers affected on Wednesday, with 21 cases. Malappuram follows close behind with 356 cases, of which 337 are locally acquired infections. Cases reported by other districts are Alappuzha 198, Ernakulam 150, Kozhikode 130, Kottayam 124, Pathanamthitta 119, Kasaragod 91, Kollam 86, Kannur 78, Thrissur 72, Palakkad 65, Idukki and Wayanad 35 each. The number of people quarantined in the State now is 1, 73,189, of whom 14,646 with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals. The State has tested a total of 37,010 samples in the last 24 hours. The total number of hotspots in the State at present is 585.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1968-new-cases-1217-recoveries-in-state/article32408628.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. remains firm on Vinayaka Chaturthi curbs||Citing the lockdown guidelines issued by the Home Ministry to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday said it remained firm on implementing the restrictions imposed on Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations in public places. The government requested the people to celebrate the festival at home, saying there was ban on installation of Vinayaka idols in public places and their immersion processions. In a statement, the government said its decision was as per the directions issued by the Home Ministry on July 29 under the Disaster Management Act. “As per the advice of the Central government, and considering the pandemic situation in the State, the [Tamil Nadu] government has already issued orders banning the installation of Vinayaka idols in public places and processions carrying the idols to immerse them in waterbodies. This has been done keeping in mind the welfare of the citizens. Hence, people are advised to celebrate the festival in their houses,” the statement said. The government said the Madras High Court too had held that its directives must be followed. The government’s statement came two days ahead of the festival, and against the backdrop of various organisations, including the Hindu Munnani, threatening to flout the ban order and install over 1.5 lakh idols in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-remains-firm-on-vinayaka-chaturthi-curbs/article32408383.ece
21 August 2020||MADURAI,||HC dismisses PIL plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to permit the conduct of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations by prescribing standard operating procedures (SOP). A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam dismissed the petition filed by B. Ramaswamy of Thoothukudi. The court observed that the whole country had turned into a hotspot/Red zone and even advanced countries were struggling with the COVID-19 situation. During the hearing, Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted that the government had issued guidelines taking into account the pandemic situation. Installation and procession of idols in public and their immersion in waterbodies were not permitted. The government had urged the people to celebrate the festival in their homes, he said. The court said the decision taken by the government could not be faulted with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-dismisses-pil-plea/article32408771.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I am misunderstood’||Civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Thursday told the Supreme Court that he was “pained not because I may be punished, but because I have been grossly misunderstood”. He conveyed his shock at being found guilty of mounting a “malicious and scurrilous” attack by the very court he had served at some professional and personal cost.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-am-misunderstood/article32408290.ece
21 August 2020||KAKINADA,||One missing, three survive as boat capsizes||A 35-year-old boat driver went missing in Sabari river while three persons on board managed to swim to safety after the boat, in which they were returning to Chintoor, hit a bridge and capsized, near Nimmalagadda point in Chintoor Agency around 8.15 p.m. on Thursday. According to East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi, the incident occurred while the four persons on flood duty were returning from Kalleru Panchayat. They had gone to tribal hamlets to supply the commodities as a part of flood relief activity. The driver, identified as Pentaiah, has been missing in the river after the boat capsized in the darkness. A search is on to trace him, Mr. Asmi said. Pentaiah belongs to Dowleswaram area in East Godavari district. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA- Chintoor) Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana said the three persons on board who managed to swim to safety suffered minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-missing-three-survive-as-boat-capsizes/article32408295.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Celebrate Ganesh festival at home: Govt.||The State government has advised people to celebrate Vinayaka Chavithi at their home instead of the public places and strictly adhere to the norms such as physical distancing and wearing of masks at shops and markets. It has been stated in a G.O., which contained the guidelines, that the government wanted to initiate certain measures for preventing the spread of COVID-19 after the Endowments Minister had a meeting with the officials of all departments concerned, took the opinions of various stakeholders. The G.O. stated that wherever temples are open, worship should be permitted as per the Standard Operating Procedures, and wearing of face masks is mandatory. The District Collectors have been asked to take necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/celebrate-ganesh-festival-at-home-govt/article32408299.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||29% Delhiites developed antibodies against virus||Antibodies against COVID-19 infection have been found in 29.1% of people in the latest sero-prevalence survey in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. Blood samples of 15,239 people were randomly collected in the August 1-7 survey from 11 districts. “If Delhi’s population is considered 2 crore, then about 60 lakh people have developed antibodies and they have recovered,” Mr. Jain said. According to the findings of another sero survey, antibodies have been found in 27.7% of people in Punjab’s containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/29-delhiites-developed-antibodies-against-virus/article32408302.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Number of cases in State crosses 2.5 lakh||Karnataka crossed the 2.5 lakh mark as 7,385 new COVID-19 cases and 102 deaths were reported on Thursday. The State now has 2,56,975 positive cases. On August 13, the number of cases crossed the 2 lakh mark. Karnataka added 53,775 new cases between August 13 and 20. The State crossed the 1 lakh mark on July 27, nearly five months after recording its first case. The first case was detected on March 8 in an international traveller who had returned to Bengaluru Urban. Karnataka recorded its first 1,000 cases on May 15. The number doubled to 2,000 by May 24. sBy June 24, it crossed 10,000, and on July 16, it reached 51,422. According to the media bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfarsse, there are 82,149 active cases in the State. The total number COVID-19 deaths in the State is 4,429. As many as 6,231 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of discharged patients to 1,70,381. On Thursday, Bengaluru Urban reported 2,912 new cases, while Ballari reported 483 cases. Belagavi saw 358 fresh cases. Bengaluru Urban also reported 25 new deaths, while fatalities were also reported in Ballari, Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Chickballapur, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Gadag, Hassan, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Kodagu, Kolar, Koppal, Raichur, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura, and Yadgir. As many as 59,603 RT-PCR, rapid antigen detection and other tests were conducted, taking the total number of tests so far to 22,56,862.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/number-of-cases-in-karnataka-crosses-25-lakh/article32408332.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,||V-Cs appointed to Madras, Fisheries universities||Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit has appointed Prof. S. Gowri as Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras and G. Sugumar as V-C of Tamil Nadu Dr. J Jayalalithaa Fisheries University. Both officials will hold the post for a period of three years with effect from the date of their assumption of office. Mr. Gowri, a post-doctoral fellow of Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, with a teaching experience of 37 years, is currently the director of the Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMMRC) at Anna University. He is also an honorary professor in the Department of Manufacturing Engineering at the university. He has been a visiting professor at the University of Applied Sciences, Wengarten, Germany. Mr. Sugumar, with 33 years of teaching experience, is currently the professor and head of the Department of Fish Processing Technology at the Fisheries College and Research Institute in Thoothukudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/v-cs-appointed-to-madras-and-fisheries-varsities/article32408429.ece
21 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. seeks cancellation of bail of 3 anti-CAA activists||The Uttar Pradesh government has moved a local court here seeking the revocation of bail of three activists who were accused of vandalism during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC) on December 19, 2019. The court of Additional Sessions Judge, Lucknow, had issued summons to Congress activist Sadaf Jafar, theatre personality Deepak Mishra, alias Deepak Kabir, and advocate Mohammad Shoaib. On Thursday, the court listed the next hearing in the matter for September 5 after the accused prayed for more time to respond to the application, a copy of which was not immediately available to all of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-govt-seeks-cancellation-of-bail-of-3-anti-caa-activists/article32408511.ece
21 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||2006 Kalupur blast accused held near Bangladesh border||An accused in the 2006 Kalupur railway station blast in Ahmedabad, who was on the run for 14 years, was arrested by the Gujarat Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) from a village in West Bengal close to Bangladesh Border, officials said on Thursday. Based on specific inputs, a team of the ATS nabbed the accused, Abdul Razzaq Gazi, from a village in Basirhat tehsil of West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district, the officials said. Gazi was brought to the Gujarat ATS headquarters on Thursday, they said. According to the ATS, Gazi gave shelter to Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives Zulfikar Kagzi and Abu Jundal, who along with others were accused of planting a bomb between platform no 2 and 3 of Kalupur railway station in February 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2006-kalupur-blast-accused-held-near-bangladesh-border/article32408719.ece
21 August 2020||Kolkata,||‘Visva Bharati being turned into political battlefield’||Prominent citizens of the city, including Jnanpith Award winner Sankha Ghosh, on Thursday issued an open letter in connection with the vandalism at Visva Bharati University earlier this week. In the letter signed by the likes of theatre personalities Bibhas Chakraborty, filmmaker Anik Dutta among others, the prominent citizens said Rabindranath Tagore’s Ashram had been “turned into a political battlefield.” “Emotion of every Bengali and the whole of Bengal is associated with Visva Bharati. We believe only collective good sense and openness can help preserve its sanctity,” the letter said. The communication added that the writers of the open letter did not want to further complicate the situation by pointing fingers at any political party or administration. “However, we clearly do not support any side that may be involved in this unfortunate incident. Rather, being non-partisan and sensitive to the matter, we want an end to the prevailing situation,” the letter said. Violence erupted inside the campus of the university on August 17 over construction of a boundary wall. Locals ransacked the university set up by Tagore in 1921 and the authorities decided to close it for an indefinite period. Eight people were arrested for the violence, which, according to the university, was at the behest of local Trinamool Congress leaders. The university authorities boycotted a meeting called by the DM to resolve the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/visva-bharati-being-turned-into-political-battlefield/article32408723.ece
21 August 2020||Pune,||CBI probe: seven years on, no justice for Dr. Dabholkar||Seven years since he was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants, the kin of rationalist Dr. Narendra Dabholkar have said that it was “extremely distressing” that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had failed to nab the masterminds behind the crime. They said the agency had not made any significant headway despite nabbing fringe right-wing Hindutva activists Dr. Virendra Tawde in 2016, and Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar — named by the agency to be the two shooters — in 2018. “The CBI also arrested right-wing Hindutva lawyer Sanjeev Punalekar and his associate Vikram Bhave in May 2019. Since then, there has been no progress in the investigation. While charge sheets have been filed against Tawde, Andure and Kalaskar, the agency has yet to untangle the conspiracy threads linking Dr. Dabholkar’s murder with that of comrade Govind Pansare, scholar M.M. Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh,” said Mukta Dabholkar, the late rationalist’s daughter. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said he wishes the same fate does not befall the central agency’s investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. He was reacting for the first time since the Supreme Court verdict in the case. He said, “The Supreme Court has ordered the transfer of the probe to the CBI. I am confident that the Maharashtra government will respect the verdict and cooperate with the CBI.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-probe-seven-years-on-no-justice-for-dr-dabholkar/article32408838.ece
21 August 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi’s case count in double digits after 16 days||With 17 new COVID-19 cases being recorded on Thursday, the case tally in Dharavi has risen to 2,697, a civic official said. It is after a gap of 16 days that Dharavi has recorded a double digit COVID-19 case count in a day. On August 3, a total of 12 positive cases were recorded in Dharavi and since then the daily count has been in single digits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharavis-case-count-in-double-digits-after-16-days/article32408840.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The maestro's coda||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-maestros-coda/article32408729.ece
21 August 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai Police COVID-19 toll touches 62||A 54-year-old inspector in Mumbai died due to the novel coronavirus on Thursday, a day after his colleague, a constable, succumbed to the infection, an official said. Both the personnel were attached to the Mulund Police Station, the official said. “With the death of the inspector, the death toll due to COVID-19 in the Mumbai Police force has reached 62,” he said. The two had tested positive a few days back. “They were shifted to a hospital, where the constable died on Wednesday, while the inspector succumbed to the infection on Thursday,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-police-covid-19-toll-touches-62/article32408834.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Final journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/final-journey/article32408841.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Monsoon session from September 21||The monsoon session of the State legislature will be held from September 21 to 30 in Bengaluru. The session, generally scheduled in June, was postponed following COVID-19. The legislature has to hold a session before September 23, since there cannot be more than six months intervening between its last sitting session and the next. A Cabinet meeting on Thursday took the decision to hold the session “by taking all precautionary measures necessary” in light of the pandemic. The CM has authorised Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy and presiding officers of both Houses of the legislature to work out the modalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-session-from-september-21/article32408335.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||In the line of duty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-the-line-of-duty/article32408641.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Ignoring precautions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ignoring-precautions/article32408776.ece
21 August 2020||Vijayawada,||Rs. 1 lakh reward for info about accused||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu has said a search is on to nab the accused in the fire accident at the COVID Care Centre of Ramesh Hospitals and those who give information about the accused will be given a reward of Rs. 1 lakh. He said neither the family members nor the hospital and hotel management were cooperating with the police.page 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-1-lakh-reward-for-info-about-accused/article32408298.ece
21 August 2020||TIRUPATI,||26 injured in blast at dairy unit in Chittoor||Twenty-six workers suffered injuries in a blast after gas leaked from a tanker in a dairy unit in Bandapalle of Puthalapattu in Chittoor district on Thursday evening. Fire tenders and ambulances were rushed to the spot from Chittoor, while policemen from Pakala and Puthalapattu stations brought the situation under control. The injured were rushed to a government hospital in Chittoor, while five of them, who sustained grievous injuries, were reportedly sent to Christian Medical College at Vellore for better treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/26-injured-in-blast-at-dairy-unit-in-chittoor/article32408300.ece
21 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Central Market gates closed||Mangaluru City Corporation on Thursday closed all entry gates to the Central Market building at Hampankatta as Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has banned all trading activities in the market to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Rajendra had through a notification on Tuesday asked wholesale merchants to continue their business at the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Yard at Baikampady. A Revenue official in the corporation said that traders who had opened their shops inside the building were allowed to shift all perishable goods before the entry gates were closed. And, all the gates were closed by evening. Some traders outside the building who had opened their shops closed them on their own by afternoon. No traders will be allowed to open their shops from Friday till further orders, he said. Mangaluru APMC president K. Krishnaraj Hegde told The Hindu on Thursday: “As the city corporation has taken necessary steps to close down shops, we expect all traders to return to the APMC Yard at Baikampady from Friday.” They have to abide by the rules and regulations of the APMC, he said. Most of the 160 licensed and non-licensed merchants who were doing business at the yard for the last four months had gone to the Central Market building after the city corporation withdrew its notification of April 7 directing traders to do their business at the APMC Yard. “The notification was withdrawn for technical reasons. Traders have perceived it as permission to resume trading at the Central Market, which is in dilapidated condition,” Mr. Hegde had told reporters here on Wednesday reminding them about the Deputy Commissioner’s latest notification and asking them to continue their business at Baikampady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-market-gates-closed/article32408541.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Projects worth Rs. 840.98 crore get Samagra Shiksha nod||The governing council of Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, which met online under the leadership of Minister for Education C. Ravindranath, has approved annual projects for Rs. 840.98 crore for this academic year. The Samagra Shiksha had submitted projects for Rs. 1,334.19 crore to the Union government, which had approved projects for Rs. 718.78 crore. The funds will be used for academic activities from the pre-primary to the higher secondary level, basic infrastructure development, teacher education, and functioning of district institutes of education and training (DIETs).  The meeting decided that resource teachers who support children with special needs will be known as special educator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/projects-worth-rs-84098-crore-get-samagra-shiksha-nod/article32408638.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||Restaurants, hotels to serve alcohol in Delhi||The Delhi government on Thursday decided to allow restaurants and hotels in the city to serve alcohol, but bars will remain shut as per Unlock guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. The decision was taken considering the “revenue implications” of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restaurants-hotels-to-serve-alcohol-in-delhi/article32408509.ece
21 August 2020||Patna,||3 RJD MLAs join JD(U); Manjhi exits alliance||Ahead of the Bihar elections, three more Rashtriya Janata Dal MLAs — Chandrika Rai, Jaivardhan Yadav and Faraz Fatmi — on Thursday joined the Janata Dal (United). Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), too, decided to quit the Grand Alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-rjd-mlas-join-jdu-manjhi-exits-alliance/article32408510.ece
21 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Curbs, night curfew in all Punjab cities, towns||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a series of emergency measures, including extension of weekend lockdown and two-hour increase in daily night curfew in all 167 cities and towns in the State from August 21, in a bid to deal with the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-night-curfew-in-all-punjab-cities-towns/article32408508.ece
21 August 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal ham radio operator connects to South Pole camp||An amateur radio operator of West Bengal, who has a hobby of intercepting radio signals from far away countries, has received one from Antarctica, the southern tip of the globe over 11,835 km away. The feat of 65-year-old Babul Gupta is unique as it is the first successful DXing — receiving and identifying distant radio signals — with Antarctica from the State in recent memory, Secretary of West Bengal Radio Club Ambaresh Nag Biswas said on Thursday. Mr. Gupta, a member of the club, received a radio transmission from a camp set up by an Argentine team of scientists in Antarctica when he was in Bakkhali, a seaside spot in South 24 Parganas district, on August 8, he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-ham-radio-operator-connects-to-south-pole-camp/article32408721.ece
21 August 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal govt launches portal for info on college admission||The West Bengal government on Thursday launched a portal to provide real-time information on college admission to students. State Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said in a tweet that the interactive portal ‘Banglar Uchhosiksha’ (Higher Education in Bengal) will give necessary information regarding admission to State-run colleges, including cut-off marks and other criteria. “In these difficult times, we are introducing this portal for students which will give all kinds of information regarding admission to colleges. We are sure it will be of great help to the students,” the Minister tweeted.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-govt-launches-portal-for-info-on-college-admission/article32408722.ece
21 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC grants bail to DHFL promoters||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of DHFL, in a case registered against them by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on charges of money laundering in the multi-crore Yes Bank fraud case. The brothers, however, will remain in Taloja jail as they have also been arrested by the CBI in the same case. Justice Bharati Dangre granted them bail as the ED failed to file its charge sheet in the case within the stipulated 60-day period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-grants-bail-to-dhfl-promoters/article32408842.ece
21 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Heroin bust accused ends life in quarantine centre||An accused in the Rs. 1,000 crore heroin case, who was arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in Delhi on August 9, was found dead at a quarantine centre designated for the inmates of Taloja jail on Wednesday night. The accused, Mohammed Nauman Suleman (43), along with two accomplices were arrested in connection with 192 kg of heroin seized from the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust at Nhava Sheva. After the DRI nabbed the accused, they were remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heroin-bust-accused-ends-life-in-quarantine-centre/article32408843.ece
21 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||358 new cases in Belagavi||Among the districts of Bombay Karnataka, Belagavi district recorded the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases, 358, on Thursday, and four deaths. In Central Karnataka, Davangere district recorded 245 cases and five deaths. Meanwhile, Dharwad recorded 159 cases, Haveri 111 cases and four deaths, Uttara Kannada 115 cases and three deaths, Vijayapura 112 cases and four deaths, Gadag 114 cases and one death and Chitradurga saw 60 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/358-new-cases-in-belagavi/article32408540.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,||City riots: 2 cases under UAPA may go to NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely take over the probe into two cases related to the August 11 violence at D.J. Halli here, sources in the security agencies said. As many as 65 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-riots-2-cases-under-uapa-may-go-to-nia/article32408340.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,||No more ‘hard barricading’ of zones||There will be no more “hard barricading” as the State government has revised the guidelines for containment and buffer zones in view of there being “too many containment zones” with a large number of cases being reported from houses and apartments located close to each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-more-hard-barricading-of-zones/article32408338.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,||State govt. to launch taxi service||The State government wants to start a new taxi service along the lines of app-based ride hailing companies such as Ola and Uber, and it plans to tap into the expertise of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for this project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-to-launch-taxi-service/article32408339.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Former DMK Minister Rahman Khan dies at 77||Former DMK Minister Rahman Khan died on Thursday. He was 77. He suffered a heart attack after having recovered from COVID-19. A well-known speaker, along with Duraimurugan and K. Subbu, he made a mark in the Assembly when M.G. Ramachandran was the CM. The trio was known as “thunder, lightning and rain”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-dmk-minister-rahman-khan-dies-at-77/article32408385.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. COVID-19 recoveries cross 3 lakh mark||COVID-19 recoveries crossed the three lakh mark in Tamil Nadu on Thursday with 5,742 people getting discharged from various hospitals. With 5,986 more testing positive for the virus, the aggregate rose to 3.61 lakh so far while 116 more deaths pushed the toll to 6,239.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-covid-19-recoveries-cross-3-lakh-mark/article32408384.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Dalit panchayat president unfurls national flag||Aathupakkam panchayat president V. Amritham, a Dalit, finally hoisted the national flag at the panchayat office on Thursday after Tiruvallur Collector Maheshwari Ravikumar and Superintendent of Police P. Aravindan intervened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dalit-panchayat-president-unfurls-national-flag/article32408387.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indore wins cleanest city title again||For the fourth year in a row, Indore has been ranked the cleanest city in the country, according to a Swachh Survekshan 2020 report released by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Thursday. The survey of sanitation in over 4,000 cities was carried out over 28 days earlier this year. The Ministry released the findings through a virtual event that was supposed to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but he could not make it. Citizen feedback Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said Swachh Survekshan, in its fifth edition, had become the world’s largest sanitation survey, with 1.8 crore citizens giving their feedback. Among the cities with over 1 lakh population, Indore was ranked number one, followed by Surat, Navi Mumbai, Ambikapur, Mysore, Vijayawada, Ahmedabad, New Delhi, Chandrapur and Khargone. Among smaller cities, with population under 1 lakh, the top three cities — Karad, Sasvad and Lonavala — were all from Maharashtra. Chhattisgarh was ranked the cleanest State out of those with over 100 cities, while Jharkhand was the cleanest among those with fewer than 100 urban local bodies (ULBs) or cities. In the category of “Ganga towns”, Varanasi, Mr. Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency, was ranked the cleanest. Jalandhar got the top rank among cantonments and New Delhi was the cleanest capital city. Speaking about the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM)-Urban, Mr. Puri said it had had a deep impact on health, livelihoods, quality of life and behaviour, which had come in handy when dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. When the mission was launched in 2014, waste processing was 18%. Now it had increased to 66%. Earlier in the event, Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said Swachh Survekshan, which began with a survey of 73 cities in 2016, had grown to cover 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 97 “Ganga towns” in 2020. Survey teams visited 58,000 residential and 20,000 commercial areas in 28 days, while 1.87 crore citizens’ feedbacks were received. Second phase Mr. Mishra told presspersons later in the day that the Ministry was actively working on coming up with a second phase of the SBM-Urban, which was initially supposed to be till March 2020 but was extended till March 2021. He said “SBM 2.0” should be finalised before the end of the current phase. The goal of the second phase would be take targets further, than making cities open defecation-free, to also include 100% sludge management and zero dumping of waste in the open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indore-wins-cleanest-city-title-again/article32408285.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to assess all vaccines||India maintained a cautious approach to the announcement of Russian vaccine Sputnik V, saying the “National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19” would evaluate all candidates first and then explore partnerships for Indian companies. “The purpose of the [expert] group is to keep India in the forefront of any ongoing effort worldwide to innovate, prepare, produce and launch candidate vaccines to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, for India and for the world,” said Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava in response to a question from The Hindu. He added that the Ministry would support the group in order to connect the vaccine manufacturers to Indian companies interested. Earlier this week, sources in the MEA said the Indian Embassy was in touch with Russian company RDIF for “safety and efficacy data” on the vaccine. Without referring directly to the vaccine, the MEA said that it would also facilitate the process of making “relevant testing data” available to the Indian regulatory agencies that would decide on further trials needed before the vaccine was used in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-assess-all-vaccines/article32408272.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pained, as I am misunderstood’||Convicted of contempt for his tweets, civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Thursday read out a short statement in the Supreme Court, saying that he had served the top court for three decades not as a “courtier or a cheerleader”, but as a “humble guard of its majesty”. “Failing to speak up would have been a dereliction of duty, especially for an officer of the court like myself ... We are living through that moment in our history when higher principles must trump routine obligations, when saving the constitutional order must come before personal and professional niceties, when considerations of the present must not come in the way of discharging our responsibility towards the future,” Mr. Bhushan told a three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra during a sentence hearing via videoconferencing. Mr. Bhushan, in an emotionally charged voice, said, “I am pained not because I may be punished, but because I have been grossly misunderstood.” He conveyed his shock at being found guilty of mounting a “malicious and scurrilous” attack by the very court he had served at some professional and personal cost. ‘Highest duty’ But Mr. Bhushan refused to apologise for his tweets. In fact, he said it would be contemptuous and insincere on his part to apologise. “My tweets were nothing but a small attempt to discharge what I considered to be my highest duty at this juncture in the history of our republic. I did not tweet in a fit of absent-mindedness. It would be insincere and contemptuous on my part to offer an apology for the tweets that expressed what was and continues to be my bonafide belief,” he stated. The lawyer cited the words of Mahatma Gandhi in the Young India sedition trial or ‘The Great Trial of 1922,’ as it is commonly known: “I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the Court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen.” Mr. Bhushan conveyed his disappointment to the court for not even sharing a copy of the complaint over which the contempt action was taken against him. He said he was dismayed that the court did not provide any evidence of his motives. He added that he found it hard to believe the court’s version that two of his tweets destabilised the very foundation of Indian democracy. “Public scrutiny is desirable for healthy functioning of judiciary itself. I believe that open criticism of any institution is necessary in a democracy, to safeguard the constitutional order,” Mr. Bhushan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pained-as-i-am-misunderstood/article32408248.ece
21 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Case tally inches closer to one lakh in Telangana||Telangana was close to the one lakh mark for COVID-19 cases as of Wednesday, as 1,724 positive test results brought total infections to 97,424. Ten patients died, taking the toll to 729. The 1,724 new cases included 395 from Greater Hyderabad, 169 from Rangareddy, 105 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 101 from Karimnagar, and 91 from Warangal urban, data released on Thursday said. Of 97,424 cases, 21,509 were active, 75,186 recovered, and 729 died. Around 15,000 people were in home or institutional isolation. On Wednesday, 23,841 tests were conducted, taking total tests to 8,21,311. Reports of 968 more samples were awaited. Though testing data in a day and the total were published, the break-up between RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests, and number of positive cases between the two test types was not. Cumulative deaths in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 3,000-mark, with 95 more reported on Thursday. The State also witnessed 9,393 new infections, the tally going up to 3,25,396. There were 87,177 active patients in the State, the Health Department said. With 3,001 deaths, the death rate stood at 0.92%. East Godavari reported 1,357 cases and eight deaths. It was followed by West Godavari (995 cases, 8 deaths), Visakhapatnam (985, 6), Anantapur (973, 8), Chittoor (836, 16), Kurnool (805, 6), Srikakulam (762, 5), Prakasam (635, 11), Nellore (588, 9), Guntur (443, 6), Kadapa (434, 7), Vizianagaram (385, 3) and Krishna (195, 2). Kerala reported 1,968 new cases and 1,217 recoveries on Thursday, its cumulative cases standing at 52,199. The number of persons under treatment in hospitals was 18,123. Nine more deaths were added by the Health Department, and the toll put at 191. Eight deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram during the past one week while one death took place in Kozhikode. Over 90% of the new cases – 1,788 out of 1,968 cases – were locally acquired infections, including 48 health-care workers. In 100 cases, no known source of infection could be ascertained. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the maximum number of cases at 429, of which 415 were locally transmitted infections. Meanwhile, as 5,986 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, the State’s toll increased to 6,239 with another 116 persons, including two in their 20s, succumbing to the infection. Thursday’s daily count took the State’s tally to 3,61,435 cases. With the discharge of 5,742 persons, including 1,132 in Chennai, a total of 3,01,913 persons were discharged till date. The number of persons presently under treatment stood at 53,283.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-states-add-216-deaths-most-in-karnataka/article32408243.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,||India and China hold fresh talks||India and China on Thursday held another round of border talks aimed at breaking the impasse along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with complete disengagement still remaining a far-off prospect. Thursday’s talks marked the fourth meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) since tensions began this summer. More than 10 rounds of high-level talks have since been held, including five rounds between the Corps Commanders, in addition to the conversations between the Special Representatives and the Foreign Ministers. There still remained gaps between the two sides, acknowledged a statement from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday, saying both “will continue to sincerely work towards complete disengagement of the troops” and “agreed to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols”. Both were “in agreement that restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would be essential for the overall development of bilateral relations”, it said. China has not accepted India’s demand for a return to status quo ante before early May’s tensions. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) remains on India’s side of the LAC on the north bank of Pangong Lake, where most of the new fortifications it had built remain in place. Tensions also prevail in the Depsang plains, where the PLA has obstructed India’s patrols from reaching the LAC, and in the Gogra-Hot Springs area. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said on Thursday that both sides had, at the talks held between Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the MEA and Hong Liang, Director-General of the Department of Boundary and Ocean Affairs of the MFA, “positively evaluated the progress made in the disengagement of the front-line forces of the two countries” and “agreed to conscientiously implement the consensus reached between the two Foreign Ministers and the Special Representatives on China-India boundary question, continue to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, further cool down the border situation, properly handle the remaining issues on the ground, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. Pakistan FM in China Meanwhile, China and Pakistan began their annual two-day strategic dialogue on Thursday. Chinese officials said Pakistan’s Foreign Minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who met Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, was only the second top foreign official to visit China following the pandemic, with the Indonesian Foreign Minister also beginning a visit earlier this week. “As the regional and international landscape is going through complex changes, in particular with the profound global impact of COVID-19, China and Pakistan, as all-weather strategic cooperative partners, need to further strengthen communication and cooperation to deal with external challenges, achieve greater development and bring more benefits to the people,” said MFA spokesperson Zhao Lijian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-and-china-hold-fresh-talks/article32408251.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Law has to be applied in a fair manner, says Congress||The Congress on Thursday said “the law has to be applied in an even-handed, fair, balanced manner” in the contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan, who has been held guilty by the Supreme Court. At a virtual press conference, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi also raised issues such as recession, decline in the GDP and joblessness, and asked why Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not talk about these issues in his speeches at the Red Fort or on television. “The law has to be applied in an even-handed, fair, balanced manner. The concerns raised by those after the judgment are certainly not in any manner false, frivolous or vexatious and certainly. They cannot be dismissed off hand,” he said. Though the party was yet to adopt any ‘formal resolution’ on the case, it said the issues raised in public domain deserved careful examination. “They deserve a lot of careful thinking because they include former judges of that very court, they include precedents and the basic spirit of law now that the Supreme Court’s chest is larger than any other in India,” it said. ‘Economic scenario’ Talking about the economy, the Congress said the total job loss was just under 2 crore (1.9 crore) in July and the GDP, which was 4.2% in 2019-20 before COVID-19, would become zero post the pandemic going by the World Bank warnings. “This government cannot be a Ram bharose government, because even Ram helps only those who help themselves,” Mr. Singhvi said.  Speaking about the contempt case, CPI general secretary D. Raja said, “Today what happened in Supreme Court shows the courage and commitment of Prashant Bhushan. People should revisit the views of Dr. B.R. Amdedkar on judiciary and the Supreme Court.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/law-has-to-be-applied-in-a-fair-manner-says-congress/article32408255.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Sputnik V will be made available to Indians’||One week after Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that Russia registered the world’s first vaccine to combat COVID-19, Kirill Dmitriev , the CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund that created the vaccine — Sputnik V — says it will be made available for India. In a written response to questions on concerns raised in several countries, he says the mechanisms used are the “safest” in the world.  Please tell us about the process before clearance for the vaccine. Has Russia approached the WHO for its pre-qualification? Russia got a head start because its MERS (Middle East respiratory syndrome) vaccine was actually ready. COVID-19 is 80% similar to MERS. So, we were able to use a very safe approach. Clinical trials demonstrated that 100% of the volunteers developed immunity within 21 days. After the second vaccination, the immunity response was further boosted and provided for long-lasting immunity. All the volunteers are feeling well, no unforeseen or unwanted side effects were observed. Not a single participant of the clinical trials has caught COVID-19. As you may know, myself, my wife and my parents, who are 74 years of age, have been vaccinated. None of us suffered any side effects. The high efficacy of the vaccine was confirmed by high precision tests for antibodies in the blood serum of volunteers (including an analysis for antibodies that neutralize the coronavirus), as well as the ability of the immune cells of the volunteers to activate in response to the spike S protein of the coronavirus, which indicates the formation of both antibody and cellular immune vaccine response. Post-registration research based on top international standards is involving thousands of people in Russia and abroad. The vaccine received a registration certificate from the Russian Ministry of Health on August 11. Most nations welcomed the vaccine ... and are working with us to study it. Several countries like Germany, for example, have expressed scepticism about the vaccine breakthrough, asking for details on the “quality, efficacy and safety” of the vaccine The vaccine has already been proved to be safe and effective and we will aim to make it available for use in countries all around the world and create strategic partnerships for vaccine production in all parts of the world, including India. Compared to other candidate vaccines, human adenoviral vectors tested on tens of thousands people worldwide do not have impact on fertility and carcinogenic effects. Many novel approaches are not tested on those effects. Today, this is the safest mechanism for introducing the genetic code of the virus spike into the human body, and it has been thoroughly studied not only in Russia but also internationally. Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, Russian researchers have focussed on extracting a spike-coding gene from the novel coronavirus and implanting it into a familiar adenovirus vector for delivery into a human cell. They also proposed using two different types of adenoviral vectors (Ad5 and Ad26) for the first and second vaccination, boosting the effect of the vaccine. The vaccine thus “tricks the body,” which develops some immunity to one type of vector after the first intake. What kind of cooperation do you hope for with India? Historically, India has been a strategic partner for Russia across many sectors. The RDIF has been collaborating with Indian companies and organisations since 2012. India has a great programme, Make in India, started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It has strongly developed the local pharma industry and let Russia and other countries see India as a potential hub for vaccine production. So, we will make the vaccine available for India and other countries.  All the volunteers are feeling well, no side effects were observed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sputnik-v-will-be-made-available-to-indians/article32408258.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Private firms employ more women in R&D’||India’s private sector research companies appear to employ a larger proportion of women in core research and development activities than government-funded major scientific agencies do, according to data in the Science and Technology Indicators (STI), 2018, a periodic compendium of the state of scientific research in India, released this month. Of the 20,351 women employed in private R&D companies, 15,011 — or about three in four — were involved in “R&D activities” and the rest in “auxiliary or administrative activities”. However, of the 23,008 women in “major scientific agencies”, fewer than half — or 10,138 — were in the same ‘R&D activities’ category. The STI is prepared by a division of the Department of Science Technology, the National Science and Technology Management Information System, and is based on data provided by a range of scientific establishments across the country. A scientist told The Hindu that, on the whole, private sector companies had a greater commitment to ensuring that women scientists were fairly represented in recruitment, promotions and appraisal processes than in many scientific organisations. “Managers have to answer why women in their teams are not promoted or why, for instance, are women dropping out of their workforces,” said the person who is now in a private research organisation but was formerly an academic in a government-funded institution. She declined to be identified citing company restrictions. Historical trend The 2018 indicators reiterate the historic trend of India’s scientists being overwhelmingly men. For every one of the 15,011 women counted earlier, there are six male scientists in private sector R&D establishments, or about 92,000. However that proportion improves to about one in four in major scientific agencies where there are 43,753 male scientists in ‘R&D’ for the 10,138  women equivalent. Overall, India had 341,818 scientists in R&D with nearly 2,03,759 employed by government institutions or in the higher education sector. Earlier too, inquiries have been launched by independent commissions as well as the NITI Aayog to ascertain causes for the inadequate representation of women scientists. “The large drop in the number of women between the doctoral and professional stages appears to be in part due to social pressure on women to have a family which is seen as incompatible with a professional career. There are also patriarchal attitudes in hiring practices,” according to a detailed investigation by Rohini Godbole of the Indian Institute of Science, and Ramakrishna Ramaswamy of Jawaharlal Nehru University, for the Indian Academy of Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-firms-employ-more-women-in-rd/article32408273.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||CWC may meet amid leadership row||The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body of the party, is likely to meet soon amid a churn over the leadership question, a source said on Thursday. Though there were reports that the CWC could meet as early as August 22 (Saturday), there was no official confirmation from the Congress about the meeting or its agenda. “A CWC meeting is due but it got delayed because of the Rajasthan developments,” a CWC member told this newspaper, adding that there has been no official communication from the party. The timing of the meeting could be significant as there is a renewed debate over the issue of leadership and a fulltime president. Plea to Sonia Earlier, this week, suspended Congress member Sanjay Jha had tweeted that over 100 Congress members had written to interim president Sonia Gandhi expressing ‘concern’ about the functioning of the party.  Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had said, “No such letter has been written or received by the Congress president.” Despite the official denial, Mr. Jha’s tweet did bring into focus ‘informal efforts’ by a group of leaders who were unhappy with the ‘sense of drift’, had reservation about Mr. Gandhi taking back the reins of the party and wanted a more collective style of leadership. On Wednesday, however, the Congress asserted that “millions of Congress workers want Mr. Gandhi back at the top post as he is the only one who has been consistently taken on the Narendra Modi government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cwc-may-meet-amid-leadership-row/article32408269.ece
21 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Plasma donation drive kick-starts||Hyderabad city police in association with Hyderabad City Security Council (HCSC) launched a plasma donation campaign on Thursday, to encourage all those who recovered from COVID to donate blood plasma to those suffering from the virus. The main objective of the programme was to create an awareness among citizens from all walks of life about plasma donation. More than 150 men in uniform from city police had already donated plasma to the needy. The website for the plasma donation campaign was launched by Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Health Minister Eatala Rajender. ‘donateplasma.hcsc.in’ is now open to register for any requirement of plasma and also for donation. An option for any volunteer or NGO willing to register and work with HCSC in the campaign has also been facilitated on the website. Post-registration, the back-end team will verify the donor and recipient and facilitate the process of plasma donation. The contact numbers for registration are 9490616780 and 040-23434343. Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, Additional Commissioners Shikha Goel, Anil Kumar and D.S. Chauhan, Joint Commissioner Tarun Joshi, A.R. Srinivas, M. Ramesh, P. Viswa Prasad and other senior officials were present on the occasion on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plasma-donation-drive-kick-starts/article32408575.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Temple will be ready in 36-40 months’||The Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, entrusted with the task of the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, met in New Delhi on Thursday, and said construction would likely be completed within 36 to 40 months hence, and that engineers from the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee, IIT-Madras and Larsen and Toubro (L&T) were in the process of testing the soil at the site. According to the trustees, the temple would be made in such a way that it could withstand natural calamities and would last for many years, which is why no iron was to be used. “According to the way traditional construction was done, largely wood, stone and copper were used and we appeal to all those who want to contribute to donate copper plating. Copper plates will be used to fuse stone blocks with each other. They should be 18 inches in length 30 mm wide and 3 mm thick,” said a source. “As such 10,000 plates may be required and we appeal to Ram bhakts to donate them with, if they so wish, the names of the families of donors, place of origin or names of their community temples on them,” said a source. The public appeal for the copper sheets and allowance for engravings has been done, sources add, to make it manifest that people from across the country have contributed to the construction of the temple. RSS second-in-command Suresh “bhaiyyaji” Joshi and the organisation’s joint general secretary Krishna Gopal also attended the meeting. The trust will be holding meetings almost daily now to go over all aspects of the construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/temple-will-be-ready-in-36-40-months/article32408253.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,||Haja planned war against India, says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has concluded that Subhani Haja Moideen, the Keralite who returned to the country after joining the Islamic State (IS) in Syria, planned to wage war against the country. The agency summed up its arguments before NIA special judge P. Krishnakumar on Thursday. The accused, according to the agency, tried to procure 50 kg of explosives from a trader in Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu. The explosives, if it had reached his hands, could have been used for causing explosion, which could have wreaked havoc in an area of 5 km around the blast site.. It was under the pretext of opening a business of explosives and firecrackers that the accused attempted to purchase the material. On having doubts about the intentions of the accused, the trader refused to sell him the chemicals, the NIA argued. Electronic proof The investigation agency also produced before the special judge, electronic evidences to prove their arguments that the accused attempted to purchase a powerful gun online. The gun could be used to fire at targets from a distance of 200 metres, according to the agency. The accused, a native of Thodupuzha, had gone for Jeddah and from there to Istanbul. From there, he and a few others crossed over to Syria. At Mosul, he was given military training along with other IS operatives, according to the investigators. Moideen, according to the agency, was one of the few Indians who had returned to the country after joining the terror outfit in Iraq.The NIA picked him up during its investigation in the Kanakamala IS training case. He was charged under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, along with other laws, for joining the terrorist organisation. Denied At the same time, Moideen denied the allegations of the agency that he had joined the proscribed organisation. He had also termed the evidences presented by the NIA as false and fabricated. The court posted the case for August 25 for the defence lawyers to round up their arguments. Once the defence lawyers complete the arguments for Moideen, the court will post the case for pronouncing the order.  Haja, a native of Thodupuzha, had gone for Jeddah and from there to Istanbul. From there, he and a few others crossed over to Syria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haja-planned-war-against-india-says-nia/article32408645.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar says old order preventing a collective response||Individual behaviour of many states and old-styled multilateral organisations prevented a collective response to global challenges in a contemporary world, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Thursday. To deal with the new global challenges, nation states were rediscovering the merits of ideas like “strategic autonomy”, he stated at the 6th Roundtable Meeting of the ASEAN-India Network of Think Tanks (AINTT). “The irony, however, is that just when multilateralism was most in demand, it did not rise to the occasion. If we saw little leadership, it was not just due to the admittedly anachronistic nature of key international organisations,” he noted. Mr. Jaishankar described the current pandemic as an unprecedented challenge, and blamed “individual behaviour of many states” for the failure of the multilateral organisations to come to the rescue of the pandemic-hit world. The impact of COVID-19 on the world economy was still not clear and the contraction of the world economy would be the largest since the Great Depression of 1929. “None of us has seen a crisis of this proportion before, or indeed uncertainty of this level,” he said. The Minister urged greater cooperation to counter challenges such as the pandemic, and called for “collective solutions”. Beyond orthodoxies He highlighted the difficulties hindering a strong response to deal with the pandemic and called upon the ASEAN countries to look beyond “orthodoxies” in trade, politics and security to find solution to the challenges. As part of that, he pointed to the idea of “strategic autonomy”, which created space for states to take the decision that was in their best interest. “In fact, the concept of strategic autonomy that was once fashionable in a unipolar world has now assumed relevance once again in terms of global supply chains”, he said, adding that the behaviour of states in the pandemic season would determine the way they would be viewed by the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-says-old-order-preventing-a-collective-response/article32408277.ece
21 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. seeks cancellation of bail of three anti-CAA activists||The Uttar Pradesh government has moved a local court here seeking the revocation of bail of three activists who were accused of vandalism during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC) on December 19, 2019. The court of Additional Sessions Judge, Lucknow, had issued summons to Congress activist Sadaf Jafar, theatre personality Deepak Mishra, alias Deepak Kabir, and advocate Mohammad Shoaib. On Thursday, the court listed the next hearing in the matter for September 5 after the accused prayed for more time to respond to the application, a copy of which was not immediately available to all of them. Named on hoarding The three persons are among the 57 accused in the anti-CAA protests whose names, photos and addresses were displayed on hoardings erected across Lucknow by the administration earlier this year in a bid to “name and shame” them. In its application seeking the revocation of Mr. Shoaib’s bail, the government said that he had violated a condition of his bail (January 15), stipulating that he would not be involved in any criminal act. On January 30, Mr. Shoaib was among 13 persons booked by the Lucknow police on charges of leading a candle-lit march at the Hussainabad clocktower protest on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. The police accused the septuagenarian lawyer of inspiring and instigating those participating in the “illegal” protest. Mr. Shoaib, however, said that while he was present at the clocktower, he “did not participate” in any candle-lit march. Ms. Jafar said her lawyer appeared on her behalf and sought time to file an objection. Ms. Jafar accused the Yogi Adityanath-led government of harassing activists to polarise communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-seeks-cancellation-of-bail-of-three-anti-caa-activists/article32408280.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Thiruvananthapuram airport transfer may take 8 months||Adani Trivandrum International Airport Ltd. (ATIAL) of the Adani Group that has bagged the bid for operating and managing the Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) Thiruvananthapuram international airport for 50 years will get control of the airport only after an agreement is executed and the performance bank guarantee is paid. This is estimated to take around eight months. The ATIAL has prepared a road map to take over the airport before the new government takes charge after the Assembly elections in 2021, official sources associated with the airport privatisation process told The Hindu . The AAI will soon issue the Award of Letter to the ATIAL, following which a lease agreement for 50 years between the AAI and the ATIAL will be executed. The ATIAL will then have to submit the performance bank guarantee to the AAI. ATIAL personnel will fly down to Thiruvananthapuram and observe the operations closely for two months and take over the commercial operations of the airport as per the commercial operation date. The date for Lucknow, Mangaluru and Ahmedabad airports, leased to Adani Group in the first tranche, is November 12. Offers to staff Once commercial operations are taken over, AAI officers in the grade of DGM and above in the airport will return to the AAI. Those up to the AGM grade will be retained in the airport as deemed ‘deputation.’ Within three years, the ATIAL will give two offers for 60% of the staff up to the AGM grade and they will have to decide on staying with the private player. If they do not accept the offer, the Adani Group will have to pay their salary and benefits till retirement. A ‘novation clause’ will be introduced in the pact wherein other agreements entered into by the AAI for various works will be entrusted with the ATIAL. Rs. 2,000 crore expected There are compulsory clauses in the agreement to develop the airport before it is handed back after 50 years to the AAI. The AAI expects an upfront payment of Rs. 2,000 crore from the group which will be used for development of other AAI-managed airports. Air Traffic Communication and Air Navigation Services will remain with the AAI in the lease period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thiruvananthapuram-airport-transfer-may-take-8-months/article32408229.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP MP demands removal of Tharoor as IT panel chief||The row over Facebook intensified with BJP MP and member of the Parliamentary Committee on Information and Technology Nishikant Dubey on Thursday demanding the removal of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor as Chairman of the panel alleging that the committee is being run ‘unprofessionally’ and to serve his own “political agenda”. Former Union Minister Rajyavardhan Rathore also pitched in with a letter, accusing Mr. Tharoor of “flouting rules”. “We are not against representative of any organisation being called, but he [Mr. Tharoor] instead of discussing with us, discussed it with the media,” he said. In the four-page letter to Speaker Om Birla, Mr. Dubey raised a litany of complaints against Mr. Tharoor, many of them referring to his social media posts. He recalled Mr. Tharoor’s tweet criticising the move to refer the Personal Data Protection Bill to a Joint Select Committee instead of the IT panel as “a dangerous precedent”. Mr. Dubey found fault with Mr. Tharoor for “bitterly criticising” the government’s ban on 59 Chinese apps, “knowing well that this aspect is entirely connected with a wider canvas of ‘national security’.” Mr. Dubey said Mr. Tharoor tried to “defame” Mr. Birla and gain “political mileage” by going public about the cancellation of the meeting of the standing committee due to the pandemic. Spat over tweet The political spat started with Mr. Tharoor’s tweet on August 16 announcing that the standing committee would wish to hear from Facebook on the report of the Wall Street Journal which accused the social media giant of going easy on hate speech by the BJP and its leaders in the run up to the previous Lok Sabha election. Mr. Tharoor also clarified that this issue fell well within the subject of “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms”. Mr. Tharoor did not respond to the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-demands-removal-of-tharoor-as-it-panel-chief/article32408262.ece
21 August 2020||PALAKKAD,||‘Namath Basai’, a big hit among Kerala tribal children||Namath Basai, the State government’s unique programme for teaching tribal children in their mother tongue, has become a runaway hit in Attappady. The programme, implemented by the Samagra Siksha Kerala (SSK), has succeeded in retaining hundreds of tribal children in their online classes by making them feel at home with the language of instruction. The SSK has distributed some 50 laptops exclusively for Namath Basai. Pre-recorded classes are offered through a YouTube channel. 192 hamlets Most children of 192 hamlets in Attappady began enjoying the classes when lessons in Namath Basai were introduced a few weeks ago. Classes are being offered in three tribal languages in Attappady. While the Irula language has the largest number of takers, the Muduka and Kurumba language do not have as many.  Various tribes Out of the 192 hamlets in Attappady, 149 belong to the Irula tribe, 24 to the Muduka tribe and 19 to the Kurumba tribe. Naturally, the project got its name in Irula language. Namath Basai in Irula means ‘our language’. The hamlets are spread across Agali, Pudur, and Sholayur grama panchayats. Most hamlets in Sholayur are Irula, and most colonies in Pudur are that of Kurumba tribe. But in Agali, which has 73 hamlets, the Irula, Muduka and Kurumba tribes are evenly spread. “Teaching in the tribal language has to a good extent stopped students from dropping out, which is quite usual in hamlets,” said Sakthivel K., one of the Irula resource persons. A teacher at Government UP School, Kottathara, Mr. Sakthivel said the classes in their tribal mother tongue has added a new verve to the online studies. Resource persons Apart from him, 12 resource persons are being used for Namath Basai classes. The Education Department is reportedly planning to encourage schools in tribal areas too to promote classes in tribal mother tongue. The resource persons are from the locality, mainly drawn from the tribes. Though the textbooks are in Malayalam, the media of instruction are the tribal languages. “This scheme is going a long way in preserving the ethnic culture and language of the tribespeople. The learning experience is made more down to earth. The children could feel what they were being instructed. They are learning in a language of which they are proud of,” said C.P. Vijayan, SSK block project coordinator in Attappady. In Idukki, Wayanad too Namath Basai is being introduced in the tribal belts of Wayanad and Idukki as well. Classes are offered in the Oorali, Mutuvan and Paniya languages in Idukki.  Programme has succeeded in retaining hundreds of tribal children in online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/namath-basai-a-big-hit-among-kerala-tribal-children/article32408226.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Our lawyer should represent Jadhav: India||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday declared that former Navy official Kulbhushan Jadhav should be represented by an Indian lawyer in Pakistan. “We are in touch with Pakistan through diplomatic channels. For a free and fair trial in keeping with the letter and spirit of ICJ (International Court of Justice) judgment, we have asked for Shri Jadhav to be represented by an Indian lawyer,” said Anurag Srivastava, official spokesperson of the MEA. He also reiterated that Pakistan should provide relevant documents related to the case, and provide unimpeded consular access to Mr. Jadhav. The Islamabad High Court had earlier said that Mr. Jadhav should be represented by a Pakistani lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/our-lawyer-should-represent-jadhav-india/article32408266.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Bangladesh to monitor projects||India and Bangladesh will set up a mechanism to monitor bilateral projects, an official of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. The announcement came a day after Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla returned after holding talks with the leadership of Bangladesh in Dhaka, where both sides agreed to jointly deal with the border killings and establish a closer partnership to deal with the COVID-19 crisis. “The two countries also proposed that a high-level monitoring mechanism be set up to regularly review the progress of the ongoing projects,” said Anurag Srivastava, official spokesperson of the MEA. Railway lines The monitoring mechanism is expected to assist in timely completion of several ongoing projects, including the Rampal Maitree Power Plant, India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline, and rail links between Akhaura-Agartala, Chilahati-Haldibari and Khulna-Mongla rail line that are to be completed by 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-bangladesh-to-monitor-projects/article32408270.ece
21 August 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Orphanage manager arrested in abuse case||A British-born man, who is managing an orphanage in Odisha’s Jharsuguda district, has been arrested on charges of sexually abusing a minor boy. The accused, identified as John Patrick Bridge, was produced before a local court which remanded him in judicial custody, Rahul P.R., Superintendent of Police, said. The minor was one among nearly 400 children staying in the orphanage. Bridge was booked under Section 341 of the Indian Penal Code, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The orphanage was sealed by the district administration under a child rights protection guideline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/orphanage-manager-arrested-in-abuse-case/article32408275.ece
21 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. police’s authority waning, says BJP MLA||A senior BJP MLA from Gorakhpur on Thursday trained his guns on two senior officials concerned with the law and order in Uttar Pradesh, asking Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to replace them with “capable” officials if he wanted to protect his image. In a reply to a tweet, Radha Mohan Das Agarwal, MLA, posted that the authority of the police was waning in the State. Mr. Agarwal also accused the Director General of Police and the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) of failing to discharge their duties. Though Mr. Agarwal deleted his tweet, while talking to The Hindu he confirmed he made the post. He reiterated his stance and said he had been trying to draw attention of the two senior officials towards the police inaction in a murder case in Lakhimpur Kheri but did not get any response from them. Mr. Agarwal said a man was murdered in Kanshiram Colony of Lakhimpur Kheri district last month but the police were yet to take any action. If a person delayed filing an FIR, it was considered mala fide, similarly a delay in action by the police would also be considered mischievous, said the legislator. Mr. Agarwal, however, clarified that his critical post did not mean he was rebelling against his government or the Chief Minister and stressed that there was “internal democracy” in his party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-polices-authority-waning-says-bjp-mla/article32408279.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Farooq allowed to meet senior NC leaders||“That we have to be ‘allowed’ to meet freely in spite of the government claiming in court that none of these leaders are detained is a blot on Indian democracy and rule of law,” said Mr. Abdullah. COVID-19 pandemic The NC has decided to hold more such meetings in coming days in batches due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The meeting assumes significance in the wake of the NC’s habeas corpus petition filed before the High Court, in which the party claimed that 16 of its senior leaders “were illegally detained” and “placed under a continuous house arrest” since August 5. However, the Jammu and Kashmir administration told the court that there were no restrictions on the movement of these leaders. “The meeting was scheduled in the backdrop of the stand taken by the government in the High Court after the party filed a habeas corpus,” a NC spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farooq-allowed-to-meet-senior-nc-leaders/article32408221.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Tharoor draws flak||Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor of the Congress appeared to have earned the ire of his own party and that of the ruling front for having posted a Twitter message that seemed to support the Central government’s decision to lease out the operations of the Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. of the Adani Group. Dr. Tharoor had tweeted: “The reality is that a private entity running the operations competitively is the only way this airport (Thiruvananthapuram airport) could flourish. Whoever it is, the ownership of land and airport as well as the responsibilities of ATC, Security, Customs & Immigration still remain with the Govt agencies”. However, his statement appeared to be in variance with the stated position of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) and more by the stance of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). His tweet immediately invited bipartisan criticism from the Congress leadership and the State secretariat of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran seemed to refer obliquely to the tweet by stating that “no Congress worker should be on the payroll of Adani or any corporate”. ‘Just means more gold’ K. Muraleedharan, MP, of the Congress, said Kerala would not turn into heaven if Adani owned the airport as some had suggested. Private ownership of the airport would mean an increased inflow of contraband gold. The CPI(M) State secretariat slammed Dr. Tharoor for supporting the takeover by Adani. It said Dr. Tharoor had acted against the interest of his constituency. The MP’s opinion echoed that of the BJP and not that of the KPCC. District secretary of the BJP V.V. Rajesh appeared to toe Dr. Tharoor’s line that only privatisation would make airport operations economically viable. The CPI(M) was traditionally against the development of Thiruvananthapuram and overwhelmingly in favour of modernising Kochi and Kannur airports. The Centre had handed over the operations of the airport to Adani via open tender. It had invited the State government to participate in the bid. A modern airport in Thiruvananthapuram would serve citizens from Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu to Pathanamthitta in central Kerala. It would catalyse economic activity in the State, he said.  The MP’s opinion echoed that of the BJP and not that of the KPCC. CPI(M)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tharoor-draws-flak/article32408230.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||SC gives Bhushan time to reconsider statement||Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, in the capacity of his constitutional office, urged the court not to punish Mr. Bhushan . “He has done tremendous amount of public good ... You have convicted him but do not punish him,” he said. Justice Mishra replied, “He might have done a lot of good but he should not cross the  Lakshman Rekha ... We can be very, very lenient, but only if the person tenders an apology in the real sense.” Mr. Venugopal said, “I have before me a list of five judges of the Supreme Court who said democracy has failed. I have a list of nine judges who said there is corruption in higher judiciary. Of this, two made statements while in court and seven immediately after they retired. I myself gave a speech ...” Justice Mishra intervened, “We are not hearing a review. Our judgment stands.” At one point early in the hearing, he said the court would inflict punishment on Mr. Bhushan only after his review petition is decided. Besides, the lawyer’s professional profile would weigh in while considering the suitable punishment. “You may not be fair to us but we will be fair to you,” Justice Mishra said. Dave’s plea dismissed The Bench refused a plea by senior advocate Dushyant Dave to defer the sentence hearing till Mr. Bhushan files a review and it is decided. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, also appearing for Mr. Bhushan, reminisced that the “last six years have indeed been very difficult for the court and very difficult for lawyers. One day, history will look at these years again and again and again”. Justice Mishra reacted, “We are not astrologers. That is for the future to decide.” Mr. Dhavan said, “Exactly, and that is what Bhushan has tweeted”. He argued that the court did not really explain how it found Mr. Bhushan guilty of mounting a “malicious and scurrilous attack”, which “destabilised the very foundation of this important pillar of Indian democracy”. Justice Mishra responded, “We have taken contempt only on the tweets, nothing else.” Mr. Dhavan submitted, “But tweets are transitory. They are like fireflies in the night. Explain what you found in the tweets which was a substantial interference with law? Truth is an absolute defence.” To this, Justice Mishra said criticism should be balanced and not aimed to “destroy the institution”. “We do not punish for contempt so easily. Balancing has to be there, restraint has to be there. There is a Lakshman Rekha for everything. Why should you cross the  rekha ? Doing good things is welcome. We appreciate all those efforts? But why is balancing forgotten?” he observed. Mr. Dhavan replied, “Balancing should be found in Your Lordships’ judgment. Balancing is also there in Article 19 [right to free speech and expression] of the Constitution.” The judgment convicting Mr. Bhushan would suffer severe criticism when it reached the legal academies, he said. Justice Mishra retorted, “We always welcome fair criticism.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-gives-bhushan-time-to-reconsider-statement/article32408236.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||29% Delhiites developed antibodies against virus||Antibodies against COVID-19 infection have been found in 29.1% of people in the latest sero-prevalence survey in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. Blood samples of 15,239 people were randomly collected in the August 1-7 survey from 11 districts. “If Delhi’s population is considered 2 crore, then about 60 lakh people have developed antibodies and they have recovered,” Mr. Jain said. According to the findings of another sero survey, antibodies have been found in 27.7% of people in Punjab’s containment zones. In Delhi, the South East district had the highest sero prevalence of 33%, while South West had the lowest of 16.3%. Mr. Jain said in the first survey, which was done from June 27 to July 4, the sero prevalence was 22.8%. Over 22,000 samples were collected then. Out of the samples collected in the second survey, 25% were from the age group of 5-17 years, 50% from 18-49 years, and 25% from the age group of 50 years and above. Antibodies were found in 28.3% of samples of the men and 32.2% of the women tested. The next survey will begin on September 1. The Punjab survey findings, submitted to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh during a COVID-19 review meeting on Thursday, showed the prevalence of antibodies in containment zones to be highest at 40% in Amritsar district, followed by 35.6% in Ludhiana, 33.2% in Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, 19.2% in Patiala and 10.8% in Jalandhar. This was Punjab’s first exclusive survey. The earlier surveys were more generalised and were conductedby the State in coordination with the ICMR.  (With inputs from   Chandigarh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/29-delhiites-developed-antibodies-against-virus/article32408238.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala did not qualify in airport bidding, says Puri||Kerala government had decided to participate in the bidding process for the Thiruvananthapuram airport based on the principle of right of first refusal, but despite the special provision it didn’t qualify, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said on Thursday. “Following a meeting with EGoS [Empowered Group of Secretaries], the GoK [Government of Kerala] themselves decided to participate in the process & requested that their participation be based on RoFR [right of first refusal]. This was agreed upon. It was stipulated that if the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) bid comes within the 10% range of the winning bid, they would be awarded the work. There was a difference of 19.64% between them & the next bidder when bids were opened,” said the Minister presenting the Centre’s stance in a series of tweets. While the highest bidder, Adani Enterprises Limited, quoted Rs. 168 per passenger, the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) quoted Rs. 135 per passenger, and therefore, despite the special provision of the right of first refusal the Kerala government couldn’t win the bidding process, said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-did-not-qualify-in-airport-bidding-says-puri/article32408240.ece
21 August 2020||Kochi,||60 questioned in farmer death case||The investigation into the death of a farmer in Ranni was progressing without any hitch, according to a statement filed by the police in the Kerala High Court. Mathai, 41, was found dead in a well on July 28, hours after he was taken into custody by forest officials of the Chittar division for questioning in connection with the destruction of a camera set up for animal-spotting. The police said almost all machineries of the Police Department were used in this case to adduce scientific evidence. A total of 60 witnesses had been questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/60-questioned-in-farmer-death-case/article32408643.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) hints at mass stir against leasing of airport||The State secretariat of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) indicated on Thursday that it would launch a mass agitation against the leasing of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to the Adani Group. In a statement here, the CPI(M) said the “people would not allow the takeover”. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre had sold the Ahmedabad, Lucknow, and Mangaluru airports to the Adani Group the party favoured. The BJP had now attempted to sell Kerala’s sea and air to the private corporation. The people would resist the move. Adani had won the bid to operate the Thiruvananthapuram airport for 50 years for a pittance. At a stroke, it had come into the control of an asset worth more than Rs. 30,000 crore. The airport threw up an annual profit of Rs. 170 crore. Kerala had repeatedly moved the Centre to allow a State-government entity to run the Thiruvananthapuram airport on the lines of Kochi and Kannur. However, it had rejected the State’s plea. A 2003 accord signed by the State government with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) stated that the value of the airport land (665) acres would be converted into the State’s share if the Centre created or allowed a company to run the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-hints-at-mass-stir-against-leasing-of-airport/article32408644.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||Gmail services disrupted||Google’s popular email service, Gmail, is facing disruption in its services since Thursday morning, with users complaining that they are unable to log in, add attachments and receive messages. The company said it was investigating the issue, but did not specify a reason for the outage that seems to be affecting some users in various parts of the globe. Earlier in the day, G Suite status dashboard — which provides performance information on various Google services — said the company was “investigating reports of an issue with Gmail”. The dashboard shows that services such as Google Drive, Google Docs and Google Meet have also been affected. Stating that it will provide an update, the company said there was disruption in sending e-mails, Meet recording, creating files in Drive, posting message in Google Chat and other functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gmail-services-disrupted/article32408281.ece
21 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Govt. takes over church at Thiruvarppu||Amidst protests, the Kottayam district administration here on Thursday took possession of the Jacobite-controlled Marthasmooni church at Thiruvarppu following a High Court directive to implement the Supreme Court order to hand over control of all parishes in the Malankara Church to the Orthodox group. Acting on a directive by District Collector M. Anjana, Kottayam tahsildar P.G. Rajendra Babu, with the support of a strong police contingent, arrived at the spot around 5 a.m. and broke open its gates to enter the church premises. This was followed by an announcement regarding the takeover proceedings and notices were pasted on the church and other buildings on the property, besides at the main entry. The Jacobite faction staged a protest against the takeover and raised slogans against the Orthodox faction. However, the protesters were soon cleared by the police.  “They protested against the takeover of the parish hall and the bishop’s house where Thomas Mar Alexandrios, Metropolitan of Mumbai Diocese of Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, had been staying. We, however, convinced them about the court order and the metropolitan soon vacated the space,” said an official. Having sealed the buildings by 8 a.m., the tahsildar submitted a report in this regard to the Collector. The church will remain under police security until its reopening. Keys to be handed over The keys, currently in the possession of the tahsildar, will be handed over to the Orthodox faction after assessing the the law and order situation. “The Collector is now slated to submit a report on the proposed reopening of the church in the court,” added the official. 50 persons booked Meanwhile, the Kumarakom police booked 50 persons under the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance, 2020 for violating the physical distancing guidelines during the protest. Later in the day, Metropolitan Thomas Mar Alexandrios who staged a protest in Kottayam TB was forcefully shifted by the police to St. George Syrian Orthodox Centre at Kanjikuzhy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-takes-over-church-at-thiruvarppu/article32408224.ece
21 August 2020||Bhopal,||‘Modi is attacking the unorganised economy’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the Union government of disrupting the balance between the organised and unorganised economies, which would result in youth not getting jobs in the coming days. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, he said, “Mr. Modi in the past six years has been attacking the unorganised economy so that money goes to only big businesses close to him.” Mr. Gandhi pointed to demonetisation, the Goods and Services Tax and the lockdown imposed abruptly in a bid to contain the COVID-19 outbreak as instances of the ‘attack’. “As soon as the lockdown eases, small and medium businesses will be destroyed. It is already happening. For the first time in the country’s independent history, it will not be able to give employment to its youth,” he said.  While clarifying that his comment did not imply an attack on the organised sector, Mr. Gandhi exhorted Congress workers to unite the country and raise the voices of the poor, including workers and farmers. “We need to bring back the balance. Help the unorganised workers and ensure development, that is our responsibility,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-is-attacking-the-unorganised-economy/article32408249.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||House panel summons Facebook||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has summoned Facebook on September 2 to discuss the issue of alleged misuse of social media platforms in the wake of claims that the U.S. firm did not apply hate speech rules to certain Bharatiya Janata Party politicians. A day before, the committee will also discuss the issue of Internet shutdowns. Besides representatives of Facebook, the committee has also asked representatives of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to remain present on September 2 to discuss the subject of “safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-summons-facebook/article32408264.ece
21 August 2020||Bhopal,||Nath flays BJP over jobs claim||Two days after Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan declared that all State government jobs will be reserved for youths from the State, former CM Kamal Nath hit out at the party. He said, “In the past 15 years, M.P. has been left behind. Just by making announcements in the media the youth won’t get jobs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nath-flays-bjp-over-jobs-claim/article32408256.ece
21 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana CM quarantines himself for three days||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Thursday said he has home quarantined himself for three days as a precautionary measure. In a tweet, the CM said, “I have come in contact with many people in the past days who had symptoms of corona. Although, I have got my corona test done, which has come negative but as a pre-caution I am getting myself quarantined for 3 days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-cm-quarantines-himself-for-three-days/article32408512.ece
21 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Prashant Kanojia to move sessions court for bail||Freelance journalist Prashant Kanojia will move a sessions court here for bail on Friday after a Chief Judicial Magistrate rejected his plea in connection with his arrest over an alleged forged post on Twitter, his wife Jagisha Arora said. “[The] CJM has rejected the bail,” said Ms. Arora, adding that he was currently kept at a quarantine centre. Mr. Kanojia was arrested from his Delhi residence by the U.P. police on Tuesday for allegedly posting on Twitter the screenshot of a forged post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prashant-kanojia-to-move-sessions-court-for-bail/article32408513.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||BJP ‘desperately’ trying to shield PM CARES Fund from scrutiny: Chidambaram||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday accused the BJP of “desperately” trying to shield the PM CARES Fund from scrutiny. “Was the Fund set up by the central government as concluded by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs? If not, who set up the Fund? If the Fund was not set up by the government, why are the PM and three Ministers serving as Trustees? If the Fund is a private established fund, why are donations to the Fund counted against CSR,” asked Mr. Chidambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-desperately-trying-to-shield-pm-cares-fund-from-scrutiny-chidambaram/article32408267.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,||D.J. Halli violence: 2 cases booked under UAPA likely to be handed over to NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely take over the probe into two cases related to the August 11 violence at D.J. Halli here, sources in the security agencies said. Of the 65 FIRs registered in connection with the violence, the two main cases being probed by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the city police in which provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 have been invoked are likely to be handed over to the NIA, sources said. Arvind Limbavali, whovisited D.J. Halli on Monday leading a fact-finding team of the BJP, had made the first demand to hand over the probe to the NIA, as he described the violence “a threat to national security”. A day later, the city police termed the violence “an act of terror” and invoked provisions of the UAPA in two FIRs probing the conspiracy behind the violence, following a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. The NIA can probe only terror-related cases. Meanwhile, senior city police officials said they were unaware ofthe development and they would continue with their probe, until any orders on the transfer of case came from the State government. ‘No order yet’ A senior NIA official said that while the Ministry of Home Affairs (was yet to issue formal orders, discussions were on to the effect. A senior State Minister also said the cases would mostly be transferred to the NIA “as investigations have now revealed terror links to the conspiracy behind the violence”. CCB officials presently probing these cases have claimed that an analysis of the call detail records (CDR) of nearly 2,000 men gathered at the three sites of the violence on the night of August 11 had thrown up over 40 numbers that were earlier in touch with several terror modules in the city. “We have found numbers that were in touch with accused in the 2013 Malleswaram bomb blast allegedly carried out by Al Umma, Church Street blast of 2014 allegedly carried out by the SIMI, murder of RSS worker Rudresh in 2016 allegedly carried out by members of the PFI, and the recently busted IS-inspired terror module Al Hind. These modules are unrelated and these contacts are old and date back to even 2012–13. The nature of these contacts and the role of these men in those cases need to be probed,” a senior CCB official said. However, CCB officials noted that these webof contacts were of interest from the perspective of security, but there was no direct link between any of these modules and the violence at D.J. Halli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dj-halli-violence-2-cases-booked-under-uapa-likely-to-be-handed-over-to-nia/article32408222.ece
21 August 2020||Kozhikode,||10 injured in clashes at Perambra market||At least 10 persons were injured when two groups of fish vendors belonging to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] clashed at a local market at Perambra here on Thursday over right of sale. The incident occurred around 9 a.m. Tension prevailed in the area when a group of IUML workers claimed that the CPI(M) workers tried to eat into their sales territory by deploying delivery vehicles. The unexpected clash, which ended up in the open violation of COVID-19 protocol on the street, created a big headache for the police and Health Department officials. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao asked all those who were present at the spot to go in self-quarantine. He ordered action against the violators under the Epidemic Diseases Control Act. Following the Collector’s order, the market was temporarily shut. Public assembly was banned in the area under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It would be applicable to all residents in ward numbers 15 and 5 in Perambra panchayat until further orders. The Perambra police were asked to prepare a list of persons who took part in the clash as part of the efforts to enforce quarantine rules. Rapid Response reams in the area were also directed to adopt proper surveillance measures and ensure compliance with the quarantine rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-injured-in-clashes-at-perambra-market/article32408223.ece
21 August 2020||Mysuru,||Aide of forest brigand Veerappan dies in hospital||Bilavendran, an aide to brigand Veerappan, passed away in a hospital here on Wednesday night. The 61-year-old was one of the four aides of Veerappan, who escaped the noose after the Supreme Court in 2014 commuted their death penalty to life imprisonment. “He was unwell and had been admitted to K.R. Hospital in Mysuru as an in-patient for the last one week,” Mysuru jail superintendent Divyashree told The Hindu . However, she said the cause of his death will be known only after the post-mortem. The jail authorities had sent him to the hospital for treatment of his health issues. To a question, Ms. Divyashree said that Bilavendran was not suffering from COVID-19. Bilavendran, along with Simon, Madaiah and Gnanaprakash, had been sentenced to death for their role in the 1993 Palar blasts on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border that claimed the lives of 22 people. Plea Advocate Venugopal, who used to represent Veerappan’s aides, has urged the government to consider the release of the other two, both aged around 70, who remain imprisoned for life. Taking their age into consideration and considering them “victims of circumstances, who had been caught in the cross-fire between police and Veerappan”, the government should consider the duo eligible for release on Republic Day or Independence Day as per the provisions of law and their good conduct, said Mr. Venugopal. Veerappan, it may be recalled, was killed in an encounter with security forces in 2004.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aide-of-forest-brigand-veerappan-dies-in-hospital/article32408227.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab’s respiratory parameters show improvement||Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s respiratory parameters have shown some improvement following the lung infection he had developed a day before, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said on Thursday, adding that his vital parameters remain stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pranabs-respiratory-parameters-show-improvement/article32408245.ece
21 August 2020||Patna,||Three more RJD MLAs join JD(U) in Bihar||Ahead of the Bihar Assembly election, three MLAs from the Opposition party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) — Lalu Prasad’s relative Chandrika Rai, Jaivardhan Yadav, alias Baccha Yadav, and Faraz Fatmi — on Thursday joined the ruling Janata Dal-United (JD-U). The ‘Grand Alliance’ ally and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular, too, decided to quit. the alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-more-rjd-mlas-join-jdu-in-bihar/article32408246.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tests positive for COVID-19||Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has tested positive for COVID-19. “On getting some symptoms, I got the corona test done... I am hospitalised on the advice of doctors. I request that those who came in contact with me in the last few days isolate themselves and get themselves examined,” he tweeted on Thursday. Mr. Shekhawat is the fifth Union Minister to be diagnosed with COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jal-shakti-minister-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32408260.ece
21 August 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab CM tightens restrictions to curb spread of COVID-19||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a series of emergency measures, including the extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in all 167 cities and towns in the State from August 21 to curb the spread of COVID-19. All gatherings, except at weddings and funerals, have been banned across the State till August 31. Offices will work at 50% capacity till this month-end. COVID-19 cases have been rising in the State causing 920 deaths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-tightens-restrictions-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19/article32408263.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,986 fresh infections in State; over 3 lakh discharged so far||As many as 5,986 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, while the total number of persons discharged crossed the three-lakh mark. The State’s death toll increased to 6,239, as another 116 persons, including two in their 20s, succumbed to the infection. Thursday’s case count took the State’s overall tally to 3,61,435. As many as 5,742 persons, including 1,132 in Chennai, were discharged, taking the total figure to 3,01,913. The number of persons undergoing treatment stood at 53,283. As cases continued to surge across the State, Chennai saw another 1,177 fresh infections (of which two were imported cases), taking its tally to 1,21,450. A total of 462 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chengalpattu, followed by 397 in Coimbatore, 393 in Tiruvallur and 359 in Salem. In Kancheepuram, 291 persons tested positive, followed by 270 in Cuddalore and 233 in Theni. Eleven districts had 100-plus cases. They included Virudhunagar (147), Ranipet (145) and Tenkasi (132). Of the 116 fatalities that were recorded, 72 persons died in government facilities. Among those who died, 108 had co-morbidities. Chennai accounted for 22 deaths, while Coimbatore recorded 11 deaths. Seven persons died in Salem, while Kanniyakumari and Tiruvallur saw six deaths each. A 21-year-old woman with seizure disorder was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on August 16 with complaints of fever for two days, cough and breathing difficulty. She died on August 19 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 25-year-old man from Perambalur died within two hours of admission to a government hospital in Ariyalur on August 19 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. He had cough for two days and breathing difficulty for a day. Three persons in their 30s also succumbed to the infection. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours stood at 75,076. With this, 39.88 lakh samples have been tested in the State so far. A government laboratory — at Government Headquarters Hospital, Cuddalore — and two private laboratories — at Sundaram Hospital, Tiruchi, and Ashwin FED Speciality Hospital, Madurai — were approved for COVID-19 testing. This took the total number of testing facilities in the State to 139 (63 in the government sector and 76 in private sector).  Record spike in U.T. In a record 24-hour spike in cases, Puducherry reported 554 admissions, while eight deaths raised the toll to 137 on Thursday. Puducherry recorded seven deaths and Yanam one. The patients, including three women, were in the 48-80 age group. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao expressed concern that the average rise in cases was overshooting experts’ estimates, and reiterated his appeal to the public to comply with safety norms. The new cases were detected from testing 1,388 samples, pushing the positivity rate to almost 40%. The fatality rate in Puducherry stood at 1.47% and recovery rate 60.63%. The active cases rose to 3,521 (1,725 in home isolation), and the overall tally crossed the 9,000-mark (9,292). The number of patients who have recovered is 5,634, including 322 patients discharged during the last 24 hours. The Department of Health has tested 59,757 samples so far and found 48,902 of them to be negative.  As cases continued to surge across the State, Chennai saw 1,177 fresh infections. Among those who died, 108 had co-morbidities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5986-fresh-infections-in-state-over-3-lakh-discharged-so-far/article32408407.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State ranked 10th in cleanliness||Tamil Nadu jumped to the 10th spot in 2020 from 12th in 2019 in the overall ranking for cleanest cities, according to the Swachh Survekshan 2020 report released by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Thursday. However, none of the cities from the State made it to the top 25. In terms of cities with a population of more than 10 lakh, Chennai was ranked 45th with a total score of 2,010.93 this year. Coimbatore was ranked 40 this year with a score of 2,337.12, maintaining the same spot like last year. Madurai saw a significant jump, moving to the 42nd rank in 2020 with a score of 2,255.81, when compared to 201 in 2019. In terms of cities with 1 lakh-10 lakh population, Tiruchi’s rank slipped to 102 with a score of 3,360.47 points in 2020 from 39 in 2019. Salem saw its ranking drop to 173 in 2020 from 156 in 2019. Tiruppur’s rank went down to 223 in 2020 from 209 last year. In 2020, Vellore improved its ranking to 272 from 301 last year, while Tirunelveli’s ranking jumped to 159 from 244 in 2019. Tambaram’s ranking slipped to 269 this year from 260 in 2019 while Pallavaram improved to 241 from 278. Avadi’s ranking improved to 321 in 2020 from 385 in 2019. Kancheepuram’s ranking improved to 280 in 2020 from 333 last year, according to the report. In terms of cantonment boards, St. Thomas Mount moved up to the 10th spot in 2020 from 17th last year while Wellington dropped to 21 from 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-ranked-10th-in-cleanliness/article32408434.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospital ICUs almost full||Intensive care units in government medical college hospitals in the city are running to near-capacity, thanks to the rising number of critically ill COVID-19 patients being brought in. While several “sick” patients were referred from peripheral districts, among the main reasons for the rising number of critically ill patients is the delay in seeking medical help, and delayed referrals. Senior government doctors said the occupancy in intensive care units (ICUs) was around 90% to 95%. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), intensive care wards were full while 95% of the beds were filled up at the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital.  “More than half of the daily COVID-19 patients admitted to the hospital on Wednesday were sick. A majority of them are elderly people. The hospital is receiving patients from peripheral districts, such as Tiruvallur and also from Neyveli, after they are treated for seven to 10 days,” a senior doctor of RGGGH said. At the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, nearly 60% of the ICU beds are occupied. A number of patients from Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram were referred “very late” and their oxygen saturation levels were low at 60 to 70 mm Hg, doctors at KMC said. At the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, which has been receiving referrals from neighbouring districts, doctors said they were receiving more patients with severe lung impairment, resulting in increased occupancy of ICU beds. “The number of sick patients has increased. The condition of many is worsening despite treatment,” a doctor said. Doctors said that persons with morbid obesity, diabetes, hypertension, kidney diseases, asthma and those aged above 65 should take precautions and stay safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hospital-icus-almost-full/article32408396.ece
21 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Urban planners seek strong policy||The much-awaited Tamil Nadu Affordable Urban Housing and Habitat Policy, passed by the government on March 18 but made available in the public domain only recently, has got urban planners, developers and housing activists complaining about the lack of clarity and direction and its poor public consultation. The policy aims to ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services, and to improve slums by 2030. However, the main problem seems to have two aspects — one, that there was no adequate consultation and two, lack of basic clarity and direction. Third draft Karen Coelho, associate professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS), said that the policy was flawed both in its process and substance. “Numerous consultants have serially been commissioned to draft this policy — this one is at least the third draft; I am not sure why earlier drafts were rejected. There has been a shocking absence of basic processes of public discussion and consultation,” she said. Apart from the broad framing of affordability and the orientation toward bringing in the private sector in to take a larger role in providing affordable housing, it does not tackle the real issues in the sector, she added. “Our [MIDS] study of affordable housing in Chennai, which we submitted to the State Planning Commission just in February this year, made it clear that the single biggest constraint to affordable housing supply is land. Yet, this policy is silent on how land will be made available for affordable housing, how land speculation will be checked, and how land prices will be regulated,” she said. Left hanging Ms. Coelho added that there were numerous other issues that were left hanging, such as how the Shelter Fund would be managed and governed, how in-situ or proximate resettlement of slum dwellers will be achieved, and how the whole issue of basic amenities for slum-dwellers will be approached. Padam Dugar, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), said, “Every city has different sizes and value in terms of affordability. What is affordable in Mumbai is not affordable in Chennai. There is no proper clarity on this.” Activists point out that the entire policy was done in a hurry without proper public consultation. “A small selection of people were called for discussion and even to them, the draft was not shown or circulated for discussion. Many of them did not have any idea what the policy was about,” said an activist. The activist felt that other than rental housing, the policy had not explored other types of housing like group housing/community housing programmes for specific vulnerable sections, such as homeless persons and transpersons. Industry reaction Mr. Dugar, representing the developers, said that affordable housing requires demand creation, and that incentives given to the developer alone don’t really help. “Our view is that the government should incentivise the buyer. For example, in Maharashtra, the affordable housing stamp duty is only some Rs. 10,000 and approval charges are also low.” Mr. Dugar said that the government should support developers with special funding. “Land is an important product in affordable housing. If I have to sell at Rs. 25 to Rs. 30 lakh, we have to go away from the city and there is no proper infrastructure for people to travel easily. So, the State government should open up its land in the city and give it to developers for construction of affordable houses. This is happening in other States such as Uttar Pradesh,” he added. Besides, real estate developers also want the government to provide land adjacent to industrial areas they are developing for affordable housing. “The staff will not have to travel long distances every day then,” he explained. Housing Department officials were unavailable for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urban-planners-seek-strong-policy/article32408418.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City ranks low in cleanliness||Chennai fell from 61st rank last year to a poor 312 this year in the nation-wide annual cleanliness survey, Swachh Survekshan 2020. The city only managed a score of 2,010 out of 6,000. The cleanest city, Indore, scored 5,647 out of 6,000. Chennai was also ranked 45th among the 47 cities with a population of more than 10 lakh in the country in 2020. The only consolation was that it bagged the award for the country’s best mega city in adopting innovative and best practices in solid waste management. The overall score of the Corporation came down because of citizens’ poor feedback, inadequate information, education, and communication (IEC) for behavioural changes, delay in resolution of complaints by residents on the Swachhata App and issues in disposal of waste, officials said. Chennai scored just 23 out of 400 in complaint resolution on the Swachhata App. The city’s residents have given only 334 marks out of 800 for solid waste managment practices. But the Corporation has scored 343 out of 500 in collection and transportation of waste, 358 out of 700 in waste processing and disposal, 386 out of 500 in sustainable sanitation and 45 out of 60 in capacity building. Disaster management expert N. Mathavan said the State capital had to improve many key aspects of solid waste management during the COVID-19 pandemic. Best innovative practice In a message, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the award for Chennai was presented through the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for the best innovative practice in solid waste management. It has been chosen among mega cities with a population of more than 40 lakh. Chennai received the award owing to the initiatives taken to reduce dumping of waste in Perungudi and Kodungaiyur by promoting decentralised waste management, officials said. The city got a score of 62 out of 80 in the category of “Innovation and best practices,” which is two marks more than that of the cleanest city, Indore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-ranks-low-in-cleanliness/article32408389.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC begins hearing pleas to restrict online classes||One of the objectives of educating children is to bring about equality. Unfortunately, the education system in our country ends up perpetuating inequality because we cannot equate a student studying in an elite school with his/her counterpart in a government institution, lamented Justice M.M. Sundresh of the Madras High Court on Thursday. Presiding over a Division Bench with Justice R. Hemalatha, the senior judge made the observation while hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions to regulate the conduct of online classes by private schools. When senior counsel S. Prabakaran and advocates J. Ravindran and Ajay Francis Inigo Loyola highlighted how private school students were able to hone their skills through online classes while those studying in government schools lagged behind, the judge said such inequality had been in existence even otherwise. The lawyers pointed out that though the Centre and the State had come up with elaborate guidelines for the conduct of online classes, they were only advisory in nature and not mandatory. Mr. Loyola insisted that the schools be restrained from live-streaming the classes and instead be ordered to impart education only through pre-recorded lessons. While advocate P.J. Sri Ganesh insisted that schools should be prevented from conducting online tests and giving assignments to be done online, lawyer T. Gowthaman brought it to the notice of the court that the CBSE had already issued a circular against online examinations. After hearing all of them, the judges decided to hear Additional Solicitor General R. Shankaranarayanan and Additional Advocate General Narmadha Sampath on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-begins-hearing-pleas-to-restrict-online-classes/article32408408.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dalit panchayat president finally hoists national flag||After intervention from the Tiruvallur District Collector, Maheshwari Ravikumar, and Superintendent of Police, P. Aravindan, the Aathupakkam Dalit panchayat president V. Amritham finally hoisted the national flag at the panchayat office on Thursday. Social activists say that such discrimination is prevalent across the State, and have demanded a monitoring mechanism in every district to address such issues. Ms. Amritham, an independent candidate, became the Panchayat president of Aathupakkam panchayat near Gummidipoondi. However, according to her son V. Sasikumar, she has been facing discrimination. “She was not allowed to hoist the flag on Republic Day and on Independence Day too. There was no cooperation from the panchayat secretary whose name is also Sasikumar,” he said. He said that his mother did not have a voice even in Gram Sabha meetings. Though they had lodged a complaint with the Block Development Officer (BDO), there was no action taken. A television journalist who went to collect news about the incidentwas also assaultedby Panchayat secretary and Vijayakumar, the husband of Revathy who is the Panchayat vice-president. However, after the incident, the Tiruvallur Collector conducted an inquiry and the panchayat secretary was suspended. He and Vijayakumar were also arrested. Meanwhile on Thursday, the Collector and SP visited the village and made Ms. Amritham hoist the flag at the Panchayat office. “I have also asked all my BDOs to conduct an inquiry into similar atrocities in the district and submit a report at the earliest,” said Ms. Maheshwari Ravikumar. D. Ravikumar, VCK leader and Villupuram MP, said that there is a need to set up an advisory body in every district to help SC/ST panchayat presidents carry out their functions smoothly and address problems, including discrimination, faced by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dalit-panchayat-president-finally-hoists-national-flag/article32408425.ece
21 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Former DMK Minister Rahman Khan dies||Former DMK Minister Rahman Khan died on Thursday. He was 77. He succumbed to a heart attack after having recovered from COVID-19. He is survived by his wife and two sons. A well-known speaker, along with Duraimurugan and K. Subbu, he had made a mark in the Assembly when M.G. Ramachandran was the Chief Minister. The trio was known as “thunder, lightning and rain”. As a student, he actively took part in the anti-Hindi agitations and was first elected to the Assembly from the Chepauk constituency in 1977. He was elected to the Assembly five times and held the Labour and Revenue portfolio in the Ministry led by Chief Minister K. Karunanidhi, between 1996 and 2001. He also served as chairman of the Wakf Board. Condolences pour in DMK president M.K. Stalin, MDMK leader Vaiko and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah were among those who condoled Mr. Khan’s death. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said he was shocked and pained by the news, and recalled Mr. Khan’s role in strengthening the party, safeguarding the interests of minorities and empowering the student community. Mr. Stalin said that party flags would fly at half-mast for three days to mark the former Minister’s death. He noted that Periyar, Annadurai and Karunanidhi were impressed by Mr. Khan’s powerful speeches. He pointed out that Mr. Khan was a member of the party’s high-level working committee and was giving suggestions on a regular basis. Mr. Jawahirullah termed Mr. Khan’s death a great loss for the Dravidian movement. Mr. Vaiko recalled his friendship with Mr. Khan and said his death was a big loss for the DMK. Congress MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar said Mr. Khan acted as one of the pillars of the Dravidian movement and was a powerful speaker. In a tweet, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar condoled Mr. Khan’s demise and extended condolences to his family and the DMK cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-dmk-minister-rahman-khan-dies/article32408410.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Swiggy’s food delivery services resume||Nearly after a week of striking work, most Swiggy delivery executives in the city reported for duty on Friday. They were on strike from last Thursday demanding resumption of their old pay structure. Partial services began on Wednesday evening after company representatives met a section of the delivery executives and convinced them to return to work at a meeting convened by a senior police officer. In a statement here, Swiggy said that over the last couple of days, they had a positive dialogue with partners to explain the revised pay-outs and assuage their concerns. “We are glad that our partners were able to understand the revised service fee, which continues to be best in the industry. Once again, we would like to assert that most active partners have made over Rs. 45 per order in the last week with the high performing partners making over Rs. 100 per order,” the statement said. “Our partners earn incentives over and above this, making their monthly service fee much higher. No active Swiggy delivery partner in the city makes only Rs. 15 or lesser per order on an average,” it added. Fewer orders A delivery executive said that the resumption of rates was yet to reflect on their app. “They gave word that the pay structure would be changed to include waiting charges at restaurants, customer point payout of Rs. 5 and removal of zones so that we won’t have to ride back empty to our zones,” he said. Another delivery executive said that there were not many orders on Thursday though they had logged in. “Even though many have logged in, Swiggy’s orders seem to be passed on to another company, which is unfair. They are getting Rs. 30 per order,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swiggys-food-delivery-services-resume/article32408430.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Can people in small groups be allowed to immerse idols, asks HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday asked the State government to explore the possibility of making minor changes to the ban imposed on taking Vinayaka idols in procession and immersing them during the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations in a bid to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha asked Advocate General Vijay Narayan to find out the same purely in the interest of artisans who claim to have laboured hard for the last six months to make the idols, but now face huge losses. The judges suggested that the government could permit small groups to carry the idols and immerse them so that the idols would get sold. They said all safety measures such as physical distancing and other norms could be ordered to be followed. Making it clear that it was only a suggestion, the judges said the government officials would be free to come up with their own ideas. Since Vinayaka Chaturthi is on Saturday, the Bench asked the A-G to ascertain the govt’s stand by Friday. The instructions were issued during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition. On his part, the A-G told the court that the government had banned installation of idols in public places, taking them in procession and immersing them. However, it had made it clear that people could celebrate the festival within the confines of their homes. Since 20,204 small temples situated in villages and other rural areas had already been opened for public worship and only 21,131 other temples remain shut due to COVID-19, people were free to worship in the temples that had already been opened, subject to maintenance of all safety norms, he said. He said the government had also asked people to follow physical distancing norms and wear face masks while visiting shops and markets to purchase goods required for the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/can-people-in-small-groups-be-allowed-to-immerse-idols-asks-hc/article32408428.ece
21 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Wishes pour in as SPB continues to remain critical||The health status of singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam continues to remain critical, according to a medical bulletin issued by MGM Healthcare. On Thursday, members of the film fraternity and fans came together to pray for his health and wish him a speedy recovery. The singer was hospitalised earlier this month after testing positive for COVID-19. The bulletin said he continued to remain critical, and was on ventilator and ECMO support in the ICU. The hospital added that a multidisciplinary team of clinicians was actively collaborating with national and international experts, and continuing to closely monitor his vital parameters. In a video message on Thursday, the singer’s son, S.P. Charan, said his condition remained the same. Director Bharathiraaja, actor Rajinikanth and several members of the Tamil film fraternity had requested fans and well-wishers to play songs of Mr. Balasubrahmanyam at 6 p.m. on Thursday and participate in a mass prayer from wherever they are residing. Celebrities as well as fans took to social media and posted their wishes for his recovery and shared memorable songs sung by him. Directors K.S. Ravikumar and S.A. Chandrashekar, producer Kailaipuli S. Thanu, actors Sarath Kumar, Partheipan, Manobala, Sivakumar, Prabhu, Sathyaraj, Saroja Devi and Radikaa Sarathkumar, music composer Gangai Amaran and singer Chitra were among those who participated in the virtual prayer meeting. Prathap C. Reddy, chairman and founder, Apollo Hospitals, said he hoped for the singer’s speedy recovery and spoke about how he had touched several lives with the power of music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wishes-pour-in-as-spb-continues-to-remain-critical/article32408413.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on career opportunities tomorrow||The Hindu Education Plus is hosting a series of free webinars presented by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, on the current and emerging career opportunities in different fields. The second webinar as a part of the ongoing series in August will be on Agriculture. Students from classes 9 to 12 can attend the webinar which will be held on August 22 from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. K. Ramasamy, Director of faculty and academics, SRM IST; J.P. Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, Sher–e–Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu; and K. Alagusundaram, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Engineering), ICAR, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India will speak. The session will be moderated by Venky Vembu, Associate Editor, The Hindu BusinessLine . Students who wish to register can visithttp://bit.ly/ THAGRIor scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-career-opportunities-tomorrow/article32408393.ece
21 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP will follow Hindu Munnani’s stand’||The Tamil Nadu BJP will follow the decision taken by the Hindu Munnani on the issue of installation of Vinayaka idols in public places on the occasion of Vinayaka Chaturthi on Saturday, BJP State president L. Murugan said on Thursday. Mr. Murugan’s statement came after theTamil Nadu government, citing the Home Ministry’s COVID-19 lockdown guidelines, reiteratedthat installation of Vinayaka idols in public and taking out processions for immersions was banned. “The BJP will follow the Hindu Munnani’s stand on the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations,” Mr. Murugan told reporters. “For the last 40 years, the Hindu Munnani has been placing Vinayaka idols in public during the Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations. No one is asking permission to take out processions, but only to place the idols in public,” he said. He asked when other States such as Karnataka, Maharashtra, and even the Union Territory of Puducherry have given the go-ahead for celebrations, why the Tamil Nadu government was reluctant to allow celebrations here.  When pointed out that the government was citing the guidelines issued by the BJP government at the Centre, Mr. Murugan said that the Home Ministry had issued guidelines on issuing e-passes for movement between places as well. “All other States however do not have the e-pass system. Only Tamil Nadu still has the e-pass system. The Centre’s guidelines allow for States to take certain decisions on their own,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-will-follow-hindu-munnanis-stand/article32408423.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book on India’s Sri Lanka policy to be released today||Framers of the country’s neighbourhood policy will face a litmus test in future in bringing about harmony and trust between the Centre and contiguous border States, according to a book on India’s Sri Lanka policy to be launched on Friday. Emphasising that the policy must be formulated in consultation with the contiguous border States, the book, Haksar on India’s Sri Lanka Policy , says India’s relations with several of its neighbours will have an immediate impact on these States. Contending that “on several occasions, interests and sensibilities” of the States were not taken into consideration, the book gives two illustrations — bilateral treaties of 1964 and 1974 signed with Sri Lanka to settle the issue of 9.75 lakh stateless persons of Indian origin living in that country and an accord in 1974 on the ceding of Katchatheevu to Sri Lanka. Authored by V. Suryanarayan, an expert in south and southeast Asian studies, and Ashik J. Bonofer, an academician, the book has used former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh’s book, Intertwined Lives: P.N. Haksar and Indira Gandhi , as the peg. It refers to letters by Haksar, who was Secretary and later Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi during 1967-73, to Thomas Abraham, India’s High Commissioner to Sri Lanka (1978-1982). The virtual launch is likely to be attended by Mr. Ramesh, former Indian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Gopalkrishna Gandhi, and former chief (intelligence) with the Indian Peace Keeping Force in Sri Lanka, R. Hariharan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-on-indias-sri-lanka-policy-to-be-released-today/article32408432.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BPCL’s LPG plant in Madurai to be opened soon||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) will soon add another 45 thousand metric tonne liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) facility in Madurai. The bottling plant will allow the company to add another 12,000 cylinders to its current supply of 1.20 lakh cylinders a day serving 55.20 lakh LPG customers in the State. An official source said work on the plant with the state-of-the-art electronic carousal began in February 2019. “The 12,000 cylinder capacity is only for a single shift. Once there is more demand, we can add one more shift,” he said. On completion, the plant will serve consumers in Madurai, Dindigul, Theni, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga. They are getting their bottles from the company’s Thoothukudi plant. The plant would get its LPG supply from the company's Kochi refinery via road. “A pipeline is being laid via Palakkad to Madurai from Kochi. But that will take sometime,” said the official. The company has four bottling plants in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bpcls-lpg-plant-in-madurai-to-be-opened-soon/article32408811.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Children of policemen get college admissions||The city police has facilitated the admission of wards of police personnel in various colleges in the city. Considering the difficulties faced by police personnel, who are on round-the-clock COVID-19 prevention duties, the police officers made special arrangements. They spoke to the heads of colleges in the city and facilitated admission of wards into courses they wished to join. The managements came forward to admit the children of police personnel. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal handed over admission letters to children of 50 personnel at a function in Rajarathinam Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-of-policemen-get-college-admissions/article32408420.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang hacks man to death in Vyasarpadi||A 36-year-old history sheeter was hacked to death by a gang in Vyasarpadi. Police apprehended two suspects in connection with the murder, and interrogation is on to probe motive behind the murder. The police said the deceased had been identified as K. Vijaya Doss, 36,of Sathyamurthy Nagar, Vyasarpadi. He was involved in drug peddling and had five criminal cases, including that of a murder, against him. On Wednesday night, while he was walking on Sathyamurthy Nagar Main Road, five persons arrived in a car and indiscriminately attacked him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-hacks-man-to-death-in-vyasarpadi/article32408394.ece
21 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teen undergoes liver transplant||A 16-year-old boy from the suburbs of Chennai recently underwent a live liver transplant for a rare genetic condition. Dilli Ganesh was born with a rare condition, called cholesteryl ester storage disease. Doctors who treated him at Gleneagles Global Health City said it was a rare metabolic disease, and only 17 such cases had been reported so far. The treatment was covered under the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme. According to them, the teenager’s was the first such case to be reported in India. A team of 10 experts, led by director of Hepatology and Transplant Hepatology Joy Varghese, head of liver transplant surgery Rajanikanth Patcha, head of liver ICU Selvakumar Malleeswaran and head of Paediatrics Perumal Karnan took eight hours to perform the surgery. The teen just completed Class 10 in a government school. His father Babu is a casual labourer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teen-undergoes-liver-transplant-at-city-hospital/article32408431.ece
21 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Idol makers wait for last minute sales||Artisans in Coimbatore, who make Vinayaka idols in clay or paper mache, are hoping that last minute sales will pick up. With restrictions in place this year to control the spread of COVID-19, the idol makers have not made the large-sized ones. Shanmugham, who makes clay and paper mache dolls for more than four decades now, says he usually makes 50 to 60 Vinayaka idols that are approximately 12 feet high each. “At least 10 of us, including four or five workers, used to work on each idol. The workers are without jobs this year because I have not made a single large-sized idol,” he said. According to Sumathi, she makes small clay idols every year and traders who put up temporary stalls on roadsides buy from her. “I make about 10,000 idols in different sizes - from three inches to two feet each - every year. This year too, I made 10,000 idols. Traders have taken the idols from me. These are purchased by people for pujas at home. I hope they get permission to put up stalls on roadsides. If they do not get permission, there will be no sales at all this year,” she says. At Poompuhar, which usually has special exhibitions, only the small idols made of clay and paper mache have been kept for sales. Meanwhile, S. Mahesh Kumar of Coirplus, located in Pollachi, says his company has supplied 50,000 eco-friendly seed Ganesha kits to Telangana. Each kit comes with a clay Vinayaka idol, a coir pot, and a seed packet. “The entire quantity is supplied to an organisation that is working on green projects. They wanted one lakh kits. We were able to supply only 50,000,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idol-makers-wait-for-last-minute-sales/article32408444.ece
21 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Efforts needed to monitor rescued child workers||The spread of COVID-19 and the lockdown that was implemented to control it saw several children who were rescued from factories and commercial establishments in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts return to their home districts or States. These children, numbering nearly 500, were studying at 23 special schools run under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP). Now, they do not have online classes. The new academic year has not started for these children and there seems to be no clarity yet on when the special schools will start operating or if these children can be enrolled in regular schools. “The child institutions are not active. So, for several reasons, there is no monitoring of rescued child workers or those who may get into factories for work,” says a source from a voluntary organisation involved in child labour projects. The impact of COVID-19 was anticipated. With poverty, children are getting into the job market. They are taking up part-time or full-time job markets. Recently, there are instances of children rescued from spinning mills in Tiruppur district. Some of them were aged 13 years or 14 years too, says A. Aloysius, founder of Social Awareness and Voluntary Education (SAVE), a non-governmental organisation in Tiruppur. “At present, there are about 150 of the 500 children who have stayed back in Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts. The NCLP staff are monitoring them and even those who went back to their home States. But, many are not answering phone calls. Those who are here have not returned to work,” says a source at NCLP. “If the regular schools re-open, it will be easier to track the children who were rescued from workplaces under NCLP. We are awaiting government instructions on the next step to be taken under the project,” the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-needed-to-monitor-rescued-child-workers/article32408445.ece
21 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tension over removal of Vinayaka idol||Tension prevailed for a while on Big Bazaar Street here after people found a Vinayaka idol removed from its pedestal on the side of the roadon Thursday morning. Leaders and members of Bharatiya Janata Party and Hindu organisations thronged the place, alleging vandalism. The police said the idol was found on the ground, a few feet from the concrete pedestal it was installed on some years ago. Preliminary investigations by the police found that an 82-year-old man was involved in the incident. The man allegedly confessed to the Variety Hall Police that he removed the idol from its base on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. A senior police officer said that the man was not affiliated to any political party or organisation. The idol was situated in front of his house and he removed it in an attempt to clear the road space where re-laying works were on, said the police officer. A case was not registered against the man. The police warned him against engaging in such acts issued a community service register (CSR) in connection with the incident.  Man involved in the incident not affiliated to any political party or organisation Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-over-removal-of-vinayaka-idol/article32408479.ece
21 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Good response to online classes in S.S. Kulam educational district||The online classes arranged for Class XII students in 40 government and aided schools in S.S. Kulam educational district have registered around 65% attendance, with nearly 3,000 students attending every day. District Educational Officer (DEO) R. Geetha told The Hindu the classes were started on July 24. The headmasters and teachers of 26 government schools, two Corporation schools and 12 aided schools in the educational district were instructed about the classes in separate meetings and the classes were arranged through videoconferencing, she said. “The students are using the laptops issued by the government or their smartphones. In case any student does not have a smartphone, two students have been asked to share a phone,” Ms. Geetha said. Four one-hour classes were being held from Monday to Friday at 10 a.m., 11 a.m., 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. To ensure that the online classes were held properly, three monitoring teams comprising headmasters, teachers and other officials had been formed to report the status of the classes through WhatsApp groups, she said. Though the classes were not compulsory, around 3,032 students of the total 4,696 Class XII students in these 40 schools attended the classes on August 14, Ms. Geetha said. “We achieved only 49% attendance on July 30, but now we are able to maintain the attendance around 65% every day,” she said. Besides, taking classes, teachers also chipped in to ensure that the students attended the classes without any hassles. M. Karthik Prabu, a Class XII Botany teacher at Ondipudur Government Boys Higher Secondary School, provided Rs. 1,000 to a student to recharge his mobile data plan. “He is a bright student who scored 453 out of 600 in Plus One. When he said he could not afford to pay for the data plan, I gave him the cash,” he said. A. Jansi, a student of VCV Government Higher Secondary School in Vellakinar, said mathematics was the most difficult subject to understand online. “Our teacher draws the sums on the mobile screen,” she said, adding that she had become used to the online classes despite initial hiccups. “Nothing can replace the classroom teaching,” Ms. Jansi said. Ms. Geetha said the teachers and officials were working towards achieving 90% attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-online-classes-in-ss-kulam-educational-district/article32408442.ece
21 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop registration of sites on Western bypass road alignment’||Coimbatore Consumer Cause has urged the district administration to communicate the finalised alignment for western bypass road project to the Registration Department so that it can ban registration of lands or properties on that alignment and lift the existing ban on the earlier alignment. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, has said in a press release that the public are permitted to buy sites on the new alignment though that land may be earmarked for acquisition. It is because of lack of proper communication from the Revenue Department to the Registration Department. For the earlier alignment of 26 km for the project, when the administrative sanction was issued, the lands on this alignment (11 villages) were notified and those lands could not be Registered by the Registration Deparment from the year 2010. People could not sell or buy the notified lands. The Registration Department stopped t the registration based on a communication from the Revenue Department. The new alignment from Madukkarai to Narasimhanaickenpalayam for 33 km. has to pass through 16 villages. It was approved in the District Road Safety Committee meeting in 2014. When the consumer organisation wanted the administration to inform the Registration Department to ban registration of lands in the new alignment, it was said that the communication was possible only after getting administrative sanction for the project. However, even now, registration of sites on the new alignment continued. The consumer organisation has asked the district administration to inform the Registration Department on the new alignment. The public are misled because of the lack of proper communication. “It is very strange that lands on which the road would not come, the curb on registration is still in force. But there is no restriction on the purchase of lands and construction through which the by-pass road has been actually proposed. This gives wrong information to the public,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-registration-of-sites-on-western-bypass-road-alignment/article32408461.ece
21 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Alternative routes to Mettupalayam Road suggested||With the Highways Department and the police planning to divert traffic on Mettupalayam Road to expedite flyover construction works at Kavundampalayam, suggestions have been made on alternative routes to avoid congestion. In a letter to the police, K. Viswanathan of Viswanathan Constructions, has said the police can look at diverting smaller vehicles proceeding towards Thudiyalur through Bharathi Park Road, Thadagam Road, and TVS Nagar to join Mettupalayam road near Venugopal Hospital. Buses and lorries can be diverted to pass through Bharathi Park Road or NSR Road to reach Thadagam Road and reach Thudiyalur through Kanuvai. In the case of vehicles coming from Mettupalayam towards the city, they can turn left at Vellakinar Pirivu to reach Urumandampalayam and join Mettupalayam Road at Sanganur junction. The vehicles can also take a left turn at Maniyakarampalayam and join Sathyamangalam Road at Ganapthy junction and come to Gandhipuram, he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alternative-routes-to-mettupalayam-road-suggested/article32408477.ece
21 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||UPASI seeks continuation of MEIS for plantation commodities||The United Planters’ Association of Southern India (UPASI) has appealed to the Central Government to continue the Merchandise Export from India Scheme (MEIS). AL.RM. Nagappan, president of UPASI, has said in a press release that the MEIS benefits for plantation commodities was reduced from 5 % to 3 % in January. The MEIS module in the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) website is not accepting new applications from July 23 to upload claims and shipping bills for Let Export Orders from April 1. “This we understand was initiated to limit the issuance of any more MEIS scrips, causing severe hardship for the smooth functioning of export operations,” he said. Mr. Nagappan said the exporters factor in the MEIS benefits while quoting prices to their overseas buyers. Hence, any mid-way changes in an on-going scheme puts the exporters in trouble. They incur losses and also face hardships in working capital and cash flow issues. “Plantation commodities exports need to be supported as we are at a competitive disadvantage compared to other exporting origins due to infrastructural inefficiencies and other associated costs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upasi-seeks-continuation-of-meis-for-plantation-commodities/article32408476.ece
21 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore ACP released||Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani on Thursday released the annual credit plan for the district for 2020-21. The plan envisages total credit outflow of Rs. 20,474 crore in the district during the year. According to a press release, the banks will give Rs. 7611.12 crore as loans to agriculture sector, Rs. 9054.61 crore to MSMEs, and Rs. 3808.80 crore to other priority sectors. The total outgo will be Rs. 1049.53 crore more than last year’s credit outflow. The Collector also felicitated banks that have lent more to self help groups and bank branches with best performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-acp-released/article32408460.ece
21 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for burglaries||A special team of Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Thursday arrested two men who were involved in various burglaries near Pollachi and recovered stolen jewellery worth around Rs. 24 lakh. Muhammed Yasin (31) from Anamalai and K. Pandian (30) from Makinampatti were arrested by the team formed by Coimbatore rural superintendent of police Ara Arularasu to investigate cases that were pending in the limits of Pollachi east police station. The police took the two men into custody from a place near the panchayat office at Suleeswaranpatti on Thursday morning. When questioned, the accused confessed to the police about their involvement in a housebreak at Suleeswaranpatti, theft at a Tasmac outlet at Vanchiyapuram and a housebreak at Anbu Nagar on Pollachi – Palakkad Road. The police recovered 55.5 sovereign of jewellery and Rs. 1.28 from them. They were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-burglaries/article32408450.ece
21 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested||The Mettupalayam police on Wednesday arrested two persons on charges of arranging flesh trade in a secret room of a lodge at Kallar. K. Mahendran and R. Ganesh from Vellore were arrested in a raid by the police. The police said Mahendran had taken the lodge on lease from its owner and the accused arranged a secret room inside one of the rooms for prostitution. A woman was rescued from the lodge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested/article32408457.ece
21 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore maintains 40th rank in Swachh Sarvekshan||Coimbatore maintained the 40th position in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development’s list of clean cities for 2020. The list, Swachh Sarvekshan 2020, showed Coimbatore at the 40th position in the country. In the State the city stood first, though. The city had scored 2,337.12 out of 6,000 for the rank. In the Swachh Sarvekshan 2019, the city stood at the same position in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-maintains-40th-rank-in-swachh-sarvekshan/article32408482.ece
21 August 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Second capital debate put to rest||Putting to rest the debate among some AIADMK ministers seeking creation of a second capital for Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said, “Those were personal opinions of the individual concerned, and not that of the government.” Mr. Palaniswami, was responding to a media query on the Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan’s recent remarks on Tiruchi having all the qualities to be the State’s second capital. The Chief Minister observed that “It was the personal opinion of the individual concerned.” Prior to Mr. Natarajan’s comments, Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju and Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar had said that Madurai should be made the second capital of the State. Meanwhile, reviewing the COVID-19 containment measures in Dharmapuri, the Chief Minister said the district fared well and fever camps were being conducted daily in the district. As of August 19, 1,064 people were infected; 868 people had returned home after treatment; 11 have died. Of the casualties, only four belonged to Dharmapuri, he said. The medical college hospital, the three government hospitals and COVID care centres in government and private facilities were adequately bedded, the Chief Minister said. On local projects, Mr. Palaniswami said, the government was in the process of implementing the Jerthalav project that has been a long-pending demand of the farmers. The project was in the first stage of land acquisition and land owners have been notified of the acquisition in over seven villages. Similarly, land acquisition process is under way for the Enekol water harvesting project and land acquisition committees were formed to expedite the process, he added. Dharmapuri MP Senthil Kumar (DMK) got into a tussle with the police, after the police blocked his attempt to handover a petition to the Chief Minister. High drama prevailed after Dr. Senthil Kumar made a bid to cross over the rope barricade set up by the police, even as the police forcibly stopped him. A tussle ensued after the MP refused to be held back and insisted that he met the Chief Minister as a representative of the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-capital-debate-put-to-rest/article32408422.ece
21 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Poaching on the rise in Dindigul’s forest ranges’||Last week, an anti-poaching squad nabbed a five-member gang at Sanarpatti, near Sirumalai forest range in the district, after they attempted to gun down an Indian gaur. Similarly, a fortnight ago, three youth escaped from the Ayyalur forest range on two-wheelers under the cover of darkness when a forest watcher raised an alarm. Though the Forest Department imposes hefty fines and takes stern action, crimes inside the forest ranges in the district seem to continue unabated, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, activists in the district have alleged. AIADMK MLA and Forest Minister ‘Dindigul’ C. Sreenivasan hails from the district. Despite this, wildlife crime has not been brought under control, they complained The activists have official data to back up their claim. Information obtained under the Right to Information Act showed that between 2014 and 2019, the forest officials had registered 3,187 cases, including those of wildlife offences and other criminal acts. The RTI reply also revealed that deer skin, weapons and vehicles had been seized. Cases were registered against the violators under the Indian Forest Act, and fines levied. “It is high time the department’s long-pending demands to fill vacancies and provide gadgets are met without any more excuses,” an activist said. Largest tract The district, with seven forest ranges — Sirumalai, Kanniwadi, Batlagundu, Natham, Oddanchatram, Alagar and Ayyalur — has 74,495.51 hectares of forest land, the largest in the State. Considering the vast extent of forestry, the government was told about the need to fill the vacancies, especially, in the forest watcher category. Because of limited resources and manpower, poachers had not only free access to the forests, but also roamed scot-free, the activists alleged. Many check-posts in the forest ranges, especially in Sirumalai, Ayyalur and Kanniwadi, still lacked proper equipment, and the night watch was ineffective, they said. According to a forest official, they were short-staffed by about 40%. However, the official maintained that there had been no dip in vigil, and violators were booked as per law. Suggestions, including the construction of more check dams inside the forests with assistance from institutions like NABARD, had not been approved. “If water is provided sufficiently, the animal conflicts being experienced in villages situated close to the reserve forest ranges could be avoided,” an activist said. Likewise, proposals for cameras and all-weather lights with solar systems too remained on paper. Many dilapidated buildings - chavadis - in the forest villages could be utilised for watching animal movement and for educational purposes, activists pointed out. They said the government should fill vacancies in the forest ranges at the earliest to keep the poachers away. Besides, the government should also redress the grievances of farmers to save human lives and prevent migration. When contacted, a senior official in the Forest Department headquarters in Chennai said the T.N. Forest Uniform Services Recruitment Committee had notified recruitment for 1,178 posts of frontline staff two years ago, and the online exam was conducted in December 2018. “The Committee had received 3.48 lakh online applications. Recruitment is a perennial task. We will fill the vacancies as and when they are notified,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poaching-on-the-rise-in-dindiguls-forest-ranges/article32408403.ece
21 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want rural works to be stopped temporarily||With farming activity commencing in land irrigated by Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal, Keel Bhavani Farmers’ Welfare Association has urged the district administration to temporarily stops works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) till harvesting is over so that adequate workforce is available for cultivation. Its president C. Nallasamy said that though it is a best scheme, irregularities take place in a planned manner there by crippling the hard work of the workers. He said that a portion of the wages paid to the workers is taken away by the job executors and political parties remain mute spectators focusing on vote banks. In the absence of workforce, farming activities were affected in the past years and many want to return to farming now. Currently, water was released from dams for carrying out irrigation across the State and there is a need for more workers for cultivation. Hence, rural works under the scheme should be stopped temporarily so that adequate workers are available for cultivation, he said. He wanted the government to act immediately and ensure that rural works are stopped and workers are available for cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-want-rural-works-to-be-stopped-temporarily/article32408466.ece
21 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Power loom owners seek release of orders to produce free dhotis, saris||With only four months left for the Pongal festival, power loom owners in the district have urged the State government to supply yarn at the earliest so that manufacturing free dhotis and saris could be completed on time. The State government releases orders for making dhotis and saris in August every year after which yarn is supplied by the cooperative societies in Erode, Salem, Namakkal and Tiruvannamalai to the power loom units in the respective districts. In the current year, about 1.67 crore dhotis and saris are to be manufactured for distributing it freely to the ration card holders for Pongal. There are 55,000 power loom units in the district of which 25,000 units produce free dhotis and saris while others produce rayon fabric and cotton fabric. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the units were closed in March and resumed its operations in July adhering to personal distancing norms and also to operate only from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Owners said that they expect yarn to be distributed to the societies in the coming week after which they will be receiving it and starting the production. L.P. Balasubramanian, secretary, Lakkapuram Power Loom Owners’ Association, told The Hindu that two-third of the workers in the industry lost their jobs due to restriction in operating during night hours. “Manufacturing will take four months and we wanted the orders to be released at the earliest so that workers could also be arranged”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-owners-seek-release-of-orders-to-produce-free-dhotis-saris/article32408465.ece
21 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Since maintenance work is to be carried out in the Town electric line from Erode sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on August 21 at Meenakshi Sundaranar Road, Panneerselvam Park, Manikoondu Road, Pon Street, Muthurangan Street, R.C. Church Road, Nethaji Road, Kamaraj Street, N.M.S. Compound, Eswaran Kovil Street and T.V.S. Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article32408473.ece
21 August 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Kerala CM’s appeal dampens Hosur flower growers’ spirits||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s appeal to the people of his State not to buy flowers from neighbouring States during Onam, as a precautionary measure against COVID-19, has led to concern among flower growers in Hosur. Every year, the Hosur region dispatches close to 500 tonnes of flowers for the pookkalams (floral carpets) that adorn the front yards of households in Kerala during Onam. “Tamil Nadu sends over 750 tonnes of flowers to Kerala for Onam,” said Bala Siva Prasad, president, Hosur Small Farmers’ Association, and director, National Horticulture Board. Hosur is a major supplier of flowers for Kerala’s Onam celebrations. Besides, flowers are sent from Sathyamangalam, Nilakottai, Thovalai and Coimbatore too. Fields were prepared for Onam celebrations this summer, taking into account the Central government’s promise of a vaccine by August 15, Mr. Prasad said. The open fields of Rayakottai here target their production to meet the Onam demand. Onam production is focused on cut flowers like gerbera, carnation and Chrysanthemum, and loose flowers like marigold and button roses, which are sought after for the pookkalams.  Flower production has come down on 1,500 acres of green houses and 5,000 ha of open field in the Hosur region in view of COVID-19. Though the extent of the reduction is not clear yet, many farmers have destroyed their fields due to a shortage of labour. Hosur’s flower growers had pinned their hopes on the 10-day Onam festivities slated to begin on August 22. According to Mr. Prasad, 90% of Kerala’s flowers are sent from Tamil Nadu, and hence, the appeal by Mr. Vijayan would impact the State.  90% of Kerala’s flowers are sent from T.N., and hence, the appeal by Mr. Vijayan would impact the StateBala Siva PrasadHosur Small Farmers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-cms-appeal-dampens-hosur-flower-growers-spirits/article32408401.ece
21 August 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Advocate attacked||Rights activist and advocate Rajendran of Karur was allegedly attacked by a group of persons on Wednesday. The incident occurred at his office in Karur. According to sources, a group of seven persons, who came to his office around 6.30 p.m., entered into an argument with Rajendran over a post on Facebook and WhatsApp. He denied that he had any role in it. But, alleging that the content of the post had denigrated the Scheduled Caste community, they manhandled him. In the attack one of his fingers was broken and later, he was admitted to a private hospital in Karur. Based on a complaint lodged by him, Karur police have filed a case against seven persons including two advocates Ramalingam and Raja of Karur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocate-attacked/article32408897.ece
21 August 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac employees stage protest||Tasmac employees staged a protest demonstration here on Wednesday pressing for charter of demands. The protesters demanded the government implement ESI benefits for its workers, scale down the work hours from 10 a.m to 5 p.m among others. The government-owned liquor chain staff demanded compensation of Rs. 50 lakh for workers, who had died of COVID; special incentive of Rs. 10,000 for workers, regularisation of employment for Tasmac workers; heir employment upon death of employees on compassionate grounds, testing of workers for COVID among other demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-employees-stage-protest/article32408468.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Poor maintenance plagues cremation ground in Madurai||K. Santhosh Kumar, a resident of Iyer Bungalow, said he was shocked when he reached the cremation ground at G.R. Nagar in Kannanenthal on Wednesday at around 7 p.m. to cremate the body of his 91-year-old grandmother. The cremation ground was completely dark without lights. “We switched on two-wheelers and torch light from our smart phones to complete the ritual at the ground, which took around 45 minutes. Even rites like tonsuring was performed under the torchlight of our smart phone. It was a nightmare to complete the procedure in darkness,” he said. The poor maintenance of the ground compounded the woes of the family. The staff at the ground say that the two lamp posts at the cremation ground have not been functioning for more than a week. “No action has been taken to repair the lights despite repeated requests,” said the staff. The cremation ground handles around five cases every week. “Usually, residents of Iyer Bungalow, Kannaendhal, Oomachikulam and nearby areas prefer this ground to cremate bodies,” he added. Wild growth of bushes plague the ground, said Mr. Kumar. “In addition, remains of clothes, pot shreds and waste from previous rites were found scattered all around the ground. The dead deserve a better place than this kind of atmosphere,” he said. The staff said that they have been asking corporation officials to clear the waste from the ground regularly. Besides, borewell motor at the ground has been under repair for the past five years. “Corporation lorries fill up the water tank during the day time. When cases have to be attended in night, we have no option but to purchase water from private parties to fill the tank. The cremation ground remains neglected for many years,” the staff said. The City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said that all the issues would be sorted out immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-maintenance-plagues-cremation-ground-in-madurai/article32408790.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Convention centre to be ready by March 2021||The construction of a convention centre at Tamukkam Grounds here at a cost of Rs. 45.55 crore under the Central government’s Smart Cities Mission will be completed by March 2021, said Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju here on Thursday. He inspected the progress of several projects under the Smart Cities Mission on Thursday along with Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan. Later, he told reporters that several sports activities, important public meetings and political rallies were conducted at Tamukkam Grounds. “The auditorium is being replaced with a convention centre that can accommodate up to 3,500 persons. In the underground parking facility, a total of 250 four-wheelers and 215 two-wheelers can be parked,” he said. He also inspected progress of laying of a road that allows two-way traffic, on both side of the Vaigai between Arapalayam and Viraganoor. The road will run for around 8.5 km on both side of the river. The Madurai Corporation is laying a three-km stretch from Raja Mill Road to Kuruvikaran Salai at a cost of Rs. 60.41crore. Parks with illuminated lights will be constructed in this stretch. It has completed construction of a retaining wall for around 3,200 metres. The rest will be completed by 2021. National Highways wing of the State Highways Department takes care of the remaining portion at a cost of Rs. 303.59 crore. Ten bathing ghats will be established along the stretch to ensure access to the river. He expressed his support for Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar’s demand for making Madurai the second capital of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/convention-centre-to-be-ready-by-march-2021/article32408809.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Language policy: High Court grants State Govt. a week to respond||The State Government on Thursday submitted before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that apart from Tamil Learning Act, 2006, the government’s policy with regard to the language formula in the backdrop of the National Education Policy (2020), will be informed to the court in writing after a detailed discussion was held. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Suresh Kumar took cognisance of Advocate General Vijay Narayan’s submission, who informed the court that he will have a complete and comprehensive discussion with the government and come forward with a definite stand of the government. The court also sought to know if the State government had taken any policy decision to have a complete and comprehensive legislation to deal with private schools by which not only the academic and administrative matters but also service issues / disputes can be effectively administered and redressed. Some of the Counsel appearing for the parties submitted that they were ready with written notes pertaining to certain factual matrix of the issues raised which are to be addressed by the government. They said that they would circulate it to the Advocate General. The court was hearing a batch of appeals pertaining to deployment of surplus teachers. The Advocate General submitted that on the receipt of the notes, he would come with suggestive measures to arrive at a solution in the issue. The court granted the State government a week’s time to respond. The batch of cases was posted for further hearing on August 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/language-policy-high-court-grants-state-govt-a-week-to-respond/article32408826.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Iron screw removed from bronchus of boy||Doctors of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) removed a 5.5 mm iron screw from the right lower lobe bronchus of a 10-year-old boy hailing from Nilakottai of Dindigul district. A press release said a 10-year-old boy accidentally swallowed an iron screw while he was playing on July 29. When his parents took him to a nearby government health facility, the doctors assured that the screw will be out through excretion. But he had fever and cold on August 11. A CT scan taken at Dindigul Government Hospital showed that the screw was still struck inside the bronchus. He was referred to GRH in Madurai since he developed severe symptoms. Assistant Professor Rajesh Kumar removed the screw through bronchoscopy procedure on August 14. S. Balasankar, Head, Department of Paediatrics, GRH, and other doctors from ENT and Paediatrics departments helped him. The boy recovered and got discharged on August 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iron-screw-removed-from-bronchus-of-boy/article32408792.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||V. Palpandi, 47, and P. Ramar, 45, from Thanakkankulam were killed in a road accident at Usilampatti on Thursday. The police said the truck going to Usilampatti from Madurai collided with a tipper lorry proceeding to Vadugapatti from Andipatti at Vadugapatti junction at around 4 p.m. Front portion of both vehicles was badly damaged. The victims were in the truck proceeding to Vadugapatti that was carrying bricks. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Usilampatti, led by Station Fire Officer (transport), R. Kannan, used earth movers to separate the vehicles that got tangled with one another. They cut the cabin to rescue trapped victims. S. Vinod, 27, P. Petchi, 37, and G. Suresh, 22, all from Thanakkankulam, have been admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article32408794.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Webinar tomorrow||The Hindu Education Plus will host a webinar on August 22, between 3 p.m. and 4.30 p.m., on the ‘Current and Emerging Career Opportunities in the field of agriculture as a part of its free webinar series on career counselling. The webinar series, presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will be helpful to parents and students from Classes 9 to 12 to make informed decisions on higher education. The speakers are Dr. K Ramasamy, Director of faculty and academics at SRM Institute of Science and Technology; Dr. JP Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, Sher – e – Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu; and Dr. K. Alagusundaram, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Engineering), ICAR, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Those who are interested can register athttp://bit.ly/THAGRIor scan the QR code to attend the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-tomorrow/article32408799.ece
21 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow tourist vehicles to ply across TN’||Members of Federation of All Tourist Vehicles Associations staged a protest outside the South Regional Transport Office on Bypass Road here on Wednesday seeking nod to resume service, which was suspended five months back. Their representative R. Sukumaran said they had been pleading with the government to allow them to operate tourist vans and cabs. “Now with e-pass relaxations in place, we must be allowed to operate vehicles as people have started travelling,” he said. Validity of vehicle insurance, which was renewed in January this year must be extended for the whole year. Some cab operators were being allowed to ply within district. However, traffic police often levy fines on those vehicles through the online VAHAN portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-tourist-vehicles-to-ply-across-tn/article32408806.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to trace and rescue missing fisherman||A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the Centre and the State governments in a petition that sought a direction to the Centre and the State to trace and rescue M. Stephen, a 60-year-old fisherman from Kanniyakumari district who went missing after venturing into the deep sea on August 9. The case was adjourned to September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-trace-and-rescue-missing-fisherman/article32408791.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea to drop e-pass system’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the Centre and the State governments in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to do away with the e-pass system. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notices in the PIL petition filed by P. Rathinam from Madurai. He challenged the G.O. that said e-pass will continue to be in force for both inter-State and inter-district travel. The case was adjourned to September 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-to-drop-e-pass-system/article32408810.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No bail: HC||Sessions Judge M. Thandavan on Thursday dismissed the bail petition of S. Chelladurai, a suspended policeman accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, as investigation was not yet complete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-bail-hc/article32408785.ece
21 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Maintenance work taken up||Madurai railway division has taken up various regular maintenance and special works to ensure safety in running of trains. Divisional Railway Manager V.R. Lenin told reporters here on Wednesday that fixing sensors under continuous health monitoring system in Pamban rail bridge was taken up with expertise from IIT-Madras which would provide real-time data on strain on the steel bridge. Cotton clay soil on a five-km stretch was removed for taking up ‘moorum’ blanketing work between Paramakudi and Sattirakudi stations. The soil was dug for one metre depth and gravel was filled. As there was no train movement, rails were removed to facilitate the work. Similar work was to be taken up an a 11-km stretch on Sattur-Vanchi Maniyachi section. Infringement of piers to the track on a road overbridge was rectified on Dindigul-Madurai section. The tracks were moved away from the pier to ensure safety of high speed trains. Track maintenance works such as boxing, greasing and reconditioning of crossings and de-weeding were carried out on various sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintenance-work-taken-up/article32408784.ece
21 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Mistaken identity: probe ordered into cremation||The Puducherry Health Department has ordered an internal probe into the cremation of a 44-year-old woman in a case of mistaken identity. According to an official in the Health Department, the woman, who was under treatment for lung disease, was brought to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute on Monday morning. On examination, doctors declared her brought dead. After the mandatory COVID-19 tests results proved negative, the relatives who came to the hospital to take the body, found it missing from the mortuary. Hospital authoritiesfound the body of a 75-year-old COVID-19 patient at the mortuary and when the relatives were summoned, it came to light that the daughter mistook her mother’s body with that of the woman who was brought dead to the hospital. The family had already performed the cremation in Karuvadikuppam. Revenue authorities said they were making arrangements to hand over the ashes to the family of the original claimant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mistaken-identity-probe-ordered-into-cremation/article32408415.ece
21 August 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLA contracts infection||B. Arumugam, AIADMK MLA representing the Gandharvakottai constituency in Pudukottai district, has tested positive for COVID-19. The MLA had come to the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital with complaints of fever on Wednesday. Following this, the legislator was tested for the infection. Hospital authorities said that Mr. Arumugam’s COVID-19 test results returned positive on Thursday morning. His son, too, has tested positive for the infection. Both have been admitted to the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-mla-contracts-infection/article32408404.ece
21 August 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||‘Distribute polyester yarn for weavers’||The Communist Party of India on Thursday said that hundreds of weavers involved in weaving dhotis and sarees distributed free of cost by the State government have been rendered jobless as the polyester yarn for weft had not been supplied to them. Staging a protest organised by All India Trade Union Congress at Seithur seeking early distribution of the polyester yarn, CPI Virudhunagar district secretary P. Lingam said that while the cotton yarn for the warp was distributed to weavers through cooperative societies, polyester yarn was yet to arrive. “Earlier, both yarns were distributed by cooperative societies either through State yarn godown or by purchasing them at the mill gate rate from private spinning mills by the societies,” Mr. Lingam said. “But now, the State government has centralised the distribution, which is delaying the process. With weaving order for free dhotis and sarees already given, non-availability of polyester yarn has rendered workers jobless,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribute-polyester-yarn-for-weavers/article32408812.ece
21 August 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Firefighters undergo rescue training||Twenty-five firefighters selected for the newly launched ‘Marine Rescue Operations’ underwent six-day training at a camp held here. Following reports of rise in cases of drowning, DGP (Fire and Rescue Services) Sylendra Babu set up the new wing where personnel would be well-equipped to save victims. To begin with, commandos of Marine Rescue Operations were positioned at the Marina, Muttukadu and Kovalam in and around Chennai. In a bid to give more exposure to the commandos, the department offered them six-day training at Ariyaman and Dhanushkodi beach in Ramanathapuram. In association with police and private trainers, the 25 commandos learnt new techniques in rescue operation during times of crisis. According to trainer Jagan Koshi of Quest Academy here, the personnel were given training in scuba diving and techniques involved in taking victims safely to the shore, especially when the sea was rough. The commandos were also taught about disaster management, first aid and use of rubber boats and rescue tubes. District Officer (Fire and Rescue Services) S. Vinoth said on Thursday that the Marine Rescue Station was an innovative concept launched for the first time in the country by the Tamil Nadu government in Chennai on January 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firefighters-undergo-rescue-training/article32408817.ece
21 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police reach out to remote villages with relief measures||The Salem district police have been reaching out to remote villages during this COVID-19 pandemic to ensure that assistance and relief materials are reaching them. The police are also using these visits to create awareness among the public on various issues. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger on Wednesday visited a tribal village in Jaragumalai and provided relief materials to elderly persons. The public were advised to reach out to the police in case of any assistance. They were also told to inform them about movements of outsiders, if any, in the villages. Ms. Ganiger said the villagers were advised to surrender the unlicensed guns, if any, in their possession. They were also made aware of the troubles of indulging in arrack distillation. She said the villagers sought a check post to the village and they were considering the request. The SP said they were planning to reach out to more villages as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. Besides, masks and kabasura kudineer were being distributed to the public at various places in each police station limits. Training Pradip Kumar, Deputy Inspector General, Salem Range, said that following the Satankulam incident, police personnel were given online training on various topics and one such training on stress management was under way in the range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-reach-out-to-remote-villages-with-relief-measures/article32408454.ece
21 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. holds fever camps at 843 places||The Salem Corporation has organised fever camps at 843 places and screened 83,267 persons so far as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. According to a release, in 41 days between July 10 and August 19, the Corporation has conducted fever camps at 843 places in its limits. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh inspected a fever camp organised on Kunjumariamman temple street here. Swab tests were conducted to 1,884 persons with COVID-19 symptoms and 29 persons tested positive. Medicines for two months were provided to persons with lifestyle diseases and everyone who visited the camp were provided with immunity building concoction, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-holds-fever-camps-at-843-places/article32408452.ece
21 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Health officials increase swab samples collection in Salem||The district health officials have almost doubled the number of swab samples collected in the district a day as part of the COVID-19 preventive measures. The officials said while 1,300-1,500 samples were collected a day earlier, the number had been increased to almost 3,000 a day. J. Nirmalson, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that on Wednesday alone, 3,095 samples were collected. Twenty teams had been deployed for collecting samples and 10 more teams in the Corporation limits to intensify disinfection measures. Collector S.A. Raman said, in a release, that till August 18, swab samples were collected from 1,29,663 people and 6,801 tested positive. As on August 18, there were 57 containment zones and 11,918 people were in quarantine. Shopkeepers in Attur and Gengavelli areas had shut shops voluntarily for a week considering the increase in cases in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-officials-increase-swab-samples-collection-in-salem/article32408451.ece
21 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem temple to livestream Chathurthi pujas||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department will livestream the special pujas at Rajaganapathi temple as part of Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations on August 22. According to officials, special arrangements have been made to livestream the pujas through their Facebook page and Youtube channel. Special abhishegams will be held between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m and ‘Thangakavasam’ alankaram will be done. The thirukalyanam that will be conducted on August 24 at 7 p.m will also be livestreamed. The officials said special technical teams had been arranged for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-temple-to-livestream-chathurthi-pujas/article32408455.ece
21 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Webinar series on nature||A Tamil nature webinar series, exclusively by women birders and nature enthusiasts, will be conducted from 11 a.m. to 12 noon on Sundays from August 23. Organised by the Salem Ornithological Foundation, the initiative is to connect women birders and enthusiasts in the State. Interested persons can register themselves after which zoom meeting links will be sent to their email ID. E-certificate will also be mailed to the participants for each of the talks and special prizes will be given to those who participate in all the talks. For details contact the foundation atbirdforchange@gmail.comor 94888-03999, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-series-on-nature/article32408467.ece
21 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Foot-operated switches for lifts introduced||The Salem Railway division has introduced foot-operated switches for one of the lifts at Salem Railway Divisional office. According to a release, the foot operated switches have been provided in all the floors as well as in the lift cabin in the divisional office. The foot-operated mechanism will eliminate the need for a person to touch the switches of the lift with their fingers, a release said. The foot-operated switches costs Rs. 30,000 and its the first one to be installed under Southern Railways, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foot-operated-switches-for-lifts-introduced/article32408481.ece
21 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Periyar University secures 4th position in national Atal rankingS||The Periyar University has secured 4th rank the National ATAL ranking of innovative educational institutions, a release from the University said. According to a release, Periyar University has been placed fourth in the state funded institutions category in the all India ranking. P. Kolandaivel, Vice-Chancellor of the University, said that various measures taken by the University had helped the Institution to attain the ranking. Mr. Kolandaivel said that the University has conducted various workshops and events securing funds to the tune of Rs. 11 crore. Similarly, Sona College of Technology has been ranked among the top 25 private non-financed colleges, Vinayaka Mission’s Kirupananda Variyar Engineering College has been ranked among top 25 Institutions under private or self-financed colleges/institutes, release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/periyar-university-secures-4th-position-in-national-atal-rankings/article32408480.ece
21 August 2020||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Fire cracker shop destroyed in blaze||Fire destroyed a few cases of fire crackers stocked in a shop along Madurai-Tirunelveli highway on Wednesday night. Police said the fire was first noticed at 7.15 p.m. at the shop at Pulvaipatti on Virudhunagar-Thoothukudi district border. Fire tenders from Sattur and Kovilpatti, led by Virudhunagar District Fire Officer K. Ganesan, rushed to the spot to put out the huge flames. “Since, the crackers inside the shop kept bursting and a huge ball of fire kept coming out, our men could not go near it,” said Sattur Fire Officer S. Kathiresan. As a precautionary measure, police suspended vehicular traffic on the four-way highway due to the fire balls. After the bursting stopped, the wall of the shop was broke down with the help of a earth mover and flames were put out after a struggle for more than two-and-a-half hours. Since the shop was closed and no one was in the vicinity, there was no casuality. The cause of the fire was under investigation. Recently, a huge stock of matches had been destroyed in a similar fire in Sattur town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-cracker-shop-destroyed-in-blaze/article32408483.ece
21 August 2020||T iruppur,TAMIL NADU||Initiative to preserve heritage trees||An initiative to preserve heritage trees in Tiruppur district, which was launched by Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan recently, has identified about five trees. Titled “Ma Maram Potrudhum” (Praise the great tree), the initiative is a joint effort by multiple NGOs including Vetry, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore (RAAC) and Arulagam. Vetry, which is currently involved in the sapling plantation initiative “Vanathukkul Tiruppur” that had planted over eight lakh saplings in the district, will serve as the vehicle for this initiative, the NGO's Founder and President T.R. Sivaram said. “In the next 10 days, we expect to identify around 40 to 50 heritage trees [in Tiruppur district],” he said. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan termed this as an “Independence Day Initiative” in his tweet on Saturday, while announcing the launch. He urged the residents of Tiruppur district to contact 96291 13505 via WhatsApp to share the details of any “antique or historically significant trees” in their respective localities. “It is our duty to protect and document our special trees,” he said in the tweet. On Tuesday, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan shared an image on Twitter of a palmyra tree on Kangeyam Road in Tiruppur Corporation limits, which is estimated to be at least 200 years old and was one of the first trees to be identified under the new initiative. “Heritage trees are like our ancestors, just like our grandparents,” said founder of NGO Arulagam S. Bharathidasan. This initiative was conceived by him and was taken forward by RAAC, he noted. The initiative will not only focus on documentation of such heritage trees, but also on raising saplings of such rare trees in a nursery, Mr. Bharathidasan said. RAAC secretary R. Raveendran said the initiative would be launched soon in Coimbatore district. Based on the information and photographs collected through this initiative, two coffee-table books – one each for Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts – would be prepared and launched by June 2021, he said. Those who want to share the details of heritage trees in Tiruppur district may contact 96291 13505 via WhatsApp or email arulagamindia@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-to-preserve-heritage-trees-in-tiruppur/article32408470.ece
21 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Seized firearms reported missing||Two firearms were reported missing from the Thirupanandal police station. According to sources, two out of six pistols seized in connection with an illegal-arms trading case booked and pursued by the Thirupanandal police have gone missing. The disappearance of the weapons from the police custody came to light two days ago when the police decided to deposit the seized arms at the Court. Subsequently, the senior police officials have directed the Thirupanandal police to trace the missing firearms and recover the same, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seized-firearms-reported-missing/article32408886.ece
21 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||More trouble for suspended Sattankulam Sub-Inspectors||Problem for suspended and arrested Sub-Inspectors of Sattankulam police station Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan has started mounting it seems, as the CB-CID has started the probe in the second case pertaining to the custodial torture of a murder case accused. Even as the CB-CID started the probe on the custodial death of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks of Sattankulam after they were arrested and allegedly tortured in police custody on June 19 last, murder case remand prisoner one Raja Singh of Peikulam near Sattankulam, who had been admitted to the Kovilpatti Government, too charged that he was beaten up black and blue by Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan after detaining him. In his petition submitted with Judicial Magistrate I Kovilpatti M.S. Bharathidasan, Mr. Raja Singh said Raghu Ganesh, calling himself as ‘Komban’, and Balakrishnan, after detaining him on May 18 last, took him to the Sattankulam police station in the night and thrashed him till next morning. Subsequently, Superintendent of Police was directed to investigate the petitioner’s charges against the two police officers. In the meanwhile, Director General of Police, J.K. Tripathy handed over this case to CB-CID for comprehensive probe. Following preliminary investigations, case was registered against Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan under 8 sections. Against this backdrop, Inspector of Police, CB-CID, Sabitha interrogated Mr. Raja Singh in the CB-CID Office here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-trouble-for-suspended-sattankulam-sub-inspectors/article32408813.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a dip in COVID-19 cases||The central districts on Thursday recorded 525 new COVID-19 positive cases, marking a decline over the previous 24-hours. The pandemic claimed 13 lives – three in Nagapattinam, two each in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Tiruchi, and one each in Perambalur, Pudukottai and Ariyalur. In Nagapattinam, three men aged 57, 70 and 77 succumbed to the virus without any pre-existing conditions, while in Thanjavur, a 55-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man with co-morbidities died at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. A 68-year-old woman and a 65-year-old woman from Tiruvarur died with co-morbidities including chronic kidney disease, diabetes, hypertension and acute respiratory distress syndrome at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. In Tiruchi, an 80-year-old man with a history of diabetes and hypertension died of respiratory failure caused by the viral infection in the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, while and a 63-year-old man with pre-existing conditions of diabetes and coronary kidney disease died at the Government Hospital, Namakkal. Meanwhile, a 55-year-old woman from Ariyalur, a 25-year-old man from Perambalur and a 53-year-old man from Pudukottai succumbed to the virus. Tiruchi recorded the highest number of COVID cases among the central region with 128 new cases, of which many hailed from containment zones. In Thanjavur, 117 patients tested positive for the infection. Among them were two panchayat workers at Adhirampattinam, a staff nurse at Ammapettai, a district reporter of a Tamil daily, a house surgeon at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital (TMCH), a driver at the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services, an armed reserve policeman, and a surgery assistant at the TMCH tested positive for the infection. Pudukottai recorded 102 new cases, among who were antenatal mothers, primary contacts and inter-district travellers. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur recorded 62 new cases, a sharp drop since Wednesday’s 120 cases. In Ariyalur, 38 patients tested positive for the infection, taking the total number of cases reported in the district so far to 2,030. Of the 38, seven hailed from Ariyalur, ten from Sendhurai, eight from Thirumanur, three from T. Palur, and six from Jayankondam. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, 27 patients tested positive. Of them, 16 hailed from Perambalur town, five from Veppanthattai, and three each from Veppur and Alathur blocks. Six villages were barricaded and declared as containment zones while 230 new throat swabs were lifted from primary contacts and sent for testing. Karur recorded 32 new cases, many of who hailed from Selva Nagar, Melakurichi, Anna Nagar, Gandhipuram, Uppidamangalam, Kollapalayam, and Kulithalai. In Nagapattinam, an antenatal mother, a policeman in Mayiladuthurai, and two travellers from other districts, and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses were among the 19 patients who tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Thirteen of the patients were admitted to the Periyar Government Hospital, Mayiladuthurai, while two were undergoing treatment at the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital, while two were at hospitals in Thanjavur, one each in Chennai and Pondicherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-sees-a-dip-in-covid-19-cases/article32408887.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Free webinar on career opportunities||The next in The Hindu Education Plus series of free webinars on ‘Current and emerging career opportunities,’ presented by SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, will focus on agriculture. The second webinar of the series will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on August 22. K. Ramasamy, Director, Faculty and Academics at SRM IST; J. P. Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu; and K. Alagusundaram, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Engineering), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, will be the key speakers. The session will be moderated by Venky Vembu, Associate Editor, The Hindu BusinessLine. The session is open to students of classes IX, X, XI and XII.To register, visit http://bit.ly/THAGRI or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-webinar-on-career-opportunities/article32408895.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cab operators stage demo||Cab operators and drivers of various associations staged a demonstration here on Thursday, demanding waiver of road tax and relief for drivers. Cab operators and drivers from different parts of the city participated in the demonstration. Stating that tour operation had come to standstill since the imposition of lockdown in the State, they said that though the State had announced some relaxations for carrying passengers, the e-pass system had effectively prevented them from doing so. Hence, the e-pass system should be abolished immediately. The protesters added that the State should distribute Rs. 5,000 a month to all cab owners and drivers as their livelihood had been hit since April. They also demanded waiver of road tax for a year and interest on loan received from banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cab-operators-stage-demo/article32408899.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||School HM directed to refund excess fee||Chief Educational Officer S. Shanthi has instructed the Headmaster of Government Girls' Higher Secondary School, Mannachanallur, to return the excess fee allegedly collected from students, after complaints were raised by the local public. The complaint was that school headmaster Anbu Sekaran had collected fee in the range of few thousands of rupees from students belonging to economically backward families, without official sanction. The school, official sources said, had taken the consent of the Parent-Teacher Association for collecting the excess fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-hm-directed-to-refund-excess-fee/article32408890.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||DGP holds meeting||Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy held a meeting with top police officers of the Central Zone here on Thursday and gave a set of instructions to them on various aspects connected with policing and police-public relations besides initiating stern action on illegal activities. Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, H. M. Jayaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police of Tiruchi and Thanjavur Ranges and Superintendent of Police of nine districts falling under the Central zone attended the meeting that lasted two hours. Police sources said the DGP drove home to the officers on maintaining a good rapport with the general public, lending a patient hearing to their grievances and taking steps for speedy redressal. The DGP instructed the officers to keep the activities of anti-social elements under check and initiate stringent action against all types of illegal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-holds-meeting/article32408889.ece
21 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||One more daily flight to Hyderabad||IndiGo will operate its second daily flight service on the Hyderabad-Tiruchi-Hyderabad sector from September 1. A second flight service to Bengaluru will also resume on the same day. The airline will operate an ATR aircraft, and the flight will leave Hyderabad at 9.30 a.m. and reach Tiruchi at 11.45 a.m. While returning, the flight will leave Tiruchi at 12.05 p.m. and arrive in Hyderabad at 2.15 p.m. At present, the airline is operating one flight to Hyderabad at 7.20 p.m. Sources said the second service on the Bengaluru-Tiruchi-Bengaluru sector would leave Bengaluru at 11.30 a.m. and arrive in Tiruchi at 12.25 p.m. It will leave Tiruchi at 1.05 p.m. and reach Bengaluru at 2.15 p.m. The airline, which was operating two services a day, had curtailed it to one due to the pandemic. IndiGo is the lone airline to operate flights to different domestic destinations from Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-daily-flight-to-hyderabad/article32408399.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for creating ruckus at a hotel in Mayiladuthurai||Two persons were arrested by the Mayiladuthurai Police on Wednesday for allegedly creating a ruckus in a restaurant. Police said Karthi (22) and Pratap (25), had come to the hotel on Tuesday and ordered 'oothappam' which was not available. They abused the hotel manager and assaulted him. The Mayiladuthurai Police arrested them and later they were released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-creating-ruckus-at-a-hotel-in-mayiladuthurai/article32408888.ece
21 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Constable’s murder: 3 remanded||A forest department worker and two others, who were arrested in connection with the murder of police constable P. Subramanian at Manakkarai on Tuesday, have been remanded in judicial custody. Police sources said the three associates of P. Duraimuthu, an anti-social who hurled a country bomb at the constable and killed him, were picked up from the forest department building by a police team. The three men identified as Samynathan, a cousin of Duraimuthu, Sudalaikannu, a forest department employee, and Sivaramalingam were produced in Srivaikundam court on Wednesday night. They were remanded in judicial custody and taken to the district prison at Paeroorani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constables-murder-3-remanded/article32408427.ece
21 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI/ VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Number of cases crosses 8,000 in Tirunelveli||While the total number of COVID-19 cases in Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts has crossed the 8,000 mark, the number of fresh cases in Thoothukudi district, which has crossed the 10,000 mark, is constantly coming down. With 176 new cases registered on Thursday, Tirunelveli has marked 8,048 positive cases and 1,358 active cases. There were 125 discharges. Kanniyakumari had 123 fresh cases, which took its tally to 8,091 with 1,505 active cases. Forty-three people were discharged from hospitals. After a lull, Tenkasi recorded 132 cases to have a tally of 4,355. After 66 people were discharged on Thursday, the district has 1,072 active cases. Thoothukudi reported 82 fresh cases with which its overall case count rose to 10,293. After the discharge of 210 people, the district now has 658 active cases. Theni registered 287 fresh cases, which raised its tally to 11,009. There were 387 discharges. Dindigul added 137 more cases on Thursday, with which its case count rose to 5,303. A total of 103 people were discharged. Ramanathapuram recorded 50 fresh cases to have a tally of 4,199. Thirty-five people were discharged. Sivaganga reported 48 fresh cases, and its tally moved up to 3,593. There were nine discharges in the district. Virudhunagar recorded 147 new cases, which took the total number of positive cases to 11,791. With 108 people having been discharged on Thursday, the number of active cases is 916. The death toll in the district stands at 162. One death in Madurai In Madurai, 89 new cases were recorded, with which its tally touched 13,149. A total of 105 persons were discharged on Thursday, and the number of active cases is 1,054. One death was recorded, and the district’s toll stands at 330.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-cases-crosses-8000-in-tirunelveli/article32408808.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Leadership debate exposed lack of unity in AIADMK’||The recent debate over the choice of the 2021 Chief Ministerial candidate in the AIADMK has exposed the lack of unity in the party, alleged Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri at Kangeyam on Thursday. He chaired a review meeting for the preliminary works for the 2021 Assembly election at Kangeyam Assembly constituency in Tiruppur district. He later told mediapersons that DMK president M.K. Stalin will be the CM candidate for the Secular Progressive Alliance. “Our alliance is strong because it is based on ideology and not an opportunistic one,” Mr. Alagiri contended. The Congress cadre will only accept the leadership of the party’s former president Rahul Gandhi, Mr. Alagiri asserted. Only political opponents and those in the Congress “who are in touch with the BJP” are raking up the debate of whether the party should be led only by the Nehru-Gandhi family, he claimed. Mr. Alagiri said that the TNCC started the review of the preparatory works for the Assembly elections in the State from Kangeyam Assembly constituency on Thursday to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. He, along with TNCC working president Mohan Kumaramangalam and Tiruppur North District unit president P. Gopi, participated the meeting with booth level agents in the constituency. Leaders of the Secular Progressive Alliance will participate in a conference at Kangeyam Assembly constituency on November 20, Mr. Alagiri announced. NEET issue Earlier, Mr. Alagiri said that it will be difficult for the ruling AIADMK to face the 2021 Assembly elections if they do not ensure exemption from National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for the State. In response to a question on the suicide of a 19-year-old NEET aspirant in Coimbatore on Tuesday, he said that the students should not take the extreme step due to the fear of any examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmks-leadership-debate-exposes-lack-of-unity-says-alagiri/article32408414.ece
21 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Permit installation of idols’||With a day left for Vinayaka Chathurthi, the Hindu Munnani on Thursday reiterated its demand that the State government permit the installation of idols of Lord Vinayaka in public places and the immersion of the idols in water bodies. State president of the Hindu Munnani Kadeswara C. Subramaniam told mediapersons in Tiruppur that the organisation would adhere to all the COVID-19 precautionary measures and would not take out processions on Saturday. On August 13, Mr. Subramaniam announced in Coimbatore that his organisation would install idols at 1.5 lakh locations across the State. On Thursday, he said the preparatory works to install the idols were on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permit-installation-of-idols/article32408446.ece
21 August 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Residents build makeshift bridge to reach their villages||Local residents of three villages near Puliyampara in Gudalur, which became inaccessible due to the bridge leading to their village being damaged during the heavy rain and subsequent flooding in early August, have joined together and have used fallen trees as bridge to reach their villages. Residents said that the bridge leading to three villages in the vicinity was damaged after water levels along the Pandiar River, which flows through the village, rose during the rain and damaged the pillars supporting the bridge. More than a hundred families reside in the three villages. R. Nambunath, a resident of Kozhikolli, the largest of the three villages in the area, said that the revenue department and district administration had been informed about the damaged bridge. “They came immediately afterwards to inspect it, and promised to sanction the construction of a new bridge,” he said. However, as the construction of the bridge would take a few months to complete, local residents decided to take matters into their own hands, and collected a few trees that had become uprooted during the rain. They used the large trees to build a temporary bridge that will allow residents to move between Puliyampara and their villages. Local residents said that heavy vehicles were prohibited from using the temporary bridge, and called on the district administration to speed up the construction of a concrete bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-build-makeshift-bridge-to-reach-their-villages/article32408472.ece
21 August 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. facing revenue loss, but welfare schemes unaffected’||The outbreak of COVID-19 has caused huge revenue loss to Tamil Nadu, but the State government has ensured that welfare schemes for the people continue to be implemented, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday. Addressing journalists in Vellore after a review meeting on COVID-19 preventive measures and the implementation of government schemes in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts, he said: “We are facing revenue loss because industries remain shut. We are yet to arrive at the exact figure.” He distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 169.77 crore to 18,589 beneficiaries and laid the foundation stone for Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements in Karigeri panchayat near Katpadi and Battalapali panchayat in Peranampattu taluk, and for new government buildings in Ranipet. Answering a question on Chromium-bearing waste lying in the open on the premises of Tamil Nadu Chromate and Chemicals Ltd., at the SIPCOT Industrial Complex, he said the State government was taking steps to remove it. “It involves around Rs. 600 crore and the State government is in no position to bear the expense. Hence, we have requested the Central government for funds,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The Chief Minister added that the detailed project report for the Thenpennai-Palar linking project was being prepared by an agency. He said work on construction of check dams in the three districts was also under way. “I have also got a request to construct working women’s hostels in Ranipet,” he said. Preventive measures Speaking about COVID-19 control measures in the three districts, he said till Wednesday, a total of 8,822 persons had tested positive in Vellore, 8,799 in Ranipet and 2,210 in Tirupattur. “We are spending Rs. 23 crore, every day, for food for COVID-19 patients across the State. The amount differs in districts and Corporations,” he said. He added that there were 136 COVID-19 testing centres across the State and two each in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts. “Fever camps are being held across the State and they have helped detect symptoms early. This has helped in providing timely treatment and controlling the spread of the virus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-facing-revenue-loss-but-welfare-schemes-unaffected/article32408412.ece
21 August 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Chathurti: police inspect Hindu outfit leader’s house||A police team from Srivilliputtur Town inspected the house of Hindu Makkal Katchi district secretary Eswaran and found 52 small Vinayaka idols stocked in the house. “Our men told them that there was nothing wrong in performing puja to the idols inside the houses, but warned of stringent action if they are brought to public places,” Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police P. Perumal said. The district administration has already made it clear that since prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure were in vogue due to pandemic lockdown till August 31, installation of Vinayaka idols, celebrations and processions and immersions of idols were prohibited. At a coordination meeting held here on Tuesday, Collector R. Kannan said people could celebrate Vinayaka Chathurti in their houses. They should use masks and maintain social distancing while going out to markets to buy goods for the celebrations. The State government has already allowed worship in all temples having an annual revenue of less than Rs. 10,000. Devotees had been instructed to follow safety measures announced by the government, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-inspect-hmk-leaders-house/article32408486.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||397 new cases reported in Coimbatore, 359 in Salem||Coimbatore district reported more than 390 COVID-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day on Thursday, with 397 persons testing positive, taking the overall tally to 10,558 so far. Of the 11 deaths reported in Coimbatore, six patients aged 67, 49, 65, 85, 81 and 43 died in private hospitals and five persons aged 70, 39, 83, 68 and 61 died at government hospitals. The death toll in the district increased to 228. In Erode, a 52-year-old man died, taking the district’s toll to 29. Two men aged 64 and 83 died in Tiruppur and Salem reported the death of five persons aged, 65, 62, 70, 62 and 80. Coimbatore district saw 181 persons being discharged on Thursday. Health Department sources said plans were afoot to set up a COVID-19 Care Centre in a school on Maruthamalai Road for asymptomatic patients. Salem district recorded 359 cases, of which 354 were indigenous including 218 in the Salem Corporation limits. Three persons returned from Chennai, Namakkal and Kalakuruchi. In Namakkal, 46 cases were reported, majority of which were contacts of previous cases. Seven persons returned from Erode, Salem and Coimbatore. Of the 86 fresh cases in Erode, six were workers at a private mill at Elumathur in Modakurichi block. The district’s tally stood at 1,804. While 47 persons were discharged on Thursday, 782 were under treatment. A three-year-old girl from Dhali near Udumalpet and an eight-year-old boy from N.R.K. Puram in the Tiruppur Corporation limits were among the 68 new cases reported in Tiruppur. The district’s overall tally stood at 1,774, with 54 patients being discharged on Thursday. With 60 persons testing positive in the Nilgiris, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,178 so far. Travelling outside the district or coming in contact with people who returned from outside the Nilgiris was the reason for increase in cases, the district administration said. As many as 972 people recovered and 202 were under treatment. Five persons tested positive in Krishnagiri, taking the district’s tally to 1,710. In Dharmapuri, six cases were reported and the total number increased to 1,070||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/397-new-cases-reported-in-coimbatore-359-in-salem/article32408448.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Country bombs still most preferred weapon||The gruesome killing of constable P. Subramanian by a history-sheeter with a powerful country-bomb has reinstated the preference of gangs operating in southern districts over other weapons. In Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, caste clashes, bootlegging, money-lending and country-bomb making have always been intertwined. Although bootlegging has been wiped out, thanks to steps taken by police officers such as former Superintendent of Police of Tirunelveli P. Kannappan, a few outfits have managed to keep the country-bomb culture alive in the two districts. When the ‘bomb culture’, introduced by anti-social elements leading caste outfits, started taking roots in the composite Tirunelveli district in the seventies and the eighties, experts in making the improvised explosives would use ball-pins, pieces of blades and ‘ seenikkal ’, a quartz-like stone having sharp edges, all packed tightly along with sulphur and ammonium nitrate mixture to increase its lethality. Soon, cobbler’s nails replaced ball-pins to take the bomb’s deadliness to the next level, while sulphur that used to burn sluggishly too was replaced by another chemical. When they faced hardships in handling the improvised explosives during transportation as they had to take the ball-shaped bombs in bucket-like containers or bags and these bombs went off accidentally on exertion of pressure, the dry cells used in torchlight came to their rescue. “This bomb will go off only when it is thrown violently on a target. Moreover, you can easily carry four or five bombs without anybody’s knowledge by stuffing them inside a torch,” says a country-bomb maker, who switched over to seafood trade in the eighties after being part of a gang for a while. “Now, these people use a kind of nail used by decorators which is strong and sharp so that the shrapnel flying at high velocity will pierce through any object in the vicinity,” he says. In the forest department building occupied by Duraimuthu and his associates, police have recovered a few new dry cells, hinting that they may have tried to make the easy-to-handle country-bombs to orchestrate an attack of bigger magnitude. When manufacture and liberal use of country-bombs in coastal hamlets of Tirunelveli district, especially in Kooththenkuzhi, became a major headache for the police, sustained raids were conducted to neutralise the problem. After an accidental blast in Tsunami Colony near Idinthakarai in November 2015 killed seven persons, raids around Kooththenkuzhi yielded 158 country-bombs buried in nearby forest area. "Police should strengthen intelligence sources in every part of the two districts to closely follow the making of bombs. Else, these two districts will be taken back to the seventies or eighties era,” warns the bomb expert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/country-bomb-still-the-most-preferred-weapon/article32408485.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter buried with veecharivaal at native place||History-sheeter P. Duraimuthu was killed in a country-bomb explosion along with police constable P. Subramanian at Manakkarai on Tuesday afternoon was buried at his native place on Wednesday. A veecharivaal , a type of billhook machete, was placed in the coffin before it was buried. When the body of Duraimuthu, who was facing a couple of murder cases, was taken to his native Mela Mangalakurichi under Srivaikundam police station limits on Wednesday evening with police protection, around 30 bike-riders accompanied the body. The bike-riders honked the horns of the two-wheelers continuously right from Palayamkottai to Mela Mangalakurichi. Earlier, when Duraimuthu’s family refused to accept the body after the post-mortem conducted at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, former Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi Town, Prakash was asked to rush to the hospital to hold talks with them. He was in the port town as part of security arrangements put in place ahead of the Sterlite verdict as he was an expert in identifying anti-Sterlite protestors. When family members and relatives adamantly refused to accept the body, Mr. Prakash assumed a tough posture that forced them to relent. When Duraimuthu’s body reached Mela Mangalakurichi, a long veecharivaal was placed inside the coffin before burial. “It is a mark of his valiance and passion for the lethal weapon,” said a villager.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-buried-with-veecharivaal-at-native-place/article32408819.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plan to plant fodder grass in forests||With the growth of invasive plant species and the lack of fodder in forests contributing to straying of wild elephants into human habitations in Coimbatore Forest Division, the Forest Department is planning a project to plant fodder grass in select forest ranges. During his recent field visits in the forest division, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden S. Yuvaraj enquired with forest officials on the feasibility of planting fodder grass in forest ranges where invasive plant species occupy the landscape. According to officials with the department, invasive plant species including Lantana camara , prosopis juliflora and parthenium are present in all the seven forest ranges. The spread of these plants have significantly reduced the growth of native plants and grasses that form a major part of the diet of animals like elephants, they said. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said the department was concerned about this and had taken a serious note of the growth of invasive plant species. “ Prosopis juliflora dominates the flora of places like Pethikuttai of Sirumugai range. We have plans to plant fodder grass in such places,” he said. According to him, a study was required to find forest areas that lacked enough fodder herbivores, based on which planting of fodder grass could be initiated. He said the department might also seek the expertise of institutions that provided scientific and technical advice. A.J.T. Johnsingh, former dean of the Wildlife Institute of India, felt that the introduction of fodder grass suitable for the landscape would bring good results as proved in forest areas of other States such as Madhya Predesh. “In Phen Wildlife Sanctuary, the satellite core of Kanha Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh, the Forest Department removed lantana camara with its roots soon after the rain. They ploughed the land and laid tall grass with seeds. The staff also removed lantana seedlings that came up on the land. The area turned into a grassland in four years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-plant-fodder-grass-in-forests/article32408462.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. remains firm on Vinayaka Chaturthi curbs||“As per the advice of the Central government, and considering the pandemic situation in the State, the [Tamil Nadu] government has already issued orders banning the installation of Vinayaka idols in public places and processions carrying the idols to immerse them in water bodies. This has been done keeping in mind the welfare of the citizens. Hence, people are advised to celebrate the festival in their houses,” the statement said. The government said the Madras High Court, too, had held that its directives must be followed. The government’s statement came two days ahead of the festival and against the backdrop of various organisations, including the Hindu Munnani, threatening to flout the ban order and install over 1.5 lakh idols in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-remains-firm-on-vinayaka-chaturthi-curbs/article32408426.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Feather sans foliage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/feather-sans-foliage/article32408822.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 20     Persons tested +ve so far: 10, 558 Indigenous cases: 10,520 Imported cases: 38 Active cases: 2,928 Persons recovered: 7,402 Deaths: 228    Persons tested +ve so far: 1,774 Persons recovered: 1,205 Active cases: 518  Deaths: 51||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article32408449.ece
21 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Woman dies in flood relief centre||A 71-year-old woman died in a relief centre for flood victims in Hire Hampiholi village in Ramdurg on Thursday. Her relatives complained to Tahsildar Girish Swadi that she died due to neglect and unhealthy conditions in the centre. He said that he would order an inquiry into the incident. The woman had been brought to the centre on August 17. She reported having fever on Tuesday that never subsided. She died on Thursday. Meanwhile, rumours that she may have passed away due to COVID-19 led to some concern in the village. However, local police officers allayed villagers fears stating that the woman had not tested positive for the pandemic and that doctors had said that she had died a natural death. A five-year-old boy had died in a flood relief centre in the same village last year. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had visited the family of the child and released compensation then. Meanwhile, residents of villages on the banks of the Malaprabha were relieved as the water level subsided as rainfall abated and water release from the Navilu Teertha dam in Saundatti was reduced. Farmers in Ramdurg, Ron, Nargund, Badami and surrounding towns and villages were relieved as the water levels had receded. Water release from the Malaprabha dam was reduced to 3,900 cusecs, against 25,000 cusecs four days ago. The bridge in Sureban village that had submerged last week, was opened for traffic on Thursday. Reduced outflow from the reservoirs could help open more bridges for traffic, police officers said. Irrigation officers also said that the release from the Koyna dam in Maharashtra was reduced to 2,100 cusecs on Thursday from 55,000 cusecs on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dies-in-flood-relief-centre/article32408545.ece
21 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Water levels remain unchanged even as it starts raining again||Water levels in the Krishna and its tributaries remained unchanged owing to renewed rainfall in Belagavi district in the State and South Maharashtra. On Wednesday, water levels were receding after a lull in rainfall in the catchment areas. To reduce the possibility of floods, irrigation officials reduced the water level in the Almatti dam by one metre by keeping the outflow levels at 2.5 lakh cusecs for two days. Water level in the in Almatti dam stood at 518 metres on Tuesday. It was reduced to 517 metres on Thursday. Outflow from the dam remained at 2.5 lakh cusecs against an average inflow of 2,39,480 cusecs. The dam had 97.55 tmcft. Officers were following the zero storage mode at the Hippargi barrage where the inflow and the outflow were recorded at 2.22 lakh cusecs. Water release from Maharashtra into the Krishna and its tributaries was increased slightly to 2.32 lakh cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-levels-remain-unchanged-even-as-it-starts-raining-again/article32408546.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No more ‘hard barricading’ of zones, say revised guidelines||There will be no more “hard barricading” as the State government has revised the guidelines for containment and buffer zones in view of there being “too many containment zones” with a large number of cases being reported from houses and apartments located close to each other. According to the revised circular, the large number of containment zones has made it difficult for the authorities to conduct surveillance and ensure perimeter control, prompting the need for denotification of containment and buffer zones. From now, the containment zone — the area around the residence of a COVID-19 positive person — for an individual case will be the floor of the patient’s residence in an apartment complex, the house or villa in which the patient resides for individual houses, the street of the residence in a slum, and the complete habitation in a rural area.“For individual cases, the authorities should paste notice on the house, inform the neighbours/RWA/apartment owners’ association, identify contacts, advise strict home quarantine, ensure testing of contacts, etc.,” the circular stated. The government has clarified that there was “no necessity of hard barricading” and hand stamping of patients and their contacts in such cases. The sealing of homes of patients with metal sheets had sparked off widespread anger, especially in Bengaluru. More recently, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad admitted that Rs. 20 crore had been spent on barricades, indicating a misappropriation of funds in the matter. The revised guidelines also specify that if no new case is reported for at least 14 days and all contacts have been followed up on for 14 days, the containment zone will be denotified. Buffer zones have been classified as “area where new cases are more likely to appear”. This will be the area falling under a 200-metre radius of the perimeter of the containment area in rural and urban areas. If more cases are reported from an area, for operational purposes, the containment zone will be bigger in size and will cover the cluster located close to the patients. A village/city/district will be declared free of COVID-19 once 28 days pass after the last confirmed case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-more-hard-barricading-of-zones-say-revised-guidelines/article32408347.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC issues notice to State on petition challenging land reforms Ordinance||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition questioning the constitutional validity of the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on July 13, that primarily eases restrictions on buying agricultural land besides increasing limit for holding agricultural land by a family. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on the PIL petition filed by Nagaraj Sheshappa Hongal, a journalist and social activist from Bagalkot district. The petitioner contended that the Ordinance had brought tremendous pressure on farmers to sell their land and no farmer could purchase agricultural land any time in future due to highly speculative agricultural investment, which is happening now and the same would further destroy interest of farmers. “The Karnataka government has been attempting to defeat the very objective of the Land Reforms Act slowly, but deliberately. In 2015, the government had increased the non-agricultural income limit for purchasing agricultural land from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh. This also opened the market of farm land in favour of large number of affluent class of people,” the petitioner claimed. Pointing out that the younger generation of farmers are forced to migrate to cities due to various acts of anomaly caused by the waves of globalisation, the petitioner contended that the economic forces who want to snatch away agricultural land from vast population of India will benefit from the amendment of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, through the Ordinance. The Ordinance, the petitioner contended, would attract urban investments in agriculture and as a result, a farmer cannot compete with this price in the open market to purchase farm land. Also, the petition said the social objective, of removing inequality in the holding of agricultural lands, of the Act had been defeated by the amendment made through the Ordinance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-issues-notice-to-state-on-petition-challenging-land-reforms-ordinance/article32408377.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru goes down from 194 to 214||The city had a poor showing in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 survey ranking announced by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Thursday. Its rank slipped further down to 214 from 194 last year. This year, the city got 2,656.82 points out of 6,000. However, it emerged as the winner in the best ‘Self-Sustainable Mega City’ (over 40 lakh population) category scoring 1,491.42 points out of 3,200. Also, among Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) with more than 10 lakh population, Bengaluru was placed 37 (out of 47 ULBs). For the overall national rankings, there were four categories, with each category having a total of 1,500 points. The city scored 750.48 points in the citizen feedback category, 703.91 points in service level progress, 702.44 points in direct observation, and 500 points in the certification score category. Citizen activists and residents’ welfare associations have expressed disappointment and concern over the poor performance. Waste management expert V. Ramprasad said that the dip in rankings showed that the city was failing to adhere to the basic fundamental concepts of solid waste management, such as door-to-door collection of segregated waste, transportation and processing. “Secondly, instead of following other models, we have to have our own model. Rather than importing external experts, we need to tap into local city experts and universities and institutes, which are also affected by the poor ranking. It is unfortunate that the city, which comparatively has the best citizen practices, is not concentrating in implementing this,” he said. Notably, among the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) with more than 1 lakh population, only Mysuru from the State figured in the top 25. With an overall score of 5,298.61, Mysuru made it to the 5th position. Mysuru was also ranked the cleanest among medium sized cities with population between 3 and 10 lakh. N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said that the civic body would improve the performance in the 2021 Survey. “In January this year, we started ranking divisions based on segregation levels. Fine collection was implemented from July,” he said, and added that the civic body would be increasing the capacity of processing plants and taking feedback from citizens. Waste management expert N.S. Ramakanth said that this was an example of a lack of political will in strictly framing and implementing a robust system.“We have failed in implementing and enforcing the best practices we have as there is a lack of collective responsibility among our politicians and also among a section of our population,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-goes-down-from-194-to-214/article32408344.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to grant title deeds to over 16 lakh slum-dwellers||In a major decision, the State Cabinet on Thursday decided to grant title deeds to over 16 lakh slum-dwellers in urban local body (ULB) areas, including in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits. This decision assumes importance in the light of the forthcoming elections to the BBMP. In the BBMP limits alone, there are over 50,000 families that have been residing in 239 slums, spread over 683 acres. In the State, 3.13 lakh families, residing in 6,745 acres of 1,873 slums, will benefit from the decision, Housing Minister V. Somanna said in an official press release. The decision to provide title deeds was taken after holding discussions with officials of the Revenue, the Urban Development, and the Municipal Administration departments, the release said. Successive governments had made announcements of providing title deeds of slum-dwellers not no decision was taken, the release said. Bills approved The Cabinet also approved three Bills: the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crushers (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020. The Cabinet also resolved to released Rs. 65.48 crore for providing meals, shoes and socks for pre and post-matric students from Scheduled Tribes residing in hostels. It also decided on releasing Rs. 265.2 crore for filling 50 tanks in K.R. Pet, besides Rs. 16.5 crore for the mini Vidhana Soudha in Chikkanayakanahalli. It also resolved to increase the share capital of the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Company from Rs. 1,000 crore to Rs. 1,250 crore.  Other proposals   Formulating guidelines to fix reservation for president and vice-presidents of CMCs, TMCs, and TPs 64 criminal cases to be withdrawn in various protest cases across the State  Postponement of elections to various cooperative banks/societies till December and the appointment of administrative officers/special officers for banks/societies Special rules for filling 37 vacant posts at the Karnataka Bhavan in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-grant-title-deeds-to-over-16-lakh-slum-dwellers/article32408360.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to launch taxi service||The State government wants to start a new taxi service along the lines of app-based ride hailing companies such as Ola and Uber, and it plans to tap into the expertise of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for this project. This was announced in a booklet on the ‘achievements' of the Transport Department in the last one year, which was released on Thursday in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa , Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi. “Plans are being prepared to introduce a taxi aggregator service under the principle of a cooperative system. ISRO has agreed to provide the required support. This will help the department generate revenue on a larger scale,” stated the booklet. Alternative platform For the last few years, a section of taxi drivers in the city have been demanding that the State government introduce an aggregator system as an alternative platform. Drivers believe that a platform supported by the State government will help improve their earnings, which had been dwindling even before the pandemic. The idea of a government supported taxi aggregator system was also discussed in the previous JD(S) and Congress coalition government. Technical expert team The Transport Department is also seeking ISRO’s expertise to improve transport facilities that include bus services in Bengaluru. The booklet stated that a technical expert team has been formed. With a senior scientist from the ISRO as the nodal officer, the team comprises officials, technical experts, former IAS and IPS officers. The booklet provides a glimpse of ‘achievements’ by the department and State-run road transport corporations. It noted that Rs. 200 crore has been allotted for road safety measures in 2020-21 and Rs. 20 crore for vehicular tracking system. Compensation to drivers In the booklet, the department claims that COVID-19 compensation of Rs. 5,000 would benefit 7.75 lakh auto and taxi drivers across the State, and that the government would spend Rs. 387 crore. However, contrary to this claim, only 2.45 lakh drivers availed of the scheme and they did not receive the compensation in time. The booklet also lists some of the measures taken by the road transport corporations during lockdown, including providing transportation to migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-launch-taxi-service/article32408346.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Officials in a bind over directives from the top on programmes||In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and the struggle of the government departments to implement programmes, confusion now reigns among them as contradictory directions have come from up top. As a result, several departments have sought clarification from the Finance Department over the implementation of programmes. While the Finance Department has placed restrictions on projects that could be continued, a recent Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) review meeting chaired by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar has led to confusion as the departments have been asked to come up with action plans and propose new schemes.“Though restrictions are in place over new programmes/projects, the Chief Secretary has asked for action plans from departments to implement the budget. While this will definitely spur activity, it cannot be implemented as there are restrictions,” a senior official privy to the development said. Series of directions In a series of directions issued to the departments in May, the Finance Department had asked all departments to seek prior approval from it before spending on programmes that have not been tendered, those that have not received work order, and those that have not been started. “This meant no new work under the 2020–21 budget could be taken up. Several departments have now asked for clarification over the contradictions that exist between the Finance Department orders and the instructions from the Chief Secretary,” the official said. The official also pointed out that the progress of works by the Assembly segments in the State, reviewed in early July, had not been found to be satisfactory. As much as Rs. 25 crore had been released to each Assembly segment. A letter from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in the second of week of July to the Deputy Commissioners had pointed out that Rs. 2,799.87 crore had been released as financial assistance. As many 5,044 projects had been taken up at the cost of Rs. 2,404 crore, but the progress of works was not satisfactory, the Chief Minister had said. Sources said the pandemic has been a setback for the works that were in progress, while new works had not taken off. “It is only now that the pace of work has increased. Clarification has been sought to implement the works now,” said a source.    Finance Department has placed restrictions on projects that could be continued amid pandemic Recently, however, departments were asked to propose new schemes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-in-a-bind-over-directives-from-the-top-on-programmes/article32408364.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civil society forms fact-finding committee to probe riots||A coalition of civil society organisations in the city have formed a 23-member fact-finding committee to probe into the violence at D.J. Halli on the night of August 11, which was triggered after an MLA’s nephew put up a derogatory social media post against Islam. In a statement, the committee said amid police investigation, media narratives, and political slugfest, citizens have a need to establish the facts of the case, in which it seeks to play a key role. The committee will meet affected families, residents of the area, police officials, mediapersons who were attacked, and all others concerned, the statement said.The terms of reference the committee has set for itself includes not just probing the sequence of events of the violence, but also efforts by all authorities concerned, including Facebook, where the provocative post was posted, the police, elected representatives of the area, and the media to prevent and later control the violence. The committee will also look into the police response, whether firing that killed three youths and left three others injured, was justified. The 23-member panel includes child rights activist Neena Nayak; independent journalist Cynthia Stephen; Dalit leaders V. Nagaraj, Mohanraj, and Hebbal Venkatesh; Leo Saldanha fromthe Environment Support Group; activists Geeta Menon and Madhu Bhushan; and Irshad Ahmed Desai and Tanveer Ahmed from the Movement for Justice. This is the fourth fact-finding committee, after those formed by the Congress, the BJP, and another by a group called Citizens for Democracy. Anybody who has any specific information on the riots and related matters, may send a WhatsApp message to 8277288204 or write to ffblore@protonmail.com, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civil-society-forms-fact-finding-committee-to-probe-riots/article32408371.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC to consider pleas on August 25 on appointing claims officer||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday indicated that it would get from its registry the list of retired judges to consider the plea of the State government for appointing a claims commissioner to access damages caused to public and private properties during the recent violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli in the city. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi said there is a PIL petition filed seeking several directions, including appointment of a claims commissioner as per the apex court’s guidelines to deal with instances of mass destruction of public and private properties in relation to the violence, on the lines of the government’s petition. The Bench told the Advocate-General that it will take up both the petitions for hearing on August 25 while indicating that it will ask its registry to find out the list of retired judges. The apex court’s guidelines authorises the High Courts to appointment Claims Commissioner in cases of mass destruction caused to public and private properties, including injuries or death caused in such instances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-to-consider-pleas-on-august-25-on-appointing-claims-officer/article32408368.ece
21 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Chosen for Sahitya Akademi award||‘Dalita Saahityada Soundarya Prajne’ (Literary Criticism) by Vithalrao T. Gaikwad, the Kannada translation of ‘Dalit Sahityache Soundarya Shastra’ written by Sharan Kumar Limbale in Marathi, has been chosen for the Sahitya Akademi award for 2019. According to a press release from K. Sreenivsa Rao, secretary of the akademi, a three-member jury of R. Poornima, S. Diwakar, and Aravind Malagatti selected the translation for the award. The award carries a purse of Rs. 50,000 and a copper plaque that will be presented to the writer at a function to be held later this year, according to the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chosen-for-sahitya-akademi-award/article32408365.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 prevalence survey in State||Karnataka plans to conduct a survey across all districts to estimate the prevalence of COVID-19 and the proportion of persons who have developed immunity. The survey data is expected to guide interventions for COVID-19 management. A release said the survey, which will involve adults over the age of 18, will cover 38 units, including all districts of Karnataka and eight zones of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. Data will be collected using an app to register patients and update sample collection status and lab results. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, inaugurated a training programme on Thursday for district surveillance officers, district tuberculosis officers, epidemiologists, and more. According to the release, the survey will include samples from populations at three risk levels. Low-risk populations include pregnant women present at ANC clinics, persons visiting the outpatient department of hospitals, and attendees of children or patients. Moderate- to high-risk populations will include bus conductors, vegetable vendors, healthcare workers, individuals in containment zones, and individuals in meeting areas such as markets, malls, bus stops, and railway stations. High-risk populations include the elderly and persons with co-morbidities. Resource persons at the training programme spoke about the equipment requirements to conduct the survey and collect samples, the responsibilities of various officers, lab technicians and counselling staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-prevalence-survey-in-state/article32408350.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Councillor’s husband grilled||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the city police grilled Syed Nasir, husband of Congress councillor Syed Sazida from Muneshwarabagar ward, part of the Pulakeshinagar Assembly constituency. He was summoned and questioned after technical investigation showed he was in touch with some of the accused in the riots case, sources said. The CCB has already questioned two other Congress councillors from the Assembly segment — Sampath Raj, former Mayor, and A.R. Zakir, They have arrested Kaleem Pasha, husband of Nagawara Congress councillor Irshad Begum. The CCB has also arrested Arun Kumar, personal assistant to Mr. Sampath Raj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/councillors-husband-grilled/article32408366.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited from lecturers||The Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering, has invited applications for the post of guest faculty to teach B.E/B.Tech and M.Tech. Send applications by August 29 to Chairperson, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, UVCE, K.R. Circle, Bengaluru-560001. Visitwww.bangaloreuniversity .ac.in for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited-from-lecturers/article32408375.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gowda writes to CM on changes to Act||JD(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to stop the permission granted to the Inspector General of Registration to register agriculture land as per the amended Karnataka Land Reforms Act. The State government has allowed registration of agriculture land by anyone, following the Ordinance to amend the Act, removing restrictions that were in place earlier. Mr. Gowda, who along with JD(S) leaders and workers staged a protest in Tumakuru on Thursday, released his letter to the Chief Minister to the media. He said that until a discussion on the changes takes place and there is unanimity on the decision, the government should not allow registration of agriculture land, which will lead to rural indebtedness. He said dilution of Sections 64, 79 A, 79 B, 79 C, 80, and 109 of the Act will promote the real estate mafia. The move will only help corporates, the rich and government officials hoarding black money to buy land from farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gowda-writes-to-cm-on-changes-to-act/article32408374.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Contactless information desk at KIA||Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) has introduced a contactless information facility at four locations within the terminal area to reduce the risk of exposure to COVID-19. Passengers can avail this facility round the clock for information related to the airport, facilities and flights. The service is available in English, Kannada and Hindi. A release stated passengers can have real-time conversations with airport staff over touch-free video. “A passenger simply has to stand in front of the Virtual Desk, thereby activating sensors, to begin the interaction,” read the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contactless-information-desk-at-kia/article32408358.ece
21 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Recognition for Janaagraha||Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, a not for profit organisation working in the space of urban reforms and citizen participation, was felicitated on Thursday  by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs during ‘Swachh Mahotsav 2020’ in New Delhi. According to a release from Janaagraha, it was recognised by Minister of State (I/C) Hardeep Singh Puri for being one of the most active and key partners of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) - The Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban ( SBM - U ). The award ceremony was held via video conference and attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Janaagraha CEO Srikanth Viswanathan participated in the event through a web link.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recognition-for-janaagraha/article32408352.ece
21 August 2020||BENGALURU/HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Karnataka to get 51,000 tonnes of urea from Centre today||The State is set to get 51,000 tonnes of urea from the Centre on Friday in the wake of increasing demand that has seen a record sowing in the kharif season. Disclosing this to reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil said Union fertilizers Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda had informed him about arrival of fertilizers from the Centre. Mr. Patil explained that the State had reported sowing coverage of 95% by completing sowing on 68.26 lakh hectares of land till August 19 as against the target of 73 lakh hectares set for kharif. As against the demand of 6,78,055 tonnes of urea from April 1 to August 20, the State had seen a supply of 4,88,163 tonnes. This had surpassed the previous year’s supply by 1,89,892 tonnes, he said. Similarly, giving details about the demand and supply scenario in August, the Minister said the monthly demand for urea had been assessed at 1,77,000 tonnes. While 1,14,194 tonnes of urea had been supplied so far, the remaining quantum of 62,806 tonnes was in the process of being supplied, he noted. He said district-level vigilance teams of the Agriculture Department were analysing the quality of fertilizers through inspection to sales units and also initiating action against those overpricing them. He explained that the Centre would supply the fertilizers to the State on monthly basis depending upon the demand forecast prepared by the State government. The fertilizers would be distributed to different districts based on the demand. Meanwhile, some of the areas, including Ramanagaram, continued to reel under shortage of urea. Dryland farmers, who are particularly cultivating fodder crops in the rainy season, were disappointed as they could not get urea when it rained well. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy highlighted this situation in his tweets. Good rainfall and change in choice of crops has resulted in increased demand for urea in the northern districts. While authorities claim there is enough stock, panic buying of urea by some farmers seems to have added to the fears of fertilizer shortage. Joint Director of Agriculture of Dharwad, Rajashekhar I.B., said there was more demand for urea as farmers had sown maize and cotton on large tracts of land. In most of districts, the authorities had anticipated the demand and had sought additional supply in July. However, panic buying seems to have triggered a shortage. Misconception among farmers about the size of urea granules seems to have added to the problem. Farmers are reluctant to buy big granules in northern districts although it is as effective as small granules, an official said.  The State had reported a record kharif sowing of 95%, covering 68.26 lakh hectares till August 19 as against the target of 73 lakh hectares||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-to-get-51000-tonnes-of-urea-from-centre-today/article32408378.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Bringing clarity to citizens and reducing burden on officials||Recently, when a resident of one flat in an apartment complex in Bengaluru tested positive for COVID-19, the other residents were in for a shock.The civic body declared the floor of the patient’s house, the floor below, and two floors above as containment zones. “The logic behind declaring two floors above under the containment zone is still a mystery,” said a member of the residents’ welfare association (RWA). In cities such as Bengaluru, where the number of positive cases has seen a huge surge, the number of containment zones too has shot up. As on August 18, the city had 37,863 containment zones. And citizens were failing to understand what would be declared a containment zone or a buffer zone. But as the government has brought out revised guidelines clarifying aspects that were often a bitter bone of contention, communities where there is some sense of organisation say they have streamlined the system along the way to avoid further confusion. Srikanth Narasimhan, from Bangalore Apartments Federation, said that with all the changes and confusion over the guidelines, apartment associations and RWAs had started to evolve their own mechanism. “Right now, by and large people are managing on their own. The spread is also quite significant now. Those who test positive have been asked to quarantine themselves. The stigma from the initial months is also waning. Now, unless there are serious symptoms, home quarantine is enough and everyone knows that. A sense of community has kicked in,” he said, adding that citizen quarantine squads were also helping. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that earlier, even if there was a single house with a positive case, the civic body would barricade 100 metres on either side. “Now, there is no barricading at all. Other measures such as health screening of people living around and sanitisation will continue. But without the barricading, the people will feel free mentally. Patients should be treated with dignity and not stigmatised. Barricading brings fear. Now we will just put up posters in front of the house,” he said. The move is also expected to significantly bring down the number of barricaded areas. A senior officer involved in COVID-19 containment in Kalaburagi, which reported India’s first COVID-19 death, said the revised guidelines would be helpful for local administrations. “We have created around 2,000 containment zones in Kalaburagi district so far and half of them are still active. With the increasing cases, we need to discard the containment zone concept and adopt a cluster management approach. The new guidelines are a step towards that direction,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bringing-clarity-to-citizens-and-reducing-burden-on-officials/article32408349.ece
21 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man stabbed to death||A 21-year-old man was stabbed to death in the Public Garden area in Kalaburagi on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Veeresh S. Kadaganchi, a resident of Ranesh Peer Dargah on the outskirts of the city. The police said that three assailants came on a motorcycle and stabbed him on his right thigh with a sharp-edged weapon and fled. The police suspected that Ambu, Bhavan and Kallu may have killed Kadaganchi over a love affair. Brahmapur Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-stabbed-to-death/article32408547.ece
21 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Death of govt. doctor sparks off protests||The alleged suicide of Nanjangud Taluk Health Officer Nagendra S.R. sparked off protests in Mysuru on Thursday, with doctors and nursing staff of the Department of Health and Family Welfare staging a demonstration by placing the mortal remains outside the DHO office in Nazarabad here since morning. The officer was found dead at his residence in Alanahalli police station limits on Thursday. As the protesters refused to call off the stir, Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar went to Mysuru to hold talks with representatives of the government doctors’ association. The protesters alleged that Dr. Nagendra, who was handling COVID-19 cases in the taluk, was under severe work pressure and faced persecution from his higher authorities. The protest hit the department’s functioning across the district. An inquiry has also been ordered in the death. In a tweet, Dr. Sudhakar expressed grief over the death and requested the COVID-19 warriors to report to their seniors in case they were under any stress. “The government is always there to help them out,” he said.  ‘Committed doctor’ Minister in-charge of Mysuru S.T. Somashekar said the State has lost a committed doctor and urged the COVID-19 warriors not to take any extreme steps. “The government supports the warriors who report directly to the government if they are facing any problems while discharging their duties,” Mr. Somashekar said, adding that he had spoken to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and all possible help will soon be extended to Dr. Nagendra’s family members. A senior doctor expressed anger over frequent attacks on doctors and alleged ill-treatment meted out to them. Arguing that doctors are working under immense pressure since the COVID-19 outbreak, he asked: “Why are doctors to be blamed if the drainage in the hospital is choked?” He referred to a recent case where a bureaucrat abused a doctor in North Karnataka, and lashed out against the bureaucrats for undermining their profession. At the time of going to press, the protest was still under way and a senior health official said the strike is unlikely to be suspended until the government acted on the association’s demand. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Police Prakash Gowda said: “The police have not found any suicide note at the house.”  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-of-govt-doctor-sparks-off-protests/article32408361.ece
21 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Campus hiring: There are many aspirants for a few jobs||Some companies have begun scouting fresh talent and have sounded out engineering colleges about their intent to hire, at least partially allaying apprehensions that campus recruitments might grind to a halt with the COVID-19 pandemic showing no signs of abating. “The campus recruitment process has commenced and we expect most of the companies that visited us last year to turn up this year as well. But competition will be stiff with too many aspirants chasing the few jobs on offer,” said Harshith Diwekar, placement head, National Institute of Engineering, Mysuru. He expects a surge in demand for graduates in the healthcare sector. However, with the manufacturing sector slowing down, recruitment for streams such as Mechanical and Industrial Production may be impacted, said Pradeep Manjunath, placement officer, Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering. The number of jobs in the IT sector too may be relatively low this year, but the scenario is not all doom and gloom, and companies have already commenced virtual conferences and assessment for hiring in the new cycle, Mr. Manjunath said. Uncertainty continues Meanwhile, for many students of the 2020 batch who were expected to graduate early this year, uncertainty continues. This is because the eighth semester examination of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) is yet to be conducted and most firms insist on a provisional degree certificate from freshers before their onboarding process is completed. B. Sadashive Gowda, principal, Vidyavardhaka College of Engineering, said many of the students awaiting their eighth semester exam (slated to be held from August 24 to 31) were already undergoing virtual training or re-skilling themselves. “It is only their onboarding, scheduled for July/August, that has got staggered because of the pandemic which threw all academic activity into disarray. But reputed companies have honoured the commitment made,” he said. Prof. Gowda said they were expecting good placements even in the forthcoming year (2020–21) as mass recruiters such as TCS had already set the ball rolling. But there is a general consensus that the numbers will be low, and much will depend on how the pandemic progresses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campus-hiring-there-are-many-aspirants-for-a-few-jobs/article32408369.ece
21 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||High quantum of water discharged from Basavasagar reservoir||Officials of Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited (KBJNL) discharged water at a rate of 2.72 lakh cusecs from Basavasagar reservoir in Narayanpur in Yadgir district on Thursday. According to reports, by 4 p.m., water was being discharged at the rate of 2.72 lakh cusecs when inflow into the reservoir was at a rate of 2.70 lakh cusecs. Officials opened 27 gates to discharge water from the dam. The water level in the reservoir now stands at 489.88 m against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 492.25 m. Villages on the river banks in Raichur and Yadgir districts continue to face the threat of floods. Meanwhile, a team of NDRF, Fire and Emergency Services personnel and the police found the body of a woman near Jurala dam. Authorities are trying to establish the identity of the woman. They said that it could be Narasamma who was one among the four who went missing after a raft capsized in the Krishna near Kurvakula Island in Raichur district on August 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-quantum-of-water-discharged-from-basavasagar-reservoir/article32408549.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Clubs in State want to re-open||With most economic activities resuming in the State, social clubs have sought permission to restart their regular activities. The Federation of Clubs, Karnataka, that has about 70 clubs as members, has petitioned the State government seeking permission to open all sporting activities and canteen facilities that will enable them to financially sustain themselves and keep their employee strength intact. While the government had in June permitted some sports activities, including tennis, badminton and billiards, besides allowing sale of liqour, most social clubs decided to shut down in the first week of July after the number of COVID-19 cases increased. In the city, barring five clubs, all other clubs continue to be shut as members have not favoured re-opening. Acknowledging approaching Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for help, federation president H.S. Srikanth said that clubs are in dire financial situation since they continue to pay salaries to their direct employees. Clubs without any income are digging deep into their reserves and may not be able to continue paying salaries without income. Barring a few, most clubs have not laid off or retrenched employees. “In fact, last year’s bonus has been paid. Convening a general body meeting is not possible in the pandemic,” he added. However, employees who are hired by the contractors who manage canteens are in a difficult situation. “About 90 % of clubs have outsourced catering services, and the food contractors have not paid their employees. On an average, these food contractors hire 50 persons depending on the size of the club,” he added. It is learnt that the Chief Minister has asked officials to examine the request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clubs-in-state-want-to-re-open/article32408354.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||May have to change investigation officer in co-op bank case: HC||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday said that the State government may have to change the Investigation Officer of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) if he is unable to trace K. Ramakrishna, president of Sri Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank Ltd., who is absconding despite rejection of his plea for anticipatory bail. “The IO must submit a report explaining why Ramakrishna has not been arrested so far. It is pointed out that he [Ramakrishna] is a political figure and tried to contest for the Rajya Sabha poll. The IO should ensure that all accused required for custody be taken into custody and place a report on steps taken for the arrest of Ramakrishna,” the court observed in its order. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi made the observations during the hearing of a batch of PIL petitions, filed by depositors, on the alleged fraud by the erstwhile management of the bank, which is now under the control of an administrator appointed by the State government. The bench also sought action initiated on 27 “influential borrowers” whose list was furnished to the police in the complaint lodged in February this year while directing the IO to submit a report in this regard. Earlier, the advocate representing a group of petitioners, while complaining about inaction on the absconding president, had also pointed out to the bench that no investigation appears to have been carried out on 27 borrowers, including political persons, who have borrowed huge sums of money, and one person had borrowed Rs. 153 crore and the head of a famous mutt had borrowed Rs. 12 crore. Meanwhile, the bench directed the State government to appoint competent authority to the Sri Guru Sarvabhouma Souharda Credit Cooperative Ltd., which is also managed by persons on the bank’s board, under the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2004.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/may-have-to-change-investigation-officer-in-co-op-bank-case-hc/article32408345.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘DPI violating rules’||The Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka has accused the Department of Public Instruction of violating the Disaster Management Act and conducting classes for students in government schools. In a complaint to the Chief Secretary on Tuesday, the association alleged that teachers of government schools have started conducting classes in violation of the norms issued by the Central government which state that educational institutions cannot be open till August 31. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the association, said, “When we are not allowed to re-open schools, how can the government conduct classes under Vidyagama scheme?” The association has enclosed photographs of the department conducting classes in schools without maintaining social distancing. It urged the Chief Secretary to issue a uniform calendar for all schools functioning in the State, and allow private schools to open as well. The Department of Public Instruction has warned teachers not to conduct classes in regular classrooms under the Vidyagama programme.   When we are not allowed to re-open schools, how can the government conduct classes under Vidyagama scheme? D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dpi-violating-rules/article32408357.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Raising concern||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raising-concern/article32408373.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pashu Sanjeevini||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pashu-sanjeevini/article32408356.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Blooming business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blooming-business/article32408363.ece
21 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Onattukara sesame may soon get GI tag||Efforts to secure Geographical Indication (GI) tag for Onattukara sesame have entered the final phase. The process is being done under the aegis of the Intellectual Property Rights Cell (IPR Cell) of Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) and the Onattukara Regional Agricultural Research Station (ORARS), Kayamkulam. Symbolic logo Earlier this month, a meeting chaired by Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar approved a map indicating the traditional Onattukara sesame cultivation area and a symbolic logo. “The meeting has suggested a few changes and we have almost completed the process. The application, along with the map, logo and other documents for securing GI tag will be submitted to the GI Registry, Chennai, immediately,” says C.R. Elsy, coordinator of the Intellectual Property Rights Cell at the KAU. According to officials, GI status will be sought for Onattukara sesame grown in 570 hectares spread across the three districts of Alappuzha, Kollam and Pathanamthitta. “Average sesame production from this region is around 200 tonnes. GI tag will be applicable to the Onattukara sesame produced in this particular region alone,” Ms. Elsy adds. Apart from the traditional ‘Ayali’ variety, farmers also cultivate the Kayamkulam-1, Thilak, Thilathara and Thilarani varieties — all developed by the ORARS, Kayamkulam. Officials documented various aspects including the history of sesame farming and cultivation techniques in the Onattukara region. According to KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandrababu, an analysis revealed that the oilseeds have added medicinal values. Compared to other parts, sesame grown in the region contains high levels of vitamin E and antioxidants. It also contains oleic acid, linoleic acid, palmitoleic acid and so on, which helps to maintain good health. Getting the GI tag will make Onattukara sesame more popular and increase its market value. “Once the GI tag is granted, the price of the Onattukara sesame will be increased and it will benefit farmers,” says B. Lovely, Assistant Professor, ORARS, Kayamkulam. Recently, the Agriculture Department has initiated steps to promote sesame farming in the region by providing financial assistance and seeds free of cost to farmers. The IPR Cell has helped obtain GI tag for agricultural products including Marayur jaggery, Chengalikodan nendran banana, Central Travancore jaggery, Kaipad rice, Jeerakasala rice, Gandhakasala rice, Pokkali rice, and Vazhakulam pineapple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onattukara-sesame-may-soon-get-gi-tag/article32408872.ece
21 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||State IT firm gives a fillip to Atmanirbhar Bharat||Alappuzha joined the building of an Atmanirbhar Bharat on Thursday with Techgentsia Software Technologies Private Limited, an IT company based at Infopark, Cherthala, here winning the ‘Innovation Challenge for the development of videoconferencing solution’ conducted by the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. V-Consol, the videoconferencing solution developed by Techgentsia, will now become the official videoconferencing partner of the Government of India. It achieved this by competing against some of the biggies in the sector. According to officials, 1,983 applications were received to develop the solution. Of these, 12 applicants with innovative videoconference solutions were shortlisted. It was further cut to five for building a ready for the market product before the winner was selected. Joy Sebastian, 44, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Techgentsia, expressed happiness at winning the challenge and thanked his 65-member team. “From now on V-Consol will replace foreign tools for videoconferencing of government meetings. We are happy to have contributed to Atmanirbhar Bharat,” Mr. Sebastian told The Hindu . Humble beginnings Born to a fishermen family at Pathirappally, near Alappuzha, Mr. Sebastian completed his elementary education from a government school. After completing Master of Computer Applications, he joined Avaneir, an IT company in Kochi, in 2000. “From that time, I have been working in videoconferencing technology sector. I along with my friend Tony Thomas started Techgentsia in 2009. Later, Tony left the company. We have clients in Europe, North America, and parts of Asia. Winning the videoconference challenge is the cherry on the cake,” he adds. IT partner Techgentsia is acting as the IT partner of various projects in the Alappuzha Assembly constituency. During the 2018 great deluge, Techgentsia played a pivotal role by developing various apps for rescue and relief works. Besides, it has developed software for telemedicine, online education, school digitisation, IT platforms for vegetable aggregation and so on. Besides, the company is also supporting Snehajalakam, a palliative care unit along with helping the unit run a free food restaurant. The IT firm will get a financial aid of Rs. 1 crore with additional Rs. 10 lakh towards operations and maintenance for three years. It is also free to market the product globally. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac congratulated Mr. Sebastian and his team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-it-firm-gives-a-fillip-to-atmanirbhar-bharat/article32408688.ece
21 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||198 test positive in Alappuzha||The district on Thursday logged 198 COVID-19 cases. Of the total cases, 182 contracted the disease through contact. Eleven persons who came from other States and five from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the contact cases, 41 were reported from Alappuzha, 35 from Thumpoly, and 12 each from Ambalappuzha and Chettikkad.  75 recoveries Meanwhile, 75 people who were undergoing treatment recovered from the disease. The number of active cases in the district stands at 1,776.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/198-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article32408875.ece
21 August 2020||Idukki,KERALA||A bonding unseparated at death||For seven-year-old Lakshanasree, Anjumol was more than a teacher. The two shared a deep bond which couldn't be separated by death. Their bodies were recovered, covered in a blanket. It was evident that they were asleep when the landslip hit the estate lanes at Pettimudy, near Munnar, on August 7. Anjumol, who lost her father at a young age, lived at House 7 at Pathumury lane with her grandmother Chandana. Lakshanasree stayed with her parents Raja and Shobha at House 4 at Aarumury lane. Anjumol, a Tamil graduate from a college at Chittur in Palakkad, wanted to be a teacher and was set to join a BEd college at Adimali. The outbreak of COVID-19 delayed the admission process. Lakshanasree, a student at a Tamil medium school at Rajamala, used to go to Anjumol’s house, who helped her in studies. She often stayed there overnight and her parents were happy that Anjumol helped her, especially when classes were off in view of COVID-19.  Parents dead Lakshanasree’s parents also fell victims to the landslip that has claimed 65 lives so far. The strong bond between the two was revealed after their bodies were identified. Anjumol, with the BEd college admission in mind, used to spend considerable time with Lakshanarsree. For the latter’s parents, Anjumol was their elder daughter. She was good in studies and her teachers and peers at the Chittur college only had pleasant memories of her. The photographs of the two were also on the WhatsApp page of V.M. Madsusoodanan, liaison officer of the District Police Chief, and they were thought to be mother and daughter. An inquiry into the photographs by N.B. Biju of the Public Relations Department brought to light the bond between the two, many days after the recovery of their bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-bonding-unseparated-at-death/article32408874.ece
21 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||3 bodies recovered from Pettimudy||Three more bodies were recovered from near the Pettimudy landslip area on Thursday. With this, the death toll in the landslip, which destroyed four estate lanes in the Nayamakkad division on August 7, rose to 65. As per official figures, five persons are still missing. The team had extended search operations to a nearby stream and many bodies that had been washed away were recovered. The bodies recovered on Thursday were from the banks of a river at Poothakuzhy, around 14 km from the accident site. One body was identified as that of Kaushika, 15, daughter of Paneerselvam. Two bodies are yet to be identified.  Decision on Saturday  More bodies could be trapped in the river at Poothakuzhy inside the forest area. Though the search operation was continued in the area, the group returned after some time as the presence of a leopard was noticed there, said a team member. Earlier, a review meeting at Munnar decided to continue the search till the last body was recovered. The site of the estate lanes at, buried by the landslip debris, is being searched using scanners and sensors. The District Collector is expected to visit Pettimudy on Saturday when a decision on the continuation of the search would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-bodies-recovered-from-pettimudy/article32408882.ece
21 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||35 in Idukki||Thirty-five people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Of them, 29 contracted the disease through contact while the source of infection in four cases was yet to be identified. Those who contracted the disease through local contact included residents of Kumily, Kattappana, Udumbanchola, Peruvanthanam, and Thodupuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/35-in-idukki/article32408876.ece
21 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Man gets 17-year RI for rape attempt on minor||The Wayanad POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Court here on Wednesday sentenced a man to 17 years of rigorous imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 40,000 on him for attempting to rape a minor tribal girl in the district. The judge, M.V. Rajakumara, awarded the sentence to Sunilkumar, 25, of Thervayal tribal hamlet at Naiketty in the district. Sunilkumar was charged under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act. The prosecution case was that Sunilkumar had attempted to rape the four-year-old girl after he took her to a plantain farm in 2019. The girl was attending a religious ritual along with her grandfather. When the man attempted to rape the girl, she cried out and on hearing this, some tribesmen came to her rescue. The case was investigated by R.R. Prasanth, Circle Inspector, Sulthan Bathery. Advocate M.G. Sindhu appeared for the prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-17-year-ri-for-rape-attempt-on-minor/article32408661.ece
21 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||BonD service in Wayanad||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has launched its ‘Buses on Demand’ (BonD) service in Wayanad district. The BonD service is aimed at ensuring safe journey for short-distance commuters during the pandemic. The travellers may avail the service by procuring prepaid BonD travel cards for a period of five to 20 days. The service had begun in the Sulthan Bathery-Kalpetta route and would soon be launched in other parts of the district by connecting major towns, said BonD coordinator C.K. Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bond-service-in-wayanad/article32408665.ece
21 August 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Hospitals opt out of ex-servicemen scheme||The Central government’s decision to increase the security deposit to be paid by empanelled hospitals has put the ex-servicemen in the State in a spot as they are now bereft of the speciality treatment under the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS). Only a few more months are left for the completion of the contract between most private hospitals and ECHS in the State. Many hospitals have refused to renew the contract for the scheme. Those in need of emergency treatment are now forced to seek treatment at faraway hospitals. Also, they have to shell out huge sums for treatment and medicines. This despite the fact that they have been paying an amount under the ECHS scheme for getting medical treatment. M.B. Gopinath, State president, Ex-Servicemen Coordination Committee, said that such a situation had arisen as the Centre had decided to increase the security deposit for hospitals from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh just a month before the COVID-19 outbreak. He said this had resulted in many hospitals withdrawing from the contract to implement ECHS, which had benefited over three lakh ex-servicemen in the State. Contract renewal  He said there were 98 empanelled hospitals in the State. Among them, 37 hospitals, which had completed the contract period, decided not to renew the contract. Except for a few, the contract with rest of the hospitals would get over by the year-end, he added. During the time of retirement, an amount of Rs. 1.20 lakh is deducted from officers, Rs. 67,000 from Junior Commissioned Officers and Rs. 30,000 from other ranks. Besides, an amount of Rs. 1,000 is also deducted from the monthly pension for medical expenses. “It is unfortunate that despite paying the amount towards medical expenses, they are again forced to spend money for treatment in the absence of referral hospitals in their districts,” he added. Vijayan Parali, geneal secretary, National Ex-Servicemen Coordination Committee, said the delay in releasing due amounts by the ECHS, which had run to several crores, was also forcing hospitals to withdraw from the scheme. “Even if some hospitals decide to renew the contract, many smaller hospitals will be affected as there is a delay in payment from the ECHS and COVID-19 has further worsened the situation,” he added. He said that there were 16 referral hospitals in Kannur, but now there are just two in Thalassery, which were waiting for their contracts to get over. Mohan, who retired from the Navy, said that the Army hospital in Kannur did not have specialised treatment facilities. In the absence of referral hospitals, they were forced to approach other private hospitals for advanced treatment, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospitals-opt-out-of-ex-servicemen-scheme/article32408667.ece
21 August 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Case against doctors, mother of rape victim||Cases were registered on Thursday against a female gynaecologist who performed an abortion, a doctor who performed a scan and the girl's mother in the case of a 16-year-old girl who was raped and made pregnant by her father. The Neeleswaram police have included them in the existing case following the intervention of the district judge, who is the chairman of the Juvenile Justice Board and had sent a show cause notice for not filing a case against them. In the case involving eight accused, the police have already arrested six, while one of them is absconding. The gynaecologist, in her statement to the police, said that abortion was carried as the victim had arrived at the hospital with her parents and a young man, who introduced himself as her husband. The victim aborted the child on June 22. According to the police, the arrest was delayed as they had sought anticipatory bail in the High Court. Neeleswaram Station House Officer Manoj said that the doctors and the mother had been included in the existing case and charged under the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-doctors-mother-of-rape-victim/article32408666.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi ranked 372 in cleanliness survey||Kochi has been ranked 372 in cleanliness, from among 4,000 cities that were surveyed nationwide as part of Swachh Survekshan-2020 of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The report was released on Thursday. The city has, however, improved its position from 409 in 2019. Alappuzha at 152 and Thiruvananthapuram at 304 are in better positions. A senior official of the Kochi Corporation said the city had to do much to live up to its name as the Queen of Arabian Sea. “A host of complex issues, especially on the cleanliness front, plague the city, which remains a horribly unplanned one. It grew phenomenally during the past two decades, but at a severe cost to the environment and waterbodies around it. Relentless dumping of garbage and encroachments on waterbodies and public spaces have to be severely dealt with,” the official said. Despite constraints, the corporation has been trying its best to ensure scientific garbage removal, mainly through door-to-door collection. Huge amounts are also being spent on prompt ferrying of garbage to treatment sites. Still, many people continue to litter streets and haphazardly dump garbage on roads and footpaths, said Prathiba Ansari, chairperson of the corporation health standing committee. “Awareness campaigns against dumping garbage in public spaces and waterbodies was followed by maintaining vigil, including at night, near places which had over the years become garbage dumps. Violators, including people who came in cars and dumped waste, were fined Rs. 2,000 and above,” she added. Plastic waste disposal Plastic waste is yet another issue the city is struggling to cope with, Ms. Ansari said. “The civic agency, in tandem with NGOs, had readied reusable cloth bags that people could take to supermarkets, grocery shops, and hotels. There are shops selling such bags and reasonably priced jute bags. Still, most people rely on plastic bags for purchase. They seem unmindful of their own health. Similarly, e-waste is often disposed of carelessly. All these contribute to the shoddy state of affairs,” she observed. The lack of cleanliness at many locales, mainly low-lying areas and slums like in Mattancherry, continues to pose hygiene issues, sources said. Both members of the public and civic agencies must play their part in ensuring cleanliness of the city, said Nithin Mathews, a Kochi resident, who completed MBA from IIM-Indore. “Plastic menace is back with a bang, probably since government agencies are focused on containing the pandemic,” he added. Mr. Mathews spoke of how Indore, which has been given the top rank, gives the pride of place to cleanliness. “The motifs of Swatchh Bharat Abhiyaan dot public spaces in the entire city. So much so that IIM-Indore has garbage bins in three different colours, to segregate waste.” Ajith Sojan, an entrepreneur based at Kathrikadavu in the city, spoke of how government agencies must take a proactive lead in garbage management. “They must prioritise this as an issue and do consistent follow-up. This will inculcate good habits in people. There must also be consequences for misbehaviour, in the form of punitive measures like imposing fines,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-ranked-372-in-cleanliness-survey/article32408671.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||State makes great strides in local mapping||Kerala has reached a pre-eminent position in the creation of local maps for better planning in disaster mitigation, thanks to the progress made by Mapathon Keralam, a participatory mapping campaign, through the effective utilisation of the two-month-long lockdown in the State. The campaign launched by the Kerala Spatial Data Infrastructure (KSDI) under the Kerala State IT Mission (KSITM) in October last year peaked during the lockdown, thanks to the volunteer work of nearly 1,500 students from 100-odd engineering colleges across the State. “The objective of the campaign is to build a local repository of maps that will help the government and the larger Kerala society to better prepare themselves for facing and fighting natural disasters such as floods and ecological challenges like climate change,” said S. Chithra, Director, KSITM. Access to spatial data The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, 1992, of which India is a signatory, calls for public access to geographical spatial data. Thanks to the Mapathon Keralam campaign, the State has made significant progress, especially during this lockdown. The training in mapping given to interested engineering students prior to the lockdown and extensive online workshops during the period came in handy in making significant progress in building spatial data. River mapping “Over two lakh buildings and 25,000 km of river streams and roads were mapped by the end of the lockdown. In due course, we could map the water levels during the recent floods that will help in better preparations in the future,” said M. Arun, head of the Mapathon Kerala project, the KSDI. Plans are now afoot for village-level bifurcation of mapping through community validation. The mapping was facilitated by making available satellite imagery from OpenStreetMap, a global public repository of locally developed maps, and by providing access to rough maps available with the KSDI to selected volunteers who in turn cross-checked them with the satellite imagery. Village-level activity “We can sustain the campaign by building on the mapping capabilities of students and making it part of village-level activities conducted as part of the National Service Scheme. For instance, 1,000 NSS volunteers from A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technical University were mobilised. It also need not be limited to engineering students alone, but should include all interested students,” said Mr. Arun. Sustainability The sustainability of this model was on display during the lockdown period when students of TKM Engineering College, Kollam, met the demand of some COVID-19-related mapping by the Kollam district administration using a basic technical framework provided by the KSDI. The KSDI also plans to conduct self-learning online courses to build the capabilities of the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-makes-great-strides-in-local-mapping/article32408712.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant worker’s daughter wins first rank in MGU exam||The name Payal Kumari stood out when Mahatma Gandhi University released the list of toppers in the various undergraduate programmes on Thursday. Born into a migrant worker family from Bihar, Payal stunned many after she came first in the BA Archaeology and History (Model 2) examination as a student of Mar Thoma College for Women, Perumbavoor. Pramod Kumar, her father, who had left Gosaimadhi village in Sheikhpura district of Bihar in 2001, has been settled in Ernakulam since 2011 as a manual labourer. “This rank belongs to my father, who worked hard despite odds to see that my education was never disrupted. I am also thankful to my teachers, especially Bipin Sir of the History department for helping me sail through all challenges,” an elated Payal said in flawless Malayalam on Thursday. Pramod Kumar, who had to drop out of school after Class 8, made sure that his children received proper education. He is now employed at a paint shop in the city. Their rented home at Kangarappady houses Payal’s mother Bindu Devi, a homemaker, and siblings Akash Kumar and Pallavi Kumari. She had scored 83% marks in Class X and 95% in Plus Two as a student of Government Higher Secondary School, Edappally. Payal said that she would like to take up a postgraduate programme in Archaeology and History. “I have also plans to pursue Civil Services,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-workers-daughter-wins-first-rank-in-mgu-exam/article32408702.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||95% of cases in Ernakulam through local contact||Nearly 95% of those tested positive for COVID-19 in Ernakulam on Thursday contracted the infection through contact. As many as 150 persons were confirmed positive in the district on Thursday. Of them, 143 were infected through contact. The number of positive cases declined from 230 on Wednesday to 150 on Thursday. Those who tested positive on Thursday are from Aluva, Edappally, Edakochi, Edathala, Eroor, Elamakkara, Karukutty, Keezhmad, Kavalangad, Kuttampuzha, Kumbalam, Kottuvalli, Kothamangalam, Choornikkara, Chengamanad, Chellanam, Cheranalloor, Njarakkal, Thiruvankulam, Thrikkakara, Thoppumpady, Vennala, Palluruthy, Palarivattom, Pindimana, Fort Kochi, Perumbavoor, Mattancherry, Manjapra, Mazhuvannur, Mulavukad, Ramamangalam, Vengola, Vadavucode, Vyttila, South Vazhakulam, Angamaly, Rayamangalam, and Nellikuzhi. Four health workers were among those who contracted the virus through contact. A 65-year-old resident of South Aduvassery died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, on Thursday. His swab sample was sent to the National Institute of Virology in Alappuzha to confirm whether the death occurred due to the disease. Seven persons are critically ill at the intensive care unit of the hospital. They include four who are above the age of 70. A 35-year-old resident of Neendakara also remains critical. As many as 121 persons tested negative for the disease on Thursday,while 178 were admitted to various hospitals and first-line treatment centres. More than 400 persons received help under the tele-health helpline functioning at the COVID-19 control room in the district. Details about the services can be had from the District Control Room — phone - 0484 2368802/2368902/2368702. Restrictions on visitors The Health Department has recommended maximum restrictions on the entry of visitors to juvenile justice institutions in Ernakulam as part of containment measures against COVID-19. The authorities should collect contact details of those visiting the institutions. Visitors should interact with children after taking all necessary precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/95-of-cases-in-ernakulam-through-local-contact/article32408681.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC expresses concern over flaws in POCSO cases’ probe||Expressing concern over the lack of professionalism in police investigation in Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) cases, the Kerala High Court said on Thursday that it proposed to issue a few general guidelines relating to investigation and trial of cases to protect the victim from secondary victimisation and make justice delivery effective and meaningful. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar, while dealing with a POCSO case, observed that certain disturbing facts concerning the investigation and trial of the cases had come to the court’s notice. The court took note of the fundamental flaws in the investigation such as non-collection of legal evidence to prove the age of the victims for want of awareness of the relevance of such evidence. Uninformed officers The court also observed that the POCSO cases were being investigated by police personnel who were not informed of the right of the children or trained to deal with children and members of their family in a child-sensitive manner. Lack of professionalism was writ large in the investigation. The judge pointed out that the guidelines published by the State government in 2015 in this regard were not available in the public domain even now.In fact, lack of awareness of the guidelines among the stakeholders was adversely affecting the investigation and trial of the POCSO cases, the court added. The court also observed that lawyers were not engaged for the victims or the service of the lawyers had not been provided by the legal services authority as provided under the government guidelines. The court posted the case for to August 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-expresses-concern-over-flaws-in-pocso-cases-probe/article32408689.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kaviyoor case: CBI moves HC against further probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday approached the Kerala High Court challenging the Thiruvananthapuram CBI Special Court’s order rejecting an investigation report in the Kaviyoor case for a fourth time and directing it to conduct a further probe. The Kaviyoor case related to the death of a five-member family, including the parents and three children — two girls and a boy — at their home at Kaviyoor in Pathanamthitta district on September 28, 2004. It was revealed during the probe that one of the girls was sexually exploited before their death. The CBI pointed out that there was no scope for a further probe in the case. It said in the petition that the investigation had found that Latha Nair had abetted the suicide of Narayan Namboodiri and his family of five. The chargesheet was filed by the CBI against Latha Nair on November 29, 2005 for offences under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. It added that there was no scope for a further investigation on the same points already investigated and reported. Repeated orders for further investigations were an abuse of the court process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kaviyoor-case-cbi-moves-hc-against-further-probe/article32408710.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Siblings come together in the line of duty||T.K. Varghese, a 48-year-old newly promoted Assistant Sub Inspector, has hardly ever acted as a big brother to his sibling three years younger to him. Rather, they were more like friends who addressed each other by their names and did things together whether it was goofing around, playing, or watching movies. But on Tuesday, that relation took an unexpected, albeit pleasant, turn when Mr. Varghese stood ramrod straight and paid a salute to his younger brother T.K. Josey who happened to be the Station House Officer of the Chengamanad police station, where the former was transferred as part of promotion. “There was nothing odd in that, since the entire police force signifies a common brotherhood notwithstanding the hierarchy within. But, of course, it is a rarity for brothers to work together in the same station,” said Mr. Josey who himself was promoted and transferred from the District Crime Branch just five months ago. Growing up, the siblings were infatuated by the uniform and wanted nothing else but become policemen. While Mr. Varghese achieved that goal in 1998, his brother followed suit six years later. Initially, when the transfer was notified, Mr. Varghese was circumspect about joining the same station where his brother would be his reporting officer. But that was mostly born out of doubts over whether their relation would mar his equation with his other colleagues at the station. “Otherwise, I was only proud and happy to call him Sir and salute him. That professional association has little bearing on our personal relationship,” said Mr. Varghese who had helped with his brother’s quest to become a police officer. While the elder brother lives in their ancestral home at Kunjithai near Paravur, the younger one lives at Palarivattom, and their interactions are mostly limited to conversations over the phone owing to professional preoccupations. Thanks to quirk of fate, they now meet daily, and none is complaining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/siblings-come-together-in-the-line-of-duty/article32408674.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Misinformation on pandemic to invite action||The district administration will initiate stringent action against those behind the campaign that reports of spike in COVID-19 cases in Kothamangalam were fake. The authorities have learnt that certain vested interests were trying to spread false information by tagging the church row with containment zones declared in the region. The figures showed that the disease had spread considerably in Kothamangalam Municipality and nearby panchayats, with 19 wards reporting positive cases. At present, the number of positive cases in Kothamangalam Municipality alone is 56. As many as 162 persons figure in the primary contact category, while the number of secondary contacts is 267, according to official figures available with the Health Department. Action will be taken under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act against those trying to spread false information on the COVID-19 situation in Kothamangalam. COVID-19 positive cases have been reported from wards 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 14, 17, 18, 21, 22, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, and 30 in the municipality. Containment zones are being declared after preparing a list of positive cases and primary and secondary contacts in each ward. The recommendations of the Health Department will be examined by a committee comprising the District Collector, Sub Collector, Revenue Divisional Officer, and the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The data is validated using software before containment zones are declared, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/misinformation-on-pandemic-to-invite-action/article32408682.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Youngster stabbed by four-member gang||A youngster was allegedly stabbed by a four-member gang at Pathalam Junction near Eloor on Wednesday around 7.30 p.m. The victim, Prasanth, 24, of Pathalam, remains admitted at Specialist Hospital with deep, though not very critical, injuries to his thigh. According to the Eloor police, the victim was engaged in a chat at Pathalam Junction when the assailants on two motorcycles rushed in and attacked him. “Three of them pinned him down while the remaining one stabbed him with a knife. They then fled the scene, leaving the bleeding victim on the road,” the police said. Hunt on The attack is suspected to have been triggered by animosity between the victim and the assailants. A police hunt is on to track down all the four accused. Case registered The police have registered a case invoking IPC Sections 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous means), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youngster-stabbed-by-four-member-gang/article32408672.ece
21 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||All residents of destitute home recover||All residents of Karunalayam at Thrikkakara, a home for the elderly and destitute, affected by SARS-CoV-2 tested negative on Thursday. Fifty-one persons at the home, which was converted into a first-line treatment centre, were tested positive in the last week of July. District Collector S. Suhas said on Thursday that all the infected had recovered. An analysis of the infected people in the district revealed that 163 persons were aged above 60. Mr. Suhas urged those above 60 years not to venture out, especially for Onam purchase in view of the health risks. Nearly 65% of the total infected are in the asymptomatic category. As many as 150 of the cases are children below 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-residents-of-destitute-home-recover/article32408676.ece
21 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Reopen Cusat admission registration window’||The decision by the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) to do away with its Common Admission Test (CAT) for admissions to the new academic year and replace it with an admission process based on the marks in the qualifying exam in view of the COVID-19 crisis has prompted a section of the aspirants to place a request before the authorities. Some of the students had not applied for CAT as its initial schedule had coincided with the entrance for admission to the National Defence Academy. Several others had not applied based on the impression that they would not qualify as the admission was based on the performance in the entrance test alone. With the varsity deciding to cancel CAT for the new academic year in view of the COVID-19 situation, the students have requested the authorities to reopen the registration window for admission. “We had not applied for CAT as the entrance test for NDA was also scheduled on April 18. Our request is to give at least one day for registration so that we would get a chance to get admission in Cusat based on the marks that we have scored in the qualifying exam,” said a batch of students. However, Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan said it would be difficult to open the registration process again. Mr. Madhusoodanan said that a normalisation process, similar to the pattern followed for the State entrance test held by the Commissioner of Entrance Exams, would be carried out as part of the admission based on the marks in the qualifying exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reopen-cusat-admission-registration-window/article32408675.ece
21 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CDR for tower locations: govt.||The police are using call data records (CDR) of COVID-19 patients only to identify their tower location details and assist such persons in recollecting their activities/movements of the past few days to identify their primary and secondary contacts, a statement filed by the government in the High Court on Thursday said. The government said the CDR of only 14 days prior to the date on which a person had become positive was taken. It was filed in response to a public interest litigation filed by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. The statement filed by senior government pleader Suman Chakravarthy said the CDR was maintained confidentially.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cdr-for-tower-locations-govt/article32408690.ece
21 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Pandemic leaves bamboo sector in tatters||Chingam used to be a month of roaring sales for traditional bamboo workers in the State till last year, but the pandemic has left thousands of them, mostly women, in dire straits. The industry itself is reeling under an unprecedented challenge with difficulties in sourcing reed and marketing the products due to COVID-19-related restrictions. “We make household products such as reed baskets and winnowing boards, but the virus has left no marketing window open for us. Usually, our wares have high demand during the season of Pooram and Onam, but this year most festivals have been cancelled. We have been struggling for the past few months and it is nearly impossible for us to sell our products or procure raw material,” says Sreevally from Thrissur, a traditional bamboo worker. The bamboo industry in Kerala has a largely female workforce. The Kerala State Bamboo Corporation (KSBC) produces a range of value-added products and these women weave the reed mats ( panambu ) that are used for making plywood. “The pandemic has rendered the women, 70% of whom are over the age of 60, jobless. The staff strength of one of our units has fallen from 70 to 18, as elderly women are now not allowed to work. Since they can’t come due to the restrictions, our production has hit an all-time low and both parties have been affected,” says K.J. Jacob, chairman, KSBC. Another issue is scarcity of reed as the KSBC, the only body authorised to supply the raw material, could not harvest enough quantity to meet the demand. Shortage of material With restrictions on movement and some areas falling in containment zone, there has been a deep dip in the volume. “Our products are sold easily, but the shortage of raw material and manpower has brought the industry to a standstill. We could collect minimal reed during this season and this has been dispatched to traditional workers at different places,” adds Mr. Jacob. According to Santhosh Kumar N., secretary, Green Gold Society (GGS), a collective of bamboo workers, over one lakh persons across the State depend on the industry for their livelihood. “Apart from those who make bamboo wares and reed mats, there are several artisans who design handicrafts. But 90% of them are not registered workers and that leaves them outside all welfare schemes of the government,” he says. Most of the workers belong to underprivileged communities who rely upon on local markets and door-to-door sales. “They are the worst-hit section and their issues remain unaddressed,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-leaves-bamboo-sector-in-tatters/article32408706.ece
21 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Sakthikulangara harbour closed||Eighty-six persons from the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. While 79 patients contracted the virus through contact, two patients are NRIs, and three had travelled from Tamil Nadu. Two health workers too were infected. The recovery rate on Thursday was comparatively low at 30. The number of active cases at present is 752. Since several cases were reported from Sakthikulangara the district administration closed the harbour until further notice. The decision was taken after 14 persons, including fishers, working in the harbour tested positive. Pre-wedding event too The Health Department has also instructed all the persons who attended a wedding at Little Flower Church, Vellimon, on August 17 to go in self quarantine after four persons among the invitees tested positive. All those who attended the wedding and the pre-wedding function held on August 16 from 3 p.m. have been asked to contact the primary health centre. Kollam district currently has 9,169 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 39,092.  Two health workers While 518 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 9,969 primary and 2,580 secondary contacts of new cases.  Among the new COVID-19 cases reported on Thursday are two staff members of Ayalamon primary health centre. One patient is a 50-year-old Pullaniyode resident, and the other, a 46-year-old woman from Karukone. Apart from Kollam District Hospital and Government Medical College Hospital, five COVID-19 firstline treatment centres at Valakam, Sasthamcotta, Asramam, Vilakudy, and Veliyam are operating in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sakthikulangara-harbour-closed/article32408877.ece
21 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||124 positive cases in Kottayam||The number of COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to surge with 124 more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 114 people contracted the virus through contacts. Kottayam municipality, where 26 people were confirmed with virus infection, led the tally while the number of cases in various panchayats adjacent to the municipality including Panachikkad, Vijayapuram, Thiruvarpp, and Kumarakom too remained on the higher side. As per official records, 106 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam municipality over the past seven days. In Vijayapuram, where a rubber factory unit has been declared as an institutional cluster, 10 more persons were confirmed with virus infection. Panachikkad reported seven fresh cases. The clusters at Changanassery, Athirampuzha, Ettumanoor and Parathodu too remained active during the day. Meanwhile, the district administration here on Thursday declared the Cardinal Specialty Hospital for Mental Health as an institutional COVID cluster after 45 people including patients and employees here tested positive for virus infection. With 31 recoveries, the district currently has 940 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/124-positive-cases-in-kottayam/article32408880.ece
21 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Orthodox faction rules out discussion||Hours after the Jacobite faction announced its decision to cut off all ties with the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, the Orthodox faction clarified that it too did not intend to hold discussions on the issue any further. In a statement here on Thursday, Baselios Mar Thoma Poulose II, Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan, said there was no point in holding discussions with those who did not abide by the court order. Explaining that the Supreme Court had repeatedly upheld the constitution of the Church of 1934, he said that the Patriarch faction had already spoiled its chances to resolve the dispute by unilaterally withdrawing from the discussions held under the aegis of former judge V.S. Malimath. Charge against Jacobites Pointing out that it was the Patriarch faction that had approached the Supreme Court with a case, the Catholicos condemned their unwillingness to accept the court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orthodox-faction-rules-out-discussion/article32408714.ece
21 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||257 recoveries and 130 new cases in Kozhikode||The number of COVID-19 recoveries in Kozhikode district on Thursday was almost double the number of new infections when 257 people were cured and 130 others were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Two deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Thursday and late on Wednesday. The deceased are men aged 82 and 70 from Mavoor and Ambalakandi in the district. The body fluid samples of the man from Mavoor had been sent to the National Institute of Virology lab at Alappuzha for confirmation, said hospital sources. Of the new cases, 107 are through local transmission of the infection, nine had returned from abroad and four from other States. The source of infection of 10 people is not known. The number of active cases from the district stands at 1,122. In Malappuram Malappuram district registered 356 more COVID-19 cases on Thursday. While 337 of them contracted the infection though local contacts, the source of infection in 20 cases could not be traced. Nine health workers are among those who tested positive. Fifteen new patients came from abroad and four from other States. As many as 108 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday. As many as 2,656 persons are currently under treatment. In Palakkad Sixty-five persons tested positive in Palakkad on Thursday. The district also registered 91 recoveries. While 28 persons got the infection through local contacts, 11 came from other States, and 20 from abroad. The source of infection in six cases could not be identified. There 825 persons currently under treatment in the district. In Kannur In Kannur, 78 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. Of them, 63 contracted the virus through contact, while three arrived from abroad, nine from other States and three are health workers. With the number of local transmission cases rising, District Medical Officer K. Narayana Nayak has said that prevention activities have been intensified in Pariyaram, Kadannapally, Irikkur, Iritty and Taliparamba areas in clusters. Cases with unidentified sources were being reported in the district, and it should be taken seriously, he added. In Kasaragod Kasaragod reported 91 more confirmed cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. Of the affected, 82 contracted the disease through contact, two arrived from abroad and seven from other States. As many as 156 people tested negative after undergoing COVID treatment at hospitals. There are 4,936 people under observation. In Wayanad As many as 35 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday. Of them, 23 were infected through contact. While one person came from abroad, 11 came from other States. There were 24 recoverieson the day. So far, 1,245 cases have been reported from the district, of which 902 persons have recovered. The district administration has declared Wards 4, 6, 7 and 15 of Poothadi grama panchayat as containment zones. In Thrissur As many as 72 fresh cases and 35 recoveries were reported in Thrissur on Thursday. There are 720 active cases in the district. Of the new cases, 69 people were infected through contact. The source of infection in 19 cases is not known. Two health workers are among the positive cases.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Wayanad and Thrissur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/257-recoveries-and-130-new-cases-in-kozhikode/article32408664.ece
21 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||With COVID fears, Onam festivities may be low-key||Getting together with the extended family and dining together have been the highlights of Onam celebration for most Keralites in the past. But this year, they have been forced to think of Onam without the immediate presence of their dear ones due to the pandemic situation. Many families that had made it a norm to get together at their ancestral homes or at least meet up with elders on the occasion have dropped all plans this year. Keralites used to rush home from different parts of the world during the season. Safety concerns “It is not just the travel restrictions, we need to think about safety too,” said Kozhikode-based artist Ratnavalli, adding that she would miss her daughter and grandchildren who were in the U.S. during Onam. Many people plan to stay back at home and abstain from visiting elders for fear of being carriers of the infection. “They are too vulnerable. I can’t take the risk of them contracting the disease from me,” said Vijusha K.T., a bank employee. The much awaited Onasadya too would be low-key this year. “It is fun to cook the sadya with many people to help and chat with. Now I don’t feel like doing anything,” said Ms. Ratnavalli. With home delivery services in full swing, many were likely to order their sadya online, she added. Bidula P.B., an artisan, said she would miss the Onakkodi, the brand new clothes purchased for Onam. “We are scared to go to the textile shops in this situation. They must be too crowded,” she said. Ms. Ratnavalli spoke of the uselessness of purchasing new clothes. “Where do we go wearing new clothes? And there is no point buying something for the kids. They will outgrow it by the time we are out of this pandemic situation,” she said. Pookkalam  However, most people want to have at least a small pookkalam in front of their homes. “It does not hurt to maintain the bare minimum feel of Onam,” said Ms. Vijusha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-covid-fears-onam-festivities-may-be-low-key/article32408660.ece
21 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Junior nurses’ indefinite stir begins today||A day after the government issued an order to release the delayed salaries of junior doctors posted on COVID-19 duty, 375 junior nurses in government medical college hospitals have announced an indefinite strike from Friday in protest against the delay in addressing their demand to increase wages. In a release on Thursday, representatives of an association of junior nurses said their salaries were revised in 2016 from Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 13,900. However, staff nurses in government medical college hospitals who were doing the same job are getting Rs. 27,800.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/junior-nurses-indefinite-stir-begins-today/article32408709.ece
21 August 2020||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||119 new cases in Pathanamthitta||The district on Thursday reported its seventh COVID-19 fatality in the month with a 70-year-old man succumbing to SARS-CoV-2 at the District General Hospital. A native of Pramadam the person had been suffering from diabetes and hyper tension and died late on Thursday. With this, the total number of COVID-19-related deaths in the district rose to eight, taking the fatality rate of the pandemic in Pathanamthitta to 0.34%. The death has not been included in the State’s official death toll so far. Authorities have now intensified reverse quarantine measures for the elderly and children. The district also reported 119 new cases amidst an alarming rise in local contact cases. As many as 89 persons contracted the disease through local contact while 12 cases had landed from abroad. The remaining 18 persons were those who returned from other States. While 14 of the contact cases were linked to the Kadambanad cluster, the Kannamkad cluster reported ten cases. The cluster at Nellad reported six cases. Adding to the concern, the source of infection of at least 12 persons were yet to be traced. With 37 recoveries during the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 464 active cases and 9,075 persons under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/119-new-cases-in-pathanamthitta/article32408879.ece
21 August 2020||Staff Reporter Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SAY exams from Sept. 22||The higher secondary education (HSE), vocational higher secondary, technical higher secondary, art higher secondary, SSLC, THSLC, AHSLC, SSLC (Hearing Impaired), and THSLC (Hearing Impaired) SAY (Save a Year)/improvement examinations will begin on September 22. The notification for HSE is available on the website www.dhsekerala.gov.in. Vocational higher secondary students can get in touch with their schools to apply. Students who could not appear for the examinations held from May 26 owing to COVID-19 can register for the subjects they could not appear for.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/say-exams-from-sept-22/article32408695.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Centre seeks info on UAE aid||The Central government has sought documents relating to the receipt of aid from the UAE Red Crescent for the construction of 140 dwellings for landless and homeless families under the LIFE Mission at Wadakkanchery in Thrissur. The ‘unusual’ demand reportedly set off a flurry of activity in the Secretariat on Thursday, with the government seeking the files relating to the deal from the LIFE Mission urgently. The request also triggered rumours that the move might be the precursor to an anti-corruption or international money laundering inquiry by a Central agency. The government’s ambitious project to provide housing to the needy had come under a cloud after Swapna Suresh, second accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case, had reportedly stated in court that the Rs. 1 crore found by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in her bank locker was her percentage for channelling the UAE Red Crescent aid to a private builder for executing the Rs. 20-crore housing project in July 2019. Swapna’s statement was purportedly part of her defence against the ED charge that the “unaccounted money” was her share of the spoils from the illegal import of gold in air cargo consignments addressed to the UAE consulate here during the 2019-20 period. A news channel supportive of the CPI(M) claimed on Wednesday that the executor the LIFE Mission project, a private builder, had paid Rs. 4.3 crore in bribe to a UAE consulate official to bag the construction contract. On the defensive The revelations had, arguably, put the State government on the defensive. The Congress said corrupt bureaucrats and gold smugglers who controlled the Chief Minister’s Office had used an international charity, the LIFE Mission project and homeless families as a pretext to make money on the sly. A State government official said there were no legal ambiguities with regard to the LIFE Mission’s agreement with the UAE Red Crescent. The agreement clearly stated that the international charity, as the aid giver, had the freedom to contract a builder of its choice. The LIFE Mission had no say in the matter. He also revealed that an internal inquiry was on to find out whether there were any procedural or ethical lapses on the part of the administration. The probe would also examine if any entity involved in the deal had defrauded the government. If so, the administration would prosecute the erring officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-seeks-info-on-uae-aid/article32408692.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital registers 429 new cases||The COVID-19 caseload continued its rapid march in the district with 429 people testing positive for the infection on Thursday. The district’s death toll also witnessed a massive jump with eight deaths confirmed to have been due to the disease. The deceased included a 44-year-old Vellamunadi native, an 84-year-old native of Navarangam Lane at Medical College, a 73-year-old Kowdiar native, and a 69-year-old Vallakkadavu native, all deaths on August 14; a 48-year-old Vettoor native who died on August 15; and a 58-year-old Neyyattinkara native, a 75-year-old woman from Puthukurichy, and a 72-year-old Poojappura native, all deaths on August 16. Unknown source As many as 415 people, including 21 health workers, contracted the infection through local transmission. Bringing relief, 230 people recovered from the disease. Fourteen cases without known sources of infection were reported from Muriyankara in Parassala, Poovachal, Sreevaraham, Thoppumukku, near Vattiyurkavu, Attingal, Pangode, Marayamuttom, Karakkamandapam, Pallichal, and Amaravila. New cases continued to emerge along the coastal belt. The affected places include Vallakkadavu (16), Poonthura (15), Valiyathura (9), Poovar (4), and Pulluvila, Puthenthope, and Anjuthengu (3 each). Several cases were recorded in clusters in Parassala, Kattakada, Balaramapuram, and Neyyar dam. Thiruvananthapuram Rural Narcotic Cell Dy.SP Dinaraj and District Crime Records Bureau Dy.SP Vijayakumar have been designated special officers at Parassala and Vellarada respectively to coordinate containment efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-registers-429-new-cases/article32408753.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Closed spaces hasten virus spread: study||A study conducted by CAPSULE (Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics), an initiative of the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP), on the nature of spread of COVID-19 in Kalady ward in the capital district has found that a majority of the cases were asymptomatic and that much of the spread had happened in closed spaces, mainly at houses. The study was conducted between August 8 and 14 among 38 of a total of 55 who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the ward. Out of the 38 people, only 13 displayed any kind of symptoms. The virus was detected in the rest of them when they were tested owing to concerns of having come in contact with those who tested positive. In three houses, all members tested positive, while in four other houses, all except one member tested positive. In four houses, only one person tested positive and no one else got it through contact. Ventilation is key “The one major difference we noted between the houses where virus spread took place with the ones where it did not is that in the former, most of the windows and doors were kept closed through the day. We have seen that one of the major sources of spread is aerosol transmission. When windows are kept open, the air inside the house is constantly circulated and replaced. This probably reduces the chance of spread from an affected person. This also might explain why the spread has been less even when people have come together in considerable numbers in open spaces,” said U. Nandakumar, chairman of CAPSULE. He said this pointed towards the importance of maintaining vigilance even inside homes, by keeping it ventilated and maintaining distance from senior citizens and having separate chairs for them. Usage of masks could become necessary sometimes inside the home too, as youngsters moved more frequently outdoors, after the lifting of the lockdown. “We have done this study in a considerably small area where one of the major clusters in the capital district was first detected. If the State government can carry out similar studies in larger areas, we could probably learn some more lessons about preventing the virus spread,” said M.P. Anilkumar, convener, CAPSULE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/closed-spaces-hasten-virus-spread-study/article32408759.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dip in road accidents, fatalities last month||A 45% dip in road accidents and 44.2% reduction in fatalities were reported in July 2020 in the State compared to the same period last year. While 3,239 road accidents occurred in July 2019, only 1,782 were reported last month in the State. Deaths in road accidents came down from 292 in July 2019 to 163 in July 2020. “The lockdown owing to the pandemic, lesser movement of motor vehicles, and presence of law enforcers on the road for checking are the reasons,” N. Shanker Reddy, Road Safety Commissioner, Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA), said. Data sourced by the State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) show the highest of 215 road accidents last month occurred in Thiruvananthapuram district. Ernakulam with 214 accidents, Thrissur 209, Kollam 171, and Alappuzha 157 follow. In July 2019, the road accidents reported in Thiruvananthapuram were 413 while Ernakulam had 493, Thrissur 388, Kollam 236, and Alappuzha 286. The highest variation of 58.9% has been observed in Wayanad where road accidents dipped from 56 in July 2019 to 23 in July 2020. Although 13 districts show a declining trend in road accidents and fatalities last month, Kottayam district showed an increase of 66.7% in July 2020. “This is a disturbing trend for law enforcers and needs to be looked into,” Mr. Reddy told The Hindu . The highest of 84.6% variation in road fatalities was in Thrissur district where the deaths came down from 26 in July 2019 to four in July 2020. Kasaragod and Wayanad districts have a variation of 80% each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-road-accidents-fatalities-last-month/article32408708.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online film festival gets under way today||The eight-day Docuscape Online Film Festival organised by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy will begin on Friday. Twenty-nine films will be screened online over eight days, the organisers said. Minister for Cultural Affairs A.K. Balan will inaugurate the festival online at 4 p.m. onwww.idsffk.in.    Amina directed by Turkish filmmaker Kivilcim Akay, which tells the story of an African immigrant woman in Turkey, is the opening film. The live streaming of the inauguration will be available on facebook/iffklive. Four films will be screened in the campus section and six in the animation films category.    That Cloud Never Left by Yashaswini Raghunandan will be the closing film. Every day, the scheduled films will run for 24 hours starting at 4 p.m. onwww.idsffk.in. A live discussion ‘In Conversation’ featuring filmmakers will be held at 4 p.m. on all days. Registered delegates can participate in the festival through the websitewww.idsffk.inor by downloading the IFFK Mobile app via Google Play Store. Free registration For free registration, visitwww.idsffk.in. Four films that received the award for the best campus film in the previous editions of the IDSFFK will be screened on August 23. They include Rooms by Sangeet Unni; Ida by Gokul R. Nadh and Orukkam by Sankar G. and Prathichaya by Gayathri Sasiprakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-film-festival-gets-under-way-today/article32408756.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Death at police station: CB collects evidence||The special investigation team of the Crime Branch (CB) tasked with probing the unnatural death of a person at the Fort police station collected evidence from the premises on Thursday. The team led by A. Shanavas, SP, Crime Branch, Thiruvananthapuram unit, and the investigation officer Dy.SP K. Harikrishnan collected evidence from the child-friendly Janamaithri Kendram building where 38-year-old Ansari of Karimadom Colony allegedly committed suicide shortly after he was taken into custody in connection with an alleged theft case. Sasikala K., a professor of the Forensic Medicine Department of the Government Medical College Hospital, who had led the post-mortem examination, was also part of the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-at-police-station-cb-collects-evidence/article32408754.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pilgrim amenity centre for Beemapally||Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran on Thursday laid the foundation stone for a Rs. 2.06-crore pilgrim amenity centre to be built by the Tourism Department at Beemapally. Though the government had constructed a relaxation centre in the Beemapally Jamaat compound, it had not met pilgrims’ needs. The two-storey centre will have lobby, dining hall, toilets, rooms, and dormitory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pilgrim-amenity-centre-for-beemapally/article32408748.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fine imposed for waste dumping||The city Corporation has fined people for dumping waste at its waste processing plants at night. The Corporation’s health squad caught and fined people for dumping waste at night at its biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste processing plants in Kanaka Nagar, YMR, and Kuravankonam under the Nanthancode health circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fine-imposed-for-waste-dumping/article32408745.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nine more containment zones||The district administration has declared nine more areas as containment zones. Kadakkavoor in Kadakkavoor panchayat, Chavadi in Kunnathukal panchayat, Kunnanad in Ottasekharamangalam panchayat, Pallivetta in Aryanad panchayat, Kazhiyoor and Lourdepuram in Kanjiramkulam panchayat, Parakunnu and Thazhevettiyara in Navayikulam panchayat have been declared as containment zones. In the Corporation limits, Sivaji Lane and Rajiv Gandhi Lane in Muttathara ward have been declared containment zones by District Collector Navjot Khosa. Harvipuram Colony in the Kudappanakkunnu division is off the containment zone list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nine-more-containment-zones/article32408749.ece
21 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Treatment for pregnant COVID patients||Dedicated treatment facilities have been set up for pregnant women testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. District Medical Officer K.S. Shinu said COVID patients in seventh month of pregnancy or earlier will be treated at the ESI Hospital in Peroorkada. Those in the seventh month of pregnancy and beyond will be treated at the Government Ayurveda College Hospital for Women and Children at Poojappura till delivery. SAT Hospital will also function full-fledged. Pregnant women, who have not contracted the infection, will be able to use the other hospitals in the district. Those hailing from containment zones and belonging to primary contact lists of COVID-19 patients will be required to undergo tests under the directives of health workers prior to seeking medical assistance in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treatment-for-pregnant-covid-patients/article32408755.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Returning officers for local body polls posted||The State Election Commission has appointed 1,246 returning officers and 1,311 assistant returning officers for the local body elections slated to be held later this year. The training for the officials will be held in September, a pressnote quoting State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/returning-officers-for-local-body-polls-posted/article32408699.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ganeshotsav celebrations from today||The Ganeshotsav celebrations organised by the Ganeshotsav Trust Committee will get under way here on Friday. The 10-day pujas have been reduced to three this year in the wake of COVID-19. The idols for the pujas will only be up to 6-ft tall this year, unlike the massive ones in the years earlier. Pujas will be held in households. The idol immersion will be held on Sunday in line with the COVID-19 protocol. Cultural meeting and procession held in connection with the immersion has been avoided this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganeshotsav-celebrations-from-today/article32408746.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A shadow of the past||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-shadow-of-the-past/article32408669.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Checking for virus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/checking-for-virus/article32408704.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wave of anger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wave-of-anger/article32408763.ece
21 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight of 12 gates lifted at Srisailam||The flood in river Krishna increased enormously with inflows touching 4,17,582 cusecs at 8 p.m. on Thursday and the engineers lifted eight out of the 12 gates, releasing 4,80,921 cusecs into the river at 8.30 p.m. A large number of people gathered near the dam to have a look at the water gushing out of the crest gates and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to visit the Srisailam Dam on Friday. With the Central Water Commission forecasting similar inflows for the next 24 hours, the dam engineers will continue to release water from the crest gates into the spillway keeping a small cushion for heavy inflows. Currently, while Sunkesula was discharging 93,269 cusecs with Tungabhadra Dam also releasing 17,600 cusecs water into the river, Jurala was discharging 3.49 lakh cusecs with a cumulative outflow of 4.43 lakh cusecs. Meeting Meanwhile, the Irrigation Advisory Board Meeting of the Tungabhadra Ayacut will be held before August 30 and water released for drinking purposes and nursery/transplantation of paddy under High-Level Main Canal (HLC) and Guntakal Branch Canal, HLC Superintending Engineer N. Rajasekhar said in a release. Kurnool District IAB meeting was held on August 14 and decisions were conveyed by the District Collector on Wednesday asking farmers to go for only Irrigated Dry Crops under the KC Canal and HNSS ayacut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-of-12-gates-lifted-at-srisailam/article32409196.ece
21 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID care centre works stop midway||The work on the temporary 1,500-bed Raminepalli COVID Care Centre being set up at a shed belonging to Andhra Pradesh Warehousing Corporation has been stalled. The facility was scheduled to be commissioned by August 15. The shed was designed for storing 20,000 tonnes of rice and 99% of the works were over. In the wake of sharp spike in the coronavirus cases, the authorities decided to convert it into a COVID care centre last month. The works began on a war-footing. Channels were chiseled on the new concrete floor of the shed, power cables were drawn, electricity wiring and sewage lines were completed. Close to 60 washbasins were fixed and cabins constructed for doctors and paramedical staff. The construction of toilets was on the progress. However, the contractors reportedly stopped the works some eight days ago. During a review meeting chaired by Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and his finance counterpart Buggana Rajendranath recently, the officials had promised that the facility would be ready for use very soon. However, Rapthadu MLA Thopudurthi Prakash Reddy had requested the Ministers to accord financial sanction for the Rs. 7.5-crore project. On Thursday, when The Hindu tried to ascertain the progress of the works that began nearly two weeks ago, the premises was found locked. The original godown construction contractors were found doing some minor works such as fixing glass panes and painting the walls. Dhanunjaya, a sub-contractor who had constructed the sumps for toilets by engaging 25 people daily, was waiting for money to be paid to the labourers. TDP leader cries foul Meanwhile, TDP leader Kalava Srinivasulu termed the delay as the ‘breach of public trust’ by the government. “The district reports around 1,000 COVID19 positive cases daily as the cumulative tally has gone beyond the 30,000-mark. At a time when people are suffering from lack of quality healthcare, a COVID care facility would have come handy. The centre should have been ready by now,” he said. He said that YSRCP MP V. Vijayasai Reddy tweeted last month ‘taunting the TDP leaders to find Raminepalli on the Google Maps and look for the 1,500-bed COVID-19 care centre’. “Now, he should come here and show us where the facility really is,” he added. The authorities were not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-care-centre-works-stop-midway/article32409209.ece
21 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai trust opens COVID-19 hospital||Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust opened a COVID-19 hospital at Puttaparthi on Thursday. The facility has 130 beds including five in ICU and five others with ventilator support. The remaining are equipped with oxygen supply facility, for which the State government had given financial support. Managing Trustee Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust R.J. Rathnakar, along with Special officer for COVID relief Chinta Chaitanya Kumar Reddy; Neelam Desai, Head of the Department of Cardiology, and other doctors of Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences (SSSIHMS), participated in the inaugural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sathya-sai-trust-opens-covid-19-hospital/article32408607.ece
21 August 2020||DOWLESWARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Floods displace them from their habitat||As the flood waters in the Godavari reached danger levels by Wednesday, the authorities had to discharge more than 22 lakh cusecs, the highest in six years, from the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram. This led to inundation of nearly 20 tiny habitats of the ‘Near Threatened’ blackbuck (Antilope cervicapra) and deer downstream of the barrage, forcing the animals to enter the human habitations and escape from the immediate threat to their lives. By Thursday evening, the discharge at the barrage was more than 14 lakh cusecs. As a result, the habitats were still under a sheet of water. The sand dunes with grasslands downstream of the barrage are the prime habitats of blackbuck, which is also sighted in the sand dunes on the islands of the branches of the Godavari. One blackbuck and two deer have managed to swim and reach the human habitations since Tuesday. The Forest Department rescued two female deer at Potti Lanka and the Vanapalli areas in East Godavari district. In an another rescue operation by the Wildlife wing, a male blackbuck was rescued near Potti Lanka. “The three animals have entered the human habitations as their habitats are under water. Fortunately, the local residents have taken good care of them,” in-charge Forest Range Officer (Rampa Wildlife) K.V.S. Raghava Rao told The Hindu . Pat for locals Forest Range Officer (Territorial - Kakinada) L. Dhan Raj said, “We have received a call to rescue another deer in an island village, where locals are taking care of it. We will attend as early as possible.” “All the three animals have been treated by the designated veterinarian and released into the Navaravanam Reserve Forest,” said Mr. Raghava Rao. The Forest Department has deployed two teams, each tasked with tracing the movements of the two species in the island villages. “The deer and the blackbuck will return to their habitations once the flood waters recede. However, change in the habitat is not advisable for the deer as it is a timid and sensitive species,” added Mr. Raghava Rao. Authorities of the Rajamahendravaram Wildlife Management Division have appealed to the Police Department to alert them immediately on the local communities sighting the wildlife till normalcy is restored in the island areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/floods-displace-them-from-their-habitat/article32409199.ece
21 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy flood threat keeps officials on toes||The two districts of Krishna and Guntur are bracing to meet any exigency as there is a threat of severe flood in the coming week with irrigation engineers expecting the Prakasam Barrage to receive inflows measuring two lakh cusecs by August 23. The discharge could go up in the days to come. Alert has been sounded in the two districts and the departments concerned are preparing themselves for any emergency situation. With most parts of Northern Karnataka receiving heavy rainfall and most reservoirs upstream filling to the brim, there are chances that the discharges could go up. In September 2019, a massive discharge of eight lakh cusecs from the Prakasam Barrage resulted in inundation of low-lying areas in Krishna and Guntur districts. With heavy discharges from the Srisailam reservoir (3.29 lakh cusecs), the Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir is filled to the brim. The current water level at Nagarjuna Sagar is 575.50 feet as against the Full Reservoir Level of 590 feet and with the inflows reaching 1.69 lakh cusecs, the 26 crest gates at Nagarjuna Sagar may be lifted on Friday. The inflows could increase up to three lakh cusecs by Friday evening, according to irrigation engineers. Telangana irrigation engineers have hinted that crest gates at Sagar could be lifted on Friday morning and the irrigation engineers in A.P. have started taking contingency measures.  Inflows to Pulichintala The Pulichintala balancing reservoir is also receiving good inflows and the current water level stands at 152.46 feet and the capacity has touched 17.70 TMC as against 45.77 TMC. Since the storage at Prakasam Barrage is minimal at just 3.05 TMC, there could be a massive discharge from the barrage in the coming week. Guntur District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar on Thursday convened a meeting on the flood situation and asked all the line departments to be ready to face any emergency situation. He asked the irrigation, electricity, revenue and police departments to work with complete coordination and move people in low-lying areas to safety. Villages in the revenue divisions of Gurazala, Tenali and Narsaraopet were prone to flooding, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-flood-threat-keeps-officials-on-toes/article32408306.ece
21 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP CID bags tech award||The Crime Investigation Department of the Andhra Pradesh Police has bagged the Digital Technology Sabha Award for August 2020. The award has been given for the development of a portal ‘4S4U’, to enable citizens register complaints to the CID. The project was conceived by Additional Director-General, AP CID, P.V. Sunil Kumar. The award will be given at Digital Sabha Virtual Conference to be held during August 26-28, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4s4u-brings-award-for-cid/article32408305.ece
21 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restrictions on Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has issued orders prohibiting Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations in public placesin the district. He issued orders on Thursday and said that the orders were in line with the guidelines issued by the State government under G.O Rt No 274 by the Health and Family Welfare Department. In temples, the managements are to follow standard operating procedures, according to the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restrictions-on-vinayaka-chavithi-celebrations/article32408307.ece
21 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Artisans staring at rows of unsold idols||Chagollu in Prakasam district used to be abuzz with activity as devotees from different parts of south-coastal Andhra Pradesh thronged the village to return with attractive Ganesh idols for the Vinayaka Chavithi festival. This year, however, is different. Only a handful of customers have turned up at the village, located close to the Chennai-Kolkata highway, as celebrations are going to be low-key this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Skilled artistans from Rajasthan, West Bengal and other States have been camping here since December with gigantic idols in store to woo pandal organisers who look for attractive new models of idols every year. “We had lined up rows of idols well before the nationwide lockdown was clamped,” says T. Hemaram, who is clueless on how to go about selling the idols that were made at an investment of over Rs. 10 lakh. “Coronavirus has hit our business hard this year,” lamented the artisan in a conversation with The Hindu while overseeing the finishing works on some of the idols. Around 50 to 60 families come all the way from Jaipur to make exquisite idols by engaging 20 to 30 artisans every year. “This year, we have not received orders for big idols,” said a workshop owner K. Srinivasa Rao. Moreover, the cost of all the raw material, including paints and plaster of paris (POP), had gone up by 15% compared to last year’s prices. Adding to their woes is the health hazard now. Now, the artisans have started making smaller idols of one to two feet, hoping that the authorities will permit their sale as they will be used only by families and residential complexes. “We burnt the midnight oil to make the idols, but we have no option but to incur losses this year,” said Shantharam, another artisan. Police sound caution Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal cautioned pandal organisers not to go for large-scale celebrations as the Disaster Management Act is in force. “Reasonable restrictions will be imposed as any big gathering may cause the spread of the virus,” he said. Elaborate guidelines will be issued on the eve of the festival in the interest of public health. Gatherings of not more than five people will be allowed, that too when all precautions like wearing face masks and cleaning hands with hand sanitiser and social distancing are followed, Mr. Kaushal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/artisans-staring-at-rows-of-unsold-idols/article32409213.ece
21 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole adjudged 3rd cleanest city in State||Ongole has been adjudged the third cleanest city in the State. With a score of 3782.7, the city is in the 57th position in the ‘Swachh Survekshan 2020’, after Tirupati and Rajamahendravaram in the category of cities with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh.  Tirupati tops the chart Tirupati and Rajamahendravaram have secured the first and second places respectively in this category. The results of the survey were announced on Thursday. Expressing happiness on the better rank, Municipal Commissioner P. Niranjan Reddy attributed the success to the combined efforts of all sections of the society. He promised to initiate all measures ti improve the ranking further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-adjudged-3rd-cleanest-city-in-state/article32409189.ece
21 August 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Alert sounded as flood level in the Godavari increases again||Within a few hours of the Central Water Commission (CWC) withdrawing a third warning, flood waters in the Godavari began increasing on Thursday, causing heightened concern to people. The second warning was issued as the water level crossed 48 feet, and the water level may touch the third warning level, officials cautioned. At 6 p.m., water level was recorded at 50.3 feet, and the flood level was rising as rivers and rivulets were in spate upstream. “As there is heavy rainfall prediction in the catchment areas and huge inflows into Godavari, Sabari and Tammileru rivers, water level may increase,” CWC officials said. The water level at Kunavaram, Koida, Coffer Dam, Polavaram, Old Railway Bridge at Rajamahendravaram, and Sir Arthur Cotton Bridge at Dowleswaram, was rising. The West and East Godavari district administrations alerted the officers deployed on flood duty to evacuate people residing along the river bank and in low-lying areas All steps should be taken to prevent loss of human and animal lives, the officials said. Collectors of both the districts directed officers to continue managing rehabilitation centres and supply quality food to the flood affected people. Instructions had been given to evacuate the people staying in thatched and mud huts, said Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana. “We are shifting the tribal people staying on the river bank and in the low lying areas to rehabilitation centres,” the Sub-Collector told The Hindu on Thursday. Police, Revenue, ITDA, Irrigation and Medical and Health, AP Transco, RWS, SDRF and NDRF were pressed into service, Mr. Suryanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alert-sounded-as-godavari-levels-rise/article32408232.ece
21 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP will never forget Naidu’s betrayal: Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Thursday alleged that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu had tried to defame Narendra Modi when he was the Chief Minister of Gujarat. “Mr. Naidu had insisted on Mr. Modi’s resignation, holding him responsible for the Gujarat riots though he tried to protect the law and order situation in the State,” Mr. Veerraju alleged. Earlier, Mr. Veerraju was accorded a rousing reception on his maiden visit to Srikakuam after assuming the new role in the party. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Veerraju, referring to the phone-tapping allegations, said that Mr. Naidu was trying to drag the Union government into the row. “The BJP will never forget Mr. Naidu’s betrayal,” he added. BJP district president A. Ravibabji was among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-will-never-forget-naidus-betrayal-somu/article32409214.ece
21 August 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||People advised to stay put in rehabilitation centres||Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and district in-charge and I&PR Minister P. Venkataramaiah visited the flood-ravaged habitations in the Agency areas in West Godavari district on Thursday. The Ministers, along with Eluru MP K. Sridhar, Polavaram MLA T. Balaraju, Collector R. Mutyala Raju, Joint Collector K. Venkataramana Reddy, and ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana visited Rudramkota, Tarakurugommu, Polavaram and Velerupadu villages. They interacted with the tribal people and the officers deputed on flood duty, and enquired about the situation. “As the flood is rising in the Godavari again, people staying in the low-lying areas are requested to stay put in the rehabilitation centres,” Mr. Srinivas said. The Ministers enquired with the Collector and the ITDA Project Officer about the facilities being provided in the rehabilitation centres. “The government is supplying rice, dal, oil and other essential items to the affected people,” Mr. Srinivas said. ‘CM monitoring situation’ “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is personally monitoring the situation. He has directed that all measures be taken to prevent human loss,” said Mr. Venkataramaiah. He appreciated the officers and staff for rendering round-the-clock service in the flood-ravaged villages. The Ministers waded through the flood water and visited the damaged houses at Rudramkota and Velerupadu. Later, they tasted the food at the rehabilitation centre arranged in the Velerupadu Tribal Welfare Girls Hostel. Jangareddygudem RDO Y.N. Prasanna Lakshmi, Polavaram DSP M. Venkateshwara Rao, MRO Nazeemullah Shah, Velerupadu MRO Ramesh and officers of other departments accompanied the Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-advised-to-stay-put-in-rehabilitation-centres/article32409202.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hotel fire: Rs. 1 lakh for info about accused||Police Commissioner Bathina Srinivasulu has said that search is on to nab the accused in the fire mishap at the COVID Care Centre of Ramesh Hospitals and those who give information about the absconding persons will be given a reward of Rs. 1 lakh. “Police are doing investigation in a professional manner. We don't want suggestions from anybody. Probe in the case is going on impartiality,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. Ten persons died and 21 others suffered injuries when fire broke out in Hotel Swarna Palace, which was taken on lease for running COVID Care Centre by Ramesh Hospitals, on August 9. Speaking to the media here on Thursday, the Police Commissioner said neither the family members nor the hospital and hotel management were cooperating with the police for investigation. Had the Ramesh Hospitals management responded immediately, deaths would have been prevented. The hospital staff acted 'inhumanly' and 'irresponsibly' after the mishap, the Police Commissioner said. “There was no fire NOC, permission for the COVID Hospital and the Ramesh Hospitals management collected excess fee from the patients,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. Out of ten victims, eight were tested COVID negative, and only two out of 20 injured patients were tested positive, he said. Three held Police arrested three hospital staff members in the case and special teams were searching for Dr. Ramesh, Muthavarapu Srinivas (Hotel Swarna Palace owner) and other accused in Chennai, Hyderabad and other cities in Andhra Pradesh and neighbouring States. The hospital management did not hand over the MoU copy to the investigation officers. Police served notices on many persons in the case so far, the Police Commissioner said. “We questioned a few patients and the Ramesh Hospitals doctors, administrative staff and those of hotel management are at large. Police will serve notices on more suspects and grill them,” the Police Commissioner who is monitoring the investigation case said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hotel-fire-rs-1-lakh-for-info-about-accused/article32409207.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan sees need for making tourism policy investor-friendy||Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday launched the Andhra Pradesh Tourism online trade reservation web portal. Later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the tourism scenario in the State and made suggestions to the officials on additions and deletions in the draft new tourism policy after discussing key components. He said the tourism policy should be an investor-friendly one that can attract people interested in putting their money in the State to create infrastructure facilities and set up projects. Training in hospitality Referring to the picturesque locations that the State was gifted with, the Chief Minister directed the officials to create world-class infrastructure facilities in the Araku region of Visakhapatnam district. He also suggested establishment of an institution offering training in hospitality management that could guarantee placement to the students passing out of it. The Chief Minister stressed on the need for accountability and transparency in utilisation of the government funds and urged the officials to focus on completion of the projects that had to be stalled abruptly. He asked the officials to rope in prominent companies in the hospitality sector to create facilities and said 12 places in the State would get 7-star hotels. Mr. Jagan wanted the department to explore the existing opportunities to groom the State on par with the ones like Rajasthan. ‘Concessions likely’ Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said it was decided to open all tourist destinations to the visitors in strict adherence to COVID-19 norms. He said the department would focus on eco-tourism and temple tourism. The Minister said the CM had responded favourably to a plea for concessions in view of the huge losses incurred by the hotels and resorts run by the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-sees-need-for-making-tourism-policy-investor-friendy/article32409204.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing programme steeped in corruption, alleges Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has appealed to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney to order an inquiry into the lands acquired for the housing programme for the poor. In a letter addressed to Ms. Sawhney on Thursday, Mr. Naidu alleged that the entire exercise had turned out to be a big scam. The government had bought marshlands, wetlands, mangroves, and other forest lands illegally, which were not suitable for the housing purpose, Mr. Naidu alleged in the letter. Besides entailing huge expenditure, acquisition of such lands was against environmental norms, he observed. Alleging large-scale corruption in the programme, Mr. Naidu said such lands were acquired in the Assembly constituencies such as Tenali, Vinukonda, Kavali, Palacole, Pendurty, Chowdavaram, Addanki and Penamaluru. Lands unsuitable for housing was acquired at a cost higher than the normal, he alleged. Approximately 600 acres of marshland was acquired at Burugupudi village of Korukonda mandal in Rajanagaram Assembly constituency in East Godavari district, he alleged. Lands were acquired by shelling out Rs. 45 lakh per acre. Further, the amount required to fill the marshlands with earthen soil was another Rs. 250 crore, he said. “It appears that the ‘housing for the poor’ has been designed to abet corruption. It appears that the ruling party leaders have swindled lot of money,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/housing-programme-steeped-in-corruption-alleges-naidu/article32408615.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. ropes in more firms to implement YSR Cheyutha||As part of implementation of the YSR Cheyutha scheme, the government has forged partnerships with Reliance Retail, Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited and Allana Group. These partnerships are intended to provide a conducive business environment with end-to-end solutions, comprising capital support, market linkages, skill enhancement, and technical support, to ensure sustainable income for women. The MoUs were signed in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy and S. Appala Raju, among others. The government had already roped in AMUL, HUL, ITC and P&G for supporting the YSR Cheyutha beneficiaries in the dairy and retail businesses, an official release said. Under YSR Cheyutha, a financial assistance of Rs. 18,750 will be given to 25 lakh women aged between 45 and 60 and hailing from the SC, ST and BC communities, for the next four years. The scheme was launched by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy on August 12. JioMart Kirana Stores Reliance Retail will support the women doing groceries business by setting up ‘JioMart Kirana Stores’, which will be digitally equipped and act as online stores. The tie-up with Reliance Jio Infocomm is for the establishment of a direct linkage between the government and beneficiaries for seamless implementation and monitoring. Livestock rearing Allana Group will help the beneficiaries in rearing buffaloes, sheep, and goats, and provide technical support in livestock rearing practices. It will also provide assistance to the women entrepreneurs in establishing feed units and retail sale of hygienic meat. Reliance Retail MD V. Subramaniam, CEO Damodar Mall, Allana Group promoter Irfan Allana and other senior executives spoke to the Chief Minister through a video-conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-ropes-in-more-firms-to-implement-ysr-cheyutha/article32408341.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to curb sale of illicitly distilled liquor||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Excise and Commercial Taxes K. Narayana Swamy on Thursday directed the officials of the Excise Department to engage the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) to effectively curb sale of illicit liquor and country arrack. The Minister held review meetings with the officials of the Excise and the Commercial Taxes Department. Referring to the cases of the people who are unable to buy liquor resorting to consuming sanitiser, he asked the officials to take up an awareness drive to propagate the harms of consuming sanitiser. He also wanted the officials to coordinate with their counterparts in the border States and initiate effective measures to control the menace of illicit transport of liquor and arrack. He said the department staff should also keep an eye on the sale of black jaggery used in manufacture of arrack. Addressing the officials of the Commercial Taxes wing, he wanted them to keep a constant vigil on ‘zero bill’ trade transactions and initiate effective measures to end the practice. He also wanted them to focus on collection of professional tax and recovery of old arrears and said the GST revenue collection had dwindled due to the COVID-19 pandemic effect. Special Chief Secretary, Revenue, Rajat Bhargav, Commissioner, Department of Commercial Taxes, Peeyush Kumar, SEB Commissioner Vineet Brijlal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/step-up-efforts-to-curb-sale-of-illicit-liquor-officials-told/article32408308.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mekapati lays stress on ‘remote work’ culture||Minister for Industries and Commerce and Skill Development Mekapati Goutham Reddy has stressed the growing need to work remotely from enterprises and offices and suggested that a pilot project be undertaken in 300 MSMEs in order to scale it up later depending on the feedback. In a video-conference with the government officials concerned and experts from the Indian School of Business (ISB) on promoting 'remote work' culture on Thursday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said a region-wise mapping of the industries and the employees should be done to achieve better understanding of the skills pattern thereby make targeted interventions. The mapping would basically give an idea about the types of industries located in various places. Chief Minister wanted top priority to be given to the enhancement of skills, accordingly no stone should be left unturned to get the desired outcome, Mr. Goutham Reddy said and told Special Chief Secretary (Skills & Training) G. Anantha Ramu to look into the possibility of setting up a Centre of Excellence in Operations Management. Director of Industries J.V.N. Subramanyam, AP State Skill Development Corporation chairman Challa Madhusudan Reddy and CEO A. Srikanth and ISB professors Deepa Mani, Sridhar Bhagavatula, Prasanth Srivastava and Sripada Chandrasekhar were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mekapati-lays-stress-on-remote-work-culture/article32408310.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pest control in hospitals in State: tenders to be invited zone-wise||The government issued a G.O. (RT No. 371) on Thursday permitting the Commissioner of Andhra Pradesh Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (APVVP) to invite zone-wise tenders for providing pest/rodent control services in all district and area hospitals, Mother and Child Hospitals (MCH) and Community Health Centres (CHCs) under APVVP control in three packages. The first package comprises four district hospitals, nine area hospitals, one MCH and 64 CHCs in Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, and East Godavari (Zone-I). The second package consists of five district hospitals, 11 area hospitals, one MCH and 71 CHCs in West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, and Nellore districts (Zone-II). The third package covers four district hospitals, eight area hospitals, one MCH and 62 CHCs in Anantapur, Chittoor, Kadapa, and Kurnool districts (Zone-III).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pest-control-in-hospitals-in-state-tenders-to-be-invited-zone-wise/article32408311.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restrain TS from taking up new projects: WUA||The Andhra Pradesh State Water Users Associations’ Federation has urged the Union government to take up the issue of construction of new projects by Telangana at the ensuing meeting of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). In a letter to Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Thursday, the federation also wanted the Centre to take up the issue of shifting the headquarters of the KRMB to Vijayawada. Disclosing the details of the letter, federation president A.V. Gopala Krishna Rao said Telangana had taken up five new projects and enhanced the scope of three ongoing projects, which were also based on surplus waters. “Despite clear instructions of the Supreme Court in 2016 to clarify its stand on these projects, there has been no response from the Union government. But Telangana is going ahead and constructing the projects,” he said. “These issues have to be taken up in the Apex Council meeting. This apart, Telangana should be restrained from constructing the new projects. Action needs to be taken to protect the existing ayacut of 28.79 lakh acres in the lower riparian State of Andhra Pradesh — Nagarjunasagar Project 15.71 lakh acres and Krishna Delta System 13.08 lakh acres — by utilising the Krishna waters,” Mr. Krishna Rao said. ‘Shift KRMB headquarters’ As per the State Reorganization Act, the KRMB headquarters should be located in A.P. But the Centre did not shift it from Hyderabad even six years after bifurcation despite repeated pleas, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restrain-ts-from-taking-up-new-projects-wua/article32409206.ece
21 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC adjourns phone-tapping case to Aug. 27||A two-Judge Bench of the High Court, headed by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and comprising Justice D. Ramesh, adjourned to August 27 the hearing of the PIL filed by N.N. Grace of Visakhapatnam on the alleged tapping of phones belonging to a host of VVIPs, including some judges. Mr. Justice Maheswari directed petitioner’s counsel J. Sravan Kumar to merge the additional affidavit with main petition before the above date. Ms. Grace filed a PIL alleging that the phones of judges, advocates and various VVIPs were tapped in violation of the Telegraph Act, 1885. She contended that phone-tapping was a serious offence that amounted to usurping fundamental right and the surveillance of phones of Judges was a threat to the judiciary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-adjourns-phone-tapping-case-to-aug-27/article32409200.ece
21 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag adjudged ninth cleanest city in country||Visakhapatnam has been adjudged the ninth cleanest city in the country in the latest Swachh Survekshan (SS) Rankings 2020, in the category of cities with a population of over 10 lakh. The rankings were announced by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) in New Delhi on Thursday. Visakhapatnam is the second city in Andhra Pradesh to figure in the Top 10 cities after Vijayawada, which has secured fourth place. The coastal city has seen a significant improvement in 2020 compared to last year’s performance, when it secured 23rd rank. This is for the third time in the last four years that Visakhapatnam has secured a spot in the Top 10 cities. Indore in Madhya Pradesh retained its position for the fourth time as the cleanest city in India. Surat bagged the second spot while Navi Mumbai won third place. While Swachh Survekshan 2019 had a total of 5,000 marks, this year’s survey carried 6,000 marks. The four main components included citizen feedback, service-level programmes, direct observation and certification, each carrying 1,500 marks. While Vijayawada secured 5,270.32 marks, Vizag secured 4,918.44 marks in the survey. According to the results, in Documentation, GVMC secured 1,188.88 marks, while in Certification, the civic body secured 1,100. In Direct Observation, the civic body won 1,468.85 marks while in Citizen Feedback, GVMC secured 1,160.71 marks. Vizag was announced the third cleanest city in the country in 2017. In 2018, the city slipped to seventh rank. In 2019, the coastal city dropped to 23rd rank. There was intense pressure on the civic body over its continuous decline in rankings for the past two years. However, the GVMC has learnt its lessons and started its preparations for the survey last year, putting renewed focus on segregation of waste and garbage disposal. Areas of improvement Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao said that the areas where GVMC has seen improvement compared to previous years was in the categories of Direct Observation and Garbage-Free Cities (GFC) ratings. “In Direct Observation, GVMC secured 1,468.85 marks out of 1,500 which is more than 90%. Teams came to the city to inspect activities like door-to-door garbage collection, cleaning of roads and drains, and segregation of waste, and gave good marks after being satisfied with the civic body’s measures. This reflects the hard work of the staff and workers,” he said. Mr. Sanyasi Rao said that even when the GFC ratings had dropped to one star in May 2020, GVMC officials went to New Delhi and applied for re-verification. Later, the Ministry announced three stars for the civic body. The ratings also helped, he said. Attributing the success to GVMC officials, sanitation workers and citizens, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that there are a few areas where the GVMC can improve. According to her, the GVMC has lost nearly 300 points in documentation over the works done in the civic body and poor downloads of Swachhata app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-adjudged-ninth-cleanest-city-in-country/article32409228.ece
21 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||No public celebrations of Vinayaka Chavithi: Collector||Making it clear that the celebration of Ganesh festival in public places will not be allowed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Collector V. Vinay Chand has urged the citizens to perform the puja at their homes. “No permissions will be accorded to public gatherings during the Ganesh festival or immersions of idols. Celebrations at pandals will compromise the social distancing, leading to spread of the virus,” he said. “People violating the norms will be booked under the relevant acts,” warned the Collector. ‘No cultural programme’ Referring to the other restrictions, Mr. Vinay Chand said that the height of the idols at the puja in apartments and households must not exceed three feet. “The puja should be organised in strict adherence to social distancing norms. All special events and cultural programmes as part of the celebrations are prohibited,” he said and urged the citizens to ensure social distance during the temple visits. The Collector instructed the officials to inform the utsav committees about the rules to be followed during the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-public-celebrations-of-vinayaka-chavithi-collector/article32409230.ece
21 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu trying to dent city’s brand image’||YSR Congress Party MLA Gudivada Amarnath on Thursday accused TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has been relentlessly trying to damage the brand image of Visakhapatnam. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Amarnath said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy decided to make Visakhapatnam the Executive capital to further foster its growth on the economic, social and tourism fronts. He alleged that Mr. Naidu was trying to thwart the process by speaking against the region and damaging the brand image of the city. Questioning what Mr. Naidu had done for Visakhapatnam during his rule, he alleged that the TDP was making “irresponsible statements” sitting in Hyderabad. ‘Amaravati a wrong choice’ The Sivaramakrishnan Committee had said that Visakhapatnam was most suitable for setting up the Capital of the state, Mr. Amarnath said. “But Mr. Naidu had chosen Amaravati as the Capital. In five years, except for showing graphics, Mr. Naidu had done nothing to build the capital. Finally, it has turned out be the biggest scam of the decade,” Mr. Amarnath alleged. “If Mr. Naidu thinks that he developed Amaravati, why did two of his MLAs, who included his son Lokesh, lose the elections in the region?” he questioned. While Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was striving for the all-round development of the State, Mr. Naidu was making false allegations that the government was using its Intelligence wing to tap the telephones of the TDP leaders and High Court judges, the Anakapalle MLA alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-trying-to-dent-citys-brand-image/article32409226.ece
21 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll inching toward 200-mark||Officials of the Health Department are on their toes as COVID-19 cases continue to witness a worrying spike in the district. The district reported 985 new cases on Thursday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 28,487. The death toll is also inching towards the 200-mark in the district, with six more persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. The total number of persons who have died due to COVID-19 in the district till date is 196. What is worrying officials is that as many as 105 persons have died due to COVID-19 in the last 20 days, as compared to 86 in July. As of August 20, as many as 17,310 new COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in the district, which suggest a daily average of 865 new cases being reported every day in the district. According to a COVID-19 health bulletin released by the district administration, 685 persons have recovered from the virus on Thursday. With the new cases and discharges, the total number of active cases now stands at 5,135 while 23,196 people have been discharged. Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar said that there are 149 ‘very active’ clusters in the district and 74 active and 513 dormant clusters respectively. As many as 171 clusters have been de-notified by the Collector till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-inching-toward-200-mark/article32409234.ece
21 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man murdered allegedly by wife||A 43-year-old-man was allegedly murdered by his wife at Edatam area in Payakaraopeta mandal of Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as G. Pedda Veera Babu, a resident of Edatam village. According to reports, Babu was married to G. Mariya (32) and the couple had four children. However, there were frequent fights between the couple, said the police, adding that sources said the woman was having an extramarital affair which Babu found out. On Wednesday night, Babu’s brother Chinna Veera Babu reached home to find him lying in a pool of blood with blunt force trauma injuries on his head. Chinna Veera Babu then immediately went to the police to lodge a complaint and accused his sister-in-law Mariya of killing his brother. Based on his complaint, police registered a case and launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-murdered-allegedly-by-wife/article32409232.ece
21 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrap pact with POSCO, demand RINL unions||The recognised unions of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant on Thursday called for immediate termination of joint venture between RINL, the corporate entity of VSP, and South-Korea-based steel maker POSCO. Speaking at a protest held near VSP administration building, J. Ayodhya Ram of Steel Plant Employees Union, said that while the people of the country are still battling the COVID pandemic, the Union Government was trying to sell off VSP to POSCO under the garb of a joint venture. He said that steel workers would not tolerate the atrocities being perpetrated on domestic wealth in the name of building a self-sufficient India. Steel Plant Employees Union general secretary Y.T. Das said that VSP is the biggest factory in Andhra Pradesh. He said that the plant has immense potential to create jobs for unemployed youth. He urged all political parties and public representatives to join the movement. The leaders also pointed out that VSP has been fighting for the last three decades for its own captive mines, which is not being heeded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scrap-pact-with-posco-demand-rinl-unions/article32409235.ece
21 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGH to start clinical trials for drug, vaccine||The State government has approved the conduct of two clinical trials in the Andhra Medical College/ King George Hospital here, and a communiqué from the Directorate of Medical Education, Vijayawada, was received in this regard on Thursday. The approval indicates Phase-2 clinical trial involved in usage of CRO Navitas Life Sciences 2-Deoxy- D-Glucose as an adjunctive therapy to standard care of acute treatment of moderate to severe COVID-19 cases. The study has the support of DRDO. The Principal of AMC, Prof. P.V. Sudhakar, has appointed Dr. Y. Gyana Sundar Raju, Prof of General Medicine, as the principal investigator for the study. In the Phase 3 single blind randomised control study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of the coronavirus disease vaccine (COVISHIELD vaccine) of the Serum Institute of India will be done. This study has the support of ICMR. The Principal has appointed Dr. B. Devi Madhavi, Prof of Community Medicine, as the principal investigator for the vaccine trial. A team of experts from various departments are co-investigators for the studies. “It is another advancement in the field of research and caters to the need of the hour in the COVID-19 pandemic situation,” he said. Collector V. Vinay Chand, has congratulated the institute and wished success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kgh-to-start-clinical-trials-for-drug-vaccine/article32409216.ece
21 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former AU professor dies||Erranguntla Venkata Rao, a former professor and founder member of the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Andhra University, passed away due to cardiac arrest late on Wednesday night. Born on July 1, 1931, Venkata Rao completed his studies at AU during 1950-59. He worked as a professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry (1975-91). His research in pharmaceutical chemistry resulted in the publication of 165 research papers in national and international journals and five patents. Rao is survived by wife Kameswari, daughter Syamala and son Ravichandra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-au-professor-dies/article32409223.ece
21 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Merit list placed on website||The merit list of candidates who applied for vacant posts of Staff Nurse, Lab Technician, Radiographer, MNO, DEO and Pharmacist in A.P. Vaidya Vidhan Parishad (APVVP) Hospitals, has been placed onwww.visakhapatnam.ap.gov.in. The vacant posts will be filled in a transparent manner on the basis of merit and roster, under the auspices of the Collector, a release said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/merit-list-placed-on-website/article32409224.ece
21 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain-battered road repaired in 12 hours||Officials from the Panchayat Raj Department repaired a rain-battered road within 12 hours in the interior areas of Paderu mandal. On Wednesday, several reports were published in the media regarding bad roads in Guttulaputtu panchayat. ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar instructed Panchayat Raj officials to repair the damaged road immediately. Officials inspected the damage and repaired the roads between Kodapalli and Kumudupalli, a stretch of 3.5 km, at a cost of Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-battered-road-repaired-in-12-hours/article32409231.ece
21 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal university V-C takes charge||Former Vice-Chancellor of Indira Gandhi National Tribal University-Amarkantak (Madhya Pradesh) T.V. Kattamani took charge as the new and first Vice-Chancellor of the Central Tribal University-Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. The university special officer Hanumanthu Lajapathi Rai and Administrative Officer N.V.S. Suryanarayana and other officials welcomed him at the temporary university campus located at Vizianagaram. The Ministry of Human Resources Development has recently issued orders for his appointment. Mr. Kattamani will continue as the V-C for five years and oversee its construction and improve academic activity on a par with national standards. The then TDP government acquired 526 acres of land for the university at Relli village of Kothavalasa but it has recently been shifted to Kottaki village of Parvatipuram division. Mr. Kattamani has reportedly been directed to oversee its speedy construction in the new place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-university-v-c-takes-charge/article32409215.ece
21 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restricted business hours lead to huge rush in markets||The restrictions imposed on business hours in view of the sharp spike in coronavirus cases in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district headquarters are resulting in heavy crowds in the markets, making it difficult to maintain social distance. At present, the shops are allowed to function between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. in Vizianagaram. However, many traders are opening their shops at 9. 30 a.m., with the non-availability of staff and little business activity in the early hours. Retail traders in nearby villages and towns such as Gajapathinagaram, Cheepurupalli, Bhogapuram and other places are coming to PW Market, Balaji Market between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. “With the shops getting closed at 1 p.m., we are not getting even three hours to do the shopping. All shops get jam-packed in the morning, making it difficult for the staff to supply the commodities. It is resulting in huge crowds in market areas,” says B. Murali Krishna, a retail trader at Chillapetarajam in Ranasthalam mandal. Vizianagaram Rotary Club- Central former president D.S.P. Lingam feels that relaxation in business hours would help ease traffic congestion and prevent heavy gathering in markets. “With narrow roads and many buyers, social distance norms is completely ignored at the PW Market. The authorities should consider relaxing the business hours so that all COVID-19 protocols are implemented in toto,” he says. The Vizianagaram police are creating awareness on COVID-19 protocols in the markets regularly, however people are hardly following the norms. The caseload in the district have crossed the 14,000-mark, with around 2,000 cases in Vizianagaram town alone. The situation is relatively better in Srikakulam. Except for Pottisriramulu market, the COVID-19 protocols are being followed at the markets on GT Road, Palakonda Road. Shutdown on Sundays Municipal Commissioner P. Nallanayya urged the people to venture out only if it is necessary. “We have imposed shutdown on Sundays, prohibiting the sale of fish, meat, vegetables and others essentials,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restricted-business-hours-lead-to-huge-rush-in-markets/article32409191.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally in Prakasam, Nellore districts crosses 33,000-mark||The coronavirus has claimed 20 lives in the south coastal Andhra region—11 in Prakasam district and nine in Nellore district— in the last 24 hours. With this, the toll in the two districts has gone up to 381, a health bulletin said. The toll went up to 202 in Prakasam as eleven more patients died. The victims include one person who died at the CHC at Podili, which reported 13 cases, the daily status report compiled by the Prakasam administration said. In Nellore, nine more patients succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 179. As many as 58 patients have died in less than a week in Prakasam. Two of them succumbed while being rushed to a COVID-19 hospital. As many as 1,223 persons—588 in Nellore and 635 in Prakasam— werer tested positive, taking the tally in the two districts to 33,056, including 19,888 in Nellore. The health authorities had some reprieve as 1,413 patients—1,065 in Nellore and 348 in Prakasam —were discharged on recovery. With the overcrowding of patients, the distance between the beds was reduced to accommodate more patients at the Government General Hospital(GGH) in Ongole which reported 83 new positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to over 3,000. As many as 48 patients were put in the ICU as their health condition remained critical. With the district administration encouraging treatment at home, more than 3,000 of the toal 5326 patients in the district opted for the same, while another 1,000 patients are undergoing treatment at various COVID-19 care centres. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, who recently recovered from the infection, reviewed the situation during the District Agriculture Advisory Committee meeting in Ongole. He distributed medicines to those who were undergoing treatment in their homes. Containment clusters As many as 14 new containment clusters were declared in Prakasam district as the virus spread to remote tribal village of Dornala close to Nallamalla forests. The cluster containment action plan is being implemented in 23 very active clusters and 270 active clusters. New casess were reported from Donakonda, Karamchedu, K.K. Mitla, Inkollu, S.N. Padu and Kothapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-in-prakasam-nellore-districts-crosses-33000-mark/article32409188.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death toll crosses 3,000 in State||The State’s COVID-19 death toll crossed the 3,000-mark with 95 new deaths reported in the past day as of Thursday morning. During the same period, the State witnessed 9,393 new COVID infections and the tally has gone up to 3,25,396. With 8,846 new discharges, the recoveries went up to 2,35,218 and the recovery rate further increased to 72.29%. There are 87,177 active patients in the State, according to the Health Department’s bulletin. With 3,001 deaths so far, the death rate among COVID patients is at 0.92%. It means less than one person for every 100 infected persons so far in the State. Nearly half of the total deaths occurred in five districts. Guntur topped the toll with 319 deaths. It is followed by Kurnool with 314 deaths, East Godavari with 303, Chittoor with 288 and Anantapur with 254 deaths. They are followed by Krishna (237), Visakhapatnam (227), West Godavari (221), Prakasam (202), Srikakulam (187), Nellore (179), Kadapa (136) and Vizianagaram (134). The death rate in Krishna is highest at 1.79% and lowest in East Godavari at 0.67%. In five districts death rate was higher than 1%.  Disturbing figures East Godavari continues to report over a thousand new cases. In the past day, it reported 1,357 cases and eight deaths. It is followed by West Godavari (995 cases, 8 deaths), Visakhapatnam (985, 6), Anantapur (973, 8), Chittoor (836, 16), Kurnool (805, 6), Srikakulam (762, 5), Prakasam (635, 11), Nellore (588, 9), Guntur (443, 7), Kadapa (434, 7), Vizianagaram (385, 3) and Krishna (195, 2). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (45,356), Kurnool (36,381), Anantapur (32,603), Guntur (28,808), Visakhapatnam (28,075), West Godavari (27,025), Chittoor (26,573), Nellore (19,672), Kadapa (19,193), Srikakulam (16,990), Vizianagaram (14,421), Prakasam (14,168) and Krishna (13,236). All the districts have a recovery rate of more than 50% and Anantapur's recovery rate is the highest at 81.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-toll-crosses-3000-in-state/article32409194.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada adjudged India’s cleanest big city once again||The city has once again been declared as “India’s Cleanest Big City” in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 survey awards announced by the Central government on Thursday. It has also emerged as the best performing city in the State and cleanest of all. It is also only south Indian city to secure a rank in the top five. For the first time, the city's Swachh Survekshan ranking has climbed to 4th in the top 10 list of cities with more than 10 lakh population. In the top 25 cities with more than one lakh population category, the city secured 6th rank. In 2019, Vijayawada was ranked 12 and in 2018 it was ranked five. In 2017, it was ranked 19 and in 2016 it was ranked 23. In 2018, it was declared as ‘India's Cleanest Big City’. The cleanest big city would be announced based on the highest overall score out of 6,000 points in Swachh Survekshan 2020 in the respective population and zonal category. The city scored 5,280.32 points. ‘Will vie for first rank’ Speaking on the occasion, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh said the award and ranks were possible with the cooperation of public and the VMC staff. He said with the same spirit the city would vie for first rank in the coming year. Mr. Prasanna Venkatesh appreciated the sanitation workers in person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijayawada-adjudged-indias-cleanest-big-city-once-again/article32408304.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home away from home!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-away-from-home/article32408315.ece
21 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Flood threat in Bhadrachalam Agency||The Bhadrachalam Agency is facing a renewed threat of floods as the Godavari after receding below the first warning level on Wednesday night, swelled rapidly on Thursday by crossing the first (43 feet) and second (48 feet) warning levels in a span of just little over 12 hours before inching closer to the danger mark (53 feet) at Bhadrachalam town. This has prompted the official machinery to bolster its emergency response mechanism in the flood prone areas by deploying 46 boats, 100 swimmers equipped with life jackets along the Godavari in seven Agency mandals. At 8 p.m., the Godavari touched 52.20 feet, almost the third danger mark, carrying 13.79 lakh cusecs of flood waters from upstream. As the weather forecast indicated further rise in the water level in the Godavari on account of the incessant rains in its catchment areas, the entire official machinery has been put on high alert to deal with any flood exigency. Inflows into Taliperu The Taliperu reservoir in Telangana’s border mandal of Charla continued to receive copious inflows from its Chhattisgarh-based catchment areas pushing up water level in the Godavari. As many as 25 crest gates of the medium irrigation project were raised to let out the excess water from the reservoir filled to the brim. The bridge across the Kinnerasani at Nagaram in Palvancha mandal was closed to vehicular traffic on Thursday evening after the river swelled alarmingly threatening to breach the approach road of the bridge, sources said. Collector in Manuguru Collector M. V. Reddy visited the flood affected areas in Manuguru town where rain waters entered into several houses in Sundaraiahnagar causing severe hardships to the denizens of the coal town. Meanwhile, adequate number of motor pumps and sand bags were arranged at the flooded Vista complex area surrounding the flood bank along the Godavari river in Bhadrachalam. The backwaters of the Godavari inundated the low-lying areas in the temple town after the Godavari almost touched the danger mark at 8 p.m. The authorities have made arrangements to ensure all amenities in the relief camps where several families facing the threat of flooding were shifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-threat-in-bhadrachalam-agency/article32408599.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Long wait for an ambulance at IMH||The Institute of Mental Health (IMH) at Erragadda — the largest government health facility in Telangana for people with mental illnesses — does not have a single functional ambulance. As on Monday, around 280 patients are admitted there. If health condition of any of the patients with cardiac issues or other health complications deteriorates warranting immediate medical attention, they have to be rushed to a tertiary care hospital. But in the absence of an ambulance of their own, they are forced to depend on the ‘108’ service. “We rely on the 108 ambulance stationed in the hospital as the vehicle is better equipped and has trained personnel,” sources said. However, the 108 ambulance is also used to attend emergencies in surrounding localities. The need for a dedicated ambulance is felt more during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic as at least 28 in-patients, who tested positive for the virus, are under isolation at the IMH. Their health condition is monitored by doctors from Government General and Chest Hospital. If the infectious disease turns severe in any of the 28 patients, they have to be immediately rushed to another hospital. However, the lone ambulance allotted to the Institute of Mental Health has been dysfunctional from the past many years. The issue was taken to notice of senior officials in the Health department multiple times, but remains unresolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/long-wait-for-an-ambulance-at-imh/article32408567.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ensure water bodies are not encroached: High Court||Telangana High Court on Thursday instructed Nirmal district Collector to personally inspect all lakes located in different parts of the district and fix up their respective Full Tank Level (FTL) areas. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL petition on encroachment of Jafar tank ( Kothaikotch cheruvu) in Nirmal town, also directed the Collector to demarcate the buffer zones of the lakes. This would help in protection of the water bodies from illegal occupations, the bench observed. It said the district Superintendent of Police should be made the member of the Lake Protection Committee. The bench said if its directions were not complied with by September 10, the Collector would have to personally appear before it and explain reasons as to why the court instructions could not be enforced. It instructed the Nirmal Additional District Judge to visit Jafar tank area and apprise the court of the illegal encroachments, if any, of the tank. Attempts by land grabbers to occupy the tank land by filling them with soil should be examined. The Chief Justice, passing a slew of instructions, observed it was the responsibility of the Collector to ensure all water bodies in his jurisdiction were protected. Existence of lakes was of paramount importance for the survival of humanity, flora and fauna, the bench observed. It directed the Collector to initiate action against all persons indulging in illegal occupation of lands belonging to water bodies. It further instructed the district Collector to initiate immediate action against the alleged encroachers, submit a report with regard to survey and inspection carried out with regard to all the lakes in the district. A lawyer K. Anujkumar Reddy filed the PIL plea stating that land grabbers destroyed the tank bed of Jafar tank and occupied part of it. The plea was posted to September 10 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ensure-water-bodies-are-not-encroached-high-court/article32408606.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State revenue deficit mounts to 300%||The Telangana government accumulated a revenue deficit of 317.10% in the pandemic through the first quarter of this financial year as per figures up to June 30 put out by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The deficit for the corresponding period last year was just 46.18%. The revenue deficit against Budget estimates of the State for the year jumped in April itself to 115.55% (in April last year it was 0.03%) and 259.44% in May (63.04% last year) and then to 317.10% in June. It was observed that the deficit was Rs. 14,212 crore with the expenditure far in excess of tax and non-tax revenues as well as grants-in-aid. While the government booked an expenditure of Rs. 28,923 crore, the revenue receipts were only Rs. 14,710 crore. The receipts were just 10.28% of the budgeted estimates for the quarter and expenditure 20.86%. The receipts were 29.42% and expenditure 17.96% for the corresponding period last year. The higher expenditure this time was attributed to payment of subsidies like Rs. 1,500 and free rice for poor families who lost their wage income due to pandemic. The government spent Rs. 2,438 crore on subsidies, a component which was zero in the first quarter last year. In all the heads of tax revenues, the collections by government were far less than last year. GST component For instance, the GST which is the biggest component of tax revenue was only Rs. 3,956 crore against the budget estimate of Rs. 32,671 crore (12.11%). Revenue from stamps and registration and excise also dipped sharply due to closure of land transactions and liquor shops respectively for nearly one-and-a-half months. The other commercial establishments, except malls, were allowed to reopen in May end but the sales tax collections did not look up. They were only 8.98% against 20.20% last year. Senior officials said the tax revenues picked up significantly in June when the commercial activity resumed full length, so much so it surpassed figures for the corresponding month last year by nearly Rs. 1,900 crore but the cascading effect of April and May shadowed the performance in the quarter. The tax revenues were Rs. 11,893 crore against Rs. 15,540 crore for the quarter last year. Interestingly, the coffers of the State government were boosted by Central grants and voluntary contributions, particularly in April and May. As a result, they totalled up to Rs. 1,970 crore out of the total revenue receipts of Rs. 14,710 crore. The grants were a mere Rs. 214 crore last year. On the expenditure front comprising interest payments, salaries, wages, pensions and subsidies, the government was liberal in releasing the entire amount. Except salaries which were slashed for the staff to shore up resources, all the other payments were higher than last year. The social security pensions for the aged, widows and other categories of people were higher by Rs. 1,250 crore and subsidies Rs. 808 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-revenue-deficit-mounts-to-300/article32408589.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor should report to Centre on COVID ‘mismanagement’: BJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to keep the heat on the TRS government on COVID-19 ‘mismanagement’ and urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to report to the Central government regarding “how the government here has been hiding facts about the virus spread and misleading all its visiting teams”. Former party president K. Laxman, in a communication to the Governor, a copy of which was released to the media on Thursday, stated that as the constitutional head of the State, she has the bounden duty to protect the lives of people. “With the TS government ‘nonchalant’ and ‘callous’ towards protecting the lives of people, a report to the Centre will facilitate the intervention weighing appropriate options”. Commending the Governor for bringing out the ‘deficiencies’ in handling the pandemic, he accused the government of “criminal apathy towards containing COVID-19 in all parameters of testing, tracing and treating”. “Not a single government hospital has been fully equipped to tackle the virus and due to the negligent attitude of the government, people in general have lost faith in government hospitals while private hospitals have been charging huge amounts of money,” he said. Mr. Laxman pointed out that hundreds of people were assembling before government testing facilities for testing but just a few limited tokens were being issued every day. “With many other suspect cases asked to try their luck the next day, the virus is spreading as those infected have no other option but move from place to place for testing,” he said. “You (Governor) have become the voice of Telangana and the entire fraternity stands by you in your fight to ensure safety of people,” he said. The latest IICT-CCMB report on sewage samples showed more than 6 lakh being infected during the last 35 days whereas the government continues to stick to 95,000 and this by itself was an indication of insufficient testing and suppressing or manipulation of figures, the BJP leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-should-report-to-centre-on-covid-mismanagement-bjp/article32408573.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Info official to the aid of RTI activist||A Right to Information activist was shocked after the Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB), instead of allowing him to peruse files pertaining to the Dargah Hussain Shah Wali, an important waqf institution, led him to a record room with thousands of documents and instructed him to find the paperwork in question himself. The activist was in for a relief after the Telangana State Information Commission recently intervened and directed the board to place the relevant material at his disposal. According to RTI activist S Q Masood, Dargah Hazrat Hussain Shah Wali in Manikonda is an important Muslim endowment with a large land parcel endowed to it. He said that large parts of this land parcel were now the subject of litigation and that he wanted to examine waqf and case files out of academic interest. Second appeal “I had filed the RTI query in January last year. When I didn’t get the information, I filed an appeal in May. Later, I preferred a second appeal with the Commission in August. In December last year, I got a response from the board stating that I can inspect the files on December 10. When I went there, the staff took me to the records room, which had thousands of files, and told me to find the files all by myself. I was shocked at this. They stonewall my query,” the activist claimed. Later, Mr Masood explained to the staff that it was not possible to trace files of the dargah without assistance from the staff. After a discussion with TSWB officials, he gave a letter stating that he would not inspect the files as the staff allegedly stated that there were no separate files of the Dargah Hussain Shah Wali. The activist then attached copies of this letter and all relevant documents and filed it before the Commission. With the COVID- 19 pandemic, the case was recently heard telephonically. After hearing both parties, Information Commissioner Syed Khaleelullah in his order stated that ‘the PIO (public information officer) ought to have arranged to keep only the related files for inspection instead of telling him to check all records in Waqf Board’. “The Commission directs the PIO to give a specific reply to the appellant and also arrange for verification of records once again on a mutually fixed date and time along with a person of the Waqf Board who can assist the appellant during verification of records and report compliance to the Commission,” an excerpt from the order reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/info-official-to-the-aid-of-rti-activist/article32408576.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paediatrician battles COVID with ECMO support for 12 days||A 35-year-old paediatrician from Warangal who contracted COVID-19 and did not respond to mechanical ventilator support, survived after being administered Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) for 12 days. ECMO, a costly procedure, is used as the last resort when a patient does not recover despite mechanical ventilator support. The paediatrician battled the virus for over 40 days and might be discharged on Friday. After contracting COVID in the first week of July, his oxygen levels started to fall. He called up his friends, doctors at CARE Hospital Banjara Hills, and got admitted to the ICU. He was initially managed with high flow nasal cannula device for oxygenation and antivirals and other medications. A chest CT scan revealed severe pneumonia that aggravated to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). He was put on complete sedation to provide ventilator support in prone position for 16 hours a day for one week. Some improvement was noticed after this and the doctor underwent a bedside procedure called ‘tracheostomy’ to connect the ventilator through a small tube through his throat with mild sedation for prolonged support. However, oxygen levels deteriorated further and he did not respond to maximum ventilator support. That is when chief intensivist at the hospital Dr. Pavan Kumar Reddy and his team decided to provide ECMO. ECMO is a method in which blood is drawn out of body and oxygen is mixed with blood using a special by-pass pump-circuit and then blood is pumped back into the body. The devise works as artificial lungs. The ECMO support had to be provided till his lungs’ condition improved. As he was already on ventilator support for 18 days, the treating doctors were unsure of the time it would take for the organ to improve. “With the help of the cardiothoracic surgical team, the ICU was converted into a mini-operation room and ECMO was instituted. Dr. Pavan and his team again faced a new challenge. The ECMO circuit requires continuous heparin infusion to prevent clot formation as the blood is pumped out of the body and COVID-19 is known to cause increased blood clot formations and has high resistance to heparin, the anticoagulant that is regularly used. They had to use very high doses of heparin with very diligent and careful monitoring as the requirements of heparin continued to escalate, to prevent any clots,” as per a press release. After 12 days of being on ECMO when the paediatrician’s lungs and oxygen levels started to improve, he was taken off the ECMO support. Gradually, he was taken off ventilator support too. Chief operation officer Dr. Riyaz Khan said that over 75 COVID patients on ventilator support at the hospital have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paediatrician-battles-covid-with-ecmo-support-for-12-days/article32408569.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ganesha idols airlifted to UK||GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) successfully handled export of eco-friendly idols of Lord Ganesha to devotees in the United Kingdom for the first time on Thursday. Close to 200 idols were airlifted to London in the past one week with sizes varying from six inches to two feet in height. The recently re-commenced services of British Airways carried the elephant god. The GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo team collaborated with the authorities concerned and stakeholders to facilitate the export through the cargo terminal. It included liaising with the customs officials and freight forwarders to process the specially packaged idols given their fragile composition. These idols are made of natural bio-degradable clay and are packed with marigold flower seeds and vermi-compost. The plant seeds inside the idol could be sowed while being taken for the immersion of idols - adding to the beauty of the garden or the place where it is to be tended. Vegetable dyes, soluble in water, have been used to paint the idol. These idols will be on sale in London, said a spokesman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganesha-idols-airlifted-to-uk/article32408578.ece
21 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rajiv Gandhi remembered||The Telangana Pradesh Congress Pradesh (TPCC) leaders paid rich tributes to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on his 76th birth anniversary on Thursday. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, along with CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former CLP leader K. Jana Reddy, former PCC presidents V. Hanumantha Rao and Ponnnala Lakshmaiah, MLA Jagga Reddy, AICC Secretary A. Sampath Kumar, Hyderabad Congress president M. Anjan Yadav and others paid floral tributes to Rajiv Gandhi at his statue in Somajiguda. Later, they also paid floral tributes at the Gandhi Bhavan. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that Rajiv Gandhi left an indelible impression of his regime. He introduced large-scale reforms to boost the technological industry by reducing taxes, encouraged modernisation of industries and promoted higher foreign investments in the economy. He was the architect of digital India and father of IT and Telecom Revolution of India, Mr. Reddy reminded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rajiv-gandhi-remembered/article32408614.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TiE Hyderabad to host Global Summit 2020 in December||TiE Global Summit 2020, the first virtual global meeting of The Indus Entrepreneurs, is to be hosted by TiE Hyderabad from December 8-10. Based on the theme ‘Entrepreneurship 360’, it will focus on issues faced by entrepreneurs and provide a platform for funding and insights into strategies to grow and scale business. New start-up ideas, investments in start-ups, pitching tactics to help start-ups attract B2B and B2C businesses and scaling strategies to grow their business manifold will figure prominently in the deliberations. A total of 20,000 entrepreneurs, over 200 investors, 10 world leaders, 50 star speakers, successful celebrities, sportspersons and spiritual and wellness gurus will attend the summit, the organisers said. As many as 25 TiE chapters from Americas, Europe, Africa, India, APAC will be represented at the summit. The programme will provide an opportunity for entrepreneurs to network, share ideas and interact with investors, business leaders, policy makers across the globe, besides allowing investors access to the world’s brightest minds. Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said: “Given the times we are in, it would have been easy for TiE to have cancelled the summit, however I am glad they are transitioning to a virtual event.” While it is true that businesses may have been disrupted because of COVID-19, “we are also seeing umpteen number of opportunities coming our way. If one is agile, smart and mentored well, I am sure they can once again rise in their business,” he said. Chairman TiE Global Mahavir Sharma said the TiE Global Summit 2020 is a special initiative, perhaps the largest and most diverse gathering of entrepreneurs and investors on a virtual platform due to COVID-19. President of TiE Hyderabad Sridhar Pinnapureddy said: “we plan to make the summit very enriching from a networking, learning, and funding perspective… expect at least 200 entrepreneurs to be funded by investors during the summit.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tie-hyderabad-to-host-global-summit-2020-in-december/article32408571.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City environmentalist reinstalls banyan||A city-based environmentalist has earned laurels by successfully reinstalling a fallen banyan tree in Goa, which was a cultural icon for the state. The 90-year-old banyan named ‘Source’ by locals of Arambol village had been the spot for various socio cultural events of the citizens before it fell to a storm on August 5. The mishap had broken the hearts of several people who grieved loss of their favourite meeting/dancing spot. Several local NGOs came together to initiate crowd funding and to seek experts in translocation of trees, when they chanced upon the name of Vata Foundation based in Hyderabad. P. Uday Krishna, founder of Vata Foundation, took it up as a challenge, and rushed to the beach village, taking along a few labourers for help. Vata Foundation had already been involved in translocation services in the city, wherever trees had to be removed for mega infrastructural projects such as SRDP. Mr.Uday Krishna, who is so fond of banyans that he has a tattoo of the tree on his biceps, found the task ahead daunting though. “It was not a single tree. While the mother trunk had decayed, there grew some five or six trees on it, due to seeds from bird dropping germinating on the mother. Unlike the regular banyans, this one was 30 feet up from the ground level, with no bulk mass up to to 20 feet. It was one of the reasons why it could not stand during storm,” Mr.Uday Krishna related. Besides, the local people had cut the prop roots from the largest branch extending up to 60 feet to facilitate their programmes, which had added to the imbalance. “There was no way we could take a crane to the sandy location as we regularly do. We had to entirely depend on earth moving machines and ropes to lift up the tree. It took us four hours to accomplish the task. The ropes had snapped repeatedly under the tree’s weight. ” Mr.Uday Krishna recalled. The tree still had a few roots connected to the earth, and hence it was re-rooted in the same pit deepened further up to nine feet underneath to ensure survival. As soon as the task was accomplished, he was inundated with hugs and kisses, notwithstanding the COVID-19 protocol! NGOs such as Living Heritage Foundation, Offbeat Goa, Goa Green Brigade, Goa Banyan Project, and Eco Champions for Goa were involved in the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-environmentalist-reinstalls-banyan/article32408584.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Deadline extension for report on orphan girl’s death urged||High-power inquiry committee constituted for probing the sexual assault and subsequent death of an orphan girl at a child care institution in the city has requested for extension of deadline for submission of its report. The request was made to the Commissioner, Women Development and Child Welfare D.Divya, as the post-mortem report and the forensic report are still not available. The deadline of August 20 may be extended by a month more, till the cause of death is conclusively ascertained. ‘Sexual assaults’ The high power committee was constituted on August 12, with members drawn from Telangana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, CWC, Women’s Commission, and the Police department, after death of the 14-year-old orphan child at Niloufer Hospital. It was revealed that the girl had endured series of sexual assaults at the hands of a donor at the Maruthi Orphanage in Ameenpur where she had stayed till four months before she died. Her ordeal came to light when one of her relatives complained to the police and a case was registered. The committee was given a brief by the Commissioner to conduct thorough inquiry and submit report by August 20. The committee has since interacted with relatives of the girl, and Child Welfare Committee of Rangareddy district under whose jurisdiction the home had been registered. The members also interacted twice with, and tried to elicit information from the children and young women who had been inmates of the home, and now shifted to the State Home premises. They visited the Resident Medical Officer of the Niloufer Hospital D.Ramesh, to find out details about the contents of medical reports and associated evidences vis-a-vis the medical reports. Besides, they reportedly questioned the three accused persons too, including the main accused Venugopal Reddy, and caretakers of the home Vijaya and Jayadeep, when they were brought to the home at Ameenpur by the Police for reconstruction of the crime scene. They also questioned the staff of the home on the spot. TSCPCR member Aparna had earlier recorded the statement of the victim when she was alive, and shifted to the government home at Nimboli Adda. However, the committee is still short of full information, as crucial evidence such as post mortem report and forensic data are yet to be shared with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/deadline-extension-for-report-on-orphan-girls-death-urged/article32408585.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Audit quality of work done by irrigation contractors: CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has demanded that the government conduct an audit of the work relating to construction of irrigation channels and flood flow canals and the performance of the contractors who were entrusted with the responsibility. CPI (M) Polit Bureau member B.V. Raghavulu said field inspection of the flood flow canals revealed that works done on them were sub-standard. Canals suffered breaches at several places and bridges/culverts on them collapsed due to the incessant rains that lashed the State since the past few days reflecting the poor quality of works done by the contractors. The government should take steps to put in place a mechanism for conducting quality checks on the works relating to irrigation and agriculture sectors awarded to contractors, he said. Mr. Raghavulu briefed reporters about the findings of two teams of the CPI(M) which visited the rain/flood affected areas in different districts. He expressed concern that crops in low-lying areas, particularly on lands owned by weaker sections, suffered severe damage due to the recent rains. The government, however, had not initiated steps to enumerate the losses suffered by farmers, he said, demanding that the process be completed at the earliest and farmers provided suitable compensation for the losses they incurred. In addition, steps should be taken to clear huge amounts of silt deposited in the agricultural land so that farmers could recommence their activities, he said. Housing in rural areas The CPI(M) teams were also told about the problems being faced by the people whose houses were damaged due to the incessant rains. Housing is an acute problem in the rural areas and work on the houses assured to them under different schemes are yet to be launched, he said. CPI(M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram wanted the State government to mount pressure on the Centre to secure adequate funds towards flood relief. The government should provide 25 kg rice and Rs. 10,000 in cash to all families that suffered due to the rains/floods, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/audit-quality-of-work-done-by-irrigation-contractors-cpim/article32408591.ece
21 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Move on early education in mother tongue welcomed||“Imparting education in mother tongue has several positive aspects on the development of a child and it will lead to a strong conceptual understanding and foundation on which children will grow,” said Y.L Sreenivas, Professor of English, Osmania University and Executive Council member, NAAC. Professor Sreenivias said that people tend to think, understand and perceive in their mother tongue better as compared to any other language. Communication in the mother tongue, the inquisitive nature of a child flourishes and leads to the development of a better thinking and creative individual, he said while delivering the keynote address at a webinar organised by Press Information Bureau, Hyderabad on “NEP-2020-Importance of Mother Tongue.” New era He said the policy begins a new era and will realize Atma Nirbhar Bharat as desired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He felt that the policy envisions a contemporary education system that foresees and contributes directly to the sustainable transformation of our nation into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society. Vice-Chairman Telangana State Council for Higher Education V.Venkata Ramana said the policy was a game changer as it aims to instil a “deep-rooted pride” in being Indian, not only in thought, but also in spirit, intellect, and deeds. He said schools will be pushed to focus more on helping students develop basic skills and competencies. By 2025, at least 50% of learners through the school and higher education system would have exposure to vocational education. Director General PIB-South S. Venkateswar also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/move-on-early-education-in-mother-tongue-welcomed/article32408609.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Month of Moharram begins today||With the month of Moharram beginning on August 21, the Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) on Thursday issued a circular containing COVID-19 precautionary guidelines, which include symbolic water distribution ( sabeel ) be done in sealed bottles or packets. In a set of 11 guidelines, the TSWB has stated that alam should be installed while maintaining social distancing. The distribution of tabarruk and sherbet should be done in sealed packets. These must not be consumed inside the premises of ashoorkhanas. Sanitisers should be kept at suitable locations. Speaking to the media, TSWB member and Shia scholar Syed Nisar Hussain Hyder Agha said, “This year too, there will be mourning (in Moharram). But the nature this year will be different. We have to do Hussain’s maatam with precautionary measures in place. We have to organise majlis , and make arrangements at ashoorkhanas, and install alams ,” he said, and urged people to follow government issued COVID-19 precautionary guidelines, and cooperate with police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/month-of-moharram-begins-today/article32408603.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Basti dawakhanas to resume services||Services at evening clinics in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) bastis would resume from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Blood samples collected at the clinics will be sent for tests at Telangana Diagnostics Laboratory. The out patient timings would be increased in primary health centres (PHC). Instructions to this effect were passed by Health Minister Eatala Rajender at a high-level review meeting held with senior officials from the Health department in the city on Thursday. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy was directed to prepare Fever Hospital, Nallakunta, to attend all cases of seasonal diseases. Senior officials from the department apprised him about seasonal diseases, deliveries and services offered at major hospitals for COVID-19 and other diseases. Officials informed him that incidence of malaria is likely to be high in Asifabad, Bhadrachalam and GHMC. In case of dengue, it is likely to be high in GHMC, Khammam, Karimnagar and Warangal. Measures taken to prevent these diseases, including swine flu, were discussed by Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. Rapid test kits would be procured to detect dengue. Strength of doctors and other healthcare professionals at government health facilities, and their requirement were also discussed. Accommodation for doctors and staff working in villages would be provided at nearby health centres. Mr. Rajender said that additional salary has to be given to those posted in far-flung villages. Vaccination programme will to be conducted as per schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/basti-dawakhanas-to-resume-services/article32408570.ece
21 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NIA files supplementary charge-sheet in trafficking case||The National Investigation Agency on Thursday filed supplementary charge-sheet in the National Investigation Agency Special Court, Hyderabad, against a couple in a human trafficking case involving six Bangladeshi women. The accused are Mohammed Abdul Salam (47) alias Kounla Justin from Hyderabad, and his wife Shiuli Khatun (30) alias Sheela, a Bangladeshi. The couple, the key accused in the case, was arrested by the agency in May. Salam and Kounla have been charge-sheeted under Sections 120B, 370, 370A (2) and 471 of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and Sections 14, 14A and 14C of The Foreigners Act. They illegally trafficked the young women through India-Bangladesh border for running a prostitution racket in Hyderabad and in nearby places, officials said. The case was first registered by the Chatrinaka police of Hyderabad and later, in September last, the National Investigation Agency took over the investigation in view of its inter-State and cross-border links, making its the first case connected with human trafficking under the amended National Investigation Agency Act. Inducements The investigators said that Salam, along with his associates, conspired to bring women illegally from Bangladesh through a ‘well organised’ network of agents in both countries. They lured the girls with inducements of lucrative jobs and subsequently forced them into prostitution. They first arrested accused Ruhul Amin Dhali and filed the first charge-sheet against Mohd Yousuf Khan, Bithi Begum, Sojib Shaik and Ruhul Amin Dhali on March 10, 2020. Three rescued When the agency raided Salam’s house in May, they rescued three more Bangladeshi nationals, apart from recovering incriminating articles and documents, including multiple identity documents of trafficked girls, contraceptive pills and mobile phones. They also seized a large number of diaries and registers containing names ad mobile numbers of brothel agents to whom the trafficked girls were sent for sexual exploitation on commission basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nia-files-supplementary-charge-sheet-in-trafficking-case/article32408580.ece
21 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||4 held for ‘duping’ bank||Four persons, who obtained loan from Bank of Maharashtra by submitting forged land document, were arrested by the White Collar Offences team of Hyderabad police on Thursday. The accused, who are Gali Niranjan, Vodde Krishna, Vodde Laxminarayana and Vodde Prabhakar, obtained a working capital loan of Rs. 1.8 crore in 2012, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. Subsequently, the accused defaulted on loan repayment and caused loss to the bank, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-held-for-duping-bank/article32408582.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Senior lawyer Ramachandra Rao no more||Senior lawyer and former Advocate General of the High Court for erstwhile undivided Andhra Pradesh, S. Ramchander Rao, passed away here on Thursday. The octogenarian lawyer, who presented arguments in Supreme Court and High Courts of different States in several sensational cases, complained of lower heart beat in the morning. He was rushed from his home at Jubilee Hills Road No. 22 to a private hospital. Doctors examined and implanted pace maker on the senior lawyer. “He was recovering and normal. Around 7.30 p.m., he passed away,” the senior lawyer’s junior B. Srinivas said. A graduate in science from Andhra University, Mr. Rao obtained law degree from Madras University. Described as an authority on constitutional matters, Mr. Rao appeared in several cases of public interest litigation and governance. One of the several sensational cases he had played pivotal role in was that of Andhra Pradesh HC allowing a writ petition against the then Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao on corruption charges. He appeared in a case in which the HC set aside the appointment of N. Chandrababu Naidu as Karshaka Parishad chairman. Mr. Rao was instrumental in HC passing an order setting free nearly 10,000 under-trial prisoners, who were languishing in jails, without bail for several years. The senior lawyer’s final rites are likely to be held on Friday at Punjagutta graveyard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senior-lawyer-ramachandra-rao-no-more/article32408594.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SC urged to review judgment against Prashant Bhushan||Nineteen designated senior advocates of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh High Courts wrote to the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking to review its judgment holding senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty in contempt proceedings. The senior counsels, expressing resentment over the verdict, requested the apex court to recall the judgment. Observing that they were concerned with the verdict, the lawyers said the judiciary did not comprise the judges alone. “A strong bar is the edifice of a strong judiciary. While the judge may have taken an oath to render justice without fear or favour, it is impossible for a judge to discharge constitutional obligation if the bar is meek and spineless,” they said in the letter. The power of the contempt is not to be wielded against the bar, they said. The letter was signed by P. Venugopal, D.V. Sitaram Murthy, D. Prakash Reddy, C.V. Mohan Reddy, L. Ravi Chander, S. Niranjan Reddy, K.G. Krishna Murthy, M.V. Suresh Kumar, Satyam Reddy, K. Sesharajyam, D.S. Reddy, Nageshwar Rao, T. Niranjan Reddy, Badana Bhakar Rao, Y.V. Raviprasad, M.S. Prasad, G. Vidya Sagar, S. Ravi and Satyaprasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sc-urged-to-review-judgment-against-prashant-bhushan/article32408604.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Make in TS meet from Aug. 27||A two-day Make in Telangana virtual conference and a 90-day exhibition being organised by the State govt. in association with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) will begin on Aug. 27. With “Invest in Telangana: Opportunities in Post Covid World” as the theme, the event will serve as a platform for investors to explore investment opportunities and forge new partnerships. A release said the event aims to showcase the strengths and opportunities of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/make-in-ts-meet-from-aug-27/article32408595.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plant for vegetable, fruit wash solution in Shankarpally||Hey Tomorrow Consumer Products, a private firm in Hyderabad, has announced a foray into the vegetable and fruit cleansers segment and with it plans to set up a manufacturing facility. The proposed facility in Shankarpally will be a fully automated plant and entail an investment of Rs. 9 cr. It is expected to be completed by end of 2021 and create 150 direct, indirect employment opportunities. The company plans to expand rapidly, add more products and open employment opportunities to a larger group of skilled workforce giving priority to local talent, a release from the firm said. Director Anitha Nallapati said Hayden, the vegetable and fruit liquid wash solution launched, is made from natural extracts. The company has thus received Rs. 4.5 cr. investments. It has invested on its own R&D laboratories. For now, the product is being made in collaborations with manufacturing plants in India, Director Monica Ravilla said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plant-for-vegetable-fruit-wash-solution-in-shankarpally/article32408588.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Efforts on for conduct of monsoon session||The Legislature Secretariat has intensified efforts to make arrangements for the ensuing monsoon session of the legislature slated to start from September 7. The session this time assumes significance as it is being conducted at a time when the incidence of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) continues in different parts of the State with areas under the Greater Hyderabad jurisdiction contributing lion’s share of the positive cases. The government had directed the Legislature Secretariat to take steps to ensure that physical distancing and other measures are put in place for the conduct of the session that is likely to witness passage of some important bills. Legislative Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, Council chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy and Legislative Affairs Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy, accompanied by Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Charyulu, visited the Assembly and Council and inspected the arrangements. With physical distancing being one of the prime focus areas, the delegation inspected the seating arrangements in the Assembly Hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/efforts-on-for-conduct-of-monsoon-session/article32408592.ece
21 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man crushed to death under lorry||A middle-aged man was crushed to death under the wheels of a lorry at LB Nagar on Wednesday night. The victim, who is yet to be identified, was aged about 50, LB Nagar inspector V Ashok Reddy said. He said that the accident took place around 9.30 p.m. opposite Rajeev Gandhi statue at LB Nagar crossroadd. “The accused lorry driver was proceeding towards LB Nagar from Chinthalkunta and came in a rash and negligent manner and hit the victim, and he died on the spot,” Mr. Reddy said. The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy and a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-crushed-to-death-under-lorry/article32408581.ece
21 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Seven held in murder case||In a joint operation, the sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) along with Rein Bazar police apprehended seven people in connection with the murder of 32-year-old history-sheeter Syed Ayaz alias Kanda Ayaz. Syed Ayaz was stabbed to death by his rivals at a tea shop in the area on Saturday night. The accused are Ahmed Hussain (26) from Purani Haveli, Mohd. Mashiuddin (23) of Azampura Chaman, Mohd. Salman Khan (30) of Chandrayangutta, Mohd. Ilyas (26), Mohd. Ibrahim Khan (25), both from Bhavaninagar, Mohd. Aslam Khan (23) of Talabkatta and Mohd. Imran Khan (26) from Errakunta. On Saturday night, when Syed Ayaz was playing mobile game, the accused, who came on bikes, attacked him with sharp weapons and he died on the spot. The accused — Ahmed Hussain, Masiuddin and Salman — had previous enmity with Syed Ayaz, following which they hatched a plan to eliminate the former, Additional DCP (Task Force) Chakravarthy Gummi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-held-in-murder-case/article32408608.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Page 3 - Briefs with pic New garden inside NFC||Nuclear Fuel Complex (NFC) chief executive Dinesh Srivastava inaugurated ‘K.K. Sinha Udyan’ on the campus where about 200 trees have been planted. The garden has been named after the second chief executive of the NFC. Senior officials of the organisation participated in the plantation programme, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-briefs-with-pic-new-garden-inside-nfc/article32408579.ece
21 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Oustees to get land possession soon||The Revenue authorities have expedited the process of giving physical possession for the plots allotted to all the eligible people to be affected by the proposed eviction drive to modernise the Gollapadu channel in the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits. The move follows a series of representations submitted by the Opposition parties, including the Left parties and the BJP individually, to the authorities to ensure physical possession of the plots at Velugumatla near here which were already allotted to more than 600 poor families of the town to be displaced by the eviction drive, in 2018. The Revenue officials served notices on several poor families inhabiting the areas along the Gollapadu channel in the town over ten days ago to clear the unauthorised structures for modernisation of the defunct Gollapadu channel. This has evoked flak from several aggrieved residents who approached the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) seeking its intervention to halt the eviction drive until alternative housing arrangements are made for them. Member of National Commission for Backward Classes, Achary Thalloju, visited the town on August 12 and heard the grievances of the poor families to be affected by the eviction drive. He held a meeting with the district officials and asked them to avert displacement of the poor families in these pandemic induced difficult times and ensure alternative housing with requisite infrastructure to all the poor families to be affected by the Gollapadu channel modernisation plan, sources said. Sources in the Revenue Department said the officials concerned have initiated appropriate measures to give physical possession of plots to those having the pattas at Velugumatla as per the High Court's directive issued on Wednesday on a petition filed by ten residents of the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oustees-to-get-land-possession-soon/article32408601.ece
21 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Visitors not allowed at Nagarjunasagar||This year, visitors are not allowed to the Nagarjunasagar project area when the dam gates will be operated for water release, thanks to COVID. The decision was taken by the local Nandikonda municipality along with the Revenue and Police department on Thursday, as officials are estimating the opening of the dam gates with increasing water levels any time soon. “People are requested to drop their plans of visiting Nagarjunasagar to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The virus spread can accelerate with the cool weather,” Nalgonda police said. The project witnessed thousands of visitors last year when the gates were operated almost after a decade. The local colonies, highways and smaller routes leading to the project site were clogged with traffic that eased up only after several hours. Nagarjunasagar project (NSP) started receiving flood from the upstream this year, on Wednesday, with the operation of Srisailam project gates. As of Thursday evening, seven of the Srisailam project gates were opened and was discharging about 1.90 lakh cusecs into the downstream. SP R. Bhaaskaran cautioned fishermen and people residing in low-lying areas and areas along the banks of Musi and Pulichintala projects to not venture into water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/visitors-not-allowed-at-nagarjunasagar/article32408564.ece
21 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||No religious processions, say police||Nalgonda police said that no installation of mandaps and placing of Lord Ganesh idols in public places will be allowed. Only temples and places with compound walls will be allowed to install idols. “The idol must not be more than two feet in height. On the day of immersion too, no processions and sound arrangements will be allowed. Violators will be booked,” said Nalgonda rural police. Addressing local representatives and festival organisers here, the town police officials reminded them of COVID-19 protocol and appealed for cooperation for smooth conduct of Ganesh Chaturthi and Moharram. Moharram processions will also not be allowed. they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-religious-processions-say-police/article32408587.ece
21 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Tanda residents oppose dumping of waste||Residents of Hanumangadda tanda have opposed dumping of waste in their neighbouring. With heavy police force, the municipal officials led by Additional Collector Rajarshi Sha came to the tanda on Thursday to dump the garbage that was collected and kept at the municipal office for the past few days. However, local residents, who gathered in large numbers, objected to the move. Though officials tried to convince them that dumping would be temporary, and that once the dump yard spot is finalised - it would be shifted, the locals did not pay heed. Finally, officials had to retreat without any success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tanda-residents-oppose-dumping-of-waste/article32408597.ece
21 August 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Tahsildar office closed after COVID scare||The tahsildar office in the town remained closed on Thursday, after its dozen officials, including the tahsildar, tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. All the officials were prescribed home quarantine. The regular business of the office was deputed to officials from the collectorate. According to sources, the staff members together had attended a family function of their colleague — a revenue inspector — last week. They were alerted after the host tested coronavirus positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tahsildar-office-closed-after-covid-scare/article32408565.ece
21 August 2020||Zaheerabad,TELANGANA||Narinja vagu desilting improves ground water in 30 villages||A few kilometres from this revenue divisional headquarters town on the right side is Narinja Vagu. For the past several years it has faced a complete neglect. But this year both the fate and face of the seasonal stream changed for the better. Thanks to the initiative of Finance Minister T Harish Rao and Collector M. Hanumantha Rao the surrounding villages have got benefited from the more or less continuous rains since the rainy season began on June 1. During the months of May and June the officials took up silt removal from the bed of the stream and the tank, which has been piling up year after year. A total of 80,000 cubic metres of silt was removed from the stream. Farmers from surrounding villages came on their own tractors as well as on tractors distributed in Palle Pragati programme and spread the alluvial soil on their farms as it would help improve the yield. It was estimated that the silt was spread over some 3,000 acres by the farmers before the commencement of rainy season. Further, the ground water level in more than 30 villages in three mandals — Zaheerabad, Jarasangam and Nyalkal — has improved considerably. There are reports that there was impact on water levels in some villages in Kohir mandal. “The capacity of Narinja Vagu is 85 million cubic feet (mcft) and now it is overflowing. We have taken up repairs of gates and other related issued at an estimated cost of Rs. 18 lakh and some of the repairs are yet to be completed. The ground water has improved in villages of four mandals,” Deputy Executive Engineer, Irrigation, B. Ramana Reddy told The Hindu . “Several borewells in Zaheerabad town had dried up by summer and we had a severe scarcity of water for drinking as well as water for regular use. Now with Narinja Vagu retaining water, the ground water levels have improved and more than 90 % bores have got recharged,” said Ahmad, a resident of Zaheerabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/narinja-vagu-desilting-improves-ground-water-in-30-villages/article32408617.ece
21 August 2020||Aurangabad,||Two booked for attacking woman doctor||Two men have been booked for allegedly attacking a woman doctor following the death of their father at a private hospital in Aurangabad, the police said on Thursday. Inspector Ashok Giri of CIDCO police station said, “The incident took place on Wednesday night after the brothers admitted their father to the hospital.” Following the patient’s death within a few hours of treatment, the brothers entered into a scuffle with the woman doctor and destroyed hospital property. An offence was registered against the duo under relevant sections of the Medical Practitioners Act and the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-booked-for-attacking-woman-doctor/article32408741.ece
21 August 2020||JAI PUR,||BJP seeks explanation from 4 MLAs||The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party in Rajasthan has sought an explanation from four of its MLAs for remaining absent in the State Assembly despite a whip during the voting on a confidence motion moved by the Congress government last week. The government had won the trust vote. The four legislators, elected from the reserved seats in southern Rajasthan’s tribal belt, had reportedly left the House on Friday last after it was adjourned following an obituary reference. The House reassembled in the afternoon for the debate and voting on the confidence motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-seeks-explanation-from-4-mlas/article32408534.ece
21 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Pilot embarks on tours across Rajasthan to rebuild image||After returning to the party fold, Congress leader Sachin Pilot has embarked on extensive tours across Rajasthan, starting from his Assembly constituency Tonk, in an attempt to rebuild his image. The Congress workers extended a warm welcome to Mr. Pilot in Tonk on Wednesday, as he spoke about a better coordination within the party to resolve people’s grievances. The AICC’s decision to appoint a three-member committee to deal with the issues in the State’s ruling party after a month-long political crisis is also expected to strengthen Mr. Pilot’s position. The 42-year-old leader, sacked as the Deputy Chief Minister, has affirmed that the future course of action would be taken on the basis of the roadmap prepared by the committee.  ‘I feel humbled’ As many as 59 office-bearers of Congress party’s Tonk unit had resigned last month in protest against the removal of Mr. Pilot as the Deputy CM and Pradesh Congress president. Mr. Pilot said in Tonk that the welcome by people at various places had left him humbled, as he was not a part of the government any more. Enthusiastic party workers greeted Mr. Pilot and garlanded him at the places such as Shivdaspura, Chaksu and Niwai on his way from Jaipur to Tonk. Mr. Pilot also went to the Circuit House, where he attended a meeting with the district officials and elected representatives to discuss the implementation of various projects and control of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Pilot had last visited Tonk in April this year. Faced with the challenge of dealing with the trust deficit against him, Mr. Pilot told reporters that it was for the party leadership to decide who would work in the government and in the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pilot-embarks-on-tours-across-rajasthan-to-rebuild-image/article32408533.ece
21 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC grants bail to DHFL promoters||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Diwan Housing Finance Limited, in a case registered against them by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on charges of money laundering in the multi-crore Yes Bank fraud case. The brothers, however, will remain in Taloja jail as they have also been arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the same case. Justice Bharati Dangre granted them bail as the ED failed to file its charge sheet in the case within the stipulated 60-day period and directed the duo to furnish a surety of Rs. 1 lakh each. While additional solicitor general Anil Singh appeared for the ED, the Wadhawans sought mandatory default bail, through senior advocate Amit Desai, under Section 167 (2) (a) (ii) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).  The section states: “Sixty days, where the investigation relates to any other offence, and, on the expiry of the said period of 90 days, or 60 days, as the case may be, the accused person shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and does furnish bail, and every person released on bail under this sub-section shall be deemed to be so released.” Mr. Desai said his clients were arrested and remanded in custody on May 14, and the 60-day period to file a prosecution complaint or charge sheet in the case ended on July 12. The next day, the applicants moved an application seeking bail under Section 167(2)(a)(ii) of the CrPC. The ED then filed a prosecution complaint in the case the same evening. On July 14, a special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) rejected their bail plea. The judge held that the Wadhawans had been charged under Sections 3 (offence of money laundering) and 4 (punishment for money laundering) of the PMLA Act, which prescribe punishment up to seven years in jail. The judge said the time limit for filing a complaint in such cases is 60 days and, with respect to the accused, it will have to be computed from May 15, excluding the day of remand. The special court then rejected their bail applications.  However, the High Court held that the special judge’s order excluding the first day of remand while computing the 60-day period cannot be sustained and has to be set aside. The court said the Wadhawans are entitled to default bail as the ED had filed the charge sheet on July 13, a day after the 60-day period had ended. The High Court said, “There is no starting point or end point for the authorities to complete their action, but if the investigation is not completed and the charge sheet is not filed within the prescribed time, a right accrues to the accused to be released on bail.”  If the investigation is not completed and the charge sheet is not filed within the prescribed time, a right accrues to the accused to be released on bail Bombay High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-grants-bail-to-dhfl-promoters/article32408532.ece
21 August 2020||Mumbai,||Hope actor Sushant case doesn’t meet same fate: Pawar||Recalling that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the murder of rationalist Dr. Narendra Dabholkar in Pune, has not been able to nab the culprits seven years after the crime, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said he wishes the same fate does not befall the central agency’s investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Reacting for the first time since the Supreme Court verdict in the case, Mr. Pawar said, “The Supreme Court has ordered the transfer of the probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to the CBI. I am confident that the Maharashtra government will respect the verdict and cooperate with the CBI.” He, however, taunted the CBI over its pending investigation in the Dr. Dabholkar murder case. “I hope this investigation will not face the same fate as the one started by the CBI in 2014 in Dr. Narendra Dabholkar murder case which is still pending,” the NCP chief said. Dr. Dabholkar was shot dead in Pune on August 20, 2013. In 2014, the investigation was handed over to the CBI. Following a petition filed by the family of Dr. Dabholkar, the CBI has been submitting the investigation’s progress report every month to the Bombay High Court in a sealed envelope. According to the CBI, Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar, who are in jail, shot Dr. Dabholkar. However, neither the trial has begun nor the mastermind behind the murder has been arrested. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) criticised Mr. Pawar for linking the actor’s case with that of Dr. Dabholkar. “Dr. Dabholkar was murdered in 2013 and then the Congress-NCP government was ruling Maharashtra. Had they arrested the masterminds before going out of power, then Sharad Pawar would not have needed to make this statement,” said BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar.  I am confident that the Maharashtra government will respect the Supreme Court’s verdict and cooperate with the CBI Sharad Pawar NCP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hope-actor-sushant-case-doesnt-meet-same-fate-pawar/article32408528.ece
21 August 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai Police draw flak on Twitter again||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday night issued a tweet warning action against non-essential vehicular movement, leaving several netizens with the question of whether the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown was still in force or the unlock phase was on. On their official Twitter handle, the Mumbai Police warned that strict legal action would be taken against people who step out for non-essential purposes. “Strict legal action will be taken and vehicles will be seized if any non-permitted & non-essential vehicular movement is noticed. This is not just against the rules, but also not in favour of your own safety, at this crucial moment in Mumbai’s fight against #COVID19,” the tweet read. The message was criticised by many people on social media, with some Twitter users asking the police to classify what is essential and non-essential movement. People also asked the police if the COVID-19-induced lockdown was still in force. “Both the government and cops are confused about what to follow and ignore. It’s a complete failure of communication and expected considering the level of mismanagement which happens,” a Twitter user said. While another user said, “Why so confused about everything @MumbaiPolice or is it the social media team/agency goofed up on copy paste of content or is it the fact that you seriously need help achieving targets with fines!” This is the second time since the start of the lockdown that the Mumbai Police have faced criticism over their instructions about vehicular movement. Earlier, it faced the ire of netizens for their directive, under the State government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative, restricting the movement of people within a two-km radius of their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-police-draw-flak-on-twitter-again/article32408536.ece
21 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Accused in Rs. 1,000 cr. heroin bust ends life in jail’s quarantine centre||An accused in the Rs. 1,000 crore heroin case, who was arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in Delhi on August 9, was found dead at a quarantine centre designated for the inmates of Taloja jail on Wednesday night. The accused, Mohammed Nauman Suleman (43), along with two accomplices were arrested in connection with 192 kg of heroin seized from the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust at Nhava Sheva. After the DRI took the accused into custody, a court in Panvel remanded them in judicial custody on Wednesday. “As per the protocol, the trio was shifted to Gokhale High School in Kharghar, which is the designated quarantine centre for the inmates of Taloja jail. The accused is suspected to have ended his life in the washroom,” said police inspector Mahesh Patil from the Kharghar police station. The police said officers escorted Suleman to the washroom around 11.30 p.m. and they broke open the door when he did not come out for a while. The officers found him unconscious in the washroom. A doctor was called in when they noticed some movement in his body. “Despite medical help, his life could not be saved,” said an official at Taloja jail. Later, one of his accomplices took an overdose of pills. He was immediately taken to hospital and rescued. “We have not recorded his statement yet. None of the two had written any note. The third accomplice also seems depressed and we would be speaking to him,” a police officer from Kharghar police station said. The officer said Suleman had attempted to kill himself while he was in the custody of the DRI. “The stitches on his wrist were still fresh when he was found dead,” the officer added. As the accused died in judicial custody, the judicial magistrate will order an inquiry as per the provisions of Section 176 (1A) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/accused-in-rs-1000-cr-heroin-bust-ends-life-in-jails-quarantine-centre/article32408740.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW rescues woman||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Thursday said that a 20-year-old woman was rescued after being threatened by her parents for marrying against their wishes. The woman had reached out to the women’s panel through social media. “Shruti [name changed] revealed that she got married on August 12 but her parents were not happy with the decision. They called her home to talk about it. However, she was beaten, abducted and taken to Dadri. She informed that her family was conspiring her murder,” the DCW official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dcw-rescues-woman/article32408739.ece
21 August 2020||Patna,||Three more RJD legislators join JD(U)||Ahead of the Bihar Assembly elections, three more Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal MLAs, including RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s relative Chandrika Rai, on Thursday joined the ruling Janata Dal (United) (JD-U). Former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) (HAM-S), too, took the decision to quit the Grand Alliance. The three RJD MLAs who joined the JD(U) at the party headquarters are — Chandrika Rai (Parsa Assembly constituency), who is also the father-in-law of Mr. Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav; Jaivardhan Yadav alias Baccha Yadav (Paliganj); and Faraz Fatmi (Keoti). Mr. Faraz was expelled from the RJD last week and was set to join the JD(U), along with two other expelled RJD legislators, but could not do so as he was not in Patna. Mr. Faraz is the son of former Union minister and RJD leader M.A.A. Fatmi who, last year, joined the JD(U) after being denied a party ticket from the Darbhanga Lok Sabha seat. Mr. Fatmi has represented the Darbhanga LS seat four times. Mr. Jaivardhan Yadav alias Baccha Yadav is the grandson of former Union minister Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav. On August 17, three RJD MLAs — Maheshwar Prasad Yadav (Gaighat), Ashok Kumar (Sasaram) and Prema Chaudhary (Patepur) — had switched their loyalties to the JD(U). On the same day, a Minister in the Nitish Kumar Cabinet and senior JD(U) leader, Shyam Rajak, joined the RJD. HAM(S), the disgruntled mahagathbandhan alliance partner, on Thursday took the decision to end ties with the alliance. “In the party’s core committee meeting today [Thursday], a decision was taken to end ties with the mahagathbandhan ,” said HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan. He added, “What will be the party’s future course of action is left on HAM(S) chief to decide.” Mr. Rizwan, however, asserted that the HAM(S) would not “merge” with any other party.  Mahadalit face Sources said Mr. Manjhi, a Mahadalit leader with electoral influence in some constituencies of central Bihar, is likely to join the ruling NDA in the State for a harder political bargain in the Assembly polls. Party sources said the HAM(S) may get seven-nine seats from the JD(U) quota in the upcoming Assembly polls in the NDA formation. The NDA’s Mahadalit face — the Lok Janshakti Party — has of late been attacking Mr. Kumar over several issues. “If Mr. Manjhi comes to the NDA flock, it will be interesting to see how the ruling NDA manages both the Mahadalit leaders — Mr. Manjhi and [LJP chief] Chirag Paswan — in the same block,” political analyst Ajay Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-more-rjd-legislators-join-jdu/article32408538.ece
21 August 2020||Pune,||Seven years on, no justice for Dr. Dabholkar||Seven years since he was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants, the kin of slain rationalist Dr. Narendra Dabholkar have said that it was “extremely distressing” that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had failed to nab the masterminds behind the crime. They said that the agency had not made any significant headway despite nabbing fringe right-wing Hindutva activists Dr. Virendra Tawde in 2016, and Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar — named by the agency to be the two shooters — in 2018. “The CBI also arrested right-wing Hindutva lawyer Sanjeev Punalekar and his associate Vikram Bhave in May 2019. Since then, there has been no progress in the investigation. While charge sheets have been filed against Tawde, Andure and Kalaskar, the agency has yet to untangle the conspiracy threads linking Dr. Dabholkar’s murder with that of comrade Govind Pansare, scholar M.M. Kalburgi and journalist Gauri Lankesh,” said Mukta Dabholkar, the late rationalist’s daughter. She said that the Maharashtra Police investigated her father’s murder for the first nine months, after which the case was transferred to the CBI, which had then been probing it for nearly six-and-a-half years. ‘Three similar murders’ “It is unfortunate that even after seven years, this crime remains unsolved, especially given that three eerily similar murders of thinkers and a journalist have been committed since Dr. Dabholkar’s killing,” said Dr. Hamid Dabholkar, the rationalist’s son. Pointing to the similarity in the killings of all four rationalist-thinkers, Hamid Dabholkar said a report from a forensic laboratory in Bengaluru had suggested that both Dr. Dabholkar and Pansare had been killed using the same murder weapon. “Charge sheets are yet to be filed against suspects such as Amol Kale, Amit Degwekar and Rajesh Bangera [prime accused in the Gauri Lankesh murder]… unless the masterminds behind these four killings are nabbed, the lives of all progressives in the country — be they thinkers, writers, journalists — are in danger to falling prey to purveyors of extremist thought,” said Dr. Hamid Dabholkar. Motorcycle-borne assailants had killed Dr. Dabholkar on August 20, 2013, with a 7.65-mm country-made pistol when he was taking his morning stroll on Omkareshwar Bridge in Pune. Pansare, and his wife Uma, were similarly shot at close range from two 7.65-mm country-made weapons. The same modus operandi was used in the murder of scholar-rationalist Kalburgi, who was murdered by two unidentified assailants outside his home in Dharwad in Kanataka, as well as senior journalist Lankesh, who was shot dead outside her Bengaluru residence in 2017. On the occasion of the seventh anniversary of the killing, writer and Swaraj Abhiyan founder Yogendra Yadav delivered the second Dr. Narendra Dabholkar Memorial Lecture. Last year, eminent journalist N. Ram, former Editor-in-Chief, The Hindu, delivered the first lecture titled ‘Three challenges facing contemporary India’. ‘Passed tough test’ “The ultimate test of upholding one’s principles and ideals is whether one is willing to sacrifice their lives for it. All four — Dr. Dabholkar, comrade Pansare, prof. Kalburgi and Gauri Lankesh — have passed this tough test by consistently exhibiting great courage in fearlessly speaking the truth,” said Mr. Yadav, in his online lecture. He said he particularly had great respect for Dr. Dabholkar as the late rationalist had chosen to take his ideas to the common man by expressing them in Marathi rather than in English. Meanwhile, members of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS) — the outfit founded by Dr. Dabholkar — staged a ‘ Jawab Do’ (give answers) protest over the delay in justice in Dr. Dabholkar’s case on Omkareshwar Bridge. “We will be keeping up this tradition of enlightened protest until justice is done. This year, owing to COVID-19, we held our protest by strictly adhering to physical distancing rules,” said Nandini Jadhav of the MANS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/seven-years-on-no-justice-for-dr-dabholkar/article32408530.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Back on the water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/back-on-the-water/article32408743.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Kamala Harris accepts historic V-P nomination||Kamala Harris, the first black woman and person of Indian descent to be nominated on a major political party ticket in U.S. history, accepted the (uncontested) nomination as vice-presidential candidate of the Democratic Party. “My mother taught me that service to others gives life purpose and meaning. And oh, how I wish she were here tonight, but I know she’s looking down on me from above. I keep thinking about that 25-year-old Indian woman — all of five feet tall — who gave birth to me at Kaiser Hospital in Oakland, California. On that day, she probably could have never imagined that I would be standing before you now speaking these words: I accept your nomination for Vice President of the United States of America,” Ms. Harris said in a televised address from Delaware, during day three of the Democratic National Convention. In her acceptance speech, Ms. Harris revisited a theme she has talked about in her book, The Truths We Hold: her mother raised her and her sister to be “proud, strong Black women” and to “know and be proud” of their Indian heritage. Millions tuning in to the virtual convention were introduced to the term “ chitthis ” — a Tamil word to describe one’s mother’s younger sisters, used by Ms. Harris to refer to her aunts. On the state of the nation under the current administration, Ms. Harris said: “The constant chaos leaves us adrift. The incompetence makes us feel afraid. The callousness makes us feel alone. It’s a lot.” As a U.S. Senator, Ms. Harris had, earlier this year, introduced legislation to examine and respond to the race dimensions of the COVID-19 burden. She said in her speech that a disproportionately high number of racial minorities were being impacted by the diseases due to “ structural racism”. “This virus has no eyes, and yet it knows exactly how we see each other — and how we treat each other,” she said. “And let’s be clear — there is no vaccine for racism. We’ve gotta do the work.” Voting plan At the opening of the virtual convention, Ms Harris delivered a recorded video message addressing concerns around voting. Mr Trump has been accused by Democrats and civil rights groups of attempting to make voting in the November 3 election difficult. On Tuesday, Postmaster General LouisDeJoy, a recent Trump appointee, walked back cost-cutting measures, postponing them until after the election after intense criticism and potential legal action for what was seen as an attempt to interfere with the election. “I think we need to ask ourselves, ‘Why don’t they want us to vote?’” Ms. Harris said. “Each of us needs a plan... a voting plan. Joe and I want to make sure you’re prepared.” Former U.S. Secretary of State and 2016 Presidential candidate Hilary Clinton also stressed the importance of voting. Dressed in white, to mark the 100th anniversary of women’s right to vote, Ms. Clinton said of the people who had come to her and said they should have voted in 2016. “This can’t be another woulda-coulda-shoulda election. If you’re voting by mail, request your ballot now, and send it back as soon as you can. If you vote in person, do it early. Bring a friend and wear a mask. Become a poll worker.” Although she won the popular vote by just under 3 million, Ms. Clinton lost the Electoral College vote — and hence the Presidency — to Mr. Trump in 2016. “Remember: Joe and Kamala can win 3 million more votes and still lose. Take. It. From. Me. We need numbers so overwhelming Trump can’t sneak or steal his way to victory,” she said on Wednesday. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi — also dressed in white — dwelt on women-specific policies in Mr. Biden’s agenda, which she listed as: the protection of abortion rights, pay equality and guarantee to safe and affordable child care. ‘Disrespect for facts’ “As Speaker, I’ve seen first hand Donald Trump’s disrespect for facts, for working families, and for women in particular — disrespect written into his policies toward our health and our rights, not just his conduct,” she said. Apart from former U.S. President Barack Obama, other speakers at the virtual convention included former Democratic presidential candidate (primary level) Elizabeth Warren and former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords, a survivor of gun violence who spoke on gun control. Part of the programming included a letter from an 11-year-old girl, whose father had voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 and whose mother was deported by Trump administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kamala-harris-accepts-historic-v-p-nomination/article32408209.ece
21 August 2020||New York,||Ex-Trump aide Bannon held in Mexico wall fraud case||U.S. President Donald Trump’s former aide Steve Bannon was on Thursday arrested and charged along with three others for defrauding hundreds of thousands of donors in a Mexico border wall fundraising campaign — a blow to the Republican incumbent. The online crowdfunding campaign known as “We Build the Wall” raised more than $25 million, prosecutors said, which the defendants said would be used on construction but was instead used for their own profit. The arrest is the latest in a string of high-profile legal battles faced by members of Mr. Trump’s inner circle. Manhattan federal prosecutors said Bannon, the organization’s founder Brian Kolfage, Andrew Badolato and Timothy Shea “received hundreds of thousands of dollars in donor funds from We Build the Wall, which they each used in a manner inconsistent with the organisation’s public representations.” The initiative began in 2018 as a GoFundMe campaign to raise money towards the border wall Mr. Trump had promised during his 2016 campaign, which Bannon orchestrated. Kolfage, according to the indictment, took more than $350,000 for his own use and worked to hide his actions. After calling the effort a “volunteer organization,” Bannon, 66, received over $1 million of the donations, which he funnelled through a non-profit he controlled, using some of it for his personal expenses, prosecutors said. All four men are charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ex-trump-aide-bannon-held-in-mexico-wall-fraud-case/article32408212.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump lacks interest, treats presidency as reality show: Obama||Former U.S. President Barack Obama ripped into the four-year record of President Donald Trump, saying Mr. Trump treated the presidency as a reality show and did not take the job seriously. The comments were made in a video address on day three of the virtual Democratic National Convention, themed ‘A More Perfect Union’. Mr. Obama, who has already endorsed his former deputy Mr. Biden and participated in campaign videos, compared Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump based on his direct interaction with both candidates. “I have sat in the Oval Office with both of the men who are running for President. I never expected that my successor would embrace my vision or continue my policies. I did hope, for the sake of our country, that Donald Trump might show some interest in taking the job seriously; that he might come to feel the weight of the office and discover some reverence for the democracy that had been placed in his care,” Mr. Obama said. “But he never did. For close to four years now, he’s shown no interest in putting in the work; no interest in finding common ground; no interest in using the awesome power of his office to help anyone but himself and his friends; no interest in treating the presidency as anything but one more reality show that he can use to get the attention he craves. Donald Trump hasn’t grown into the job because he can’t,” he said. Policy roll back Mr. Trump has rolled back a significant number of Mr. Obama’s policies — from domestic environmental policies to taking the U.S. out of a number of treaties the Obama administration had entered into. On Wednesday, Mr. Obama said Mr. Biden and his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, believed that nobody, including the President, was above the law. “They understand that in this democracy, the Commander-in-Chief doesn’t use the men and women of our military, who are willing to risk everything to protect our nation, as political props to deploy against peaceful protesters on our own soil,” Mr. Obama said. “They understand that political opponents aren’t ‘un-American’ just because they disagree with you; that a free press isn’t the ‘enemy’ but the way we hold officials accountable,” he said. Mr. Obama also addressed those who have not yet made up their mind between the two candidates. “Tonight, I am asking you to believe in Joe and Kamala’s ability to lead this country out of dark times and build it back better,” Mr. Obama said. Undecided voters In 2016, many of those who were undecided between Mr. Trump and his competitor former Secretary of State Hilary Clinton had voted for Mr. Trump — the then untested candidate. Like Democratic vice-presidential candidate Kamala Harris and former Secretary of State Hilary Clinton did earlier in the day’s proceedings, Mr. Obama asked people to make a plan to vote. “…This President and those in power — those who benefit from keeping things the way they are — they are counting on your cynicism. They know they can’t win you over with their policies. So they’re hoping to make it as hard as possible for you to vote…,” he said. In response to Mr. Obama’s speech, Mr. Trump tweeted out a series of messages including , “HE SPIED ON MY CAMPAIGN, AND GOT CAUGHT!”, alleging that the Obama administration illegally spied on the Trump campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-lacks-interest-treats-presidency-as-reality-show-obama/article32408210.ece
21 August 2020||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong govt. slams U.S. decision to suspend treaties||On Wednesday, the U.S. suspended its extradition treaty with Hong Kong, becoming the latest country to do so after Canada, Australia and Britain suspended such agreements. The U.S. also suspended an agreement with Hong Kong on reciprocal tax exemptions on income derived from the international operation of ships. “The U.S.’ unilateral decision reflects its disrespect for bilateralism and multilateralism under the current administration and should be condemned by the international community,” the territory’s government said. The government “strongly objects to and deplores the U.S.’ action, which is widely seen as a move to create troubles in China-U.S. relationship, using Hong Kong as a pawn,” it said. The government said that bilateral agreements were not preferential treatment given to Hong Kong, but were negotiated in good faith to benefit both parties. China’s Foreign Ministry said Hong Kong will also suspend its extradition agreement with the U.S. in response. “I want to emphasize again that Hong Kong affairs are purely China’s internal affairs and no one should interfere,” said Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian. Since July 1997, Hong Kong has surrendered 69 fugitives to the U.S., with the U.S. extraditing 23 people to Hong Kong, according to official data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-govt-slams-us-decision-to-suspend-treaties/article32408214.ece
21 August 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to draft new Constitution||Sri Lanka will draft a new Constitution, jettisoning the 19th Amendment  passed in 2015 that imposed curbs on presidential powers and strengthened Parliament, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has said. Addressing the inaugural session of Parliament following the August 5 general election on Thursday, President Rajapaksa said: “As the people have given us the mandate we wanted for a constitutional amendment, our first task will be to remove the 19th Amendment to the Constitution. After that, all of us will get together to formulate a new Constitution suitable for the country.” The new Constitution, he said, would prioritise the concept of “one country, one law for all the people.”   Poll promise The Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP, or People’s Front), along with its allies, secured an impressive two-thirds majority in the recent general election, making possible swift passage of new legislation. The ruling party’s poll campaign sought such a majority from the electorate, promising to abolish the 19th Amendment. The statute, passed in 2015 during the former President Maithripala Sirisena-Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe’s term, sought not only to clip the President’s executive powers, but also to strengthen independent commissions. It brought back the two-term limit on Presidency. It was hailed by many, including members of civil society, as a progressive legislation in contemporary Sri Lankan history, even as its critics found it falling short in some respects. The Rajapaksa camp viewed the 19th Amendment’s clauses as primarily intending to prevent its leaders’ return to power. Outlining his plans further, President Rajapaksa told Parliament that it was “essential to make changes to the current electoral system” while drafting a new Constitution, retaining elements of the proportional representation system currently followed. On the government’s task of reviving the country’s economy, he called for “out-of-the-box thinking” to overcome local and global challenges. Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena assumed charge as Leader of the House, while Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB) (United People's Front), who broke away from the United National Party (UNP), was named Leader of Opposition. The SJB secured 54 seats in the general election while the presence of the UNP, which led the former government, diminished to 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-to-draft-new-constitution/article32408219.ece
21 August 2020||MINSK,||Protesters are Western puppets: Lukashenko||Demonstrators again took to the streets of the Belarusian capital and other cities on Thursday, keeping up their push for the nation’s authoritarian leader to step down after extending his 26-year rule in a vote the opposition saw as rigged. President Alexander Lukashenko has dismissed the protesters as Western puppets and threatened opposition leaders with criminal charges. EU slammed The 65-year-old Belarusian leader dismissed the European Union’s criticism of the August 9 vote and told its leaders to mind their own business. The EU leaders on Wednesday rejected the official results of the election that showed Mr. Lukashenko win 80% of the vote and expressed solidarity with protesters. The EU said it’s preparing sanctions against Belarusian officials responsible for the brutal post-election police actions. During the first four days of protests, police detained almost 7,000 people and injured hundreds with rubber bullets, stun grenades and clubs. At least three protesters died. The crackdown fuelled massive outrage and swelled protesters’ ranks, forcing authorities to change tactics and stop breaking up crowds that grew to an unprecedented 2,00,000 on Sunday. Mr. Lukashenko on Wednesday warned that the participants would face dismissal and ordered law enforcement agencies to protect factory managers from the opposition pressure. The Belarusian leader also warned members of the Coordination Council, who held their first meeting on Wednesday that they could face criminal responsibility for their attempt to create “parallel power structures.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protesters-are-western-puppets-lukashenko/article32408207.ece
21 August 2020||Beijing,||‘U.S., China to soon hold call on trade’||Beijing and Washington will soon hold a call on trade, China’s Commerce Ministry said on Thursday, after reports that planned high-level talks on the “phase one” trade agreement between the two countries were postponed. The U.S. and China signed the accord in January, bringing a partial truce in their trade war, and obliging Beijing to import an additional $200 billion in American products over two years, ranging from cars to machinery to oil to farm products. “The two sides have agreed to hold a call in the near future,” Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-to-soon-hold-call-on-trade/article32408220.ece
21 August 2020||Tehran,||Tehran, Aug 20, 2020 (AFP) -||Tehran said on Thursday it seized an Emirati boat following a Gulf incident, in which two Iranian fishermen died, stoking tensions after the UAE said it would establish ties with Iran's arch-enemy Israel. Iran said it also summoned the UAE charge d'affaires to protest the maritime incident, which took place on Monday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tehran-aug-20-2020-afp/article32408215.ece
21 August 2020||Seoul,||Seoul, Aug 20, 2020 (AFP) -||North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has called a rare Congress of the ruling Workers' Party for January to address policy “shortcomings” and lay out a new five-year plan for the isolated nation's moribund economy.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/seoul-aug-20-2020-afp/article32408217.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The leaders we need in today’s world||A tormented world, shaken out of its comfort by a pandemic whose devastating reach mocks humanity’s collective capacity to prevail, yearns for answers about our common future. Glaring and persisting inequities of the world order, accentuated by the virus and the digital divide, foretell the story of a failed leadership and failing realisation of the Millennium Development Goals. The question of leadership befitting the moment was, therefore, seldom more relevant. History beckons us once again to summon leadership that can navigate a happy and secure future for all, anchored in the inviolability of values that define our humanity. Whether one subscribes to the view that history is a chronicle of accomplishments of the great men and women of their time, or believes that they do not make history “...as they please but under circumstances existing already...” the centrality of leadership at transformative moments in history stands empirically established. As Will Durant reminds us, leaders “are the very life and blood of history, of which politics and industry are but a frame”. Arnold Toynbee, in his monumental work, A Study Of History , tells us similarly that the rise and fall of civilisations is a history of periodic challenges and our response to them. Clearly, the question of leadership is integral to the context that summons it. A potent cocktail A survey of the present landscape is both daunting and depressing. The global retreat of democracies, relegation of the ethical imperative to an obsessive pursuit of raw power as an end in itself, a crisis of institutional legitimacy, and the challenge of forging a political consensus needed for hard but necessary decisions interrogate the proclaimed assumptions of democratic resilience. The rise of ‘jingoistic nationalism’ in confrontation with an international cooperative endeavour to face common challenges, a skewed balance between demands of security and sanctity of civil rights, the sordid saga of fake news and misinformation, an unprecedented global financial crisis that has weakened our collective capacity to rescue national economies, loss of millions of jobs with an estimated $3.4 trillion lost in labour revenue and the resultant social distress, heightened geopolitical rivalries, racism, xenophobia, and woeful absence of a united global response to the challenge of climate change collectively present a potent cocktail of societal instability and political disruption. Increasing encroachment of the private sphere by a ‘surveillance state’ through the abuse of digital technologies and Artificial Intelligence systems raise discomforting questions about the flawed dominance of efficiency over ethics and power over principle. Notwithstanding the wholly welcome technological empowerment of vast swathes of humanity, digital inequality, the omnipresence of algorithm-driven platforms and commercial harvesting of personal data raise disquieting questions about an unhindered infraction of privacy rights and human dignity. Issues concerning accountability for autonomous systems, the absence of enforceable global norms on cybersecurity given the expanding reach of cyber bullies, and communal polarisation and violence facilitated by social media raise questions about the future of liberty and dignity in an age of rights. In a world driven by untamed technology, the relationship between its creator as the ‘measure of all things’ and his creation has been reversed. Digital ‘code wars’ are seen as the new ideological confrontation with a potential to divide the world. The diminished authority of the state to regulate the impact of technology on our social and political life questions the original premises of the social compact. The ‘insidious creep’ challenges the idea of the democratic state itself. The absence of an enforceable philosophical framework of values defining the boundaries of the digital world in which life as a drama of decisions is supplanted by algorithms and robots impels an unhurried reflection on the kind of world we want and the choices we must make. The new world in which life will be re-engineered and adapted to unprecedented changes will need extraordinary leadership that can apply knowledge of the new age to challenges of the future within a moral framework that celebrates freedom and fairness as cherished values. Leaders moulded in different frames are expected to follow their own trajectories, hopefully without falling to the seduction of absolute power induced by narrow nationalisms. Indeed, they must decide the bridges they should burn and those they must cross. Leaders are expected to mould the collective reflections of the people and flesh out a vision befitting the task at hand. They must reconcile power with public sentiment. In a world scarred by conflict and injustice, leadership is about giving hope in the future to the marginalised and respecting aspirations and mediating amongst competing views to forge a sustainable political consensus through powerful messaging. True leadership Integrity, consistency, empathy, relentless determination, self-effacing humility, a binding moral compass and the ability to motivate masses within the inviolate ethical and ideological framework of politics are leadership attributes more relevant today than ever. A largeness of heart willing and able to rise above the petty and personal, together with intellectual depth necessary to lead the battle of ideas for the establishment of a dignitarian global society, best define the qualities of leadership in these troubled times. Arrogance, ignorance, obduracy, boastfulness, and ‘scapegoating’ have no place in the lexicon of elevating leadership needed to address the vexed questions that we confront. True leadership is about loyalty to larger purposes of the day and which, when confronted with a necessary choice, owes no apology to other multiple loyalties. It is about investing politics with a high moral purpose. Existentialist questions of the day magnify the importance of inspiring leadership committed to a liberal, inclusive and a truly egalitarian order. The time for such a leadership is here. Those aspiring to lead will have many challenges to meet and lessons to learn. Ashwani Kumar is Senior Advocate at the Surpeme Court and former Union Minister for Law and Justice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-leaders-we-need-in-todays-world/article32408186.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Should women be entitled to menstrual leave?||Last week, Zomato announced a new paid menstrual leave policy for its employees, 35% of whom are women. While this is not the first time that a company is announcing such a policy, it has triggered a sharp debate among women themselves on whether this is a progressive move, mere tokenism, or a regressive move. Barkha Dutt and Kavita Krishnan discuss the issue in a conversation moderated by Radhika Santhanam . Edited excerpts:  Barkha, you tweeted that you are opposed to this policy. Zomato is granting 10 days of leave, and whether women avail it or don’t is up to them; it is a choice. So, why do you think this is a bad idea?  Barkha Dutt (BD):My opposition does not come from the number of days that Zomato has announced; it comes more from what I believe this policy represents. I have had to fight to go on certain assignments, to be assigned certain kinds of stories. I know how tilted newsrooms are towards the casual hierarchical supremacy of men. Women have had to fight twice as hard to get to the same place as men. Because I am inherently opposed to the gendering of the workplace, I see period leave as the gendering of the workplace, as a statement of biological determinism, as using biology against women to offer equal opportunities and assignments. In the nature-versus-nurture debate, I have always been on the side of nurture. I believe that social differences and constructs create our differences, not biological essentialism. And I believe period leave is biological essentialism that my feminism opposes. But don’t you think workplaces should be designed taking into consideration the needs of women rather than ignoring them?  BD:Your question presupposes that it is the need of all women to have a day off. If a woman has a particularly debilitating period, if she has endometriosis or is in a situation where she can’t work, I believe that should qualify under the larger bracket of medical leave. I have a problem with all women being generalised as women needing menstrual leave. And if the argument against that is that it cuts into normally assigned medical leave, I do not have a problem if medical leave is extended for both women and men for extenuating circumstances a couple of times a month; leave that a man is also entitled to for different problems that we can’t identify. I have a problem with biology-specified medical leave. Kavita, do you think there should be separate menstrual leave or should women just avail of medical leave if they are unable to go to work?  Kavita Krishnan (KK):I understand and empathise with what Barkha is saying. As women who work in a world which is extremely unfair in so many ways, it is a double bind for many women. Women I have spoken to have asked, do we assert our pain and emotional states around the time of our period or will doing so mean that we are conforming to the patriarchal notion that women are not the same as men or not as good as men? I would like to understand this as a fundamental issue of the relationship between gloriously diverse human bodies and social selves and the world of work. Should workplaces be shaped only for an abstract and one-size-fits-all capitalism or should they be shaped keeping in mind the optimum productivity and comfort of diverse human bodies and selves? This is a debate that we’ve been having since the 19th century. The debate has been brought up not just in the context of women, but even when it came to the human right to sleep; for an eight-hour workday; for weekends; for bathroom breaks; for food breaks — all these are seen as time stolen from the labour time that the capitalist has bought. I feel that places of work should be reshaped to acknowledge these social divisions and that will help people be more productive. Also, I am not at all in favour of medicalising menstruation. I don’t think this is about a medical issue, about debilitating pain. It is about our being differently productive around those times and our being able to avail of those differently productive times. Could you elaborate on how we should reshape workplaces for diverse bodies and selves?  KK:Let me quote the anthropologist Emily Martin here: “Women are perceived as malfunctioning and their hormones [as] out of balance, rather than seeing the organization of society and work perceived in need of a transformation to demand less constant and disciplined productivity of a certain kind.” So, the idea is that women are more creative around their period, whereas meeting deadlines and doing certain kinds of work may not be what those particular women choose to do at the time. And this is about women, menstruating people, people with a variety of different abilities and disabilities. Let me give you a simple example: we say ramps should be in places so that people with wheelchairs are able to access these places. Would that be biological determinism? Would we say then that biology is coming in the way of equality? BD:I see Kavita’s point about diverse selves and the relationship between diverse selves and workplace. And if that is the conversation, if the conversation was not so gendered, I would have been a lot more comfortable with it. I would have been comfortable with the conversation being about easy access to sanitary pads or separate bathrooms — 20% of Indian girls drop out of school after reaching puberty, according to the United Nations. And in large part this happens because of the stigma that continues to exist in large parts of the country around menstruation. So, the conversations I want to have are about destigmatising menstruation, diversity at the workplace, access to sanitary pads or menstrual cups, why religious orthodoxy looks at menstruation as impure, etc. If I am a woman fighting to have women as infantry soldiers in the military, and we have a gendered leave policy, can we as women ask to be soldiers on the front-lines? Can we ask to be deployed in conflict zones? The moment we gender our leave policies, we gender our assignments. Weren’t these the same arguments that were used even when women fought for maternity leave? That they wouldn’t be able to do certain jobs? But feminists fought for it.  BD:Which is why my battle is for parenting leave. There are people who adopt children and that relationship is also no less. If we are truly evolved, we should encourage the same kind of leave for men. Yes, but parenting does involve the participation of men and women, whereas only women get their period. BD:So, even if I have no problem during my period, I should get leave because it is specific to my biology? Even if I have no pain, nothing? Parenting is not the same thing as our monthly period. Even our notions of maternity leave are evolving. The most involved organisations have family leave. If there is no equality at home, there is no equality at work. And if we place the responsibility of parenting entirely on women, through some romantic notion of how our biological differences make us different from men, we confirm stereotypes. KK:But we are different. There are biological differences, and not just between men and women. If someone requires a wheelchair, we would expect the workplace to be designed to ensure that that person is able to access the workplace and be their best there. People in wheelchairs will be told they can’t do certain jobs. But would we accept that? No, we should be able to redesign workplaces so that all of us can access those spaces. My arguments are not just about gendered differences. My arguments are that workers in all their diversity need workplaces to acknowledge how they are treated. And let me tell you, period leave in India isn’t some fancy thing that Zomato has just introduced. In Bihar, government employees have availed of it since the 1990s. They asked for it, got it and have been quietly availing of it since then. We went and asked them about their experiences — has it meant more discrimination, have they been treated more differently — and they argued that differential treatment happened even before they had this leave. That differential treatment requires just various excuses and this is just one excuse among men. Barkha, you had said on Twitter that such a policy would shut the doors for women and that you would shut them too for someone who thinks this is a good time to take off. Do you still stand by that?  BD:I think my comment has been totally misrepresented. I do believe many doors will shut for women with a generalised period leave and I believe that someone like me would no longer be able to argue that all jobs and all roles should be kept open for women. Think once again about reporting or fighting war or going into space. It is not because I don’t report on what could be unique female experiences. During my four months on the road reporting COVID-19 for example, one of my reports was the story of a female nurse and her experience bleeding in a PPE. I also had my period twice while wearing a PPE inside a COVID-19 hospital and it was a traumatic experience but nothing that would make me step back from the chance of reporting that very story with all its difficulties. Again, to repeat, once we start accepting the specificity of gender, it weakens our argument against gender barriers. Let us talk in more general, less-gendered terms of an inclusive, equal work space. KK:I would also like to respond to this. Any demand for equality and dignity at work has been a pretext for shutting the door on women. For that matter, even men availing of parental leave are subjected to discrimination. The idea that women demanding or availing of period leave should/would be sacked is much like the idea that women complaining of sexual harassment at work should/would be sacked, or would not be hired. Isn’t it a biological stereotype to assume that menstruating bodies (or bodies needing wheelchairs) be treated exactly as bodies that do not menstruate or need wheelchairs? I think gender blindness does not bring gender equality. Rather, being blind to gender diversity (and other bodily and social diversities) leads workplaces to be wilfully blind to the various kinds of gender and social discriminations. Kavita, since you think that period leave should be given, what do you think is the ideal number of days? Do you see this being implemented in the near future? KK:I don’t think I or anyone can suggest an “ideal” number of days for period leave. We are in times when employees and workers are having to struggle to defend and implement every single labour law. Even maternity leave and benefits are mostly implemented only where there are unions to fight for implementation. Otherwise, the laws are flouted by employers. The same holds for period leave.  The moment we gender our leave policies, we gender our assignments Barkha Dutt, Senior journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/should-women-be-entitled-to-menstrual-leave/article32408205.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The marriage age misconception||From the ramparts of the Red Fort on Independence Day, the Prime Minister declared that the government is considering raising the legal age of marriage for girls, which is currently 18 years. He said, “We have formed a committee to ensure that daughters are no longer suffering from malnutrition and they are married off at the right age. As soon as the report is submitted, appropriate decisions will be taken about the age of marriage of daughters.” The Committee in question is the task force set up on June 4, announced earlier by the Finance Minister in her Budget Speech. It is widely understood (but not officially stated) that the task force is meant to produce a rationale for raising the minimum age of marriage for women to 21, thus bringing it on a par with that for men.  Population control Since there is no obvious constituency that has been demanding such a change, the government seems to be motivated by the belief that simply raising the age of marriage is the best way to improve the health and nutritional status of mothers and their infants. Because it flies in the face of the available evidence, we need to ask where this belief is coming from. One plausible source could be those who advocate for population control and who are influential and whose research is well-funded. Consider, for example, an article published in the prestigious journal The Lancet Child and Adolescent Health , by Nyugen, Scott, Neupane, Tran and Menon, on May 15, 2019. It was funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. This article analyses data on stunting in children and thinness in mothers (as measures of under-nourishment) in the latest round of the National Family Health Survey 4 (2015-16). The paper uses rigorous methods to chase a flawed hypothesis. The authors examine the strength of the association between many different causal factors (the mother’s age at childbearing, her educational level, living conditions, health conditions, decision-making power, and so on) and the health status of mother and child. As it turns out, the poverty of the mother plays the greatest role of all by far — both in relation to her undernourishment and that of her child, but this is not acknowledged. The authors only concede that their cross-sectional design (using data from a single time period) “reduces causal inference. For example, becoming pregnant early might lead to reduced education or wealth; however, a woman from a poor background and lower education might be more likely to become pregnant early.” In other words, instead of early pregnancy causing malnourishment, they may both be the consequences of poverty. The stated concern of the study was to find ways to break the “intergenerational cycle of undernutrition”. Surely the best way to go about breaking such a cycle would be to pick the factors that are playing the strongest role in perpetuating it. In this case, it would be to address the poverty of the mother, which could be done in a myriad ways, beginning with the most direct method of nutritional programmes for girls and women through a range of institutional mechanisms from Anganwadis to schools. However, the authors choose to concentrate on delaying the age of pregnancy, even though this is the weakest link of all. In fact, age only begins to have some real significance when pregnancies are delayed to ages of 25 and above, which is true of only a minuscule proportion of women in India. The article is unusually generous in its use of the usual scholarly caveats, but leaves itself open to being co-opted by larger agendas driven by the doctrine that “over-population” is the root of all evil in poor countries. Declining fertility rates It is unfortunate that such thinking is finding a home in the highest office of the Indian government. Just a year ago, from the ramparts of the same fort, the Prime Minister bluntly declared that “population explosion” was one of India’s major problems. As he put it, “with an ever increasing population, we have to think, can we do justice to the aspirations of our children? Before a child is born in our home, we must ask if we have prepared ourselves to fulfil the child’s needs, or are we going to leave the child to its fate?” Perhaps he (or his advisers) were influenced by the many international reports making alarming predictions about future dystopias that would result if child marriage were not swiftly eliminated in countries like India, which is home to the largest number of underage marriages in the world. It is a pity that those who have the Prime Minister’s ear did not bother to seek the advice of our own demographers who have been studying the apparent link between early marriage and escalating fertility rates for decades. As it turns out, India’s fertility rates have been declining to well below replacement levels in many States, including those with higher levels of child marriage. This could be the reason why those advocating population control have chosen to shift from fuelling fears about booming populations to expressing concern for the undernourishment of children. Costless and effortless Perhaps there is a more cynical reason at work. Raising the age at marriage by amending the law is costless and can be effortlessly achieved by legal fiat. Why not claim that doing so will enhance the welfare of women and children, since addressing the true causes of the poor health and nutrition of mothers and children is too difficult a task? The government will not incur any financial costs for raising the age of marriage of girls from 18 to 21 years. But the change will leave the vast majority of Indian women who marry before they are 21 without the legal protections that the institution of marriage otherwise provides, and make their families criminalisable. Those who fervently believe that the minimum age of men and women should be the same in the name of gender equality can suggest that India follow global norms of 18 years for both. Given the present climate, it could even be that this move is partly prompted by a vague belief that child marriage is more prevalent among Muslims and helps them reproduce faster. The evidence shows that this is not true, but such prejudices are inoculated against all evidence. In this context, it is interesting that the States with high mean ages at marriage of 25 years are erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir, Mizoram, Nagaland, Manipur and Goa. Even Kerala (22 years) and Delhi (23 years) have significantly lower mean ages at marriage. The proverbial “thinking Indian” — fast becoming an endangered species — has now become accustomed to watching helplessly as acts of state folly unfold. She can also continue to hope for miracles. Mary E. John is at the Centre for Women’s Development Studies. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-marriage-age-misconception/article32408192.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Technology as an enabler||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 proposes a revamping of existing systems of higher education. Integration of technology for enhancing teaching-learning is an important policy objective. In India, much of the debate on new technology focuses on issues of digital divide and associated challenges on equity which leads many to view new technology and associated opportunities as an antithesis to equity and inclusion. However, opportunities provided by new technology can act as potential sources for promoting egalitarianism in higher education, if access to technology is democratised and values of inclusion is institutionalised. Envisioning inclusive learning requires a deeper understanding of the larger context of student diversity in contemporary campuses. Currently, a large share of students are from lower social strata such as Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes and from poor households and families where no one has undergone any post-secondary education. A significant proportion of those students are from government schools, under-developed regions, remote villages and urban margins. They are more likely to have had the regional language as a medium of instruction in schools. A national-level study on ‘student diversity and social inclusion’ carried out at the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration in 2016 showed that students from marginalised social groups face severe challenges due to social exclusion and academic non-integration. The institutional mechanisms to bridge the gaps are also inadequate. As a result, inclusion made in terms of access is not getting translated into quality educational experience and equitable academic outcome. Remote learning Since the lockdown, the 37 million students in higher education in India have not attended colleges and universities. Indefinite closure of institutions has compelled higher education administrators to explore possibilities for remote learning. A national-level study carried out at the NIEPA revealed that there is a long way to go in moving towards inclusive learning mediated by technology. It also found that urban-rural disparity in conduct of online classes is alarmingly high. The NEP emphasises vital linkage between education and technology in the context of the country’s transformative journey towards a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy. An autonomous body called National Educational Technology Forum (NETF) will be entrusted with the task of advising institutions on use of technology, capacity building, providing directions for research and innovation and creating avenues for exchange of ideas. Learning at your own pace When teaching-learning is facilitated by new technology, the temporal and spatial restrictions on learning tend to disappear. In technology-mediated learning, the pace of the learning is not determined by the teacher in most cases. Students can decide how much is to be learned at a given point of time. They have the freedom to learn according to their convenience. This peculiar feature of self-paced and student-centered learning can provide greater support to marginalised learners and help teachers to assume a new role of facilitator. The NEP’s emphasis on technology is a welcome step. However, in what context and for what purpose technology is used in educational settings is also important. As academic integration continues to remain a major challenge, technology needs to be seen as a means to provide additional learning inputs. Universities and colleges should invest in ICT infrastructure keeping these larger goals in mind. It requires institutions to espouse and enact values of inclusion in structure and process of higher education. Malish C.M. is an Assistant Professor at the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, New Delhi. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/technology-as-an-enabler/article32408198.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Less taxing||The Union Cabinet’s decision to create a National Recruitment Agency to conduct a screening examination for non-gazetted jobs, eliminating the need for candidates to take separate examinations of the Railway Recruitment Board, Staff Selection Commission and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection, is a welcome administrative reform measure. For some years now, the railways have been using contractual labour in projects and services, but the government system remains a major recruiter. In March this year, Railways Minister Piyush Goyal told Parliament that four employment notifications for Group C employees in the Ministry were issued in 2019 for 1.43 lakh posts, besides a similar number selected the previous year. Overall, the posts coming under the ambit of the proposed NRA would cover about 1.25 lakh jobs a year, which typically attract about 2.5 crore aspirants. The gains from a single examination, when offered at the district level in the regional language, as opposed to a multiplicity of tests in far fewer locations are self-evident. Candidates would no longer have to travel to urban centres at considerable expense and hardship to take an employment test. Opportunities to improve performance, subject to age limits, and a three-year validity for scores are positive features. Yet, the long-term relevance of such reforms will depend on the commitment of governments to raise the level of public employment and expand services to the public, both of which are low in India. While announcing the proposal for the recruitment agency in her Budget speech earlier this year, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the NRA would be an independent, professional, specialist organisation. There would also be an emphasis on creating advanced online testing infrastructure in 117 aspirational districts, many of which are in States with low social development indices. These are laudable objectives, but it is relevant to point out that as a share of the organised workforce, Central government employment appears to be declining. New posts are sanctioned periodically, but a large number of vacancies remain unfilled. With growing emphasis on transferring core railway services to the private sector, there may be fewer government jobs on offer in the future. Moreover, jobs under the Centre, predominantly in the railways and defence sectors, constitute around 14% of public employment, with the rest falling within the purview of States. Reform must, therefore, have a wider reach to achieve scale. Recruitment must be marked by well-defined procedures, wide publicity and open competition, besides virtual elimination of discretion. As a preliminary screening test, the NRA can potentially cut delays, which are a familiar feature with government, boost transparency and enable wider access. The entire process of candidate selection must be a model, raising the bar on speed, efficiency and integrity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/less-taxing/article32408187.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||A losing proposition||India has seen many versions of the ‘sons of the soil’ argument over decades. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s announcement that only those domiciled there would be eligible for government jobs in the State is not unique in that sense. At the same time, it denotes a certain mainstreaming of nativism that more parties and States appear to be adopting. Mr. Chouhan’s announcement was packaged as a promise to the youths of the State, but in reality, it is a sign of gloom. Regional parties have always focused on local sentiments, but what is notable in recent years is the BJP and the Congress too jumping on the bandwagon. The Congress in Madhya Pradesh is supporting the move, and in Maharashtra, it is part of the ruling coalition led by the Shiv Sena which is pushing measures to give priority to locals in employment in the private sector. Similar moves from States such as Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Telangana in recent years to introduce various types of domicile eligibility for job seekers, in private and government jobs, have either been aborted or had limited outcomes. But measures that raise artificial barriers go against the grain of national integration, which includes market integration. There are regional particularities to be considered, nevertheless. Some States require a certain proficiency in the local language to be employed in government jobs, which is for administrative reasons. There are also restrictions on movement of people into tribal areas of India. These are exceptions provided in the legal and constitutional scheme of India to manage its remarkable diversity. Inciting local passions in order to divert public attention from the real challenge of generating employment for the country’s swelling youth population falls in a different realm. Migrant populations fulfil a market demand created by gaps in skills and preferences. That is one reason why government orders and even laws of the past in several places that mandated quotas for locals in employment were not enforced. The spectre of locals losing out to migrants is hugely exaggerated and often designed to beguile the people. In Gujarat, politicians including those of the ruling BJP continue to raise a hue and cry for a domicile quota of 85% in the private sector workforce whereas the government data showed in 2017 that 92% of it was local already. India has a severe unemployment crisis and efforts that match the challenge are badly needed. Nativism is not a part of the solution. In fact, it can aggravate the crisis by creating a hostile environment to investment, growth and employment generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-losing-proposition/article32408193.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Washington via Patna||Election enthusiasts have to split their time and attention between Bihar and the U.S. in the coming weeks. One is a State, and the other is a country, but they are unique specimens for understanding the various possibilities and colours of democracy, contemporary and historical. My first reporting stint as the Bihar State representative of The Indian Express , between 2003 and 2005 was politically eventful. I ended up covering two State elections in Bihar and the 2004 Lok Sabha elections not only in Bihar but also in Uttar Pradesh in two years. Exactly a decade later, in 2015, I went to the U.S. as The Hindu ’s representative. I have covered all elections in Bihar and U.P. since 2003, barring the two during my three-year stint in the U.S. Embedded reporting with candidates and studio punditry dominate the American election coverage, and people’s voices and concerns get a subsidiary treatment though they are not altogether absent. Opinion polls have a hallowed status in the coverage of elections in the U.S., and they try to make matrices on feelings and preferences — ‘Yes, No, Can’t Say.’ This never worked in India; and, in the U.S. also, this no longer works as well as it used to, as the mainstream reporting and predictions on the 2016 contest between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton showed. More questions to ask As people have an increasing number of questions to ponder over before making a voting choice, the traditional survey tools may have become less effective. For instance, all those who are opposed to China trade are not against immigration in the U.S. and vice versa . Parenthetically, not all those who vote for Mr. Trump are anti-immigration or anti-trade. Election reporting in India, on the other hand, gave limited importance to opinion polls, certainly until the crowding out of nuanced political writing by mushrooming TV channels. Good election reporting in India involves longish conversations, distinct from interviews, with the public. If one is willing to engage in that exercise keeping aside biases and wishes, it is not difficult to arrive at a reasonably accurate assessment of the situation. Over the years, I have figured that one reliable measure of a candidate’s chances is the enthusiasm of her own supporters — which is very easy to figure, from the response at the rallies. ‘Energising the base’ has now become a thing in elections in the U.S. and India. On the counting day of each election, I have waited with palpitation as if I were contesting! Rarely has an outcome surprised me — including the victory of Mr. Trump. This time, the virus has neutralised the election bug for all enthusiasts, and Bihar and the U.S. will be a test of how the pandemic has changed election reporting too. In the absence of gatherings, propaganda and the assessment of its impact have both become difficult and new techniques will have to evolve. I wish to retrace the steps this time too, but the virus has the last word on the reporter’s itinerary, be it in Bihar or the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/washington-via-patna/article32408200.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||PM’s remark sparks uproar||In the bizarre drama of Delhi politics, running battle of wits in Parliament to-day (August 20) took the strange turn of the Young Turks joining hands with the Congress (O), Swatantra, Jan Sangh and S.S.P. in the Rajya Sabha to demand an expression of regret by the Prime Minister for the remark that the shouting in the House by Opposition members was not going to make any impact on the people.The trouble arose when the Young Turk, Mr. Krishan Kant, protested that the reply given by the Minister of State, Mrs. Nandini Satpathy, on behalf of the Prime Minister, to the question relating to governmental strategy for meeting the basic needs of the people was not only unsatisfactory but needlessly non-committal and vague. The Prime Minister rebutted the charge that the Government was sliding back from its earlier commitments and remarked rather sharply that it was not a question of not wanting to meet the minimum needs of the people but what was possible in the given circumstance. This led to shouting an counter-shouting culminating in Mrs. Gandhi’s retort which touched off the bigger furore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pms-remark-sparks-uproar/article32408196.ece
21 August 2020||MUMBAI,||NSFE eyes individuals’ financial well-being||The National Strategy for Financial Education (NSFE): 2020-2025 document released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday has recommended a ‘5 C’ approach for dissemination of financial education in the country. These include emphasis on development of relevant content in curriculum in schools, colleges and training establishments, developing capacity among intermediaries involved in providing financial services, leveraging the positive effect of community-led model for financial literacy through appropriate communication strategy, and, enhancing collaboration among various stakeholders. This NSFE for the period 2020-2025, the second one after the 2013-18 NSFE, has been prepared by the National Centre for Financial Education (NCFE) in consultation with all the Financial Sector Regulators (RBI, SEBI, IRDAI and PFRDA), DFS and other Ministries of Govt. of India and other stakeholders (DFIs, SROs, IBA, NPCI) under the aegis of the Technical Group on Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy under the Chairmanship of Deputy Governor, RBI. The document has been approved by the FSDC-SC in its 24th meeting, held on June 18, 2020, the RBI said. “The NSFE: 2020-2025 intends to support the vision of the Government of India and the Financial Sector Regulators by empowering various sections of the population to develop adequate knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviour which are needed to manage their money better and to plan for the future,” the statement added. The strategy recommends adoption of a multi-stakeholder approach to achieve financial well-being of Indians. To achieve the vision of creating a financially aware and empowered India, certain strategic objectives have been laid down including inculcating financial literacy concepts among various sections of the population through financial education to make it an important life skill, encouraging active savings behaviour and developing credit discipline. Improving usage of digital financial services in a safe and secure manner, and bringing awareness about rights, duties and avenues for grievance redressal are also objectives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nsfe-eyes-individuals-financial-well-being/article32408175.ece
21 August 2020||Chennai,||‘Lockdown led to surge in sewing machine demand’||The COVID-19-led lockdown has compelled several people to diversify into areas of work that weren’t their core focus, according to an official of Usha International. This is one of the reasons for an increase in the sales of home sewing machines. People have taken up sewing either as a hobby or to make a living, he said. “The global pandemic has affected consumer behaviour as they juggled household chores with office work and other commitments,” Parveen Kumarr Sahni, senior VP, sewing machines business, Usha International told The Hindu  “Yet, they found time to pick up sewing as a creative outlet to deal with the stress by making masks, PPE kits and home decor,” he added. While pointing out the total size of the sewing machine industry was 45 lakh units, he said, “The demand for sewing machines is currently exceeding supply. The black sewing machines used by your grandma and tailors are in demand accounting for almost 80% of the total sales,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lockdown-led-to-surge-in-sewing-machine-demand/article32408166.ece
21 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Muthoot Fincorp disburses Rs. 11,500 cr.||Muthoot Fincorp, the flagship company of Muthoot Pappachan Group, has disbursed Rs. 11,500 crore to 2.5 million customers in the last four and a half months of the current financial year, the company said. Of this, 75% are MSMEs, including the nano and micro retailers, it said. “A large portion of these customers belong to the rural and semi-urban pockets of the country,” the company said in a statement. For the benefit of small businesses, the NBFC, in association with INK Talks, recently started the Restart India initiative focussing on giving the right kind of advice to small businesses in order to get them back on track. The firm had received Rs. 1,475 crore from banks under the Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme 2.0 and TLTRO 2.0 scheme in the last four months, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/muthoot-fincorp-disburses-rs-11500-cr/article32408171.ece
21 August 2020||Chennai,||Treasury gains spur IOB to Q1 profit of Rs. 121 crore||Public sector lender Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) has reported a standalone net profit of Rs. 121 crore for the first quarter ended June against a net loss of Rs. 342 crore in the year-earlier period, on a rise in treasury gains and reduction in interest and operational expenditure. “For two quarters in a row, we have been posting profit,” said Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD & CEO at a media interaction. “Despite COVID-19 impact, we were able to maintain our profit levels,” Mr. Sengupta added. “In the last two quarters, the bank made a provision of Rs. 401 crore towards COVID-19. We plan to recover bad debts worth Rs. 1,000 crore each for the next three quarters,” he said. Going forward, IOB would focus on digitalisation to attract millennials and GenY, drive MSME business and contain non-performing assets. Total income rose to Rs. 5,234 crore (Rs. 5,006 crore) mainly on an increase in treasury income. Provisions and contingencies contracted to Rs. 970 crore (Rs. 1,170 crore). NPAs shrink Gross NPAs declined to Rs. 18,291 crore (Rs. 33,262 crore) and net NPAs to Rs. 6,081 crore (Rs. 14,174 crore).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/treasury-gains-spur-iob-to-q1-profit-of-rs-121-crore/article32408173.ece
21 August 2020||Mumbai,||Monetary arsenal must be kept dry for use: Das||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had emphasised that although there was headroom for further monetary policy action, the ‘arsenal’ has to be kept dry and used judiciously for promoting growth, which has been hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the MPC minutes released on Thursday. All the six members of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) had opted for status quo and left interest rates unchanged. “It would be prudent at this stage to wait for a firmer assessment of the outlook for growth and inflation as the staggered opening of the economy progresses, supply bottlenecks ease and the price reporting pattern stabilises,” Mr. Das said, as per the minutes. The Governor noted that low capacity utilisation amid subdued domestic and external demand was likely to delay revival of investment. Generalised inflationary pressures, in a situation where growth is expected to contract sharply, is a matter of serious concern, he added. “As I have been reiterating since October 2019, monetary policy is geared towards supporting the economic recovery process. Although there is headroom for further monetary policy action, at this juncture it is important to keep our arsenal dry and use it judiciously,” he said. “We should wait for some more time” for the cumulative 250 basis points reduction in policy rate since February 2019 to seep into the financial system, he added. Deputy Governor and MPC member Michael Debabrata Patra said that even when the economy improved, the expectation was for a slow, hesitant recovery, with the situation likely to worsen before it gets better. Upticks that easing of lockdowns yielded were likely to be ephemeral and vulnerable to flattening out due to lack of underlying vigour, he said. External member, Ravindra H. Dholakia said there were high uncertainties regarding the macroeconomic environment. “Although the present circumstances are truly exceptional, the primary mandate given to MPC for inflation targeting at 4% with the upper tolerance limit of 6% has to be respected,” he said. ‘In a minority’ External member Chetan Ghate said he had been advocating a more cautious path for policy rate reductions since February 2019. “However, I have been in a minority in the MPC. Inflation has now been above the upper band of 6% for a number of months. Notwithstanding large rate cuts to spur growth over the last year and a half, growth has steadily declined despite 250 bps in cuts since February 2019,” Mr. Ghate said. Future MPC meetings should not go soft on inflation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/monetary-arsenal-must-be-kept-dry-for-use-das/article32408177.ece
21 August 2020||MUMBAI,||‘CV makers staring at a loss of Rs. 6,000 cr.’||A 30% decline in sales volume on an already weak base would lead to an almost sixfold increase in net losses to Rs. 6,000 crore for commercial vehicle (CV) makers this fiscal, Crisil Ratings said. “That, combined with a stretch in working capital owing to support extended to dealers and suppliers, could result in sizeable negative cash flows and thus, ballooning debt,” it added. While this may constrain credit metrics in the current fiscal, credit profiles of manufacturers will be supported by strong balance sheets and comfortable cash buffers. CV makers were already impacted by new overloading norms and a slowing economy when the COVID-19 struck, and sales volume had fallen 29% in FY20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cv-makers-staring-at-a-loss-of-rs-6000-cr/article32408168.ece
21 August 2020||New delhi,||Govt. plans further stake sale in IRCTC||The government plans to sell part of its stake in Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corp (IRCTC) this fiscal, and has invited bids from merchant bankers for managing the sale process. “The GoI intends to disinvest a part of the paid-up equity capital of IRCTC out of its shareholding through Offer for Sale...,” DIPAM said while inviting Requests for Proposal. Merchant bankers will have to submit bids by September 10. The Centre now holds 87.4% in IRCTC. To meet SEBI’s public holding norm, the government has to lower stake to 75%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-plans-further-stake-sale-in-irctc/article32408180.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vedanta Resources raises $1.4 bn||Vedanta Resources Ltd., on Thursday, said it had raised $1.4 billion (about Rs. 10,500 crore) via bonds, which would be primarily used to fund the delisting of its Indian flagship firm. “Vedanta Resources Ltd. (VRL) hereby announces the successful pricing of senior secured bonds. The issue size was $1.4 billion, comprising three-year amortising bonds, with an annual coupon rate of 13%,” the company said. Funds from the bond issuance will primarily be used to support the intended offer to buy out the equity shares of Vedanta Ltd. (VDL) held by public shareholders, it said. The bond issuance follows commitments for $1.75 billion that VRL had received earlier for a three-month term-loan facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vedanta-resources-raises-14-bn/article32408181.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||Hindalco signs MoU with UltraTech Cement||Hindalco Industries, a global leader in aluminium and copper, on Thursday said it had signed an MoU with UltraTech Cement to deliver 1.2 million metric tonne of bauxite residue annually to the cement company’s 14 plants located across 7 states. Hindalco claims to be the world’s first company to achieve 100% red mud (bauxite residue) utilisation, across 3 of its refineries.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hindalco-signs-mou-with-ultratech-cement/article32408179.ece
21 August 2020||Southampton,||Pakistan has everything to play for||Pakistan heads into Friday’s third Test in a must-win situation if it has to avoid a first series defeat against England in 10 years. The tourists are 1-0 down in a three-match campaign after a three-wicket defeat in the first Test at Old Trafford, a match where Pakistan was on top until the closing stages, was followed by a draw in a second Test at Southampton where neither side had a chance of victory in a match blighted by bad weather. Despite little play in the second Test, Pakistan coach Misbah-ul-Haq was heartened by the determination of Mohammad Rizwan, who top-scored with 72, the resilience of Pakistan’s top-order in “testing conditions” and the fact that an attack featuring leg-spinner Yasir Shah took four wickets. Big game “It's a big game and we want to end the series on a good note,” Misbah said. Meanwhile, England faces another selection dilemma. There will be a strong temptation to stick with the tried and tested pace trio of James Anderson, Stuart Broad and Chris Woakes, so effective in the kind of overcast English conditions that are likely to be a factor in the third Test as it was in the second. But with English cricket constantly obsessed about the next Ashes series, a 2021-22 tour of Australia, the team management would like to give express fast bowlers Jofra Archer and Mark Wood more Test-match game time before they head down under. “It's very difficult,” said England coach Chris Silverwood. “You look at what you need for the here and now and you look down the line for what we potentially need (in Australia).” Another immediate issue is that Friday’s match could be played on a used pitch as the weather meant the Ageas Bowl ground staff did not have enough time to prepare a fresh surface after the second Test finished on Monday.  The teams (from):   England: Joe Root (Capt.), James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Dominic Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler (wk), Zak Crawley, Sam Curran, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Dom Sibley, Chris Woakes and Mark Wood.   Pakistan: Azhar Ali (Capt.), Babar Azam, Abid Ali, Asad Shafiq, Fawad Alam, Imam-ul-Haq, Kashif Bhatti, Mohammad Abbas, Mohammad Rizwan (wk), Naseem Shah, Sarfaraz Ahmed (wk), Shadab Khan, Shaheen Afridi, Shan Masood, Sohail Khan and Yasir Shah.   Umpires: Richard Illingworth and Michael Gough; TV umpire: Richard Kettleborough; Reserve umpire: Mike Burns; Match referee: Chris Broad.   Match starts at 3.30 p.m. IST .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-has-everything-to-play-for/article32408329.ece
21 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Awards a motivation: Vinesh||World championships bronze medallist and Asian Games and Commonwealth Games champion wrestler Vinesh Phogat feels the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award will motivate her to do well in the Tokyo Olympics. Vinesh shared her happiness as she spoke about the road ahead. “When the Government gives you an award, actually it is the whole of India which is recognising you. It tells how much appreciation we will get if we perform well on the biggest stage. Such things make the athletes work hard for years. Also, it adds to the responsibility,” Vinesh told The Hindu . Vinesh said she needed to reboot her preparation for the postponed Tokyo Olympics next year. Start again “The training was high intensity and the idea was to peak at the right time. Now, I have to begin from the start again. My coach (Hungarian Woller Akos) does the planning and I trust him.” Vinesh, who has improved her game to last for six minutes of a bout after switching to 53kg, has been working to get better. “If the opponent is strong, then I need to bolster my attack and defence. I am working on single leg attack and trying to improve my technique.” Treading cautiously, Vinesh — who has earned an Olympic quota place in 53kg — has requested the Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) to let her skip the National camp starting in Lucknow next month. “Two years ago I had a stomach infection. If I don’t take care of my food and water, then it recurs and affects the training. If I go to Lucknow, then I cannot step out of the centre to buy something for me… corona is there too. These concerns can disturb me and affect my training.” Training with sister Vinesh, supported by her wrestler husband Somveer, stayed at her home in Kharkhoda of Sonepat district in Haryana and trained with her sister Vidyabati at the Pratap Singh Memorial school during the lockdown. “If an athlete stays at home and trains less, then he / she is bound to get frustrated. If the Olympics happens and I stay indoors for six-seven months, then can I achieve my dream in the Olympics? This thought got me out of my house to train… I found solutions and knew how to tackle the situation.” The 25-year-old stays positive amid the pandemic. “The universe can spring surprises any time. If you don’t have a strong mind, then you can’t handle it well. Such circumstances tell you about your weaknesses and one must work on these. One can also face such a situation on the wrestling mat,” Vinesh added.  It tells how much appreciation we will get if we perform well on the biggest stage. Also, it adds to the responsibility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/awards-a-motivation-vinesh/article32408506.ece
21 August 2020||LISBON,||Bayern continues merry run||Serge Gnabry struck a first-half brace and Robert Lewandowski also scored as a ruthless Bayern Munich taught Lyon a harsh lesson in their Champions League semifinal here on Wednesday, winning 3-0 and setting up a tantalising final against Paris Saint-Germain. Lyon squandered two opportunities to go ahead early on at the Estadio Jose Alvalade, through Memphis Depay and Karl Toko-Ekambi. Bayern, with 42 goals in 10 Champions League outings, has won all its European games this season but the biggest test is still to come, against a PSG side which will be a step up from what Hansi Flick’s team faced here.  The result: Bayern 3 (Gnabry 18 & 33, Lewandowski 88) bt Lyon 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bayern-continues-merry-run/article32408321.ece
21 August 2020||KOLKATA,||India can reach Olympic final, says Sardar Singh||Former India captain Sardar Singh strongly believes India, which last won an Olympic hockey medal in 1980 at Moscow, has a good chance to come out on top in Tokyo as long as all the players perform at their best. "We are No. 4 in the world rankings now and that is a positive sign. We have a proper structure in place and there are good coaches to take care of things. I believe all the players should start training for the big stage from now and possess the winning mind-set. “I am sure they'll already be working on it. All our 16-17 players should perform at the same level. [P.R.] Sreejesh or Manpreet [Singh] alone can't win matches for you. We need everyone. With that consistency, we will be good enough to reach the semifinals or even the final,” said the 34-year-old in the third episode of Sportstar's ‘Star Talk’ on Thursday. "Firstly, whether it is at Tokyo or any other big event, all that our youngsters have to do is what they love the most, which is to play hockey. And that is the primary goal — to play the sport as you know it," added Adrian D’Souza, former goalkeeper of the national team. Odisha has been at the forefront of the nation's hockey revolution and Vishal K. Dev, commissioner-cum-secretary of the State’s Sports and Youth Services, said bagging the elusive medal at the Games will boost the sport's popularity. "Hockey India League, which hasn’t been organised for the past three years, needs to be revived.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-can-reach-olympic-final-sardar/article32408322.ece
21 August 2020||Chennai,||‘Dhoni is his usual relaxed self and striking the ball well’||Some of M.S. Dhoni’s sixes travelled beyond the stands during Chennai Super Kings’ practice sessions that concluded here on Thursday. Talking to The Hindu , CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said, “Dhoni is striking the ball very well. And there were plenty of sixes in all directions,” he added. Viswanathan revealed, “Dhoni was his usual self, relaxed, confident and happy.”     He added the team got to know about his retirement from international cricket only from his Instagram post. “The team was surprised.” CSK leaves for UAE — the IPL starts on September 19 — on Friday afternoon. Star all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja joined the side on Thursday. Harbhajan to travel later Harbhajan Singh is expected to travel to the UAE two weeks later. Viswanathan said the five-day camp in Chennai served its purpose. “The boys had not trained for a long time and this was good practise for them. Coming after a break, they did not stretch themselves fully. That could have led to injuries. But the players gradually found their rhythm.” The CSK CEO said, “There will be another six days of quarantine for the team once we land in Dubai. So I would say the camp here was vital for many players.” He was impressed with quite a few cricketers. “I thought M. Vijay was striking the ball very well. So was Ruturaj Gaikwad. We have a lot of options in the side,” he said. The net bowlers played their part and Viswanathan was pleased with the way paceman Aswin Crist bowled. The seamer was returning to cricket after three years and underwent a back surgery in New Zealand under the same surgeon who operated on Shane Bond. “Crist was there on all the days. He was bowling well. In fact, he looked sharp,” said Viswanathan. “The boys are in the right frame of mind.” The signs are good for CSK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhoni-is-his-usual-relaxed-self-and-striking-the-ball-well/article32408380.ece
21 August 2020||Bengaluru,||No quarantine for Australia and England players in UAE: Churiwala||England and Australia cricketers who feature in the IPL do not have to serve the six-day quarantine upon arrival in UAE, Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) chairman Sanjeev Churiwala said on Thursday. This could make cricketers from the two nations available for their teams’ opening IPL matches. Australia’s limited-over series in England will conclude on September 16, and a day later players from the two countries are scheduled to arrive in UAE via chartered flights, Churiwala stated. The IPL commences on September 19. Satisfy strict measures “Players from England and Australia would already be in a bio-bubble as they would be playing the series there (in England). The BCCI Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) states that they (England and Australia players) can participate without quarantine, provided they satisfy certain very, very stringent measures. “They have to continue to be in the bio-secure bubble (in England). From the bio-secure bubble, they have to go straight to the charter flights without getting into the extensive immigration procedures, and without getting in touch with the general public. “The BCCI is working with various cricket boards to ensure that this can be done. Given that they (players from the England-Australia series) are already serving a bio-bubble requirement, it will be an extended bio-bubble for them,” Churiwala stated in a web conference. Foreign players RCB has three Australian cricketers (Aaron Finch, Kane Richardson and Joshua Philippe) and one English player (Moeen Ali) in its squad. As for other foreign players, Churiwala stated that South Africans A.B. de Villiers, Chris Morris and Dale Steyn will arrive in UAE on August 22, and the lone Sri Lankan in the squad (Isuru Udana) will reach on September 1. Churiwala added that Indian players and support staff — who are under quarantine in a Bengaluru hotel — will travel to UAE on Friday. Upon their arrival in Dubai, they will undergo a six-day isolation and three Covid-19 tests before entering the bio-bubble. RCB has booked a full wing at the Waldorf Astoria Dubai Palm Hotel for its players and staff. The gym, team room, AC duct and restaurant will be reserved for exclusive use of the team. All hotel staff and service members will stay in-house and will be tested. Gym and other essential equipment will be carried from India, Churiwala stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-quarantine-for-australia-and-england-players-in-uae-churiwala/article32408320.ece
21 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad FC and Borussia Dortmund ink formal tie-up||Hyderabad FC, which made its ISL debut last season, and German Bundesliga outfit Borussia Dortmund (BVB) joined hands formally via a digital launch and the partnership’s initial focus will be on developing a grassroots programme and fan culture. Speaking on the occasion on Thursdsay, HFC co-owner Varun Tripuraneni said BVB’s impact would be huge and stressed it would be a long-term venture. “This also means a lot of exchange programmes of coaches, players, especially for goalkeepers, over a period of time once the pandemic eases out,” Tripuraneni said. “I believe that this bonding is great news not just for HFC but for Indian football itself given BVB’s reputation and following across the world. This bonding is to take the game to the next level for sure here. “Our plans include having a full-fledged HFC Residential Academy here taking care of education and football,” he said. “We are also working to field a team in the Indian Women’s Football League next year as there are quite a few schools here which have girls’ teams. “We do have a plan of action to scout and mould the talent among girls in and around Hyderabad,” Tripuraneni said. Carsten Cramer, BVB’s MD, insisted that this partnership doesn’t mean promising to produce a player from HFC in the next few months who will play in the Bundesliga. Baby steps “We will be taking baby steps to realising our objectives even as our first goal is to have a footprint in India through this partnership,” he said. “It is important for any team to be successful on the field to get all the programmes right even while avoiding looking for short-term success and put HFC on the international map building its own identity,” Cramer said. Export BVB’s culture Mr. Suresh Letchmanan, MD, BVB, Asia Pacific, stressed it would be very keen to export the whole of BVB’s culture to India including developing a youth programme for which it has the best reputation. “We will also ensure that all our entities in Asia will also be involved in this partnership with HFC in future,” he said. Capt. Nitin Pant, COO of HFC, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-fc-and-borussia-dortmund-ink-formal-tie-up/article32408552.ece
21 August 2020||BENGALURU,||PBL, TCS World 10k join the chorus||After Indian Super League franchise Bengaluru FC raised objections, senior officials involved with TCS World 10k and Premier Badminton League (PBL) have sharply criticised the Department of Youth Empowerment & Sports (DYES)’s draft stadium-use policy that makes revenue-sharing with the government compulsory. The proposal mandates organisers of “marathons” to part with one-fourth of all donations collected. While the World 10k, one of three IAAF Road Race Gold Label competitions in India, isn’t technically a marathon, DYES officials are understood to be eyeing this event, claiming that the rent they charge is miniscule and that they need the money for upkeep of sports stadia. A senior functionary of Procam International, the owners of World 10k, was miffed. “This is a shocking, draconian policy,” he said, on the condition of anonymity. “Governments in Maharashtra and Odisha go all out to encourage sports, but the DYES is trying to make undue commercial gain.” “This proposal is also in violation of a 2019 Union Sports Ministry order, which states that sports infrastructure in India should be made available free of cost for the conduct of an internationally recognised event. “We have formally raised our objection to the proposal and we hope it is reversed." Bad to worse A prominent PBL franchise official said the policy will make what is already a bad situation, worse. Bengaluru Raptors are two-time defending champions. In 2018-19 they won at the Kanteerava Indoor Stadium but had to shift base in 2020 because of the State-sponsored Karnataka Mini Olympic Games held during the same dates. In fact, the draft provides the government a free hand to cancel any private event without prior notice, even after an agreement has been signed. “We have been hit with huge losses already,” the PBL official said. “The bit about the collection of a percentage of ad revenue is also worrisome. “Ad contracts are signed for the full duration of the league, played in multiple cities. It is not possible to calculate the split for the Bengaluru leg alone.” “Ideally, the DYES should not collect any fee in addition to the rent. In comparison, the venue at Hyderabad is given free of cost.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pbl-tcs-world-10k-join-the-chorus/article32408316.ece
21 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Chess online Olympiad promises plenty of thrills||Every two years, a large number of chess players, ranging from lower-rated players to World champions, would assemble for the Chess Olympiad. It is the mind sport’s answer to tennis’ Davis and Fed Cups. The 44th edition of the Olympiad was scheduled to have been held in Russia around this time, but world chess governing body FIDE had to postpone it till next year following the coronavirus outbreak. Instead, an online Olympiad is being organised. Its qualifying event opened on July 25. On Friday, the top division of the Olympiad will kick off. India is one of 25 teams seeded directly to the final stage. Fifteen teams have come through the qualifiers. With a strong, experienced squad comprising Viswanathan Anand, Koneru Humpy, P. Harikrishna, Vidit Gujrathi, D. Harika, Nihal Sarin, R. Praggnanandhaa, R. Vaishali, Arvindh Chithambaram, Bhakti Kulkarni, Divya Deshmukh and Vantika Agarwal, India is among the medal contenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chess-online-olympiad-promises-plenty-of-thrills/article32408438.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen leads in decider||Magnus Carlsen inched closer to winning his signature event by claiming the first game of the final set in 41 moves against Hikaru Nakamura in the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Thursday. With the players locked at 3-3 after Carlsen scored a 3-1 win in the sixth set on Wednesday, the opening game of the decider held special significance. Psychological edge The clinical triumph gave a huge psychological advantage to Carlsen, with three more rapid games remaining.  The results: Final:   Set Seven (Set One, Game One): Hikaru Nakamura (USA) lost to Magnus Carlsen (Nor).     Set Six: Carlsen bt Nakamura 3-1.   After six sets: Carlsen and Nakamura tied 3-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-leads-in-decider/article32408317.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||PM Modi all praise for Dhoni||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a letter to M.S. Dhoni has described him as the embodiment of a new India where family name does not make one’s destiny. “You have been one of the important illustrations of the spirit of new India, where family name does not make young people’s destiny but they make their own names and own destinies,” wrote the PM. “An Artist, Soldier and Sportsperson what they crave for is appreciation, that their hard work and sacrifice is getting noticed and appreciated by everyone. Thanks PM @narendramodi for your appreciation and good wishes,” replied Dhoni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pm-modi-all-praise-for-dhoni/article32408318.ece
21 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Chess Kerala's open blitz tournament||The GoodEarth online blitz open chess tournament will be held on September 5. The tournament, being organised by Chess Kerala and ChessBase India, offers prize money of Rs. 60,000 (winner Rs. 12,000, Rs. 10,000 and third-place Rs. 7,000). There will be cash prizes for the top 20 finishers. Entry is free for GMs, IMs, WGMs and WIMs. Registration closes at 8 p.m. on September 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chess-keralas-open-blitz-tournament/article32408618.ece
21 August 2020||LONDON,||Liverpool plays Leeds in season-opener||Liverpool will begin defending its Premier League title on Sept. 12 at Anfield when it plays Leeds United, which returns to the competition for the first time in 16 years. Manchester United will kick off at home to Crystal Palace on Sept. 19 and City will travel to Wolverhampton Wanderers for its opener. Mikel Arteta will begin his first full season in charge of Arsenal with a trip to newly-promoted Fulham, while Tottenham Hotspur hosts Everton in the pick of the opening weekend’s fixtures.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-plays-leeds-in-season-opener/article32408381.ece
21 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Kolkata neighbourhood holding digital-only Ganesh Puja||The neighbourhood of Salt Lake City — officially Bidhannagar — in Kolkata is hosting a fully-digital Ganesh Puja this year in order to contain the spread of COVID-19, with organisers claiming this is the first time ever that a festival is being organised in the virtual format anywhere in the world. “Even the location of the deity has been kept a secret, because the moment people find out the venue, they will start crowding — something we want to avoid at any cost,” said Anindya Chatterjee, president of the organising committee of the Bidhannagar Ganesh Chaturthi Mahotsav, told The Hindu . Ganesh or Vinayaka Chaturthi falls on Saturday but festivities began on Wednesday — during pre-COVID-19 times, they were held at the BA Block of Salt Lake City — with cultural programmes being streamed live. They will end on Sunday, when the immersion of the idol in the Hooghly river will also be shown live. “We have been organising this puja for 11 years now and that makes it the oldest puja in not just Salt Lake City but the whole of east Kolkata. This year we had no choice but to go digital because we simply cannot afford a crowd of 500 people. We have also installed an LED screen on the main road for the benefit of passersby,” said Mr. Chatterjee. “The advantage of going digital is that we have a worldwide audience. Some of the people participating in the cultural events are also from abroad — from the U.S., U.K., and Australia,” he said. Those offering worship — which includes a token donation, to be made online — can hear their names being mentioned to the Lord by the priest. Those offering worship from in and around Salt Lake City will also have the standard khichuri meal home-delivered along with a set of masks and a bottle of hand sanitiser. On that day, the organisers will also constitute a COVID-19 survivors’ club and felicitate COVID-19 warriors, who will receive their mementos at home. Ganesh Chaturthi is not a highly popular festival in West Bengal but it has been catching on over the past few years. This digital-only format of celebration has set a trend and can well reflect on this year’s Durga Puja, which is barely two months many. Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest festival, entails large crowds and this year, organisers — almost every neighbourhood hosts a Durga Puja — are still clueless how to celebrate it in the midst of a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/kolkata-neighbourhood-holding-digital-only-ganesh-puja/article32408436.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Mahavakya jnana||Sastras try to explain esoteric truths that lie beyond the grasp of human senses, mind and intellect. The aim is to dispel ajnana that remains a great hurdle to spiritual knowledge. In the text Naishkarmya Siddhi, Sureshvaracharya takes up the discussion of the Mahavakyas and establishes that apart from these, there are no valid ‘pramanas’ to realise one’s atma swaroopa, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. Mahavakya jnana alone can give us the chance to gain the highest Purushartha, moksha. For instance, the profound jnana that is inherent ‘Tat Tvam Asi’ is not grasped by merely knowing the meanings of the individual words in it. Its true import is to be caught in one’s consciousness and this requires the grace of God and of the guru. It cannot be taught or learnt as one would any kind of objective knowledge. The term Tvam is first taken up and since it indicates every embodied being, it is familiar to all. Now the question to be asked by each one is ‘what is the valid aspect in oneself?’ Is it the body? Or is it the atma? What aspect of oneself is true? It will become obvious that the body is not true though it appears vibrant with mental, intellectual and physical faculties that enable one to achieve many worldly goals in life. The body is always subject to change and will eventually grow old and die. So he who seeks his identity with the body is as foolish as one who thinks that the garland he wears, or the sandal paste smeared on his body is his real self. The indriyas, mind and intellect also are also not ours. We should do atma vichara and deduce that the body is different and distinct from the atma that is immortal and is chaitanya swaroopa. Meditating in this manner on the Mahavakya helps to remove ajnana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/mahavakya-jnana/article32408274.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 09:38 IST,||Sudoku - August 21, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-21-2020/article32410011.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Being Naseeruddin||Naseeruddin Shah finds being sidelined at home, even as a pandemic rages on, a manageable situation. Such is an actor’s life that he admits spending months together away from work and at home. “I have never lived the kind of life like some people who are used to leaving home early morning and returning late at night. So being at home is fine,” he says. He has also made a lockdown self discovery: that he is quite fond of house work. Talking on the phone from Mumbai, ‘Naseer saab’ says, “I quite enjoy pottering around the kitchen, something I had never done before”. Common thread Shah will be seen in a Zee5 film, Mee Raqsam , directed by Baba Azmi; the latter has previously stated that the film is a tribute to his father, the acclaimed Urdu poet Kaifi Azmi. Baba is actor Shabana Azmi’s brother. Shah plays “the antagonist”, in his words, except instead of brute strength what his character seeks to impose upon the protagonist — a young Muslim girl (Aditi Subedi) who wants to learn Bharatanatyam — is his will. “I could empathise with the dilemma of the protagonist. She is a child from an orthodox lower middle class Muslim family who wants to learn Bharatanatya. I think even a child from an affluent Muslim family will have a problem (with such a choice) because of our prejudices and deep seated resentment of the other,” he said. The actor rolls back the years to draw a parallel. “People in my family thought I was crazy when I told them I wanted to be an actor. They thought I was doing un-Islamic stuff.” Talking about the Pakistani film Khuda Kay Liye (2007) in which he had played a cameo, Shah says, “It is an important film because it talks about this belief, about music being haram and compelling all Muslims to have beards, wear pyjamas etc. I was told this as a child and I always rebelled against it. Khuda Kay Liye spoke for me without me knowing it. Mee Raqsam is similar. The kind of objections this child in the film faces are far more rabid and venomous than what I faced.” In Mee Raqsam , Shah plays a powerful representative of a small town community where he commands unparalleled respect and obedience. “The child’s father is a tailor and supports her against the ‘establishment’ of which I’m a representative. I say things I do not believe in, but as an actor, I had to make it my business to put in as much conviction as I could into what I was saying. I don’t think one should pass judgement on a character one is playing with sincerity.” Solitary journey The veteran actor is all praise for Aditi, calling her “a real find. I don’t think she has ever acted in her life. You know dance takes a lifetime to master. But she practised and learn as much as was possible in the few months before shooting. There is also a quality of stillness to her performance which is rare.”  Mee Raqsam  was shot in Kaifi Azmi’s hometown, Mijwan, in Uttar Pradesh. Aditi also hails from the same town. Does it make sense for filmmakers to take their craft to little pockets of the country in a bid to discover such talent? “Who is going to make that effort? I don’t think it is a practical idea. And in any case, an actor’s journey is a solitary one. He’s got to learn all his lessons on his own and depend on no one but himself. This is true regardless of the family you are born in. It is, however, imperative for a filmmaker to recognise the talents that lie all over the country.” Finding middle ground The actor makes a bold prediction. “I foresee a dim future for the multi hundred crore blockbusters. I hope this is an opportunity the film industry grabs and starts to value content based drama over sensationalism though there is probably a slim chance of that happening. We have not changed too much for several decades so it is too much to expect for a change now. They will just come back with a vengeance and make the kind of films that Hollywood is making... all the superhero nonsense, but I think the smaller filmmakers will also have found a space by then. Will there be a middle ground or not... I don’t know.” Mee Raqsam is now streaming on Zee5.   People in my family thought I was crazy when I told them I wanted to be an actor. They thought I was doing un-Islamic stuff Naseeruddin Shah Actor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/being-naseeruddin/article32408718.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Oh! Bleeding Madras||The evening ,Karthik’s uncle, Sid, arrived from the U.S., Kamla, Akash and I were at his house. We were as excited as Karthik. He was expecting his uncle to bring him an iPad; Kamla and I wanted to interview him for the school newspaper. Uncle Sid was a cool dresser and carried a saxophone too. As soon as he had settled with his tea, we began to question him. “Do you know Kamala Harris?” asked Kamla, eagerly. “You know, her grandparents lived a couple of streets away…” Karthik’s mother, who was Uncle Sid’s sister, came in with the tea and said, “Yes, yes, Kamla, everyone knows her grandparents lived in Besant Nagar, but uncle has had a long flight. Can you wait till tomorrow?” Reluctantly, we left them to chat and walked to the beach. Early the next morning, Karthik came rushing into my room (the four of us lived next door to each other and were always in and out of each other’s houses), goggle-eyed.  A theft at night “You’ll never believe what happened,” he said. I sat up in bed and rubbed the sleep out of my eyes. “What?” I mumbled. “We got burgled.” “WHAT?” “And, they took only my uncle’s suitcase. He had left it in the front room. Come quickly. The cops are on their way.” We arrived to see a constable questioning Karthik’s folks. Disinterestedly, he wrote everything down in a notebook and walked away after half an hour of questioning everyone, saying he’d be in touch. “I think you can kiss your suitcase goodbye,” said Karthik’s father. “Did you have any valuable stuff in it?” “Well, I had gifts for everyone but, most importantly, I had two valuable shirts.” “Versace? Prada? Valentino?” He shook his head at each. “Then?” asked Karthik’s mom. “My checks!” “Oh! Those checks!” she sneered. “Don’t be like that. It’s important to me. I wanted to wear it when I meet her. It might make her change her mind.” This was fascinating, and the four of us grilled Uncle Sid. It was a romantic story. The lady in question had gifted him the shirts because they were ethnic, traditional and Madras-centric. But, when he saw them, he had laughed and not appreciated them. And, so ended his love life. Now, 20 years later, he realised why the shirts were important. “They are known as Madras Checks,” he explained, “because, duh!, they are made in Madras. Both sides of the cloth have the same pattern and it was handwoven. “Its history goes back to the mid-17th century, when the English East India Company wanted quality textiles and set up a trading post in the small fishing village of Madraspatnam. They organised 400 weavers to do the job. The cloth was popular in Europe and demand was high.” Uncle Sid told us a riveting story about a consignment that went to the Brooks Brothers, a clothier in New York, the U.S, in 1958. “People who bought these expensive shirts found that, after one wash, the shirts became discoloured and faded. They were annoyed and threatened to sue Brooks Brothers. To appease customers, advertising guru David Ogilvy coined the phrase ‘Guaranteed to bleed’ and used it as a selling point rather than a defect. So, it is also known as Bleeding Madras.” Detection unlimited We knew we had to only ask Muthu, who mostly lay on the beach and watched the world go by, to find the suitcase. We found him in his usual place. We grilled him, bought him several teas and vadas before he told us that he saw a taxi drive up and two men getting into the house and making away with the suitcase. When we got back, uncle Sid was in a flap. His date was in the evening and he didn’t have his shirt. “Why don’t you just buy another?” asked Karthik’s father. Sid just growled. “It’s not the same.” We stepped in, “The taxi guy took your suitcase. If we track him down, you’ve got your shirts.” In no time, we piled into the car and drove off to the airport. It was like a treasure hunt. Collecting clues from one place and arriving at the next. Our destination was the taxi driver’s house. At first he denied it, but Kamla wandered into the house and found the suitcase in the back room. Uncle Sid wore his checked shirt and went to meet the love of his life. After 20 years, the shirt worked its magic. Wrongs were righted, sins forgiven and she agreed to be wooed again.  Advertising guru David Ogilvy coined the phrase ‘Guaranteed to bleed’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/oh-bleeding-madras/article32408976.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Terms and conditions apply||For the longest time, I thought my mother had come up with this phrase. Because every time I’d complain about how things were unfair in the world, mom would tell me, ‘Be the change you want to see in the world.’ Then, I found out that it was actually Mahatma Gandhi who first said it. Ha. Talk about plagiarising. Well, when parents and teachers use this line on you, they should add an asterisk to show that terms and conditions apply. ‘Be the change you want to see in the world*.’ Only after you’ve made your bed, brushed your teeth and had a bath. After you have had breakfast and walked the dog. Do not try to be the change during school hours. You can only be the change after all homework assignments have been completed, checked, double checked and submitted. Do not attempt to be the change post dinner. It will not be good for your digestion. Exceptions galore Wow. I wonder if Mahatma Gandhi had any idea about how hard it is to fit ‘being the change’ in an average middle-schooler’s schedule? Plus, did his mom bust him for not finishing his homework before going out to fight racism? I don’t think so! If you’re going to be the change, two pieces of advice: don’t tell your parents and don’t get caught. In short, learn from my mistakes. Last week, me, the PB and our friend P sneaked out of the building to feed the indies in our area. Kids under 15 aren’t allowed outside the building alone, so, we may have jumped over a low wall to be able to do this. We didn’t get caught on the way out but we totally did on the way in. I had one leg over the compound wall when I heard a shriek that would have frozen a polar bear’s blood. It was my mom! Apparently three kids sneaking out of the building alone, during COVID-19, to feed street dogs is not okay. Even if that’s the change you want. Let’s also add ‘The change you wish to see must be approved and signed off of by an adult.’ Hmph. So, we got grounded. Then, I remembered another saying ‘If the mountain will not come to Muhammad, then Muhammad must go to the mountain.’ Basically, if we couldn’t feed the pups outside, then we’d just have to bring them to us right. I think that’s what the saying means. Anyway, we managed to sneak the puppies inside the building, and kept them in a secret location. You’d think everything would be fine, right? NO. Here’s the other thing they need to add in the terms and conditions of being the change: Pesky Brothers will almost always ruin the best-laid plans.  Do not attempt to be the change post dinner. It will not be good for your digestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/terms-and-conditions-apply/article32408981.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Madras Day||Across 1. Fort St. _____: The first British fortress in India (6) 6. The snake park is located here (6) 7. Francis ___ purchased the land that would become Madras (3) 8. Popular breakfast, also the name of a festival (6) 10. The Madras Courier is a ____paper (4) 13. Chennai is located off the ___ of Bengal (3) 14. _____ Kottam: Monument and tourist destination (8) 15. Chennai International ___port is located in Tirusulam (3) 17. A cineplex in Chennai (4) 18. The Chepauk ____ is built in the Indo-Saracenic style (6)  Down  1. A beach in Chennai (6) 2. ___ Hills Lake, one of the city’s rain-fed reservoirs (3) 3. The Government Museum is situated in this area (6) 4. Chennai Super ____: the city’s IPL team (5) 5. What you will find in a temple (4) 9. This river, which runs through Chennai, originates near Chembarabakkam Lake (5) 11. A “street” in Chennai is called _____(5) 12. Language spoken in Madras (5) 14. Frequently paired with idly (4) 16. The Vivekananda House is also known as ___ House (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/madras-day/article32408955.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Flight of the fly||In the land of Makkhipuri,   The fly was god for all.   They prayed to it for good health,   They called it Makkhilal.  Imagine, a fly as the god of a village! What will happen when food has to be offered to the god first? Or when people have to be blessed? Makkhilal’s reign is a terrible one but the people don’t seem to realise that their god is causing all their problems. One person, however, knows. But, can she save the village? Will the villagers listen to her?  The Tale of Makkhilal (Makkhilal Ki Mahima , in Hindi), told through verse by Geeta Dharamarajan, and with illustrations by Charbak Dipta, encourages everyone to think about hygiene, role models, the power of one, and more. At the end, the book also has information about houseflies and a section on how children can self-reflect and achieve their targets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/flight-of-the-fly/article32408986.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Ms. Tears and Ms. Smiles Matters of the heart||Reva was spending her holidays in her grandmother’s farmhouse, a large single-storey white building. When she opened the cupboard to unpack her bag, a smell of naphthalene balls drifted into her nostrils. She stared at the wooden cupboard; at the back: EF scrawled on it in glittery red paint, with hearts encircling it. Stepping closer, Reva touched one of the hearts. She felt a strange sensation and, before she could withdraw her hand, she was sucked into the cupboard, as though someone had pulled her inside. She found herself floating out through it, as though the cupboard had become transparent. She landed outside a sprawling blue building, staring at an iron gate on which a sign was painted:  THE EMOTIONS FACTORY   A Tears and Smiles Group of Companies   Manufacturers of HAPPINESS, SORROW, GRINS, SOBS, GRATITUDE, APOLOGY, GUILT, REGRET, JEALOUSY.   Managing Director: Sandra Smiles; Chairman: Tracy Tears; Company Secretary: Ted Thank You; Assistant: Stella Sorry; Shareholders: All The Hearts In The World      Reva strolled through the ground, admiring the thick grass growing in abundance and the colourful flowers. Small birds perched on the branches, chirping and twittering. “What a beautiful garden,” Reva said, watching the bees suck nectar from the flowers. She approached the entrance. Seeing no one around, she ambled inside, her shoes gliding over the shiny marble floor. Reva moved through the clean maze of corridors, briefly wondering where she was going. “I hope I’m not going around in circles,” she muttered. Meeting in session After walking through several corridors, she stopped outside a large hall. A board announced the annual meeting of the shareholders of the Emotions Factory. As Reva watched, young male and female hearts, smartly dressed in red and crimson clothes, walked towards the hall. The baby hearts in red rompers and red shoes, sucking their thumbs, toddled slowly behind them. The older hearts, a little wrinkled and faded, were next. Dressed in comfortable baggy clothes, bundled in sweaters and shawls, they walked slowly with the help of their walking sticks. At the entrance of the hall a round-faced and cheerful man, wearing brown clothes, a badge with his name — Ted Thank You — pinned to his lapel, waved them in, a0fter checking all the shareholders’ passes. Seeing Reva, Ted Thank You smiled at her. “You can go in, Ms. Tears and Ms. Smiles are expecting you.”  To be continued...   Young male and female hearts, smartly dressed in red and crimson clothes, walked towards the hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/ms-tears-and-ms-smiles-matters-of-the-heart/article32408998.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why are letters in a keyboard not in order?   The arrangement of keys that we have today is nearly a century-and-a-half old. Initially, in the olden days, the keys on the typewriters were arranged alphabetically. But, because the machines were too slow in comparison to the speed at which users learned to master them, it presented a different problem. The mechanical character arms would get jumbled up. Therefore, the makers of typewriters, in response to customer experience and feedback, designed a completely new keyboard where the keys were rearranged, with the primary objective of slowing down the typists.   How doesthe mud pot keep the water cool??   A matka, or a mud pot, has many minute pores through which the water inside oozes out. Now, to evaporate, the water needs to absorb heat, which will change it to vapour. The only way the water oozing out of the matka can turn to vapour is by absorbing heat from the liquid within the matka and the matka itself. Due to this process of continuous absorption of heat from the water inside the matka , in a few hours, this water becomes cool. This process is called evaporative cooling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article32408920.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article32408914.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article32408971.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Oh! Bleeding Madras||The evening ,Karthik’s uncle, Sid, arrived from the U.S., Kamla, Akash and I were at his house. We were as excited as Karthik. He was expecting his uncle to bring him an iPad; Kamla and I wanted to interview him for the school newspaper. Uncle Sid was a cool dresser and carried a saxophone too. As soon as he had settled with his tea, we began to question him. “Do you know Kamala Harris?” asked Kamla, eagerly. “You know, her grandparents lived a couple of streets away…” Karthik’s mother, who was Uncle Sid’s sister, came in with the tea and said, “Yes, yes, Kamla, everyone knows her grandparents lived in Besant Nagar, but uncle has had a long flight. Can you wait till tomorrow?” Reluctantly, we left them to chat and walked to the beach. Early the next morning, Karthik came rushing into my room (the four of us lived next door to each other and were always in and out of each other’s houses), goggle-eyed.  A theft at night “You’ll never believe what happened,” he said. I sat up in bed and rubbed the sleep out of my eyes. “What?” I mumbled. “We got burgled.” “WHAT?” “And, they took only my uncle’s suitcase. He had left it in the front room. Come quickly. The cops are on their way.” We arrived to see a constable questioning Karthik’s folks. Disinterestedly, he wrote everything down in a notebook and walked away after half an hour of questioning everyone, saying he’d be in touch. “I think you can kiss your suitcase goodbye,” said Karthik’s father. “Did you have any valuable stuff in it?” “Well, I had gifts for everyone but, most importantly, I had two valuable shirts.” “Versace? Prada? Valentino?” He shook his head at each. “Then?” asked Karthik’s mom. “My checks!” “Oh! Those checks!” she sneered. “Don’t be like that. It’s important to me. I wanted to wear it when I meet her. It might make her change her mind.” This was fascinating, and the four of us grilled Uncle Sid. It was a romantic story. The lady in question had gifted him the shirts because they were ethnic, traditional and Madras-centric. But, when he saw them, he had laughed and not appreciated them. And, so ended his love life. Now, 20 years later, he realised why the shirts were important. “They are known as Madras Checks,” he explained, “because, duh!, they are made in Madras. Both sides of the cloth have the same pattern and it was handwoven. “Its history goes back to the mid-17th century, when the English East India Company wanted quality textiles and set up a trading post in the small fishing village of Madraspatnam. They organised 400 weavers to do the job. The cloth was popular in Europe and demand was high.” Uncle Sid told us a riveting story about a consignment that went to the Brooks Brothers, a clothier in New York, the U.S, in 1958. “People who bought these expensive shirts found that, after one wash, the shirts became discoloured and faded. They were annoyed and threatened to sue Brooks Brothers. To appease customers, advertising guru David Ogilvy coined the phrase ‘Guaranteed to bleed’ and used it as a selling point rather than a defect. So, it is also known as Bleeding Madras.” Detection unlimited We knew we had to only ask Muthu, who mostly lay on the beach and watched the world go by, to find the suitcase. We found him in his usual place. We grilled him, bought him several teas and vadas before he told us that he saw a taxi drive up and two men getting into the house and making away with the suitcase. When we got back, uncle Sid was in a flap. His date was in the evening and he didn’t have his shirt. “Why don’t you just buy another?” asked Karthik’s father. Sid just growled. “It’s not the same.” We stepped in, “The taxi guy took your suitcase. If we track him down, you’ve got your shirts.” In no time, we piled into the car and drove off to the airport. It was like a treasure hunt. Collecting clues from one place and arriving at the next. Our destination was the taxi driver’s house. At first he denied it, but Kamla wandered into the house and found the suitcase in the back room. Uncle Sid wore his checked shirt and went to meet the love of his life. After 20 years, the shirt worked its magic. Wrongs were righted, sins forgiven and she agreed to be wooed again.  Advertising guru David Ogilvy coined the phrase ‘Guaranteed to bleed’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/oh-bleeding-madras/article32408989.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Just another formula||After the film Mary Kom was released, the eight-time world boxing champion from Manipur said in an interview: “If they make another film on me, I hope it will have less masala on my personal life and focus more on my professional life. I have worked a lot on my sport, developed strategies and skills to face opponents these last 20 years.” If Shakuntala Devi had watched the recent eponymous biopic made on her life, would she have had similar objections? Would this be the film she would have wanted made on her? A film that uses her mathematical genius as only a peg to discuss her motherhood troubles. Why did the real struggles of the indomitable sportsperson Mary Kom seem less important to the film’s auteur? Likewise, why was the arithmetical brilliance of Shakuntala Devi not deemed worthy of exploring? Both women defied their fathers; Devi left home to enter the male-dominated world of mathematics in universities across Europe and America way back in the 50s. She got over the challenges the English language posed, she disregarded comments made by white men about her Indian attire, shrugged off the ‘tests’ that the male world of science constantly subjected her to — all for her enduring love of numbers. She went on to write texts on Mathematics, doubled as an astrologer in her late years, wrote novels — why did these aspects of her life not fascinate the maker of the biopic? A voyeuristic culture Boxing and mathematics are skeletal outlines in these films, wedged as they are into a patriarchal analysis of these women. What was their love life like, were they good wives and mothers, did they put food on the table, did they stay up nights to change diapers, and so on. In an age when technology has propagated a voyeuristic culture, the mass consumption of information about ‘real’ lives seems to be a major preoccupation. More often than not, our consumption of the ‘ideal woman’ who has traits that can be recognised by the masses converges with values privileged by the male world, and technology perpetrates it. A single point narrative accentuates these patriarchal codes further. The film on Shakuntala Devi does, in its climactic moments, speak of the importance of recognising women (mothers) with independent minds. But with the entire narrative upholding the motherhood shibboleth, the statement seems no more than tokenism. Critic Dennis Bingham in his essay on the female biopic describes that the patriarchal gaze is evident in the voyeuristic treatment of the female protagonist. She becomes, he argues, “the one-dimensional ‘object’ of the narrative.” There is the “lack of an attempt to understand the subject’s point of view, the avoidance of ideological issues at the heart of the material, and an approach to the material that sensationalises and softens it at the same time.” He goes on to say that there are very few filmmakers who consciously resist the male gaze to capture a “woman’s own responses, wants, motivations, strengths, drawbacks, even fatal flaws, but from a point of view sympathetic to her.” Benegal’s works It is impossible not to remember Shyam Benegal’s Bhumika (1977). Inspired by the autobiography of the Marathi actor, Hansa Wadkar, the film tells a complex, multilayered story of her success, loneliness, love, desire for freedom, and unrelenting battle with social norms. Told through the story of the protagonist Usha, the brilliant film tells the story of generations of women, all trapped in their roles ( bhumika ), irrespective of their class and context. Bhumika is a four-decade-old film, but the manner in which it portrays the battles of a woman caught between institutional tyranny and free will is remarkably contemporary. Shyam Benegal writes into the life of these women failure and tragedy, heightened in his characterisation of Usha — an unforgettable performance by Smita Patil — who seeks selfhood. It is true that they fail, but as feminist scholar Susie Tharu writes in her comments on the film, they fall “heroically and bravely”. Benegal records a woman’s desperate attempts to break free with repercussions that are unforgiving. Your scrutinising gaze does not leave the floundering Usha even for a moment, but she doesn’t wither. She comes back, and her restless energy haunts you. In brilliant juxtapositions, Shyam Benegal meticulously crafts the ironic contrasts between the real and reel, as he shifts between past and present. Complex portrayals Nearly 20 years after Bhumika came Benegal’s Sardari Begum (1996). Based on the life of a thumri singer, the protagonist is similar to Usha. Sardari, bestowed with extraordinary musical talent, escapes an ordinary life as her father’s daughter to live the life of an accomplished musician. Sardari’s unusual and daring choices are narrated by multiple people, from each of their perspectives. What you eventually have is a fragmented image of Sardari, seen through multiple lenses, and the filmmaker leaves it to you to make sense of who she is. Sample this: In one scene Sardari tells her daughter, “Before music everything else is halka (less important)”. In another scene, her rich patron Hemraj convinces her to be his ‘private’ musician. He gifts her expensive jewellery in return and you watch with shock the defiant Sardari accept. How did a woman who gave up the world for music succumb to the lure of gold? In yet another narration, after she drives away her husband for whom she is the golden goose, she is called an “ azad khayalat ki aurat ” (free-willed woman). This complex depiction of Sardari allows for no easy conclusion. Benegal gives you a Sardari and an Usha who are at once women and feminists. In this intersectional discourse, there are men who are feminists and women who uphold the patriarchy. Both these films are full of male authority figures, but as Bingham says, the ownership of the body, image and destiny lies with the protagonist. It looks at her social and cultural milieu from her point of view. What is, however, clear is that in 40-odd years, the way we look at and identify women has changed. The feminist belongs to one category, envisaged as a politicised being. The woman belongs to another category, a more easily identifiable entity who reflects on femininity and panders to stereotypes. If filmmakers are keen to see Kom struggle with domesticity rather than sport, or to show Devi go through a mother’s guilt rather than her fascinating flights with maths, it comes from their desire to pander to mass culture. Even when they portray the lives of exceptional women, they make them passive recipients of masculine influence. Vijaya Chamundeshwari, daughter of the late Tamil-Telugu star, Savitri, summed this up well. Acknowledging the overwhelming reception for the biopic on her mother, Mahanati (2018), she said: “My mother Savitri in real life was more than what she is in the film. There were lots of special things about her. Please remember her for those.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/just-another-formula/article32408113.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||In step with the times||Social media is abuzz with the trailer of Baba Azmi’s Mee Raqsam , the tale of a Muslim girl who wants to learn Bharatanatyam, and how her father, despite opposition from conservative elements, backs her. The series, which will be telecast on an OTT platform, is another addition to the changing representation of Muslims in Hindi cinema in the last few years. We have had examples of Anarkali standing up to emperor Akbar in Mughal-e-Azam and a Mammo here or a Zubeida there writing their destiny, but Muslim women have largely remained limited to the Bahu Begum or Umrao Jaan mould. The Muslim male was given a little more space. At times, he was a nawab, ready with an Urdu couplet, a vestige of the past who had little resemblance to your Muslim neighbour. In other films, he was a friend, keen to prove his loyalty to the Hindu hero. Javed Akhtar, who himself wrote many such characters, describes them as token characters. There have been some exceptions over the years, like Garm Hava , Coolie , Iqbal, Chak De! and 3 Idiots, but they have been few and far between. Those of us who grew up in the 1970s and 1980s realised the importance of 786 (refers to Bismillah) for Muslims when Vijay wore it as a badge on his sleeve in Deewar, but by the turn of the millennium, Gadar and its variants had begun to demonise Muslim characters and symbols in cinema. Shades of change Then, with Bobby Jasoos in 2014, with Bilqees Ahmed playing the defiant private detective, one saw the first shades of change. Around the same time, Chandraprakash Dwivedi took us into the household of Aslam Puncturewala (Adil Hussain), a common man caught in a political game in Zed Plus . It was as refreshing to watch a central Muslim character without a sherwani or a gun, as it was to see Imran (Farhan Akhtar) in Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara throwing poetic punches and tomatoes with equal relish. In 2016, came Ali Abbas Zafar’s Sultan, the story of a Haryanvi wrestler who happened to be a Muslim. His girlfriend Aarfa Hussain is also shown as a wrestler. But where Bobby Jasoos had to grapple with her unusual choice of profession, no such questions were asked of Aarfa and she conversed with Sultan in Haryanvi, not Urdu. It sounded unusual because it had seldom happened on screen before. With Salman Khan and Anushka Sharma in it, the message percolated to the masses. Two years later, Anushka appeared as Pari, a rare horror film rooted in Islamic mythology . Moody and atmospheric,  the Prosit Roy film was about the relationship between Arnab and Rukhsana, but within its layers, it held a deep message on trusting the ‘other’ and how love heals. Interesting portrayal Another work that impressed in 2018 with its subversive take on Islamophobia was Patrick Graham’s mini-series Ghoul on Netflix where a ‘nationalist’ woman in uniform Nida Rehman (Radhika Apte) turns in her father for seditious activities, but gradually discovers the truth is much more dangerous than the ghoul she has to counter in the garb of an alleged terrorist. In Mulk , Anubhav Sinha showed, in the character of Murad Ali Mohammed (Rishi Kapoor), that symbols like a sherwani, skull cap and beard don’t necessarily come in the way of a character being progressive and liberal. Then came Zoya Akhtar’s Gully Boy, where instead of shayari , the Muslim protagonist (Ranveer Singh) raps. And his girlfriend Safeena (Alia Bhatt) is a feisty medical student quite capable of breaking a few heads to protect her love.  Mee Raqsam looks like it will take this interesting trend ahead, and like Alia, Aditi Subedi too will step into henceforth forbidden territory.  We have had examples of Anarkali standing up to emperor Akbar in Mughal-e-Azam writing their destiny, but Muslim women have largely remained limited to the Bahu Begum or Umrao Jaan mould||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/in-step-with-the-times/article32408129.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Farewell and Jai Ho||In April 2018, after trying for five days to reach him for an interview, I finally got to talk to Pt. Jasraj one afternoon. He had just returned to Mumbai after a concert in Dubai and was preparing to leave on a three-month concert tour of the U.S. Apologetic for delaying the interview, he said, “ Jab Mumbai me hota hoon samay nahi milta. Sab milne aate hain, aashirwad lene aate hain. Sangeet se mujhe sabse badi jo sampatti mili hai, woh hai logon ka pyar ( when I am in Mumbai there is no time. People come to meet me, seek my blessings. The biggest wealth music has given me is people’s love).” In turn, Pt. Jasraj’s music was a great leveller. When he rendered ‘Om Namo Bhagwate Vasudevaya’ in raag Bhimpalasi, ‘Mero Allah Meherbaan’ in raag Bhairav or ‘Mata Kalika’ in raag Adana, classical music shed its elitist tag and gained mass appeal, while his devotional music won over even connoisseurs with its sophistication and structure. By invoking both Allah and Kali, the Hindustani exponent bridged many divides. And when a minor planet, between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, was named ‘Panditjasraj’ by the International Astronomical Union, it seemed to suggest the transcendental effect of his music. On a pleasantly cool day in November 2019, after what would be his last concert in Chennai, when I asked him how he felt about being the first Indian to receive this honour, he had replied matter-of-factly, “ The greatness of our music extends beyond the sky.” That evening when the doyen of the Mewati gharana walked on to the stage, dressed in a bright raw silk dhoti, kurta, and black waistcoat, he appeared frail and exhausted after his long flight from the U.S. But when, after greeting the audience with raised arms and an ebullient ‘Jai Ho!’, he began to sing, his face relaxed into bliss, as he brought alive every note with passion and elan. With each composition, he built a meditative mood and, along with the maestro, the audience internalised every swar and shabd . “I see Krishna in all of you,” he told the full house, leaving many teary-eyed. “When you sing for the paramatma , your music reaches the atma.” Since he infused his music with bhakti, it had the ability to spiritually elevate the believers among his legions of listeners even while comforting others with its rich melody and soothing laya. On January 28 this year, Pt. Jasraj turned 90, but his voice showed no sign of ageing. It moved effortlessly across octaves, as it had over the past eight decades. It brought out every shade of emotion in ragas and bonded beautifully with the swars . “Music is like Krishna Leela. Whatever your heart seeks, you will find in it. It can be your best companion at every point in life,” he said during the interview. The night before he passed away in New Jersey, he was teaching his disciples via Skype. Pt. Jasraj had no qualms about moving with the changing times. His last performance was through Facebook Live in April, when he sang for the annual Sankat Mochan Festival in Varanasi, a concert he had never missed in the last 46 years. Distinct style “ Umar aur badlav se kabhi darna nahin (never fear age and change),” he had said when I asked him about his frenetic concert schedules and the impact of social media on music. Though he staunchly believed in paddhati , his sangeet bore his unique stamp. He lent the romance of thumri to khayal, which let him soar with absolute freedom and bring his imagination into full play. He wrote several bandish; it was his way of communicating with god. He made deep forays into Haveli Sangeet, the tradition of temple singing of the Vaishnavas of North India. He also created Jasrangi, a unique form of jugalbandi styled on the ancient principle of moorchana, where a male and female vocalist perform different raags in different scales. “My father Pt. Motiram, brothers Pratap Narayan and Maniram and my gurus Jaywant Singh Waghela, Ghulam Kadar Khan and Swami Vallabhdas Damulji have had a great impact on the way I think, create and teach. Every time I sing, I am only expressing my gratitude to them for moulding me into the artiste I am today and to god, for helping me find myself in music. When I visit Hyderabad for the annual Pt. Motiram Maniram Sangeet Samaroh in memory of my father and brother, I spend some moments in silence, praying at their graves in Amberpet. I have seen immense hardship during my growing up years, especially after my father’s untimely demise. I couldn’t pay Rs. 15 to the doctor for a house visit when my mother was unwell,” recalled Bapuji, as he was fondly addressed. He used to do 14 hours of riyaaz a day, when he decided to become a vocalist from a tabla player. It was also Begum Akhtar’s voice that motivated Pt. Jasraj to become a singer. He would recall stopping every day by a roadside eatery on his way to school in Hyderabad to listen to Begum Akhtar’s ghazals, mesmerised particularly by her ‘ Deewana banana hai toh deewana bana de’ . “This ghazal was also a favourite of the owner of the eatery. When he saw how much I enjoyed her singing, he began to offer me food. I skipped attending school and spent all my time at the restaurant,” he reminisced, laughing. The renowned singer was as simple and warm as his music. Shashi Vyas, the son of legendary musician C.R. Vyas and a culture curator, once spoke of how Panditji had helped him launch his popular Pratahswar series in Mumbai. When Shashi said he had no money to host Panditji in a good hotel close to the venue, Pt. Jasraj decided to stay with one of his disciples in the neighbourhood. He later advised Shashi to not let money come in the way of his musical initiatives. “Krishna will take care of your needs,” he told him. And now, Pt. Jasraj is probably serenading Krishna with a rendition of ‘Om Namo Bhagwate Vasudevay’ in his splendid style.    He wrote several bandish; it was his way of communicating with god. He made deep forays into Haveli Sangeet, the tradition of temple singing of the Vaishnavas of North India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/farewell-and-jai-ho/article32408136.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The house of music||In a few old buildings linger the memories of scintillating concerts held here for generations, transmuted, in a manner of speaking, into a gallery of colourised photographs of great Indian classical musicians. These rarities hang in three wooden-floored rooms on the first floor of the double-storied, 300-year-old house of Ramlochan Ghoshe and his illustrious descendant, Bhupendra Krishna Ghoshe, at 46 Pathuriaghata Street, off Chitpore in Kolkata. Jayanta Ghoshe, Bhupendra’s youngest son, was the last member of the family to have witnessed the days when the best of musicians, rajas and zamindars from across undivided India congregated in this sprawling house to attend its celebrated concerts. Jayanta-babu, a widower with no children, died aged 85 last month. One wonders if other members of the scattered family will preserve the invaluable legacy he has left behind. Pathuriaghata was once the seat of aristocratic Bengali families like the Tagores (not to be confused with Rabindranath’s branch of the same family) and the Ghoshes, and of merchant princes like the Mullicks. Under their patronage, Pathuriaghata turned into a cultural Mecca. I remember seeing Jayanta-babu, tall and gaunt, dressed in white singlet and pyjamas or dhoti, pacing the three rooms, an ancient German shepherd padding behind him. There’s an onrush of emotion when one steps into these magical rooms. The music is inaudible, but its spirit comes alive. Bhupendra had collected rare photographs from various sources. Some pictures were photographed, and later coloured, by Durganath Bhattacharya, whose studio was in Baranagar. Echoing with tunes Ramlochan Ghoshe, the paterfamilias who died in 1820, was baniyan or agent to Warren Hastings. In 1782, he bought the 30 cottahs that No. 46 Pathuriaghata Street occupies from Charles Hamilton. The house is built around a central courtyard, with the thakurdalan or puja room on the ground floor, still famous for its annual Durga Puja. The Ghoshe family’s association with music is generations long. It began with Bhupendra’s father, Trailokya Nath, who used to play the pakhawaj and the sitar. From those days, the Ghoshe house became famous as a second home of great musicians and music lovers. The guru of Bade Ramdasji, dhrupad-khayal singer Jay Karanji, and well-known tappa singer Ramchandra Chattopdhyay, whose teacher was Ramzan Khan, were all Trailokya’s guests. Radhika Prasad Goswami, the esteemed singer from the Bishnupur Gharana, sojourned here for a long time. Tagore’s grand-nephew, Soumendranath, singer-musicologist Dilip Roy, singer Girija Shankar Chakrabarty would all drop by for music lessons from Radhika Prasad. And Bhupendra would often accompany him on the harmonium. Bhupendra then arranged for the great Jnanendra Prasad, nephew of Radhika Prasad, to teach his son Manmatha. Aficionados would flock to the house to listen to Jnanendra. Bhupendra himself had learnt music under the tutelage of Prof. Mohammad Ali and the sitar under Kaukub Khan. Before the 1920s, Bhupendra held concerts of mostly Bengali dhrupadiya s in the courtyard. Later, he threw his house open to the greats from across India. Faiyaz Khan was a frequent visitor and Vishnu Digambar Paluskar came here with his pupils around 1928 and stayed for a couple of months. Divas like Gauharjan, Malkajan, Noorjahan, and Zohrabai were regulars. From homes to halls Classical music those days was almost always performed at baithaks in the homes of patrons like Bhupendra. Inspired, however, by the music conferences of Kashi and Allahabad, Bhupendra launched a similar ticketed affair in Kolkata, with a competitive section for young musicians. Although it lasted only a couple of years, the conference became a legend with a lasting influence. Encouraged by Raja Prafullanath Tagore and Maharaja Jogindranath Roy, it was decided the All Bengal Music Conference would host not just classical music but also folk, kirtan, and adhunik (modern) music as well as classical dance. Rabindranath Tagore inaugurated the first conference in 1934 in the Senate Hall (since demolished) of Calcutta University, a year before Jayanta-babu was born. After Bhupendra’s death, his son Manmatha continued the tradition till 1953. It was this conference that began the process of democratisation of Hindustani classical music in Kolkata, popularising it among the middle classes. It is no wonder that Calcutta at that time was India’s cultural capital. In 1953, when Bade Ghulam Ali sang here, the concert continued till the crack of dawn. People spread newspapers and sat on the road outside and even the tram service was stopped. That same year, the All Bengal Music Conference ended. Some attempts were made to revive it but nobody could bring those days back. Today, the three rooms stand as silent testimony to the glorious musical patronage of a lost era. The writer focuses on Kolkata’s vanishing heritage and culture  Pathuriaghata was once the seat of aristocratic Bengali families and of merchant princes. Under their patronage, it turned into a cultural Mecca.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-house-of-music/article32408157.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||An auditorium-like experience||With no hope of live concerts in sight, popular national music festivals have taken to the digital platform. SwaraZankar, a widely-attended annual event in Pune, started by senior violinist Pt. Atulkumar Upadhye in 2009, launched a series of ambitiously planned online concerts last month. Says Rajas Upadhye, organiser and the veteran musician’s son, “Every year, we hold 70-80 concerts across the country, so the thought that 2020 would go by without live music was unbearable.” The difference What makes this particular effort different from the host of others being streamed every day is that the artistes are paid. “We did not want artistes to perform for free because being performers ourselves we know what it is like to have our sadhana taken for granted.” Besides this, the ticketed programme also tries to closely duplicate the live concert experience. “It would have been easy to record the artistes at home and stream the recordings,” says Raja, “but we wanted to give the best experience to our niche audience. As a performer, I love the vibrations of a stage and know how important it is to create heartfelt music.” To achieve this, each concert was recorded in an auditorium, with the lighting and sound system of a live concert, down to even the specially printed backdrop — only the hall was empty. “We hired an auditorium in Pune, sanitised it, and had each set of artistes record separately.” The initial concerts were confined to bhakti sangeet as July is the month of the Pandharpur yatra; there were abhang concerts by Pt. Shounaq Abhisheki, Raghunandan Panshikar, Anand Bhate and Rahul Deshpande. Carefully chosen from different gharanas, these artistes have a huge following. The one discordant aspect of the initiative, that was intended to reach audiences around the world, was that the announcements, content description, and the conversation with the artistes were all initially in Marathi. Fortunately, the set of concerts titled ‘Swara Malhar’ that were streamed from July 16 to August 16 (focused on raag Malhar, the raag of rains) had announcements in Hindi. With several variants of Malhar extant, there was little chance of duplication in the carefully curated concerts, yet most artistes chose to sing non-Malhar raags as their main offering. Sadly, many artistes today are comfortable only with the popular Malhars — Mian ki Malhar, Ramdasi, Surdasi, Mira, Anand and Gaur. The recent set of concerts also featured Manjusha Patil, Sawani Shende, Atul Upadhye and Vijay Ghate, besides Anand Bhate, Rahul Deshpande, Raghunandan Panshikar. There were also three Kathak performances. Blend of ragas Sitariya Shakir Khan, who also performed as part of Swara Malhar, chose to play raag Yaman, but he neatly brought in raag Mian Malhar, Ramdasi Malhar and Gaud Malhar into his second piece, which was in raag Pilu. He was expertly accompanied on the tabla by the unobtrusive Mukesh Jadhav, whose mizaj (temperament) for sangat (accompaniment) is laudable. “It was such a lovely experience to sit on a stage, with full lights after so long,” says Shakir. Vidushi Arati Ankalikar sang the rare Kaushik Ranjani (akin to the more usual raag Chandrakauns, but with an additional note); and brought in the flavour of the season in her raagmala of Malhars, which interestingly was also a taalmala, with each Malhar sung in a different taal. Rare raag Pt. Shounak Abhisheki sang two compositions of his father, the late maestro Pt. Jitendra Abhisheki, in the Carnatic raga Amritavarshini, which hails the monsoon. His next piece was beautiful, in the rare raag Kukubh Malhar, in jhaptaal. According to Shounak, no one he knows has ever performed this specifically structured raag. However, the piece de resistance of his concert was the Gaud Malhar composition of the Agra gharana doyen, Pt. Ratanjankar, in ada chautaal. With accompanists of the calibre of Bharat Kamat, (tabla), Pt. Chaitanya Kunte, Suyog Kundalkar and Tanmay Deochake (harmonium), the experience was uplifting and well worth the nominal ticket price. The process of buying the tickets and logging on to hear the music was hassle-free; and, incidentally, quite welcome, as free online classical music concerts are a dangerous trend that will be difficult to subvert later. Keeping the listening window flexible was also a clever idea, as it’s not always possible at home to concentrate at fixed times. SwaraZankar intends to keep this online platform open till the end of the year. Rajas says, “I don’t want to expose either the artistes or audience to any risk.” Perfectly organised online concerts like these have many advantages, and may become the new norm, but they are still a virtual experience. The lack of physical presence is palpable.  The Delhi-based author writes on classical music.   It was such a lovely experience to sit on a stage, with full lights after so long Shakir Khan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-auditorium-like-experience/article32408164.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||NeoNarthaki for new age dancers||The well-known, Chennai-based dancer-choreographer Anita Ratnam who runs Narthaki.com, an online portal for classical dance, has now launched a new digital platform called NeoNarthaki for new-age artistes, a space where they can engage with others, explore and exhibit their art. Launched this month, the idea behind the portal is to encourage young artistes between the ages of 16 and 40. NeoNarthaki or N2 will feature stories, experiences, interviews, conversations and much more. A fresh and vibrant place for today’s generation of dance makers, it also allows them to engage with audiences through social media and on their gadgets. The portal offers a glimpse into the lives of these young artistes across the world and finds out how they juggle their lives playing varied roles while still staying connected to their art. After bringing out two print editions of Narthaki in 1992 and 1997, the Narthaki team wanted to take its art conversations to a global readership and sowww.narthaki. comwas born in 2000. Today it is considered an essential networking platform for the dance fraternity. The online journal features concert reviews, information on seminars, events, artiste profiles, interesting snippets on performing arts, research articles, essays, and more. Narthaki has expanded its horizon to become active on social media as well, with Facebook and Instagram handles. Neo Narthaki is the next step in its engagement with young dancers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/neonarthaki-for-new-age-dancers/article32408143.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrating a scholar||On the occasion of the 112th birth anniversary of Sanskrit scholar and musicologist Dr. V. Raghavan tomorrow, two of his publications are being brought out by the Dr. V. Raghavan Center For Performing Arts. The book, Festivals, Sports and Pastimes of India ,  is based on lectures delivered by the scholar at various universities in India and abroad, and The Great Integrators: The Saint-singers of India is about the saint-singers and mystic poets of India.   For copies, call 98414 30344.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-a-scholar/article32408150.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Musical confluence||With digital platforms full of concerts, intended to keep both artistes and music lovers occupied during the lockdown, one more joins the list. ‘Rise’ by A Carnatic Quartet will go live today at 7 p.m. The Quartet features Shreya Devanath on the violin, Mylai Kathikeyan on the nagaswaram, Praveen Sparsh on the mridangam along with Adyar G. Silambarasan and Gummudipoondi R. Jeevanantham playing on the thavil alternatively. Each piece, recorded by the artistes separately in their homes, have been put together digitally for these 75 minute online sessions. Tickets, priced at Rs. 200, are available athttps://live.artsquarefeet.com/. The ticket also allows viewers to converse with the artistes after the show. The project is commissioned by Dhvani India Performing Arts Society, Central Ohio, US.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/musical-confluence/article32408145.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Canvases inspired by classical notes||“I can’t wait to share my ‘Svara-Raga-Chitra, the singing portraits’,” said H.N. Suresh, artist and director, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Bengaluru, early this year, when he was giving finishing touches to his fifth set of paintings in the ‘Cosmology’ series. His earlier series have covered nakshatras, navagrahas, rasi mandalas, and ashtadikpalakas (guardians of the eight directions). “I thought of Svara-Raga-Chitra to popularise Indian classical music among young people,” he says. These paintings are mainly based on the Sri Tattva Nidhi treatise written by Mysore Maharaja Krishnaraja Wadiyar III (1794-1868), who was an artist. “But I also had to go through different ancient texts to handle the project,” says Suresh. Each work in the 16 Svara-Raga-Chitra series (acrylic on canvas and multimedia) measures 8ft x 6ft and conveys the nuances of classical music through colours and strokes. They are all displayed at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan in Bengaluru and are available for viewing on the digital platform as well. The audio guide to the paintings can be accessed online via smartphones by scanning the QR codes.  Connecting two music styles  Suresh has attempted to literally draw the similarities and differences between Carnatic and Hindustani music. The colours, motifs and symbols on the canvases symbolise certain aspects of music. For instance, in one of the paintings, Suresh shows eight ragas from the Carnatic stream along with their Hindustani equivalents on either side of a tree. In another, he shows the seven classical notes, from shadja to nishada, while another canvas equates the saptaswaras to the seven chakras of the body. He also finds a connect between the seven swaras and animal life: Sa (peacock), Re (cow), Ga (goat), Ma (heron), Pa (nightingale), Dha (horse), and Ni (elephant). “Though my entire work is based on Wadiyar’s Sri Tattva Nidhi, it has been made contemporary by offering a scientific explanation to classical music concepts,” says Suresh. “I have also explained the ragas with their scales, and the accompanying audio clip demonstrates the same,” he says. For example, the painting on the Carnatic raga Ramakali and Hindustani raag Ramkali depicts romance while the Carnatic Vasanta, and its counterpart Lalat of the Marva Thaat shows the beauty and joy of spring. The commentary, script and music are by eminent vocalist and scholar T.S. Sathyavathi and the songs have been rendered by Maruti Prasad and Omkarnath Hawaldar, supported by Ashwini Satish, Bharati Pratap and Shilpa Shashidhar. Besides a documentary on the making of Svara-Raga-Chitra, there is also a coffee-table book edited by Jyothi Raghuram and a CD in which the concepts have been explained by experts. “The paintings are Suresh’s interpretations of the iconography of Maharaja Krishnaraja Wadiyar III,” says Sathyavathi. “It was a rewarding experience to have worked on the script and music of this pictorial digest.” Sathyavati remembers gazing intently at each painting for days together before coming up with suitable music, a mix of Hindustani and Carnatic, to explain the idea behind each.  Long hours  The project took three years to complete. “I plan to have the paintings exhibited in Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram as soon as we are COVID free. I feel the digital media too should be leveraged to popularise exploratory artworks so that they are not confined to museums,” says Suresh. The 69-year-old artist has 2,000 paintings to his credit. Over the past decade, his works have been influenced by science, mathematics, astronomy, astrology, and classical music.  The writer is a Bangalore-based   freelance journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/canvases-inspired-by-classical-notes/article32408160.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Happy collaborator||“The moment I heard of his demise, memories came flooding back,” says veteran violinist Dr. L. Subramaniam. “We were always in touch. I spoke to him just a month ago. He sounded fine. How could he just go away suddenly. I don’t remember when I met him for the first time, but I think it was at a concert in New Jersey. Since then we have worked together a lot. It was always a great experience to collaborate with him. Though he belonged to a different school of music and time, he had a positive approach towards other forms of music. ‘Let’s do it doctor saab,’ he would say cheerfully. It’s a great loss to music, but a greater personal loss.”  (As told to Chitra Swaminathan, Vijaya Mary and Deepa Ganesh)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/happy-collaborator/article32408131.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Memorable birthday||“Our bond went beyond music,” says veteran flautist Pt. Hariprasad Chaurasia. “Last year I was in New Jersey. When he came to know about it, he ensured that I spent my birthday (July 7) with him at his house there. He had decorated the house and meticulously arranged for an elaborate lunch. Thirty of his disciples welcomed me. I was given a royal treatment. He made it my most memorable birthday. He even remembered that I am diabetic, so instead of a cake, he made me cut a tarbooj and fed me with his hands. “He never forgot old associations and the days of his struggle. Whenever we met, it was wonderful to go down memory lane together. He left this world the way he would have wanted to — singing till his last breath. Musicians like him and Pt. Bhimsen Joshi were born to spread the beauty of music around the world. They earned immense respect and love of the people for their commitment to the art. Even in his late 80s, when he sat on the stage, he roared like a lion. There was so much power in his singing. Bapuji was always busy creating a bandish, teaching, travelling, meeting people, performing... it was a life lived entirely for music.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/memorable-birthday/article32408133.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad connection||Hyderabad got its share of Hindustani music through the Pandit Motiram Pandit Maniram Sangeet Samaroh. Says Mohan Hemmadi, founder of Surmandal, a cultural organisation, “In 1969, Dr. M.S. Deshpande (a well-know paediatrician) and I suggested to Panditji that he should host an annual music festival in Hyderabad in memory of his father, who spent most part of his life in the city as a revered musician in the court of Nizam Osman Ali Khan. He immediately agreed. I cherish my five-decade association with him.” Hemmadi also got one of the roads named after Pt. Motiram. Recalling his last meeting with Pt. Jasraj, he says, “We met in Dhaka at the Bengal Music Conference three years ago, where he introduced me to the organisers as his younger brother.”   A long associate of the festival and of Pt. Jasraj, Hindustani vocalist Lakshmi Reddy says that Pt. Motiram lived in the neighbourhood of their ancestral home, Maha Bhupal Palace, in Jambagh. “When Pt. Jasraj came to know about it, he was keen to see the house where his father lived. Once when the late Akkineni Nageswara Rao commended him for his choice of dhotis, within three days, Panditji sent him a set of dhotis. He loved to engage with people.” Well-known textile activist and connoisseur Lakshmi Devi Raj cannot get over the loss. “He called himself a son of Hyderabad. Thanks to the samaroh, I got to see and listen to some of the best classical musicians. And when he was here for the festival, I enjoyed hosting a lunch at my house for him and his entire team.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/hyderabad-connection/article32408138.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Madhuradhwani’s concerts this week||Under the auspices of Madhuradhwani, Arkay Convention Centre has been streaming concerts recorded live in its auditorium. This week’s instalment will have the following concerts on its Facebook pageand YouTube channel. The schedule: August 24, 6.15 p.m .: Vidya Kalyanaraman with B. Aanathakrishnan (violin), B. Ganapathy Raman (mridangam) and Anirudh Athreya (ganjira).  August 23, 6.15 p.m .: Palghat Ramprasad (vocal) will be accompanied by L. Ramakrishnan (violin), Patri Satish Kumar (mridangam) and B.S. Purushotham (ganjira). The last kutcheri in the line-up to be streamed on August 26, 6.15 p.m . will be by Thoppur Sairam (vocal) with V.V. Srinivasa Rao (violin), Arjun Ganesh (mridangam) and Tiruchi Murali (ghatam).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/madhuradhwanis-concerts-this-week/article32408141.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Breaking the stereotype||A triumphant smile brightens Pazhoor Bindu’s face as she recounts her entry into the Mudiyettu ritual dance-drama world four years ago in Kochi, where she played Kali. It made Bindu possibly the first woman to participate in this pre-classical theatre form of south-central Kerala. “I was actually the coordinator of my troupe, but the organisers thought I would perform as well. I realised it only a day before,” recalls the artiste, now 50, about a college festival held in November 2016. “I had been trained in Mudiyettu since 1995, but I had not presented it anywhere.” With hurried rehearsals, Bindu’s maiden performance went on well. Fourteen months later, a feudal mansion at Haripuram, in Ernakulam district, became the second venue where she enacted the angry goddess. Mudiyettu that depicts Kali vanquishing demon Darikan, is performed at Bhagavati shrines, but the form has seldom entertained women practitioners. And certainly not in the past three centuries, notes Bindu. Not surprisingly, a female performer invited displeasure from the community of Marars and Kurups, who usually perform the Mudiyettu.The resistance didn’t deter the artiste, who is from Nayathodu on the banks of the Periyar. “My father-in-law was a Mudiyettu exponent,” she says, referring to Pazhoor Damodara Marar, who died in 2000. “He initiated me into the art. My husband Narayana Marar carried forward the tradition. It helped me connect with the legacy I had acquired.” In 2012, Bindu lost her husband to cancer, and after overcominghurdles she formed a Mudiyettu institution two years later. Today, she heads a 17-member troupe with artistes from the neighbouring districts of Kottayam and Alappuzha. With an average of 60 shows per year, the troupe would perform through the day at temples, while an abridged version will be performed at non-religious venues. UNESCO recognition Veteran Koratty Narayana Kurup is pleased with his protégé’s achievements. “I laud Bindu’s efforts. Because by portraying Kali she has broken the myth that only men can do the role,” says the maestro of Mudiyettu, which won the UNESCO recognition in 2010. Kerala Folklore Academy, which recently announced Bindu among its list of awardees for 2018, notes that the ancient arts of this region seldom slotted women to perform even in forms that emerged from Amma Daivam sects. “Be it Theyyam or Thiyyattu, it is invariably men who appear as the goddesses. That way, Bindu is unlikely to have a woman predecessor in Mudiyettu,” says P.V. Lovelin, a senior official with KFA in Kannur. “It’s a pioneering move in a modern world that strives to blur gender divides.” On her part, Bindu isn’t particularly bothered about any such tag. “I read a lot of books. Nowhere did it lead me to believe that women can’t perform Mudiyettu,” says the researcher, who was conferred a Doctorate by the Germany-based International Peace University last year. “After all, it is a means of livelihood as much as an art. We have to survive.” Before becoming the Mudiyettu artiste Bindu was working as a nurse at a hospital in Kochi, 35 km west of Pazhoor. “I gave it up in 2013 to concentrate on Mudiyettu,” she says, thanking folklore scholar A.K. Nambiar for motivating her. Of late, Bindu’s daughter Krishnapriya appears on stage as Darikan opposite her mother as Kali. “My mom is my teacher. I first performed the role at Haripuram,” says the budding artiste. Laced with humour Mudiyettu features seven characters, and using moving-stage technique, they dance in various locations of the shrine even while being anchored around the kalam — a sanctified plot with a Kali image on the floor. Mudiyettu employs stylised dialogue for its characters, and to keep the audience enthralled the performance is laced with humorous instances as well. The accompanying instruments include the chenda drum and ilathalam cymbals. When she premièred four years ago, Bindu had found it tough to even walk with the Kali headgear that weighs nine kilos. “Today, I dance freely,” she says. “Just as the custom demands.” Once the lockdown is lifted, Bindu is planning to train a team of women dancers in Mudiyettu.  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s traditional performing arts   I read a lot of books. Nowhere did it lead me to believe that women cannot perform Mudiyettu,”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/breaking-the-stereotype/article32408148.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||A voice that echoes with||The saya rakshai or evening prayer at Chennai’s famed Kapaliswarar Temple in Mylapore has a particular magnetism. In the intense atmosphere, as the priests chant and the oil lamps are lit, the nagaswaram plays, and the temple bells join in. Then, everything suddenly falls quiet, and in that moment of stillness, the clear voice of Odhuvar Sargurunathan begins to recite the Thevarams dedicated to Lord Siva. Sargurunathan sings in this sanctum every day, choosing from the compositions of the Saivite saints, the Moovar Thevaram, each poem set to lyrical pann ragas; a ritual offering of music that he makes unfailingly; even through these times when the temple has been shut for devotees. If one connects this remarkable singer to the Thevara Nayakans whose names were carved in stone by Raja Raja Chola in the 11th century Brihadiswara Temple, one realises that he can easily be included in the list of 612 artistes, of whom a group of 50 were identified as the Thiruppadigam Padum Pitarargal – ancestors of Saivite devotional singers. Even more interesting is the legend of the lost songs engraved on brittle palm leaves found lying in a locked room in the temple at Chidambaram and how Raja Raja Chola restored them for worship throughout his kingdom. The life stories of the saints are well-known from Sundarar’s Thiru Thondar Thogai and the later magnum opus, Sekkizhar’s Periya Puranam . Legend has it that the mettu or lost tunes of the poems were remembered by a frail old woman, a descendant of Yazhpanar Thiruneelakanda Nayanar, one of the 63 Nayanar saints. Initial training Odhuvar Sargurunathan was born in Karukkatippatti, about 20 km from Thanjavur, where his father worked as a primary school teacher. As a teenager, he was taught Tirumurai music by experienced Odhuvar Murthis, Tamil scholars and singers, in an institution supported by industrialist A.C. Muthiah. The Odhuvars are part of an ancient lineage of singers of Thevaram hymns. Like all students, Sargurunathan too learnt the 12 Saiva Tirumurais or anthologies perfectly. The Nayanar verses extol 275 temples, known as Paadal Petra Sthalam, and the students also learn the Arputha Padhigams or songs composed on each temple and its sthala puranam (temple history) . Sargurunathan excels in the Poompavai Padhigam, part of the Mylapore temple legacy. This Padhigam, sung in pann Sikamaram (Mayamalavagowla of the Carnatic music), is a plaintive song, ‘Mattitta punnayan kanal madamayilai, kattittam kondan Kapaliiccharam amarndhan’, where the boy saint Gnanasambandar addresses the young girl Poompavai, asking her to return to life, as her grieving father holds her ashes in a pot. Gnana Sambandar’s poem is incomparable, containing an amazing record of the temple's antiquity and the rituals and celebrations observed in those times, followed even today. The festivals of each month of the Tamil calendar are mentioned, from Purattasi festival, Aippasi Onam to Karthigai Deepam, Thai Poosam, Panguni Brahmotsavam and so on. Each stanza ends with a moving query, “Why have you left us without seeing these festivals, Poompavai?” Stint at gurukulam The Padhigam is accompanied by the ritual enactment of the resurrection of Poompavai from the ashes, with Sargurunathan’s moving rendition of ‘Mattitta punnayan’ on the Western bank of the temple tank at noon on the day of the Arubatthu Moovar festival. His stint at the gurukulam followed by training in Carnatic music under Vidwan B. Achutharaman helped Sargurunathan hone his skills in the traditional pann system while also building bridges with Carnatic ragas. His immaculate voice modulation suits the rendering of the Thevaram verses. It is important, according to him, not to hamper the lyrics with any flourishes. Simplicity marks his singing. Sargurunathan says these songs are the essence of poetry, music and rhythm, and every effort must be made to absorb the depth of the lyrics and convey their spiritual meaning. He sings six times through the day, starting with the Thiru Palliezhucchi at dawn in Bowli ragam to Ardha Jama Puja in a soothing Sahana ragam for Manickavachagar’s beautiful lullaby ‘Ponn Oonjal Aadamo.’ Besides his temple duties , Sargurunathan and visiting Odhuvars present verses when the deities are taken out in a procession along the four temple streets during the 10-day Brahmotsavam. Sargurunathan’s scholarship and understanding of music are evident in the rare songs that he revives. And he is particularly famous for his rendition of Sundarar’s ‘Meela Adimai’ in Pann Ragam Chenjurutti (Madhymavathi). The Thevaram verses, with their historic and socio-cultural references, are valuable not just as history but as components of an important intangible cultural heritage. And Sargurunathan represents the continuity of such a heritage. The Chennai-based writer is a veteran Bharatanatyam dancer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-voice-that-echoes-with/article32408154.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The fragility of self-discovery||It only takes a trigger to unleash an avalanche of suppressed emotions, or feelings previously unknown. Xavier Dolan’s return to his hometown, Quebec, a turf he is evidently most comfortable in, taps into one such instance, which can alter your life drastically. In Matthias & Maxime , two old friends kiss for a student short film, initially as a joke and a bet. This kiss defines the course of the film and lingers around like a ghost, yet Dolan curiously opts not to show this very moment. The intent perhaps was to build up the tension, among both the characters and the audience, till a point where they kiss again, this time voluntarily and passionately. The centre-stage This second kiss is given centre-stage and shot beautifully through a rain-soaked window, their hands pressed against the foggy glass. The wait was well worth it and the intensity can be felt. But that’s probably the only highlight of the film, which otherwise has very little to say, let alone anything new. The film feels a tad dated. Especially for someone like Dolan, who we expect to shake us out of our langour with his riveting energy and make us see a new aspect of human behaviour. At 31, he is already a decade into filmmaking and a wunderkind at festivals, and is perhaps now mellowing down.  Matthias & Maxime ,  his latest, which competed for the Palme d’Or at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival and took him back to the French Riviera, tepidly delves into the questions of latent attraction and homoeroticism among male friends. It’s something we’ve seen before aplenty. Marco Berger’s Plan B (2009), instantly comes to mind. In the evolution of contemporary queer narratives and discourse, this film is lagging behind in topicality. But it’s not to say that this aspect of the human psyche is unimportant; it’s just not that the compelling any more when the discussion has moved on. What Dolan does successfully with Matthias & Maxime is he manages to make you feel for the two men. Despite a lack of urgency or even a clear perspective in the film, the central characters, played by Dolan and Gabriel D’Almeida Freitas, have a certain tenderness to them. They are almost like two lost puppies, dealing with their own demons. Dolan as Maxime has a peculiar birthmark on his face, which is never a subject of discussion until one point when the tension between the two men peaks. He has a tumultuous relationship with his abusive mother. Matthias, on the other hand, has a mellow and bland personality, fighting internalised heteronormativity. The two characters stand in contrast with each other but also adequately complement each other. Maxime plans to move to Australia and the film chronicles the run-up to his departure. With the anxiety of separation, there is also the nervousness of newfound discovery. But it’s not like the film has anything substantial to say about unrequited love, like Andrew Haigh’s Weekend (2011), where the finality of time pushes the two protagonists to accelerate their process of discovery — of both self and the other. Matthias & Maxime stretches in all directions and is unable to focus on any one aspect, including the coming-of-age arc. The ambiguity of sexual orientation is such a complex and fascinating subject. There’s so much distraction that Dolan never settles down to discuss the fluidity of attraction, instead we see a lot happening that takes away from the two central characters. The finer details Quebec being Dolan’s home ground, he brings out the finer details, like the French-English repartee and embellishes the film with his signature touch of pop music and references. He can handle chaotic party scenes (and there are plenty of them) with ease. André Turpin’s camerawork captured in 35mm is captivating and in parts beautiful to look at. The manner in which Dolan captures the space and the people who inhabit it, points out how personal this project is. The sense of comfort and familiarity shows. One can see how deeply affecting this subject of friendship, unrequited love and attraction is to the Canadian filmmaker-actor. Even though it’s not fully actualised, the sentiment can be felt. Matthias & Maxime will drop on Mubi on August 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-fragility-of-self-discovery/article32408716.ece
21 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Day after deluge, Millennium City limps back to normalcy||A day after rain wreaked havoc on the Millennium City causing a flood-like situation, normalcy was partially restored as water receded in most parts of the city on Thursday. At least three buildings were partially damaged due to rains and there were two incidents of road cave-in. The rain overnight, over 60 mm, led to waterlogging in a few parts of the city in the morning, including NH-48, prompting the traffic police to appeal to the residents to stay indoors. Normal traffic was restored on NH-48 near Narsinghpur village around noon, but a part of the service lane remained waterlogged. The Raghvendra Marg underpass near DLF Phase-I Rapid metro station continued to remain shut for traffic since water could not be drained out. Around a dozen fire engines were pressed into service to drain out the water. Another unidirectional underpass near Medanta Hospital also remained shut. People evacuated People staying in houses around a five-storey under-construction building in Sector 46 were evacuated after it leaned dangerously. Teams from disaster management and Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran visited the spot and served notice to the owner to demolish the structure. Two more buildings in Sector 27 and Sector 47 developed cracks, though there were no reports of casualty. The basement of a building in Sector 28 was inundated. A road caved in on NH-48 near IFFCO Chowk and in Sector 23A. In another rain-related incident, a wall collapsed in a residential society in Sector 65. The GMDA helpline received 30-odd calls regarding waterlogging throughout the day. A civil defence volunteer team rescued a man and his daughter from the outskirts of an inundated Daultabad village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/day-after-deluge-millennium-city-limps-back-to-normalcy/article32408520.ece
21 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Curbs, night curfew in all Punjab cities, towns||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a series of emergency measures, including extension of weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in all the 167 cities and towns in the State from August 21, in a bid to deal with the COVID-19 situation. He also ordered a total ban on all gatherings except weddings and funerals across the State till August 31. Government and private offices will work at 50% capacity till the end of this month, as per the directives issued by the Chief Minister during a videoconference with top officials in view of the increase in daily COVID-19 cases and deaths in the State, said an official statement. Surge in cases Punjab recorded 1,741 fresh COVID-19 cases on August 20 and reported 37 more deaths taking the tally to 957. The major chunk of new cases, 398 and 242, were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. The Health department said the number of positive cases in the State has reached 37,824. Capt. Amarinder has ordered an increase in testing to 30,000 a day, with at least 10 persons in the immediate circle of every positive patient to be tested. The Chief Minister also directed the concerned officials to restrict public visitors in government offices and encourage the use of the online grievance redressal system that has been ramped up by the State government to minimise in-person contact. Thursday’s official statement said in the five worst-affected districts of Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala and SAS Nagar (Mohali), restrictions on vehicular capacity have been imposed again, with buses and other public transport to operate with 50% capacity and private four-wheelers not allowed to carry more than three passengers per vehicle.  Shop restrictions The Chief Minister also directed the Deputy Commissioners in these five districts to allow only 50% of the non-essential shops to open on a daily basis to check crowding. These five districts currently account for 80% of the active caseload in the State. “We need to be tough without affecting the State’s economic activity,” said the Chief Minister, pointing to the 920 virus-related deaths reported in Punjab so far. “Each death pains me, and the projections for the coming weeks are grim,” he added. ‘Health emergency’ The Chief Minister said the State was in a “health emergency” situation necessitating harsh measures, which might have to be further intensified in the coming days. Though the COVID-19 cases are currently concentrated mainly in urban areas, rural areas have also witnessed an increase, he said, adding that if needed, travel restrictions may have to be imposed. Reviewing the situation during a videoconference with top health and medical experts and officials, Capt. Amarinder also directed the Health department to supply ventilators free of cost to medical colleges and private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curbs-night-curfew-in-all-punjab-cities-towns/article32408517.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi moving steadily towards herd immunity, observe experts||Commenting on the result of second serological survey of Delhi, epidemiologists on Thursday said that the city is on its way to attain herd immunity with the survey showing that 29.1% people have developed antibodies against the virus. They also said that according to prevailing informations, antibodies formed are stable for about six months and the increase in sero prevalence compared to the last survey is a “good” sign. When a larger part of the population becomes immune to the virus, the chain of transmission of the virus is broken, thus reducing the spread of the disease. This is called herd immunity. So, a higher value of sero prevalence is favourable. “Between the two surveys, there is an increase of about 6% people with antibodies and the disease is spreading without much increase in the number of daily new fatalities compared to earlier. This shows that we are moving towards herd immunity,” said Giridhara R. Babu, professor at Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru. “The current survey shows the percentage of people with neutralising antibodies. But there are also non-neutralising antibodies, and T cell immune response. The sum total of all these three immune mechanisms in the population should be about 60% to attain herd immunity,” he said. “So, the percentage of just neutralising antibodies in the population required for attaining herd immunity will be lesser than 60%,” the expert said. Dr. Babu said that initial evidence shows neutralising antibodies last for at least three to six months. ‘Not disappearing’ Jayaprakash Muliyil, an epidemiologist and former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore, said that the increase in percentage of people with antibodies shows that the antibodies formed are holding up and not disappearing. “If the antibodies were transient, then they should have dropped or stayed at the same level in the second survey compared to the first. As per current evidence, antibody levels remain stable up to at least six months,” Dr. Muliyil said. But experts said that the time period up to which antibodies last may go up, as the virus is still being studied. “Certain clusters of Delhi might have already achieved herd immunity. But for cities, where population density is high, more than 50% people should have antibodies to attain herd immunity” Dr. Muliyil said. Dr. Babu said that Delhi is still witnessing more than 1,000 cases per day and it is a lesson for other States that there is going to be a “long plateau” before the cases drop. “The government should do more testing to contain transmission at this stage,” he said. He also said that the result of a sero survey done in Pune cannot be compared to Delhi, as the former was done in high-risk areas. “But Mumbai and Delhi were moving towards herd immunity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-moving-steadily-towards-herd-immunity-observe-experts/article32408501.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||Surge continues in city with 1,215 new cases and 22 more deaths||As many as 1,215 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number to 1,57,354, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. At the same time, 22 more deaths have been reported, which takes the death toll to 4,257. Of the total cases, 1,41,826 people have recovered and there are 11,271 active cases. The number of active cases has been increasing for the past four consecutive days and it has swelled from 10,823 to 11,271. The active cases, which were 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 — below the 10,000 mark in months — on August 4, but since then it has remained above that mark. But the number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 35 days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000, the highest so far, and since then it has been dropping. Though Delhi has a capacity to do around 11,000 RT PCR tests in a day, only 6,010 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total 17,004 tests done in the past 24 hours, 64.6% were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity compared to RT PCR tests.  Positivity rate The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has also dropped from 12.2% to 7.1% compared to July 1. The number of containment zones is 587. “Currently, the doubling time of COVID-19 cases in Delhi has gone up to 101.5 days, as compared to the rest of the country which stands at 28.8 days. Moreover, the mortality rate in Delhi has also considerably decreased due to the multiple efforts being made by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to bring the death figures to zero. In August, the mortality rate in Delhi is 1.4%, while the country has a mortality rate of 1.9%,” the Delhi government said in a statement. Also, the recovery rate of Delhi is 90.2% as compared to 72.5% for the rest of India, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/surge-continues-in-city-with-1215-new-cases-and-22-more-deaths/article32408499.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Head constable shoots man dead for filming him drinking on duty||A policeman has been arrested for allegedly killing a 28-year-old man for filming the former while he was drinking on duty at Rohini on Thursday morning, the police said. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said the accused has been identified as Head constable Surender Kumar, posted in Shahbad Dairy police station. He has been suspended and the process for his dismissal has been initiated. An officer said the victim — Deepak Gehlot — from Navada area was a gym owner. He saw the policeman drinking on the road while on duty and questioned him. This annoyed the official and the two got into an argument. Next, the victim started making a video of the official, following which he shot at the victim with his service pistol and fled the spot. A newspaper vendor took the victim to a hospital where he was declared dead. The official informed a beat officer of his crime and was then arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/head-constable-shoots-man-dead-for-filming-him-drinking-on-duty/article32408522.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Doctors advise against reopening schools||The medical community in Delhi-NCR has advised schools to delay reopening as children, especially those belonging to the younger age group, are particularly vulnerable to COVID-19 infection. “Opening schools can pose a health challenge for infection control as it will require substantial effort to condition children to follow the norms. At best we can look at older students coming to school in a phased, time and restricted manner,” said doctors. Col. Vijay Dutta (Respiratory Medicine) of Indian Spinal Injuries Centre cited the example of the USA where 97,000 children tested positive for the virus in just the last two weeks of July — accounting for nearly a quarter of all cases reported in the period — after schools reopened. “Delaying opening of schools can potentially save lives by reducing the risk of children getting infected, and in turn carrying the virus to their households which may comprise elderly people, a high-risk group,” said Dr. Dutta. Repening schools will require a combination of implementing social distancing norms, hand hygiene protocols, sanitisation at regular intervals; testing of children, teacher and staff; and whether the school is near any containment zone, he added. “It is important to assess whether the school has the capability to implement such large-scale arrangements. If the school is unable to do that, it can infect the child and cause complications such as multi-system inflammatory syndrome,” said Dr. Dutta. Ramani Ranjan, consultant paediatrician at Motherhood Hospital in Noida, said that till a vaccine is created, phased opening of schools was the best way forward. “Instead of reopening the whole school, it should be opened in a phased manner. It will be difficult, almost impossible, for schools to enforce social distancing among children who have not seen their friends in so many months,” said Dr. Ranjan. “Children, especially younger ones, are particularly vulnerable to COVID-19,” said Meena J., consultant paediatrician at Aakash Healthcare and Super Specialty Hospital in Dwarka. “We must learn from the USA where reopening of schools have reportedly increased cases. As and when schools reopen, parents must take extra precaution to check safety measures... It is recommended the parents physically inspect the arrangements before sending the child to school,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doctors-advise-against-reopening-schools/article32408493.ece
21 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Plasma bank for COVID-19 patients in Gurugram sees few donations||In the two weeks since a plasma bank was set up in Gurugram for COVID-19 patients, only 42 people have come forward to donate. Of these, only 19 fulfilled the criteria for donation. The positivity rate in Gurugram has dipped below 7% for the first time since the outbreak and the fatality rate continues to hover around 1.3%. Gurugram Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav on Tuesday expressed concern over the lukewarm response to the plasma bank and said that only 38 units of plasma could be collected from 19 people so far. He said there was a need to reach out to the masses through social and mainstream media to create awareness for plasma donation. Mr. Yadav said that 50 hoardings have been put up across the district to raise awareness. Set up in collaboration with the Rotary Blood Bank, the plasma bank currently has only five units available. Mr. Yadav, however, said that Gurugram was on the verge of being the first district in the State to conduct 1 lakh tests per million. “We have already conducted 98,363 tests per million,” he added. The recovery rate for COVID-19 is 91.79% in Gurugram and the cases are doubling every 94 days. Mr. Yadav said that a serological survey will begin on Wednesday, after a delay of two days, and 850 tests will be conducted across the district. Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri said the average number of cases in Gurugram continues to hover around 700, out of which nearly 600 are in home isolation. He said that special camps are being held in industrial areas to conduct COVID-19 tests. Around 1,000 tests have been conducted on the workforce in industries so far.  Gurugram was on the verge of being the first district in the State to conduct 1 lakh tests per million. “We have already conducted 98,363 tests per million Virender Yadav Gurugram Chief Medical Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plasma-bank-for-covid-19-patients-in-gurugram-sees-few-donations/article32408491.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Light rain continues in Delhi; three of a family injured in house collapse||Light rain continued in the city on Thursday with the Safdarjung weather station recording 8.2 mm of rain between 9 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. While several instances of waterlogging and traffic jams were reported, the situation was better than Wednesday. However, three members of a family sustained injuries when the roof of their house collapsed on Thursday morning following a heavy downpour. The police said they received a PCR call regarding the incident from Hari Singh Park in Paschim Vihar’s Multan Nagar. ‘40-year-old house’ On reaching the spot, the three victims — Shyam, his wife Kavita and their 16-year-old daughter — were rushed to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital with minor injuries. They were discharged after treatment. “It has been learnt that the single-storey building is about 40-years-old and was in a dilapidated condition,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) A. Koan. The Delhi Fire Service said four calls regarding house collapse were received on Thursday, including the one in Paschim Vihar. The other three were received from Malviya Nagar, Chandni Chowk, and Tigri. Alert on social media The police posted alerts on social media to inform the public about the routes to avoid because of waterlogging, fallen trees and breakdown of buses. Heavy rain is not forecast for the next few days but the sky will remain cloudy with light rain expected, the Met said. This monsoon season (since June 1, the city has been witnessed 520.8 mm of rainfall, which is 15% above normal. The maximum and minimum temperatures settled at 29 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees below normal and a minimum of 24.1 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees below normal. The forecast for August 21 reads “generally cloudy sky with light rain/thundershowers. Maximum and minimum temperatures will be between 32 and 25 degrees Celsius respectively.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/light-rain-continues-in-delhi-three-of-a-family-injured-in-house-collapse/article32408524.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NDMC in third spot in Swachh Survekshan rankings||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) was on Thursday ranked third in terms of cleanliness out of 382 cities with a population between 1-10 lakh, according to the Swachh Survekshan 2020 report released by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry. Last year, NDMC was ranked fifth among all cities surveyed in the annual status report brought out by the Ministry as a part of its Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban. This year, however, the Ministry has not released overall rankings, instead of categorising cities based on population alone. While the categories based on population were introduced in 2019 for the first time, the exact groupings have been changed this year. In the category of all cities with over 1 lakh population, NDMC was ranked eighth and in capital cities, it got the top rank, the Ministry stated. “Earlier, we got the first rank among 47 cities in 1-3 lakh population category. But this year, there were 382 cities in 1-10 lakh category and we got third. Since they changed the categories, we are also not able to compare,” an NDMC official. Door-to-door collection The NDMC said it was carrying out 100% door-to-door collection and processing of waste on a daily basis. “No garbage goes to landfills and the entire waste is incinerated to produce power. All NDMC schools [middle and senior] have sanitary napkin vending machines. NDMC area also has 100% sewerage connectivity,” said NDMC. In the National Capital Region, Gurugram ranked 62 in the same category, of 1 lakh to 10 lakh population, while Noida was ranked 25. Ghaziabad was ranked 19 and Faridabad 38 out of 47 cities with a population over 10 lakh. On the other hand, the North and East Delhi municipal corporations were ranked among the lowest in the Swachh Survekshan report among cities with a population of above 10 lakh. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) position improved slightly from last year when it stood at 138, to this year’s ranking, 120. The North body’s ranking dropped by nine points falling to 291 compared to 240 in the previous year. The EDMC’s ranking fell from 240 in 2019 to 323 in the latest ranking. These civic bodies were ranked separately among 47 cities with a population above 10 lakh. The EDMC stood at 46 while the North body at 41. The lowest-ranked city in this category was Patna, Bihar. The SDMC, on the other hand, was ranked at 31. Senior SDMC officials attributed the civic body’s success to various efforts such as achieving ODF plus ranking, decentralised compost plants, remediation of dump sites, efforts to reduce the use of plastic and other interventions. AAP lashes out at BJP The Aam Admi Party attacked the rankings secured by the civic bodies by saying that the BJP, which was in power at all three corporations, had failed in their task to keep the city clean. They had “tarnished the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”, said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ndmc-in-third-spot-in-swachh-survekshan-rankings/article32408525.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police personnel missing in action since onset of COVID-19 to face music||The Delhi police have ordered strict action against personnel who are absenting from work since the onset of COVID-19, said a senior police officer on Thursday. In an order issued by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) Chinmoy Biswal on August 15 to all the district DCPs and heads of other police units, he asked them to provide the list of police personnel who are absenting from work since the onset of COVID-19. The consolidated list has to be submitted before senior officers at the earliest. Salary to be stopped Salary of all such personnel will be stopped immediately, the order copy reads. Disciplinary action will be initiated against them by rank, not below the DCP. The violators would be transferred to non-sensitive assignment for not less than three years. It is, therefore, requested that necessary action may be taken, and compliance report of the same may be sent to this headquarters, at the earliest, it said. Till date, 15 police officers succumbed to COVID-19 and over 2,800 personnel have tested positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-personnel-missing-in-action-since-onset-of-covid-19-to-face-music/article32408504.ece
21 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal groups differ on autonomous zones||Community-based organisations (CBOs) in Arunachal Pradesh differed on the issue of creation of two autonomous councils but agreed that the State needs to be brought under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. The CBOs representing the major ethnic groups debated the demand for Mon Autonomous Region (MAR) and Patkai Autonomous Council (PAC) at the first meeting of a consultative committee in State capital Itanagar on August 19. Chief Minister Pema Khandu had on August 5 proposed a discussion on the issue. The committee was subsequently set up with Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein as its chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/arunachal-groups-differ-on-autonomous-zones/article32408514.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||Petitions in HC challenge elections of Kejriwal, Gupta||Two petitions before the Delhi High Court have challenged the elections of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and BJP leader Vijender Gupta to the Delhi Assembly on the ground that they allegedly furnished false information regarding their poll expenses. Justice C. Hari Shankar on Thursday renotified the petitions for hearing on November 25 after the petitioner, Ramesh Khatri, did not appear for arguments even after the matters were taken up twice for hearing through videoconferencing. Mr. Khatri, in his pleas, has sought barring both political leaders from contesting elections for the next six years on the ground that they allegedly concealed information about their poll expenses and engaged in corrupt practices. The petition said that Mr. Khatri contested against Mr. Kejriwal in the Assembly election held this year. The plea against Mr. Gupta has been filed by Mr. Khatri as a voter of the constituency – Rohini Assembly Constituency 13 – from where the BJP leader contested and won. In both his pleas, the petitioner has claimed that neither of the political leaders disclosed accurate day-to-day expenses of their poll campaign in the expenditure register.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/petitions-in-hc-challenge-elections-of-kejriwal-gupta/article32408488.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||FIAPO, PETA to be part of study on circus animals||The Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisations(FIAPO) and People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) to be part of a nationwide survey being conducted by Animal Welfare Board of India on the conditions of animals in circuses. The court said the Board and two organisations can give medicines, food and nourishment to the animals, if they are found ill or malnutritioned, at the circus. The court asked the Board to submit a report based on the survey and asked the circus officials to cooperate. The court was hearing pleas by FIAPO and PETA. During the hearing, the counsel appearing for Great Bombay Circus and Jumbo Circus said that the officials come and take away animals saying they require private care and treatment even when the circuses have own veterinarians . FIAPO has challenged the Performing Animal Rules, 1973 and Performing Animal (Registration) Rules, 2001, to the extent that they allow registration of animals as ‘performing animals’ for circuses as against the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Constitution of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fiapo-peta-to-be-part-of-study-on-circus-animals/article32408490.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||IGIA redirected 31 passengers to govt. officials for ‘abnormal’ health conditions||The Delhi airport has said that since domestic operations resumed on May 25, 31 passengers were redirected to government health officials for having shown “abnormal health conditions”. The primary source of detecting these conditions were thermal scanners that have been installed at the entry gates of the terminal, it said. Among the 31 passengers, 12 were transit passengers who had arrived at the airport from other domestic or international destinations, and had to catch connecting flights, it added. The Delhi airport had installed thermal cameras at the entry gates of Terminal 3 to ensure no person with abnormal body temperature enters the terminal building, besides other initiatives, to maintain a high level of hygiene and social distancing at the terminal when domestic services resumed. “Since the resumption of domestic flights, the Delhi airport served 23% of the total passengers handled by all Indian airports, a rise from 18% during pre-COVID time. This is the highest passenger share handled by any Indian airport post resumption of airport operations,” the airport said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/igia-redirected-31-passengers-to-govt-officials-for-abnormal-health-conditions/article32408496.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||Restaurants, hotels to serve alcohol; bars to stay shut||The Delhi government on Thursday decided to allow restaurants and hotels in the city to serve alcohol, but bars will remain shut as per Unlock guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. “Considering the revenue implications, Excise Department will issue necessary permission for service of liquor in the restaurants and clubs by licensees at the table and in hotels rooms,” Mr. Sisodia said in an order to the Excise Commissioner. The decision was made considering the “revenue implications” of it. “Bars will remain closed under the provisions of Unlock guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs,” the order signed by Mr. Sisodia read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/restaurants-hotels-to-serve-alcohol-bars-to-stay-shut/article32408502.ece
21 August 2020||Bhopal,||Telemedicine takes health specialists to PHCs in M.P.||The National Health Mission (NHM) in Madhya Pradesh has decided to take services of medical specialists to rural belts through telemedicine as public transport remain largely suspended in view of the lockdown and reluctant patients fear travelling to cities, hit harder by COVID-19 pandemic. Offering consultancy through electronic communication in remote areas could bring down patient burden on urban tertiary care institutions by pruning the referral count, besides improving accessibility to healthcare, say NHM officials. In the first phase, 50 primary healthcare centres in Rajgarh, Raisen, Vidisha and Sehore districts, that are dependent mostly on tertiary-care institutions in Bhopal, had been linked with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal, said NHM State-unit Additional Mission Director Saloni Sidana. Doctors of the gynaecology, pediatrics and medicine departments of the institute, where almost 30-50% patients referred are from neighbouring districts, would offer telemedicine services three days a week respectively, said Dr. Sidana. “Most common diseases relate to the branches whose care is not often available at health centres. The aim is to take doctors to patients rather than the other way round,” she explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/telemedicine-takes-health-specialists-to-phcs-in-mp/article32408515.ece
21 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Teenager, woman raped; 23-yr-old accused arrested||Two women, including a minor, were allegedly raped by two men in south-east Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur on Wednesday, the police said. They confirmed that a 23-year-old Faridabad resident has been arrested in connection with the case. A senior officer said the two friends, aged 17 and 21, left their residence in Pul Prahladpur on Tuesday to go to the market where they met two persons known to them. The four decided to spend time together and went to a hotel where they were not allowed a room. After this, they went to the rented accommodation of one of the boys. The men then got the victims drunk and committed the crimes. In the early hours of Wednesday, the woman managed to leave the room and returned to her house and narrated the ordeal to her parents. The minor’s parents were then informed about the incident following which they went to the rented room in Jaitpur. They rescued their daughter and informed the police. The victims were then taken for medical examination. The police said beer bottles have been recovered from the room. Based on the complaint, a case on charges of rape has been registered against the men. A manhunt has been launched to nab the other accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teenager-woman-raped-23-yr-old-accused-arrested/article32408521.ece
21 August 2020||August 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Nikhil-Brief||New Delhi The AAP will fight all seats in the upcoming Uttarakhand Assembly election, party chief Arvind Kejriwal said here on Thursday. “AAP will fight all seats in the Uttarakhand Assembly election to be held in February 2022,” he said. “This time the people of Uttarakhand will fight for their rights and new expectations in partnership with the Aam Aadmi Party,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nikhil-brief/article32408503.ece
21 August 2020||New Delhi,||20-DE-Rocky-Delhi HC NrDMC salaries||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the Delhi government and North Delhi Municipal Corporation to reply to a plea seeking direction for payment of salaries to employees of the hospitals run by the civic body. The court gave two weeks time to respond to the petition filed by the Hospital Employees Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/20-de-rocky-delhi-hc-nrdmc-salaries/article32408489.ece
