31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||India can become a global toy hub: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called upon start-ups and entrepreneurs to “team up for toys”, pointing out that India’s share in the Rs. 7 lakh crore global toy market is minuscule. He asserted that the country has the potential to be a hub for the industry. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ address, the Prime Minister spoke on a range of issues but kept the focus on the themes of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and the vocal for local campaign. Computer games Asking start-ups to be “vocal for local”, Mr. Modi urged them to develop computer games in and based on India, citing the recently conducted App Innovation Challenge by the government. “Our country has so many ideas, so many concepts; our history has been very rich. Can we make games based on that? I call upon the young talent of the country — make games in India and make games based on India too. It is said let the game begin! So, let us start the game,” he said. ‘Start-ups for toys’ “You will be surprised to know that the global toy industry is of more than Rs. 7 lakh crore. Such a big business, but India’s share is very little in this. Now, just spare a thought for a nation which has so much of heritage, tradition, variety, young population. Will it feel good to have such little share in the toy market?” he asked. “To my start-up friends, to our new entrepreneurs I say team up for toys. For everybody it is the time to get vocal for local toys.” Mr. Modi lauded citizens for maintaining unprecedented restraint and simplicity in celebrating festivals during the pandemic. He reiterated the slogan of Do gaz ki doori, Mask hain zaroori [Maintaining six feet distance and wearing mask are essential]. Praise for farmers Mr. Modi praised farmers for proving their mettle during the pandemic. He said the sowing of kharif crops increased by 7% over last year, paddy by nearly 10%, pulses close to 5%, oilseeds around 13% and cotton 3%. Ahead of Teachers’ Day, Mr. Modi appreciated the role of teachers in imparting education through technology and innovation and urged them to teach students about local events and heroes of the freedom struggle as India approached 75 years of Independence in 2022. He said this would highlight the stories of “unsung heroes” who lived and died for the country but had faded into “oblivion”. Local breed of dogs In the context of being vocal for local, Mr. Modi also mentioned Indian breed of dogs and how they are now being taken into security agencies as well. Hitting out at Mr. Modi for not addressing students taking NEET/JEE, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “JEE-NEET aspirants wanted the PM do ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ [discussion on exams] but the PM did ‘Khilone Pe Charcha’ [discussion on toys].” Mr. Modi also said September would be “Nutrition Month”, with the government now making it a mass movement and building an agricultural database of crops grown in each district and their related nutritional value.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-can-become-a-global-toy-hub-modi/article32482933.ece
31 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||19 lakh NRC-excluded stuck in limbo||Exactly a year after the publication of the complete National Register of Citizens (NRC), the fate of 19,06,657 people excluded from the updated list in Assam continues to hang in the balance. The ongoing COVID-19 crisis and the repeated floods have been blamed for the delay in issuing rejection slips to each of the excluded persons, citing the reasons why they were left out. “Rejection slips cannot be issued until COVID-19 is brought under control. Many NRC officers are on COVID-19 duty and there are very few to do quality checks,” State NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma said. He also dismissed the possibility of issuing such slips online. According to the Centre’s standard operating procedures, a rejected person would have 120 days from the date of receiving the rejection slip to approach a Foreigners’ Tribunal (FT) for judging their citizenship status. “The NRC authority had said work would resume from September 1 after asking the district heads to ensure laptops and Internet facility for officials handling the process. We hope the pandemic will soon cease to be an excuse for keeping the process in a limbo,” said Kamal Chakraborty of the Unconditional Citizenship Demand Committee in southern Assam’s Silchar. Some stakeholders, have suggested that the issue of “illegal migrants” could be kept alive for “yet another election”. The Congress, which had started the NRC process, slammed the BJP for delaying the process after the complete list left out many non-Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/19-lakh-nrc-excluded-stuck-in-limbo/article32482930.ece
31 August 2020||Kolkata,||Denial of GST dues will crush federalism, says Bengal FM||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Sunday took a dig at Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s “Act of God” remarks, and said asking States to borrow for the shortfall of the GST revenue was a “planned strategy” to destroy the economic health of the States and crush federalism. “In the name of ‘Act of God’, a huge debt is being thrust on the States, which will destroy their financial health, crush federalism and then the brute power of centralism will come to the play,” he said at a virtual press conference. Mr. Mitra said the options made available to the States are “completely unacceptable” and has put them in a ‘'Catch 22’ situation. He said the argument that borrowing by the States would not impact their yield and the macroeconomy was a twisted one. “The rate at which the States will borrow is higher than at which the Centre borrows and it can monetise the borrowing.” Mr. Mitra said except some, about 15 big States had objected to Ms. Sitharaman’s suggestion that they should borrow and emphasised that the Centre should borrow instead. He also pointed out that on March 14, Ms. Sitharaman had said the Centre is duty-bound to compensate the States. “Now what they are saying is just the opposite,” he said. Citing a statement made by GST Network founder Nandan Nilekani before the GST Council, Mr. Mitra said Mr. Nilekani had said the revenue loss due to fraudulent transactions was Rs. 70,018 crore. “So is this an Act of God or an act of fraud,” the Minister asked||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/denial-of-gst-dues-will-crush-federalism-says-bengal-fm/article32483291.ece
31 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||14 lakh affected, 17 killed in Odisha floods||Over 14 lakh people were affected due to floods in five river systems of Odisha, the State government said here on Sunday. Seventeen people lost their lives in a wall collapse and by slipping into swollen rivers. “Heavy rain triggered by back-to-back low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal had caused flooding in 20 districts. The situation is fast improving in areas falling under Subarnrekha, Burhabalanga, Baitarani and Brahmani river systems,” said Pradeep Jena, Managing Director of the State Disaster Management Authority. According to the office of Special Relief Commissioner, 2.65 lakh people were marooned by vast sheets of water in 340 villages and 57,824 people were being served cooked food after their evacuation from water-logged houses. Preliminary assessment of floods suggests 10,382 houses and 1.68 lakh hectare of crop land were affected. Infrastructure damaged The floods also caused massive damage to infrastructure. In 11 districts, 107 roads were cut off by the swirling water and 32 breaches on river embankments were detected in five districts. In order to rescue people and provide essential material, 254 boats were deployed in different districts. Fourteen units of the National Disaster Response Force and 17 teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force were carrying out relief operations. Authorities ruled out massive floods in coastal districts as little over 10 lakh cusecs of water was flowing through Naraj barrage – the last major flood control structure before the Mahanadi waters hit the low-lying coastal areas. In the past, Naraj barrage had registered a flow of more than 15 lakh cusecs through its gates. “The water inflow into Hirakud Reservoir from upper catchment is around 8 lakh cusecs while 7.5 lakh cusecs of water is being released through 46 gates of the dam. As per our estimate, peak water flow has passed through Naraj,” said Anu Garg, State Water Resource Secretary. Keeping in mind the vulnerability of the low-lying areas in Jagatsinghpur, Puri and Kendrapara districts, experienced engineers and night patrolling teams have been deployed along major river embankment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-lakh-affected-17-killed-in-odisha-floods/article32483123.ece
31 August 2020||Kolkata,||Visva Bharati suspends three of its officials||The Visva Bharati administration has suspended three officials, including former officiating vice-chancellor Sabujkali Sen, for allegedly tampering with a resolution of the university executive council meeting. University officials said the decision was taken on Friday on the basis of the report of an inquiry committee set up to probe the allegations. The commission, led by Justice Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, retired judge of the Calcutta High Court, looked into the matter. Along with Ms. Sen, action has been taken against former officiating registrar Sougata Chattopadhyay and ex-finance officer Samit Roy. ‘Vindictive attitude’ Ms. Sen told journalists in Santiniketan that the action smacks of the “vindictive attitude” of some people against her. She added that said she will approach the courts over the issue. The development comes at a time when the university set up by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore is embroiled in a controversy over erecting a boundary wall near the Poush Mela grounds. Violence erupted at the university on August 17, when locals opposed to constructing the wall ransacked the university. Local Trinamool Congress leaders had joined the protesters who were also opposed to the University’s decision of not holding Poush Mela (winter carnival) this season. ‘Willing to hold Mela’ On Friday, the university gave hints that they are willing to organise the Mela this year with everyone’s cooperation. A press statement on Friday said the controversy over organising the Mela is unjust and the institute never wanted to stop organising the fair. “It is our request to all those who are passionate about Santiniketan to come forward and restore the old glory of Poush Mela. Come with an open mind,” the statement said. The National Green Tribunal has issued a series of recommendations for the organisers of the winter carnival to limit the pollution caused by it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/visva-bharati-suspends-three-of-its-officials/article32483293.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||69% of total cases in State asymptomatic||A whopping 69% of 1,23,090 people who tested positive for coronavirus in Telangana till August 30 did not have any symptoms of COVID-19. The remaining 31% were symptomatic. As a precautionary measure, close contacts (family members or others) of the COVID-19 patients too underwent tests. In some cases, if a person tested positive, his or her close contacts (family members or others) too tested positive though they were asymptomatic. This indicates the importance of testing for early detection, isolation, treatment, and containment of COVID-19. On Saturday, 61,148 people were tested. Of them, 27,516 were primary contacts, 8,560 were secondary contacts. Together, the primary and secondary contacts constitute 59%. The information was provided in the daily media bulletin issued on Sunday. Senior officials from the State Health Department said that the rest of the 41% are people who suffered from fever, Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) - which indicates that large percentage of people with COVID-19 symptoms are keen to get tested suspecting they might have contracted the infectious disease. However, officials did not give clarity on whether the 41% came in contact with any COVID-19 patients, or if source of infection was not known. 2,924 cases on Saturday Around 3,000 COVID-19 cases per day continue to be recorded in Telangana as 2,924 swab samples tested positive for coronavirus - taking the total to 1,23,090. The toll reached 818 as 10 more COVID-19 patients died. The new 2,924 positive cases includes 461 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 213 in Rangareddy, 181 in Khammam, 172 in Karimnagar, 171 in Nalgonda, 152 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 140 in Nizamabad, 118 in Suryapet and, 102 in Warangal Urban. Results of 1,801 more samples are awaited. Of the total 1,23,090 cases, 31,284 are active cases, 90,988 have recovered, while 818 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/69-of-total-cases-in-state-asymptomatic/article32483183.ece
31 August 2020||Pune,||Over 16,000 cases in Maharashtra again||In its second highest single-day spike till date, Maharashtra reported 16,408 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday to take its total case tally to 7,80,689 of whom 1,93,548 are active. This is the second consecutive surge of more than 16,000 cases in a day, with a record high of 16,867 being recorded on Saturday. As many as 296 more deaths pushed the State’s death toll to 24,399. Of these, 220 fatalities are from the last 48 hours while 43 deaths have occurred last week. The remaining 33 deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, State Health Department officials said. As compared to the surge, recoveries were lower with just 7,690 patients being discharged on Sunday, taking the total recoveries till date to 5,62,401. With today’s spike, the number of active cases has risen to 1,80,718. “Of a total 40,84,754 laboratory samples tested thus far, 7,80,689 (case positivity rate 19.11%) have returned positive with over 74,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stands at 72.04%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had marginally reduced to 3.13%. Pune reported more than 3,500 cases to take its total case tally to 1,73,174 while 39 deaths pushed its fatality toll to 4,060. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases is 33,700 with the district’s recovery rate rising to 77.16%. Mumbai reported 1,237 cases to take its total cases to 1,44,626 of whom 20,321 are active. With 30 more deaths, the city’s mortality toll has risen to 7,626. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 1,059 new cases along with 45 deaths. The district’s total case tally has now reached 27,241 of whom 11,574 are active while the fatality toll has climbed to 715. Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara in western Maharashtra saw high case surges. Kolhapur recorded 974 fresh cases, taking its total tally to 21,963 of whom 6,918 are active while 28 more deaths saw the district’s death toll touch 627. Sangli reported 18 fatalities as its death toll climbed to 421. As many as 690 new cases pushed the district’s total case tally to 12,525 of whom 4,837 are active. Satara district reported 616 cases to take its total case tally to 19,300 of whom 4,821 are active. Five more deaths pushed its death toll to 333. Nashik district, a major virus hotbed in north Maharashtra, reported its highest single-day spike of over 1,400 fresh cases as its total tally reached 38,940 of whom 11,703 are active. With six more deaths, the district’s fatality toll has risen to 864. The adjoining district of Jalgaon, too, saw a big surge of 755 fresh cases and 10 more deaths. The district’s total case tally has reached 26,828 of whom 7,435 are active ones, while the death toll has climbed to 817. Ahmednagar district reported 469 new cases as its total case tally rose to 20,130 of whom 4,449 are active. Nine more deaths saw its mortality toll reach 291. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane recorded 462 new cases, taking its total case tally nudge the 46,000-mark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-16000-cases-in-maharashtra-again/article32483345.ece
31 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||COVID-19 cases go up by 2,154 in State||Kerala reported 2,154 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 73,855. The total recoveries reported by the State so far are 49,845, and the number of COVID-19 patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals across the State is 23,658. The official COVID-19 death toll of the State has risen to 287 with the Health Department confirming seven more deaths in the State to be due to the virus. These include the death of a migrant worker from West Bengal, two deaths in Kannur, and one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kasaragod, Kozhikode, and Thrissur. Health-care workers Over 92% of the new cases reported on Sunday – 1,995 cases – are a result of local transmission. In 174 cases, the infection could not be traced to a known source. The new cases reported on Sunday also includes 33 health-care workers. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram continues to report more cases than any other with 310 cases, of which all except four cases are locally acquired infections. Kozhikode has 304 cases, Malappuram 195, Kasaragod 159, Kollam and Thrissur 151 cases each, Pathanamthitta 133, Kannur 112, Alappuzha 92, Palakkad 45, Idukki 35, and Wayanad 13. The number of samples tested by the State in the past 24 hours is 27,908. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 586.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-go-up-by-2154-in-state/article32483219.ece
31 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||A.P. next only to Maharashtra in COVID-19 infections||Reporting more than 10,000 new COVID-19 infections for the fifth consecutive day, the State’s tally became the second highest in the country after Maharashtra as of Sunday. With a total of 4,24,767 infections, which included 10,603 reported in the last 24 hours, Andhra Pradesh surpassed the neighbouring Tamil Nadu, where the tally stood at 4,22,085. Active cases The death toll went up to 3,884 with 88 new fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, a bulletin issued by the Health Department said. While the death rate in A.P. was 0.91%, it was 1.71% in Tamil Nadu. The number of active cases in the State was 99,129 — also the second highest in the country, even as the number of recoveries went up to 3,21,754, which was 75.75% of the total infections. As many as 9,067 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate of the tests conducted so far was 11.59%. Including the 63,077 samples tested in the last one day, the State tested 36.66 lakh samples till date. The tests per million ratio stood at 68,659. The number of confirmed positive cases per million was 7,954. Meanwhile, Chittoor’s death toll, the highest among other districts, crossed the 400-mark with more than half of them reported in the last 18 days. Nellore reported 14 deaths, the highest so far, which was followed by Chittoor (12), Kadapa (9), West Godavari and Anantapur (7 each), East Godavari and Srikakulam (6 each), Kurnool, Vizianagaram and Krishna (5 each), and Prakasam, Visakhapatam and Guntur (4 each). East Godavari and Nellore reported 1,090 and 1,028 new cases respectively. They were followed by West Godavari (979), Kadapa (952), Chittoor (948), Prakasam (881), Visakhapatnam (866), Srikakulam (819), Kurnool (811), Anantapur (695), Guntur (593), Vizianagaram (558), and Krishna (383).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-next-only-to-maharashtra-in-covid-19-infections/article32482925.ece
31 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Haladi’ loses its flavour amid pandemic||A year after the famed organic turmeric of Odisha’s Kandhamal district received the geographical indication (GI) tag, thousands of farmers who hoped to make a profit out of the crop are cursing themselves. With COVID-19 sweeping across the region, the farmers have been left high and dry as procurement of the condiment has been badly affected by the pandemic. Though Kandhamal saw a bumper yield this year, less than 20% of raw turmeric has been sold so far, leaving the rest of the produce with the farmers. “I had grown turmeric in one acre of land. I am not able to sell five quintals as no local trader is ready to give me above Rs. 40 per kg,” said Kiabisi Majhi of Mundibali village under Tumudibandh block. Like Mr. Majhi, a majority of the turmeric farmers have failed to sell their produce as its procurement price has nosedived in Kandhamal, a region where farmer suicides are hardly heard. “In many interior villages, farmers have not even been approached by local traders. Those who were in urgent need of cash had no choice, but to sell turmeric at a throwaway price of Rs. 30 to Rs. 35 per kg,” said Raja Karna, a farmer of Bandhaguda village in Firingia block of the district. Unscrupulous traders Taking advantage of the COVID-19 restrictions, unscrupulous traders have been quoting prices below Rs. 40 for a kilo of the tuber whereas the Kandhamal Apex Spices Association for Marketing (KASAM), the government-backed cooperative agency, offers Rs. 60 per kg. With more than 60% of the geographical area covered with hills and forest, Kandhamal offers ideal conditions for cultivation of various spices including turmeric, ginger, mustard and tamarind. ‘Kandhamal Haladi’ for which GI tag has been received is a pure organic product. Tribals grow the tuber without applying fertiliser or pesticide. The aromatic value and golden yellow colour of ‘Kandhamal Haladi’ make it stand out from the rest. The cultivation begins in the summer months of April and May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haladi-loses-its-flavour-amid-pandemic/article32482927.ece
31 August 2020||Kolkata,||Denial of GST dues will crush federalism, says Bengal FM||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Sunday took a dig at Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s “Act of God” remark, and said asking States to borrow for the shortfall of the GST revenue was a “planned strategy” to destroy the economic health of the States and crush federalism. ‘Catch-22 situation’ “In the name of ‘Act of God’, a huge debt is being thrust on the States, which will destroy their financial health, crush federalism and then the brute power of centralism will come to the play,” he said at a virtual press conference. Mr. Mitra said the options made available to the States are “completely unacceptable” and have put them in a ‘Catch-22 situation’. He said the argument that borrowing by the States would not impact their yield and the macroeconomy was a twisted one. “The rate at which the States will borrow is higher than at which the Centre borrows and it can monetise the borrowing.” Mr. Mitra said about 15 big States had objected to Ms. Sitharaman’s suggestion that they should borrow and emphasised that the Centre should borrow instead. He also pointed out that on March 14, the Union Minister had said the Centre is duty-bound to compensate the States. “Today what the Centre is saying is a complete subterfuge,” he said, adding that it amounts to breaking the trust of the States. Citing a statement by GST Network founder Nandan Nilekani before the GST Council, Mr. Mitra said Mr. Nilekani had said the revenue loss due to fraudulent transactions was Rs. 70,018 crore. “So is this an Act of God or an act of fraud,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/denial-of-gst-dues-will-crush-federalism-says-bengal-fm/article32483121.ece
31 August 2020||Mumbai,||How can exams be held if colleges shut: minister||Maharashtra Minister Uday Samant on Sunday said that although the Centre’s Unlock guidelines say that schools and colleges will remain shut till September 30, the UGC wants the final year exams to be conducted by that time. Upholding the UGC decision to conduct the final year examinations, the Supreme Court had on Friday said that these students could not be promoted without exams. “How can examinations be held by September 30 if schools and colleges are closed. What exactly should the state governments and students do?” Mr. Samant asked in a tweet. The Higher and Technical Education Minister said that the committee of vice chancellors, which met on Sunday, will submit its report to the State government on Monday. The minister on Saturday said that a six-member committee headed by Suhas Pednekar, vice chancellor of Mumbai University, had been formed to give recommendations about how to conduct examinations. The Union Home Ministry on Saturday issued Unlock 4 guidelines, as per which, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions would remain closed for students till September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/how-can-exams-be-held-if-colleges-shut-minister/article32483342.ece
31 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana malls, shops to remain open on all days||The Haryana government on Sunday revoked its order to shut shopping malls and shops on Mondays and Tuesdays following the Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs a day earlier. Unlock 4 guidelines Haryana Home Minister Anij Vij tweeted that the State government had taken back its decision to keep shopping malls and shops shut on Mondays and Tuesdays since the Union government had not allowed the State governments to impose lockdown during Unlock 4. “So there will be no lockdown,” said the tweet. As per Unlock 4 guidelines, the “State/UT governments shall not impose any local lockdown, outside the containment zones, without prior consultation with the Central government”. Shopkeepers in the Millennium City welcomed the decision saying it was a good news for retail trade. The Haryana government had earlier this month passed directions for shopping malls and shops to remain shut over the weekend following a sudden spurt in cases of COVID-19 infection. However, the State Disaster Management Authority on August 28 amended the order to impose shutdown on commercial establishments, except those dealing in essential goods and services, on Mondays and Tuesdays. The decision was taken after stiff opposition to the weekend lockdown by the retailers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-malls-shops-to-remain-open-on-all-days/article32483118.ece
31 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID -19 cases in West Bengal near 1.6 lakh||West Bengal on Sunday recorded 3,019 cases of COVID-19, taking the total case tally to 1,59,785. The State also recorded 50 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total death toll due to COVID-19 to 3,176. With 3,308 people being discharged, the recovery rate improved to 81.96% while the active cases in the State declined to 25,657. Of the 50 deaths, 19 were recorded in Kolkata taking the city’s death toll to 1,280. The second most affected area due to the viral infection, North 24 Parganas, recorded 7 deaths, taking its death toll to 726. The district also recorded 594 more cases in the past 24 hours, while Kolkata recorded 428 infections. A total of 43,436 samples were tested for the infection in the past 24 hours. The total samples tested so far in West Bengal, which has one of lowest tests per million population among larger States, is now 18.45 lakh. Doctor succumbs Meanwhile, another doctor of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), who was at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19, died due to the viral infection. Raqibuddin Ahmed, a doctor employed with the city’s civic body, was active in containing the spread of pandemic in borough number 15 of the KMC. So far about 20 doctors have died in West Bengal due to COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-near-16-lakh/article32483287.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Premature retirement not a penalty, says DoPT||The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has issued a notification on review, consolidation and reiteration of the guidelines on premature retirement of government servants, clarifying that it is distinct from “compulsory retirement” and is not a penalty. “The objective of Fundamental Rule (FR) 560)1(l) and Rule 48 of CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, is to strengthen the administrative machinery by developing responsible and efficient administration at all levels and to achieve efficiency, economy and speed in the disposal of government functions,” the order said. At any time after a government servant has completed 30 years’ qualifying service, the official being prematurely retired will be entitled to pension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/premature-retirement-not-a-penalty-says-dopt/article32482928.ece
31 August 2020||Srinagar,||Police officer, 3 militants killed in J&K encounter||Three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants and a police officer were killed near Srinagar during a night-long operation by the security forces. “The three-bike borne militants made a bid to snatch weapons at a joint checkpoint of the CRPF and the police at Panthachowk on Saturday night. Alert forces foiled their plans and chased them. The militants took shelter in a nearby house and were killed later,” Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said. One assistant sub inspector of the police’s Special Operation Group, Babu Ram, was injured in the firing and later succumbed to injuries. In a separate incident, a soldier was killed in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-officer-3-militants-killed-in-jk-encounter/article32482931.ece
31 August 2020||Mumbai,||IIT-Bombay has a pandemic gift for NEET, JEE examinees||Students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, (IIT-B) on Sunday launched a portal to connect with students from remote areas in the country appearing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) who require transportation facilities to reach their exam centres amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Sanskar Jain, an alumnus of IIT-B, came up with the idea and the website, www.eduride.in, was designed by four students: Kriti Kamna (electrical engineering), Himank Jain and Anuj (mechanical engineering), and Prabhat Singh (civil engineering). Ms. Kamna said the team designed the website in just two days. “EduRide has been created to solve one of the problems posed by this COVID-19-induced lockdown. The future of the nation, our students, are going to appear for various exams next month, including JEE-Mains, JEE-Advanced and NEET. After two years of hard work, no student should lose out on an opportunity due to such unforeseen circumstances. We are motivated to provide help to all aspiring candidates appearing for these exams,” said Ms. Kamna. The team members said the examinees who require transportation can visit the website and register themselves as students. They can then raise a request for a ride by entering the details of their exam centre. People who want to volunteer and extend help to these examinees can also register on the website. Volunteers will have the option to pick up examinees from their homes and drop them at their respective exam centres or to make a donation to help the candidates avail themselves of a cab ride. Ms. Kamna said hundreds of students and volunteers have registered themselves on the website. “Our aim is to ensure that every student reaches the exam centre on time,” she said. While the NEET exam is scheduled to be held on September 13, the JEE exams are planned to be held from September 1 to 6. The exams have been deferred twice in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iit-bombay-has-a-pandemic-gift-for-neet-jee-examinees/article32483339.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s weekly markets’ trial run extended||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday extended the trial run for reopening weekly markets in the Capital till September 6. Last week, the DDMA had allowed reopening of one market per day in each zone of the city’s three civic bodies and in the New Delhi Municipal Council area. The civic bodies have been instructed to strictly enforce social distancing, wearing of masks, ban on spitting and other guidelines prescribed under standard operating procedures issued by the government. Last week, a market in NDMC’s Narela area was shut down after social distancing norms were flouted there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhis-weekly-markets-trial-run-extended/article32483119.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Flood fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-fury/article32482974.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Change likely in metro schedules, frequency||After a gap of over five months, BMRCL is gearing towards resuming Namma Metro services from September 7. According to BMRCL officials, trains are unlikely to run at the same frequency as they did before lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/change-likely-in-metro-schedules-frequency/article32482976.ece
31 August 2020||MYSURU,||Schooling with a difference for tribals||It is schooling with a difference for tribal students living on the forest fringes, as they have skipped textbook learning for now and are engaged in non-formal education through games and songs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schooling-with-a-difference-for-tribals/article32482977.ece
31 August 2020||Srinagar,||Many injured in Srinagar amid Muharram curbs||Many people were injured in tear gas shelling and pellet firing on Sunday as authorities disallowed Muharram processions in Srinagar and imposed restrictions. At least three policemen were injured. The clashes broke out after the security forces used force to disperse the crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/many-injured-in-srinagar-amid-muharram-curbs/article32483126.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports 2,024 fresh COVID-19 cases||The national capital recorded 2,024 new COVID-19 cases and 22 deaths in the past 24 hours, stated a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government. As many as 1,249 patients also recovered during the same period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-2024-fresh-covid-19-cases/article32483125.ece
31 August 2020||Kolkata,||Underground construction work of Kolkata metro underway, all safety protocols in place: Official||Underground construction work of the Noapara-Barasat via Bimanbandar Metro rail project is underway in full swing, while adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols, an official said on Sunday. He said construction of the diaphragm wall is in progress underneath the Airport Entry Road at the proposed Bimanbandar Metro Station. All steps have been taken to ensure smooth vehicular movement.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/underground-construction-work-of-kolkata-metro-underway-all-safety-protocols-in-place-official/article32483289.ece
31 August 2020||Kolkata,||Body of Gujarat man fished out of canal by BSF personnel in West Bengal||The Border Security Force has recovered the body of a man, believed to be from Gujarat, from a canal in North 24 Parganas, it said in a statement. An Aadhaar card was found along with the body, which suggested that the deceased was Shaikh Imaran (24), a resident of Juhapura in Ahmedabad. The border guards had spotted the body floating on Vidyadhari Nallah in Ghojadanga on Friday during a routine patrol.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/body-of-gujarat-man-fished-out-of-canal-by-bsf-personnel-in-west-bengal/article32483288.ece
31 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||First nearby||The Mahad police on Saturday arrested one more person in connection with the building collapse on August 24, which killed 16 people and injured nine others. Yunus Abdul Razak Shaikh had partnered with the developerand sold 40% of the flats at the five-storey  Tarique Garden. After the flats were sold, Mr. Shaikh made a fake receipt book in the name of a society that was yet to be formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-nearby/article32483343.ece
31 August 2020||Mumbai,||Second nearby||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the spike in COVID-19 cases in the State over the last one month was due to the government’s aggressive approach of “tracking, tracing, testing and treatment”. Mr. Tope said the State government is focusing on preparedness and creating awareness of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-nearby/article32483346.ece
31 August 2020||YADGIR,||Two deaths each in Yadgir, Raichur||As many as 214 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Yadgir and Raichur districts on Sunday. Of these, 67 are from Yadgir, while 147 are in Raichur. In Yadgir, with the new cases, the number of active cases went up to 5,272. Two patients died taking the toll to 40 in the district. In Raichur, with the new cases, the number of active cases reached 7,024. Two patients died taking the toll to 86.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-deaths-each-in-yadgir-raichur/article32483166.ece
31 August 2020||Chennai,||Ready for any exigency, says Health Minister||As the State prepares to re-start its economy from September 1, the health services machinery is fully geared to meet any exigency, Health Minister C. Vijaya- baskar said. Adequate stock of oxygen cylinders, medicines and other consumables were available in hospitals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-for-any-exigency-says-health-minister/article32483029.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||6,495 new cases and 94 deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu recorded 6,495 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 4,22, 085. Chennai saw 1,249 new cases. The State also recorded 94 deaths – 37 of them in private and 57 in government facilities — taking the toll to 7,231.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6495-new-cases-and-94-deaths-in-tn/article32483028.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,||69% of Telangana cases so far asymptomatic||Telangana, which has so far found 1,23,090 people positive for COVID-19, said 69% of them did not have any symptoms, while the remaining 31% were symptomatic. As a precaution, close contacts (family members and others) of a patient too underwent tests. In some cases, if a person was positive, his or her close contacts too tested positive though they were asymptomatic. This showed the importance of testing for early detection, isolation, treatment, and containment, officials said. On Saturday, 61,148 people were tested. Of these, 27,516 were primary contacts, and 8,560 were secondary contacts. Together, the primary and secondary contacts constituted 59%, the media bulletin said on Sunday. Senior Health Department officials said that the rest of the 41% suffered from fever, Influenza-like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), which indicated many with COVID-19 symptoms were keen to get tested. However, whether the 41% had come into contact with other patients, or the source of infection was unknown remained unclear. With 2,924 more samples testing positive, the total came to 1,23,090. The toll stood at 818 as 10 more patients died. The 2,924 cases included 461 from Greater Hyderabad, 213 in Rangareddy, 181 in Khammam, 172 in Karimnagar, 171 in Nalgonda, 152 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 140 in Nizamabad, 118 in Suryapet, 102 in Warangal Urban. As it reported 10,000 new infections for the fifth day, Andhra Pradesh had the second highest figure in the country after Maharashtra as of Sunday. With 4,24,767 infections, including 10,603 reported the previous day, Andhra Pradesh surpassed Tamil Nadu. The death toll went up to 3,884 with 88 new fatalities, the Health Department said. While the death rate in A.P. was 0.91%, it was 1.71% in Tamil Nadu. Active cases in the State stood at 99,129 — also the second highest. The positivity rate of tests so far was 11.59%, and 63,077 more samples were tested. Tests per million ratio stood at 68,659 and confirmed positive cases per million at 7,954. Kerala reported 2,154 new cases on Sunday, and 23,658 patients were in hospitals. The toll rose to 287, with the Health Department confirming seven more deaths. These included the death of a migrant worker from West Bengal, two deaths in Kannur, and one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kasaragod, Kozhikode, and Thrissur. Over 92% of the new cases from Sunday – 1,995 of 2,145 – were due to local transmission. In 174 cases, the source of infection was unknown. Sunday’s cases included 33 health-care workers. Thiruvananthapuram district continued to report more cases than any other, with 310 infections, of which all except four were locally acquired. ( With inputs from Vijayawada and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/69-of-telangana-cases-so-far-asymptomatic/article32482892.ece
31 August 2020||DELHI,||Panel looks at lockdown impact on mental health||As India heads towards completing six months of being in a virtual mode and restricted mobility because of the COVID-19 pandemic in September, the Parliamentary Standing Committee for Home Affairs is examining the impact of the lockdown on citizens’ mental health. The committee — headed by Congress Deputy Leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma — had a marathon five-hour meeting last Thursday where it discussed a range of issues, including mental health and the “adverse” health impact on children from prolonged exposure to online classes. “Continuous exposure to computer or phone screens will surely have an impact on eyesight. The Chairman of our committee asked the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to consider developing a protocol since this is now the new normal,” an MP familiar with the deliberations told The Hindu on Sunday. Collective impact The committee, said a member, wanted to know what has been the impact of multiple stages of lockdown because of the pandemic on collective psychology and individual mental health. Earlier, the panel was briefed by ICMR chief Balram Bhargava, and All India Institute of Medical Sciences Director Randeep Guleria, on the pandemic. “Older people, who ordinarily don’t go out of their homes, are having psychological issues simply at the idea of being forced indoors. And younger children are asking their parents if they had led this kind of a restrictive childhood,” another MP said. ‘Digital divide’ The 31-member Committee, which has senior members like Satish Chandra Mishra (BSP), Bhupendra Yadav (BJP), Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury (Congress), Dinesh Trivedi (Trinamool), also deliberated on the digital divide and the difficulties faced by students belonging to families that are not economically well off. “While some families are unable to own gadgets even in urban areas, students in rural and semi-urban areas are facing network issues,” another member said. Mr. Chowdhury is learnt to have asked the Delhi Chief Secretary, who appeared before the panel, to discuss with school authorities and examine the possibility of reducing the online work load for students without hampering online education. The panel also enquired about the interoperability of ration cards (one nation, one ration card scheme), provision for food for the urban poor, issues related to the migrant workers, availability of loans to smaller businesses among others. Since July 15, the parliamentary panel has met officials from the Home Ministry, Health Ministry, ICMR, Department of Financial Services (DFS), National Statistical Organisation (NSO), Ministry for Food and Consumer Affairs and others in separate meetings. However, the committee may not be able to come up with a report in the upcoming Parliament session scheduled between September 14 and October 1. “Let us see what we can do as there is a lot of work to be done before we can give it to Parliament,” a senior member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-looks-at-lockdown-impact-on-mental-health/article32482919.ece
31 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Job aspirant’s death in Kerala triggers protests||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday sought to portray the suspected suicide of a government job aspirant, S. Anu, 28, in Neyyattinkara as a grim symbol of the State’s ‘apathy’ towards unemployed youth. Anu was found hanging in his room. The police recovered a note, which attributed the ‘suicide’ to joblessness. The BJP staged a protest with the mortal remains of Anu, near Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s official residence at the Cliff House. Congress and BJP workers organised belligerent street protests in Kollam, Kottayam and Kozhikode. In Thiruvananthapuram, they tried to scale the Secretariat fence and pull down the police barricade at the gate. The police retaliated by training pressurised water jets on them. Matters came to a head when news broke that Anu was eligible for posting as Civil Excise Officer in Thiruvananthapuram and that the Public Service Commission (PSC) had ranked him 77th in the rank-list. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala visited Anu’s house and said government indifference had cost the youth his life. The Excise department had appointed 72 persons from the list. Anu failed to make the cut because the department had not reported the remaining eight vacancies to the PSC before the legal duration of the rank-list expired in June. (The Excise department said the PSC had recommended the employment of 72 persons on the list. The Department had appointed them. It reported job vacancies punctually.) Congress and the BJP said Anu’s plight reflected the stark reality of life for thousands of unemployed youth in Kerala. The organisations threatened a season of agitations against the government and the PSC in September. The demonstrations unfolded as a counter-narrative to Mr. Vijayan's Onam eve promise to throw off the despondency induced by the COVID-19 pandemic by fast-tracking development and expanding social welfare schemes.In contrast to Mr. Vijayan’s message of optimism, the Opposition sought to depict a dystopian state of affairs and a gloomy future in the final year of the LDF rule. It alleged that backdoor appointments were the norm and private consultancies had usurped government jobs. Culpable homicide BJP State president K. Surendran held the government responsible for Anu’s death. He demanded in Kozhikode that the police charge Mr. Vijayan and the PSC chairman for culpable homicide not amounting to murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/job-aspirants-death-in-kerala-triggers-protests/article32482875.ece
31 August 2020||Srinagar,||Many injured in Srinagar amid Muharram curbs||Many among the faithful were injured in tear-gas shelling and pellet firing on Sunday as authorities disallowed Muharram processions in Srinagar and imposed strict restrictions. At least three policemen were injured. Clashes broke out at Zadibal, Sazgari Pora, Hawal and Alamgari Bazar after the security forces used smoke shells and pellets to disperse people. “One person was hit by pellets from a very close range in the Zadibal area and was hospitalised,” said an official in a local hospital. Many hit by pellets were treated in dispensaries. “Three youth were hit by pellets and treated locally to avoid police action,” said a person from Hawal. Seven youth were hit by pellets in the upper body parts, including the eyes, in the Bemina area. “Two patients may lose sight at least in one eye,” a doctor at the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital said. All roads in Shia-majority areas in the old city were sealed after the Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, recently decided to reimpose restrictions on religious gatherings due to the pandemic. However, there was no violence during smaller processions in Baramulla and Budgam districts in the Valley as per traditions. Peoples Democratic Party leader Suhail Bukhari condemned “the use of brute force on the peaceful Muharram procession in Kashmir.” A Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party spokesman said the curbs in Shia-majority areas “were highly regrettable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-injured-in-srinagar-amid-muharram-curbs/article32482900.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Current banking challenge most intractable one, even before COVID-19’||In his first interaction with a journalist after stepping down from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), former Bank Governor Urjit Patel   spoke about his new book, Overdraft: Saving the Indian Saver , in a conversation on invitation from the Pune International Centre. Edited excerpts.  What made you write this book? My teacher Professor T.N. Srinivasan used to say that in India, our macroeconomic challenges always had microeconomic sources. In the banking sector in India, which I have observed at various distances over the last 30 years, it’s the other way round. Our macroeconomic problems have created financial sector crisis periodically. The current banking challenge is the most intractable one, even before COVID. We have a tendency to make a premature pronouncement of victory over any challenge that we desire to solve. We get tired very quickly. Look at our fiscal policy — from very high levels of fiscal deficit, we would have a couple of years of very modest declines. So, from a very high level we could go to a slightly lower high level and everyone says, ‘Oh, we have now had too much fiscal consolidation so let’s go back to our usual norm.’ Ditto for bad debts. This does not lead to good outcomes; it just accentuates problems by storing them up. You write, “High professional integrity notwithstanding, the RBI’s reputation has been that of a soft regulator”? Why “soft”? The regulator is perceived so because of its actions to be pliable for rollback of the regulations that it puts out. Once a regulation has been issued, why is there an expectation that with enough pulls and pressures, things will get diluted? That’s the credibility part of the regulator which I have described as being soft. Legally, important parts of the Banking Regulation Act are not applicable to the government banks. That does tie the hands of the banking regulator in important ways. We are seeing a rising clamour for restructuring of loans. You have called the phrase “restructured standard asset” an oxymoron. The restructuring of assets started in this particular phase before COVID. My reference is, for example, to February 2020 when the real estate commercial sector was allowed restructuring which basically means that you kick the can down the road. You effectively increase the repayment period; maybe by making it into a new loan, evergreening etc. The consequence is that the banks’ balance sheets once again don’t convey the true nature of their asset book. What a restructured standard asset label does is that it gives an NPA [Non-performing Asset] a veil of false legitimacy to hide the true nature of the asset. This phrase has been used, I think, since 2001 when the Corporate Debt Restructuring mechanism started. You know how that contributed to all the problems of the pre-2014 NPA cycle. We need to be very cautious on how we proceed down this road. It always gives you a short-term gloss of cleanliness, but everyone knows that it is basically done to hide the bad assets. It makes banks’ balance sheets untidy and adds to the sector’s risk perception. Is this what you are talking about when you caution against U-turns? Yes, and there have been other instances which were of regulatory policies which had been put in place after 2014 to help with financial stability. Those have also been reversed since 2019. There has been a series of these things that have happened including defining what constitutes a default. Over the last year/ year-and-a- half, we have seen a fair bit of reversal in the ecosystem of resolution and liquidation. The discomfort the February 2018 circular may have caused among large defaulters can be guessed from what you write. What was the logic of referring cases for Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) resolution within a day of default and refusing special concessions or exemptions selectively for the power or the real estate sectors? Have the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down the February 2018 circular and the RBI’s replacement circular of June 2019 hurt the IBC reform? What has happened is that instead of having a rules-based process by which assets are recognised, resolved, and liquidated if necessary, we go back to an ad-hoc approach. Frankly, every sector, if not every borrower, can come up with a good reason on why he or she did not service the loan. It is possible to do that at any point in the economic cycle. But no one mentions the years of over-borrowing and reckless lending. It is costly to violate the principle that you have to do your debt servicing at a point in time. Once you go down this path of discretion and non-transparency, it is unfair on those sectors and borrowers who don’t get a chance to have their loans recast or NPAs restructured as standard assets. Further, by locking up finance to help inefficient borrowers, we undermine growth. Most countries have a rules-based system. I don’t know why we should be an exception that this sector deserves that, then another sector should get something else in terms of forbearance. What are going to be the long-term implications of the rollbacks and NPAs remaining unresolved consequently? One is that large amount of capital is locked up. Unless bad debts and NPAs are resolved or liquidated they are in state of suspended animation. Not only I but others have called these ‘living dead borrowers’, who survive in name but there is hardly any productive activity. The other is that it increases the borrowing cost of everyone in the economy, including for the good borrowers. It is in this cycle of NPAs that, for the first time, good borrowers have felt the impact of the large load of NPAs that the banks have been carrying because they have not fully benefited from the cuts in interests rates that have taken place over the last year and a half. My book does not deal with the pandemic’s impact. The higher cost of borrowing for the economy is even felt by the government. That borrowers, especially large borrowers, need not be unduly worried about their assets being taken over by someone else or eventually sold and liquidated by the bankers reinforces a poor incentive structure. In a way, the wrong kind of borrower is more attracted to borrow from the credit markets. Some productive borrowers in the economy are probably getting crowded out in the bargain. In other words, misallocation of finance. The consequences are fairly deep. And these run for a long time, the longer the clean-up process. It is not good for the credit culture if some borrowers don’t have to repay on time. If you are a small borrower and you don’t pay your loans on time, the banks without much fuss make sure one way or the other you lose out. It is the relatively larger borrowers that have this privilege. The worry is that the rollback has become quite serious. Within three years if people are talking about a post-IBC world, then it is amazing that possibly the most important structural reform, to my mind, in the last six years — and it took about two years of hard work by the government to put in place — and that reversal is being, in a way, accepted. The durability of this reform has been — regrettably — short. The loss of credibility on account of the roll-back is high, and so is the cost to the economy. I have laid out the mechanisms by which you get lower growth when you have this kind of overhang of NPAs in the banking system. You don’t seem optimistic about the “likelihood of meaningful privatisation” of government-owned banks. The point is that if the government owns these banks, the temptation to use them as a tool for day-to-day macroeconomic management is just too high. It is very tempting that if I need to boost investment and growth then I have a direct instrument that is even more so than monetary policy because you can use your ownership of intermediaries to increase lending and investment and hope that leads to higher growth. If it were to privatise all these banks…, the government would lose a very important instrument in its toolkit for, what I call, tactical macroeconomic management. One of the main points that I make is that given the state of public finances of the country, it will be difficult for the government to have a dominant banking sector and keep to its fiscal targets, which it has not been doing anyway. And, thirdly to have independent regulation — because one of the touchstones by which additional regulation is put into effect is what is the implication of this on government banks and then the government fiscal balances because government may have to put in the money to recapitalise the banks. The risk to the economy is that we should not get into a situation where the standard of banking regulation is determined by the state of government banks and the fiscal balance of the government. The regulations and capital requirement should be primarily determined by financial stability considerations. The other risk that I point out in this area is that we may risk having the dual regulatory system where some strictures are diluted for the government banks and things are kept as they are for private banks. I hope that doesn’t happen. But if the fiscal situation becomes even more difficult and recapitalisation funding becomes even more of a challenge, then that is the kind of regulatory risk that may come about.  (Puja Mehra is an independent journalist, based in Delhi)   Over the last year/ year-and-a-half, we have seen a fair bit of reversal in the ecosystem of resolution and liquidation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/current-banking-challenge-most-intractable-one-even-before-covid-19/article32482906.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rise in post-traumatic stress disorder: survey||A nationwide lockdown may have prevented the COVID-19 pandemic curve from peaking earlier but it certainly has shown adverse impact on the psychological profile of people in the form of rise in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), said a dipstick, a pan-India Web-based survey conducted via Google form during the last week of April 2020 when the nation had completed four weeks of lockdown. The survey was conducted by the Department of Community Medicine, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College, and Safdarjung Hospital. PTSD is a mental health condition triggered by a terrifying event, causing flashbacks, nightmares and severe anxiety and the “survey indicated that 28.2% of the population [that participated in the survey] suffered from PTSD during lockdown in India,” said Anita Khokhar, under whose supervision the research was carried out by Suraj Prakash Singh. Dr. Khokhar said that ever since COVID-19 had been declared a pandemic, life had not been the same. Uncertain future “A nation of one billion plus was forced into a lockdown in an effort to cut the chain of transmission of the virus which has caused devastation in many countries with a health care system rated far superior to India. People were restricted to the confines of their homes, unable to meet family and friends or even neighbours face-to-face to interact. Also, there has been uncertainty about the future and fear of pandemic. Under such circumstances, the psychological profile of people is likely to be affected,” she said. The study was done in four weeks with recording scaling of symptoms of PTSD from “not at all” to “extremely”. It asked the participants to indicate the degree of their distress for each of 22 symptoms according to a five-point scale — 0 indicates that the symptom occurs “not at all”; 1, “a little bit”; 2, “moderately”; 3, “quite a bit”; and 4, “extremely”. The survey found the prevalence of PTSD at 28.2%. The PTSD of 13.7% participants was a clinical concern with a score, while for 8.1% PTSD was a probable diagnosis. A majority (55.6%) of participants reported that they had trouble staying asleep, 7.3% reported it ‘extremely’. About 41.5% participants said other things kept them thinking about the lockdown. On being asked how much they felt irritable and angry after four weeks of home lockdown, 40.2% reported it ‘quite a bit’ and 9.4% reported it ‘extremely’. About 37.6% reported that they avoided letting themselves get upset when they thought about lockdown or were reminded of it ‘quite a bit’ and 9.4% reported experiencing the same ‘extremely’. About 55.1% of participants thought about the lockdown when they didn’t mean to ‘quite a bit’ and 5.1% ‘extremely’. Increased consultations “The actual prevalence of PTSD may even be higher as the lockdown was extended and people had this sense of uncertainty as to when they will be getting back to a normal life. Also not all the strata of society could participate in this study due to its conduct via Google forms,” said the researcher. The survey has recommended that health care professionals, psychiatrists, psychologists and authorities should be made aware of this aspect of lockdown and that specialists and physicians should brace themselves for increased number of consultations for PTSD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rise-in-post-traumatic-stress-disorder-survey/article32482912.ece
31 August 2020||MYSURU,||In toy city of Channapatna, artisans await govt. assistance||Will Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s thrust on going vocal about local toys in his monthly Mann Ki Baat be matched by policy initiatives to shore up financial returns for artisans so as to retain them in the traditional sector? That is the question asked by stakeholders in Channapatna (Ramanagaram district), which has earned the sobriquet of a ‘toy city’ or ‘Gombbegala Ooru’. The concerns are real as the number of skilled artisans coming up is dwindling and the new generation is loath to enter the business owing to inadequate returns. The COVID-19 pandemic has also dealt a crippling blow to the industry. Out of nearly 200-plus units, about 25 to 30% are functioning on a nominal basis owing to a lack of demand for toys, according to Amiruddin of Rabbani Handicrafts in Channapatna. This is in addition to individuals making toys in their respective houses. “We had nearly 9,000 to 10,000 artisans and workers engaged in making toys in our town once and that number has now declined to around 2,000 to 2,500,” said Mr. Amiruddin, who has been in the toy manufacturing and marketing business for the last 45 years. The pandemic has also forced many workers to scout for sundry jobs for survival and a further delay in the revival of the sector may see many skilled artisans being lost. Some artisans have shifted to being vegetable vendors or have entered the construction sector and their children do not view the manufacture of toys as lucrative enough. “This will have a bearing on the future of the traditional business if the artisans are not retained in the sector through higher incentives and other policy initiatives by the government,” said N. Kumar, president, Karnataka Artisans’ Welfare Association. But Krishna of Kittanna Toys said that diversification and innovation has helped many manufacturers fare well despite the challenges. “From the traditional dolls, many artisans have moved on to making utility items like mobile stands, kitchenware, educational items for children, and maps etc. This has helped them secure repeat orders and corner a market share,” he added. Notwithstanding the challenges, including a threat from China, there is a consensus that the sector can regain its glory and compete internationally provided there was government support like guaranteed higher wages, marketing, and other initiatives. The manufacture of toys in Channapatna goes back at least 200 years according to most accounts and it has been traced to the era of Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan in the 18th century. The fame of Channapatna toys was built on the smooth quality and bright colours of the products that were safe to handle. “The Channapatna toys are laced with vegetable dyes and colurs devoid of chemicals and hence they are safe for children,” say the toy manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-toy-city-of-channapatna-artisans-await-govt-assistance/article32482883.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka CM flags off RO-RO train to Solapur||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa flagged off the maiden roll-on roll-off (RORO) train from Bengaluru to Solapur through a videoconference on Sunday morning. Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of Bengaluru Ashok Kumar Verma said that the first train will transport 42 loaded trucks on open flat wagons. “As it is the first train from the city, we need to do some safety tests. Once it is done, the train will leave Nelamangala to Solapur on Monday,” he said. The RORO train will transport goods from the Peenya industrial area. Each truck will be loaded with 30 tonnes of cargo. It will cover a distance of 682 km, via Dharmavaram, Guntakal, Raichur, and Wadi to reach Bale near Solapur in Maharashtra. Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said the trial service of the RORO train was introduced after studying the traffic of goods trucks between Bengaluru and Solapur since April. On an average, 7,000 trucks run daily between the two points. “The introduction of RORO trains will help reduce road traffic and the consumption of fuel. A truck takes 36 to 38 hours to reach the final destination whereas a RORO train will cover the distance in 17 hours,” he said. RORO train services were first introduced by Konkan Railways in 1999. According to Mr. Angadi, the speed of freight trains has increased from 20 kmph to 50 kmph. The Chief Minister pointed out that the introduction of the train will help the agricultural sector and transportation of goods to APMCs and industrial areas. “The new train service will help in the transportation of industrial and agricultural products from Bengaluru and in receiving onion, pulses, and other goods from Maharashtra,” he said. On the occasion, Mr. Angadi requested the State government to clear hurdles for the Hubballi-Ankola railway line. “It is a pending project. Implementing this project will help the import and export of goods by operating RORO trains,” the Minister said. In his reply, the CM said that top priority will be given for implementing suggestions made by Mr. Angadi. The Hubballi-Ankola line has been met with opposition from environmentalists as the track alignment extends to over 168 km and cuts through the Western Ghats. Experts believe it would destroy the existing biodiversity hotspot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-cm-flags-off-ro-ro-train-to-solapur/article32482889.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ram Madhav calls for flexibility on RCEP||Referring to the Indo-Pacific region as the “centre of geopolitics” in the future, BJP general secretary Ram Madhav suggested that the government could show some flexibility on the issue of joining the 15-nation Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) free trade agreement. The RCEP grouping’s ministerial meetings last week also announced they would leave the path “open for India” to join the agreement, if India were to reconsider its position before the agreement is signed this November. “Should the decision [to walk out of] RCEP be taken as the final decision, or should we still keep one window open?” Mr. Madhav asked, speaking at a webinar organised by New Delhi-based Indo-American Friendship Association (IAFA) last week, on India’s Foreign Policy under Prime Minister Modi. “Because if you want to be a good global player, you cannot be out of all institutions and then say you want to be a global player. So India must play its cards carefully and with much more thinking in the Indo-Pacific region,” he added. In November 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced at a meeting in Bangkok that India would drop out of the RCEP negotiations with ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) and partners China, Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, primarily due to its concerns over having its markets overrun with Chinese goods. Since then, RCEP countries have made several attempts to invite Indian negotiators to talks on trade. Negotiations have made “significant progress”, said RCEP country ministers in a joint statement on Thursday, with plans to finalise the RCEP agreement in November 2020. In the past few months, the RCEP Trade Negotiating Committee (TNC) has held a meeting in Indonesia in February, followed by three rounds of negotiations (29th-31st rounds) through videoconferences as well as two ministerial meetings. India has declined to attend any of the meetings including the 8th Trade Ministerial meeting on August 27. India had also turned down a proposal from the TNC in April this year to reconsider its objections to giving market access for a “limited number of products”, if New Delhi would rejoin. Options open “The Ministers... reiterated that the RCEP remains open for India given that not only had it participated in the RCEP negotiations since they were launched in 2012 but also in recognition of the potential of India to contribute to the region’s prosperity,” a joint statement read issued at the meeting on August . However, government officials have maintained that there is no change in India’s stand and even that the economic disruption and questions over global supply chain dependence on China during the COVID-19 pandemic have “reinforced and retaliated” India’s decision to stay out of the RCEP. In his comments,Mr.Madhav clarified that he referred to leaving “only a window, not a door” open for future possibilities with RCEP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ram-madhav-calls-for-flexibility-on-rcep/article32482904.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Fishing communities go e-way to tackle tough times||Stephen S., a fisherman from Pallithottam, Kollam, remembers a time not so long ago when he was extremely diffident about switching to a smartphone. “I always believed that it would be too complicated for me,” says the 67-year-old. All that changed in early July this year. Stephen was one of the 13 men and women chosen from Kerala for an online training session organised by the National Fishworkers’ Forum (NFF) for making fishing communities aware of the formidable power of online networking tools. “I borrowed my daughter’s mobile phone for attending the session. I found it very useful,” says Stephen. Lockdowns and containment zones prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic have rendered physical meetings and conventional modes of protest next to impossible. Going online is perhaps the only way for a community marginalised in many ways to make itself seen and heard, feels the NFF. The sessions are meant to encourage fishing communities in maritime States and Union Territories to see online networking as a potent tool for empowerment and communication, NFF national general secretary T. Peter said. Till Wednesday, the NFF campaign has covered fisher groups in Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry. The participants are given tips on organising and participating in videoconferences, webinars, and capturing and uploading video footage. The sessions are handled by Media Collective. “What led us to organise such a campaign was the unilateral manner in which the Central government approved the draft fisheries policy. Given the COVID-19 situation, you cannot simply call together a meeting or travel extensively to organise debates and protests on such issues. Furthermore, the fishing community is hamstrung by weaker education levels, although the situation is changing. Effective use of online tools is a way for far-flung fishing communities to come together and present their apprehensions at appropriate forums,” Mr. Peter said. The World Forum of Fisher Peoples, a global platform for small-scale fisher people, has been holding webinars on a wide range of issues, he said. Twin blows This monsoon in Kerala, a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases and adverse weather conditions hampering fishing operations had dealt twin blows to the fishing community. Containment zones on the coast had restricted movement and interaction among people. “In such scenarios, it is extremely important that you are able to organise and attend online meetings.,” Mable Raymond, district president of the Theeradesa Mahila Vedi, said. “We have to embrace these new technologies,” said Valerian Isaac, a fisherman from Anchuthengu in Thiruvananthapuram who attended a session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fishing-communities-go-e-way-to-tackle-tough-times/article32483224.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Brave Vida, Sophie busy saving lives||Vida and Sophie, Army dogs that found mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat radio address on Sunday, were awarded the COAS (Chief of Army Staff) commendation cards on August 15 for saving lives by timely detection of mines and explosives, the Army said. Vida belongs to a unit located in the Northern Command, while Sophie belongs to the Special Frontier Force, a bomb disposal squad. “Vida was instrumental in the detection of five mines and one grenade buried underground, thus preventing any casualties, injuries to troops,” the Army said. Sophie, an explosive detection dog, sniffed out the presence of initiator and accelerant materials which could have been used to fabricate an improvised explosive device (IED), thereby saving precious lives, it said. Dogs trained by the Army are rendering yeoman service and acting as force multipliers in various counter-insurgency and terrorist operations, the Army said. From July 2019 till date, they have made contribution in 53 operational successes. These include 30 instances of recovery of IEDs and explosives, 14 cases of recovery of arms, ammunition and other war-like stores, five instances of tracking and locating terrorists leading to their elimination and four instances of recovery of live individuals or mortal remains in snow-bound areas. Eight different trades The dogs have also been saviours of many lives during avalanches, earthquakes and other natural disasters. The Army has eight different trades of dogs: tracker, guard, mine detection, explosive detection, infantry patrol, avalanche rescue operations, search and rescue, assault and narcotic detection. The Army said the superiority of dogs employed was reflected by the increasing demand for them from friendly foreign countries. There has been demand for acquiring dogs trained by the Remount and Veterinary Corps (RVC) from Bangladesh, Myanmar and Cambodia. South Africa, Nepal, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, the Seychelles and others have requested the Indian Army to train personnel in dog handling. Japan has shown interest in the training standards of the canines when the Chief of Staff, Japan Ground Self-Defence Force, Gen. Toshiya Okabe visited the dog training facility in Meerut on April 14, 2017, the Army said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brave-vida-sophie-busy-saving-lives/article32482916.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Vegetable prices fluctuate as supply issues persist||Since the lockdown, city residents have been dealing with erratic rates of vegetables. During the total lockdown, many vegetable sellers had increased the prices, making the most of the situation, but after relaxations, traders have blamed it on the rains. For instance, going by the Rythu Bazaar’s website, the price for tomatoes on Sunday was Rs. 33 per kg as against Rs. 20 in June. Similarly, price of brinjal on Sunday was Rs. 35 per kg, almost thrice its June price of Rs. 13 per kg. The price of chillies too increased from Rs. 40 to Rs. 55 per kg. Dearer on streets While vendors at Rythu Bazaars sold veggies at little variance with the prescribed rates, street vendors and others sold them at much higher prices. “Every month prices are increasing. Sometimes, it fluctuates every couple of days. Tomatoes were Rs. 50 per kg. Another thing is that, I got bellpepper (capsicum) for Rs. 45 per kg from the local vegetable vendor day before yesterday, and today the price was Rs. 75. Gourds are being sold for up to Rs. 80,” said Saleem Ahmed, a resident of Banjara Hills. Vendors opined that the recent rains have led to lesser produce reaching markets. This, they claimed, has led to increase in prices. “Prices of snake gourd and bottle gourd are fluctuating between Rs. 40 and Rs. Rs. 60. French beans cost Rs. 75 per kg. There is reduction in the volume of goods that is coming from the districts which accounts for the price increase. The quality of some vegetables also has not been consistent in the recent past,” said Mohammed Maqbool, a vegetable seller from Zehra Nagar.  The Marketing department, too, confirmed that the recent spell of rain is contributing to the price rise. A senior assistant from the department said that produce from Mahbubnagar and Rangareddy districts, especially from areas such as Chevella, Vikarabad and Parigi, is lower than normal. ‘Periodic’ hike Speaking to The Hindu , Director of Agricultural Marketing G. Laxmi Bai said that the price hike is periodic. “While rains are a major factor for increase of prices, this trend is cyclical. The price variance is not much as compared to last year. During the lockdown, prices remained more or less same, and it is only now that they have risen a little,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vegetable-prices-fluctuate-as-supply-issues-persist/article32482978.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Police still clueless about COVID positive fugitives||Hyderabad police have virtually no clue where the four COVID-19 positive fugitives, who escaped from Gandhi Hospital, vanished. The four prisoners, including Parvatham Narsaiah, a life convict in rape and murder case, are yet to be traced even after 96 hours. The north zone police said that they are clueless as the fugitives on the run have no mobile phones, neither their actions were recorded in CCTV cameras in the area, as many of them are not functioning nor they met the family members. Repeated attempts were made by The Hindu to contact DCP Kalmeshwar Shingenavar, but he remained unavailable. However, sources associated with the manhunt said, “They are not using mobile phones, they don’t have money and they are not meeting their parents or friends, as none of them is married. As a result, there is no breakthrough in the case.” “Teams are sent to Maharashtra and Karnataka as well. We have alerted all our informants in both the Telugu states,” an officer said, adding that as the four prisoners spent most of their time behind bars, they don’t have a social life. Police also suspect that the escaped prisoners must be taking shelter in religious places, as they don’t have money for food or travel. “There are no digital footprints. However, their family members are in our custody,” he said. Earlier in 2010, Narsaiah escaped from the Institute of Mental Health, Erragadda while undergoing treatment. Later, he was caught and convicted again. “He was a member of a burglary gang. Three of his associates were killed in an encounter in Karimnagar in the early 2000s. Sentenced to life imprisonment in 2003, his prison term will end in three years,” he said. The other escaped prisoners are Md. Abdul Arbaz (21) from Borabanda, Md. Javeed(35) of Bandlaguda and Mangali Somasunder (20) from Borabanda. “We suspect all of them chose to go in different directions,” he said, hoping that the quartet will be held very soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-still-clueless-about-covid-positive-fugitives/article32482980.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||K.S. Bajpai, former envoy to U.S., dead||Katyayani Shankar Bajpai, former Indian Ambassador to the United States and Pakistan, who died here on Sunday, was one of India’s finest diplomats, said former External Affairs Minister K. Natwar Singh remembering the veteran diplomat. He was 92. Mr. Bajpai joined the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) in 1952 and served in many key positions including India’s envoy to the U.S. during the crucial interaction between Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and President Ronald Reagan in the early 1980s. He served in Pakistan as a younger officer during the mid-1960s when the war with Pakistan broke out across the western sector. He subsequently accompanied Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shatri to Tashkent. His most challenging assignment was to be India’s envoy during Indira Gandhi's tenure when the Cold War had begun to slow down new opportunities for India. “He was an accomplished diplomat and served in Pakistan, China and the United States of America at a critical period in our history. I succeeded him as India’s ambassador to Pakistan in the early 1980s,” said Mr. Singh, who was a year junior to Mr. Bajpai in the IFS. In a social media message, External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar referred to Mr. Bajpai as a “mentor and friend”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ks-bajpai-former-envoy-to-us-dead/article32482897.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. flags Chinese build-up on border||The Congress on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the upcoming session of Parliament what steps the government has taken to protect the country’s border in the wake of the growing hostility with China. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress spokespersons Rajeev Shukla and Gaurav Gogoi, referred to a news report that China has gone in for a massive build-up of its troops and installed missile systems near Doka La and Naku La in the Sikkim region. “The Congress party through this press conference is making a very specific demand that please give us road map of what actions will the government take. So far we have only heard words which have proved to be empty. We want an action plan as to how to boost our defence personnel, how to boost our security and that should come immediately. The Prime Minister himself should outline that plan in Parliament and that is our clear demand,” Mr. Gogoi and Mr. Shukla told reporters. At a separate press briefing, Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi questioned the ‘alacrity’ displayed by the Centre in ordering a CBI probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput case and sought investigation into alleged links of Sandeep Singh, the producer of a biopic on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-flags-chinese-build-up-on-border/article32482902.ece
31 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Lakhs of people affected by floods in three States||Over 14 lakh people were affected due to floods in five river systems of Odisha, said the State government here on Sunday. Seventeen people have lost their lives due to wall collapse and by slipping into swollen rivers. “Heavy rain triggered by back-to-back low pressure area over Bay of Bengal had caused flooding in 20 districts. The situation is fast improving in areas falling under Subarnrekha, Burhabalanga, Baitarani and Brahmani river systems,” said Pradeep Jena, MD of the State Disaster Management Authority. In Madhya Pradesh, more than 11,000 persons stuck in floods in the southern and the western parts had been rescued in the past two days by the Army, Air Force and disaster response forces, said Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday. As many as 454 villages in 12 districts were severely battered by floods, he said. “And the Narmada has broken the record of flooding in 1999. Several cities are under floods owing to the overflowing Narmada,” he said. Besides, 9,300 persons had been taken to 170 relief camps. In Gujarat, torrential rainfall on Sunday created a flood-like situation in many areas including Bharuch, where over 2,000 people from inundated areas along the Narmada river were evacuated following release of water from the Sardar Sarovar dam. The IMD has in its forecast warned heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy showers at isolated places in many districts in the State till Tuesday.  (With inputs from   Bhopal and Ahmedabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lakhs-of-people-affected-by-floods-in-three-states/article32482910.ece
31 August 2020||Bhopal,||‘11,000 rescued from floods in M.P.’||More than 11,000 persons stuck in floods in south and west Madhya Pradesh had been rescued in the past two days by the Army, Air Force and disaster response forces, said Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday. As many as 454 villages in 12 districts of the State were severely battered by floods, he said. “And the Narmada has broken the record of flooding in 1999,” he added. Besides, 9,300 persons had been taken to 170 relief camps. While Mr. Chouhan apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the situation on Sunday morning, at night he requested the Army for five helicopters to step up rescue efforts. Until Sunday evening, 267 persons had been airlifted by the Air Force using helicopters. Further, two columns of the Army having 70 soldiers each were sent to Bari and Bareli in Raisen districts, he added. “Air-lifting of stranded persons will begin in Raisen and Sehore districts.” With Nasrullaganj and Shahganj in Sehore district as base, the Army would rescue those stranded in nearby areas. “Rain has stopped at several places. And the discharge from dams has reduced,” said Mr. Chouhan. In Narela of Sehore district, rescuers took to a safe spot five persons sitting on a tree at 2.30 a.m., he added. Extremely heavy rain from 8.30 a.m. on Saturday to 8.30 a.m. on Sunday was recorded in west M.P. in Hoshangabad, Sehore, Ujjain, Dewas and Agar Malwa districts, said the India Meteorological Department, Bhopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11000-rescued-from-floods-in-mp/article32483128.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana may ask Centre to raise loan||Like many other States, Telangana is likely to ask the Centre to take a loan and disburse it to them as GST compensation in view of their financial suffering this year due to COVID-19. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao confirmed to The Hindu that the State government asking the Centre to take the loan was on the cards but Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao would hold a meeting on Monday to take a final decision after the Finance department sent a note on option best suited to the State. As the biggest component of tax revenue, GST collection in Telangana was only Rs. 3,956 crore against the budget estimate of Rs. 32,671 crore, a mere 12.11%, in the first quarter of this financial year. The state expected a GST compensation of Rs. 5,420 crore up to July-end. Two days after 41st GST Council meeting on August 27, the Centre on Saturday gave two options to States — one, giving them a special window to borrow collectively Rs. 97,000 crore, which is the shortfall arising out of GST implementation and, two, allowing States to borrow through issue of market debt entire shortfall of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore, which is their compensation requirement in current financial year. ‘Apprehensions’ Mr. Harish Rao expressed apprehensions of States that if they opted either way, which would ultimately be facilitated by the RBI, it was not certain how much and when the Centre would disburse the amount. Telangana would not agree to release of money in instalments. If release of money in one go was not assured, the State would have no option but to ask the Centre to take loan and disburse it. On the other hand, Union Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey in the letter to Finance Secretaries on Saturday cautioned that it was in the collective interest of Centre and States and in the interest of all, including the private sector, not to do any avoidable borrowing at the Central level when it could be done at State level. The letter also said "while additional borrowing by the Centre influenced yields on Central government securities (G-secs) and has other macro economic repercussions, yields on State securities do not directly influence other yields and do not have the same repercussions". In this background, the States were asked to communicate their preference within seven working days. A meeting of State Finance Secretaries with Mr. Pandey and Secretary (Expenditure) T.V. Somanathan was scheduled for September 1. The Chief Minister was expected to hold a meeting on Monday and announce the stand of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/telangana-may-ask-centre-to-raise-loan/article32482981.ece
31 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala moots plan to spur economy in 100 days||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday used the backdrop of Onam to cast the ‘achievements’ of the fifth year of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) rule as a launchpad for another shot at governance by announcing a 100-day action plan to revitalise the economy rendered sluggish by the debilitating COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Vijayan showcased an expanded social welfare system that offered assistance to individuals and families laid low by the contagion. He said free “food kits” would reach 88 lakh ration card holders monthly at least until December. The government had expanded the social welfare pension net to include 48 lakh people. Each would get Rs. 1,300 deposited in their bank account every month. He prioritised affordable health care and promised to increase the availability of doctors, paramedical staff, and modern medical devices to those who relied on State-run hospitals. Mr. Vijayan also dwelt on his government’s “achievements” in the education sector. He said the government had given employment through the Public Service Commission to 1,41,615 persons, an improvement on the previous UDF government’s record, in an apparent rebuttal of the Opposition’s accusation that the LDF had promoted backdoor appointments to circumvent the merit-based PSC selection process. Infra development The LDF threw off budgetary constraints and raised money from the open market to fast-track infrastructure development. Potholed village roads and shaky bridges were stories from the past. The government had improved transport infrastructure and opened up waterways for freight movement and tourism. To offset Kerala’s reliance on other States, the government had launched a programme to improve agricultural yield. It had turned fallow land into high-yield farms and would allow intercropping in plantations. Subsidised piped drinking water, power, phone and internet connectivity for households, and dwellings for the homeless were on the top of the government’s action plan. Mr. Vijayan also announced schemes to support the coir, toddy and fisheries sectors, the traditional support base of the LDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-moots-plan-to-spur-economy-in-100-days/article32482878.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Kandhamal turmeric loses flavour amid virus||Taking advantage of the COVID-19 restrictions, unscrupulous traders have been quoting prices below Rs. 40 for a kilo of the tuber whereas the Kandhamal Apex Spices Association for Marketing (KASAM), the government-backed cooperative agency, offers Rs. 60 per kg. With more than 60% of the geographical area covered with hills and forest, Kandhamal offers ideal conditions for cultivation of various spices including turmeric, ginger, mustard and tamarind. ‘Kandhamal Haladi’ for which GI tag has been received is a pure organic product. Tribals grow the tuber without applying fertiliser or pesticide. The aromatic value and golden yellow colour of ‘Kandhamal Haladi’ make it stand out from the rest. The cultivation begins in the summer months of April and May. The tuber is harvested during December to February. The raw turmeric is then boiled and sun-dried. For 60,000 families, turmeric is the only cash crop with the collective production exceeding 26,000 tonnes annually in the district. However, around March when farmers were getting ready to sell their produce, the nation went into lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kandhamal-turmeric-loses-flavour-amid-virus/article32482884.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||19 lakh NRC-excluded stuck in limbo||“The government has hushed up NRC that was once their main issue. The BJP’s hidden agenda has been exposed after the exclusion of many Bengali Hindus who were flattered to deceive. The list did not go their way and they want the issue to linger for political mileage,” State Congress president Ripun Bora said. “We don’t think the Centre will do anything before the Assembly election [2021]. It did nothing despite several guidelines from the Supreme Court, showing it is not serious about the NRC or the future of Assam’s indigenous people and genuine Indians. The NRC could have ensured a permanent solution to the issue of illegal immigration,” said AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi. The AASU has also resented the delay in setting up 200 new FTs sanctioned for handling the cases of the NRC rejects. The government had appointed 221 members (judge-like status) for these FTs in August 2019 and their one-year term is unlikely to be extended. The BJP, however, put the onus on the Supreme Court. “No organisation in Assam is happy with the NRC list and a petition is pending in the apex court for re-verification of at least 10% of the names in districts where demographic changes have been drastic. We are waiting for the Supreme Court’s guidance,” party spokesperson Rupam Goswami said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/19-lakh-nrc-excluded-stuck-in-limbo/article32482886.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Premature retirement not a penalty: DoPT||As provided, the appropriate authority can retire an official in the public interest, by giving a notice of not less than three months in writing or three months’ pay and allowances in lieu of such notice. The rule will apply on officials who are in Group ‘A’ or Group ‘B’ service or posted in a substantive, quasi-permanent or temporary capacity and had entered government service before attaining the age of 35 years; and who have attained the age of 50 years. In any other case the officials should have attained the age of 55 years. The authority can retire a government servant in the Group ‘C’ service or post, who is not governed by any pension rules, after the official has completed 30 years of service, by giving a notice of not less than three months or three months’ pay and allowances. Performance review There will be quarterly performance review. A register of those who are due to attain the age of 50/55 years, or to complete 30 years of service, has to be maintained. The register will be scrutinised at the beginning of every quarter by a senior officer in the ministry, department or cadre. Non-adherence to the timelines, as mentioned in the notification, due to certain administrative exigencies will not take away the powers of the authority to prematurely retire an official. There is also no bar on the government reviewing any such case again where it was decided earlier to retain the official. The Secretary concerned of the Cadre Controlling Authority (CCA) will constitute Review Committees of two members at an appropriate level. The Representation Committee will comprise a Secretary level official nominated by the Cabinet Secretary; an Additional Secretary/Joint Secretary in the Cabinet Secretariat, and one member nominated by the CCA. The broad criteria to be followed by the Review Committee while making the recommendations include the issues of doubtful integrity, ineffectiveness and fitness/competence to continue in the post held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/premature-retirement-not-a-penalty-dopt/article32482885.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Police officer, 3 militants killed in J&K encounter||“Mr. Ram was well trained and had been part of the anti-militancy operations since long,” the DGP said. Ten militants have been killed in three gunfights in Kashmir in the past three days, taking the total number of slain ultras to 153. Affiliated with LeT Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the families of the holed up militants were called to the spot and asked to make repeated surrender appeals. “The slain militants, Saqib Bashir Khanday, Umar Tariq Bhat and Zubair Ahmad Shiekh, all residents of Drangbal Pampore, were affiliated with the LeT,” Mr. Kumar said. The IG said Bashir was involved in motivating and radicalising the youth of the area to join terror folds and was behind the weapon snatching bid in Pampore. The police said that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the bodies would be sent to Handwara for burial after completion of all medico-legal formalities. “The nearest family members of the terrorists will be allowed to participate in the last rites at Handwara,” Mr. Kumar said. The Army on Sunday said a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) was killed in Pakistani Army’s firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Pir Panjal’s Rajouri district.  Officials said Pakistan resorted to sniper fire and the soldier came in the firing range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-officer-3-militants-killed-in-jk-encounter/article32482887.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Justice Mishra declines invites for his farewell||Supreme Court judge, Justice Arun Mishra, who is retiring on September 2, has declined invitations from the Bar for farewell functions. The judge, who is heading the Bench on several crucial cases, including the suo motu contempt against civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan and the AGR dues against telecoms, cited the COVID-19 health crisis as a reason. In a short letter to the Supreme Court Bar Association president on Sunday, Justice Mishra reiterated that he has “always considered the Bar as the mother of the judiciary”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-mishra-declines-invites-for-his-farewell/article32482898.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,||‘Rao deserved Bharat Ratna for foreign policy’||The way in which P.V. Narasimha Rao skilfully managed global alliances while considering the impact of various domestic factors such as separatist movements, as well as economic reforms on our foreign policy, was praised by Congress MP and former Union Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Shashi Tharoor. Mr. Tharoor was speaking at a lecture organised online by the Telangana Congress Committee P.V. Narasimha Rao Centenary Celebrations Committee on “Indian Foreign Policy – former PM PV Narasimha Rao.” It was presided over by Committee chairman J. Geeta Reddy and TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. PV brought about the necessary changes to ensure that India was recognised as a major power. The paradigm shift was improving ties with Israel even while winning the confidence of the Arab nations. Another big step was bringing India closer to the USA, bolstering economic and political ties, when Russia was still struggling with its post-cold war issues. The Look-East policy of his had made a huge impact on the Indian economy, he said and recalled how the South East Asia nations had become important economic partners in India’s growth. All his experience as a foreign minister had helped him push through the foreign policy reforms without annoying world or domestic powers. On relations with China, Mr. Tharoor said PV was successful in engaging China in separating the economic cooperation with border issues. He had his impact on SAARC nations, ensuring that India was a dominant partner, yet a friendly one. To a question on whether India’s growing closeness to the USA impacted its relations with Russia, he agreed to a certain extent, saying even our neighbours were no longer that friendly. Relations with even Bangladesh were a bit strained as it was miffed by a BJP leader who had termed the country ‘like a termite’. But, Mr. Tharoor said, it was unfair to blame Prime Minister Modi alone as certain geopolitical issues too contributed to the strained relations. Today Russia considered China a better partner for its trade and, obviously, moved closer to Pakistan along with it. “However, being a bigger nation and a bigger economy, we need to infuse confidence among the neighbouring countries that India was willing to give more than it wants to take.” Attributing India’s global presence as a major economic power to PV Narasimha Rao, he recalled how the world media had written off India and said the country had been on the verge of economic collapse before he took over as Prime Minister. To take a leap from the shameful phase of depositing Indian gold reserves to the present position, it was the economic vision and liberalisation policies of PV and Manmohan Singh, he said. For his skilful management of alliances and courage to introduce bold economic reforms, he deserved the coveted Bharat Ratna, Mr. Tharoor said. AICC incharge for Telangana R.C. Khuntia, AICC secretary Sreenivasan, MLA D. Sreedhar Babu, and former MP V. Hanmantha Rao spoke. AICC spokesperson Dasoju Shravan was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pv-deserved-bharat-ratna-for-his-foreign-policy/article32482982.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||His form a delight||Parasara Bhatta, in his commentary on the Vishnu Sahasranama, explains the name satkeertih, as the One who has lasting fame, because of His saulabhya. He is chhinna samsayah, because He dispels all doubts. He leaves us in no doubt regarding His simplicity and accessibility, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. He is udeernah. Sankara Bhagavadpada interprets this name as One who is superior to all. According to Parasara Bhatta, it means that He is manifest. He takes avataras, and His archa form delights all. Sarvatas-chakshuh means He who sees everything through His jnana, according to Sankara. According to Parasara Bhatta, it means He who can be seen by all, whether during His avataras, or in archa form. Sankara gives the meaning of aneeshah as One who has no Eesha above Him. Parasara Bhatta says that He is aneeshah, because He has no independence! This means that in His archa form, He allows His devotees to bathe Him and adorn Him the way they please, and accepts their food offerings. He is sasvata sthirah, because He is always the same, according to Sankara. According to Parasara Bhatta, Sasvata sthirah means that He takes many archa forms. The Lord showers His mercy on us, we worship Him in the idol form in a temple, or in the form of a salagrama at home. There is a story about the Araiyar of Srirangam, who lost his eyesight. He used to keep his salagrama in his betel box, and would often put the salagrama in his mouth, mistaking it for an areca nut. Realising his mistake, he would wash it, and put it back in the box. The temple priest took the salagrama from him and worshipped it with all respect. But the Lord appeared in his dream and asked him to return the salagrama to the Araiyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/his-form-a-delight/article32482917.ece
31 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Suresh Raina’s uncle’s death being probed||The Punjab police on Sunday said they had questioned a few suspects in connection with the case of death of a 57-year-old person at Thariyal village in Pathankot. The deceased is an uncle of cricketer Suresh Raina. “So far, no arrest has been made but we have questioned a few suspects and investigation is under way. A case under Sections 458, 459, 460 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered,” Ravinder Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dhar Kalan), told The Hindu . “The incident occurred on the intervening night of August 19 and 20 at Thariyal village, in which the deceased identified as Ashok Kumar, a government contractor, died and four members of the family were injured after they were attacked by a group of unidentified people. The victims were sleeping on the terrace of their house when they were attacked,” he said. Mr. Singh said Mr. Kumar, who suffered head injuries, died on the same night. “The wife of the deceased, Asha Rani, and a son, Kaushal, are undergoing treatment at a local hospital while Satya Devi, the 80-year-old mother of the deceased, and his other son, Appan, have been discharged,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suresh-rainas-uncles-death-being-probed/article32482914.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gadkari unveils infra projects||The Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Sunday inaugurated three bridges and two road improvement projects worth over Rs. 400 crore in Gadchiroli, Maharashtra. He also laid foundation stones for four bridge projects across four rivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gadkari-unveils-infra-projects/article32482913.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Allow only 50% teachers to schools; TSPTA||Telangana State Primary Teachers Association (TSPTA) president Syed Showkath Ali and general secretary N. Chenna Ramulu have urged the government to let 50% of the teachers work from home as per the guidelines of the Central government. In a statement here, they said that as per Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the Central government, only 50% of teachers should be allowed to attend schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allow-only-50-teachers-to-schools-tspta/article32483186.ece
31 August 2020||TIRUPATI,||Golden chariot for Kanipakam soon||The project to prepare a golden chariot (Swarna Ratham) for the Kanipakam Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka temple will be taken up for execution soon, announced Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal. The temple, which is under the State Endowments Department, has mobilised Rs. 6 crore for the project, while the TTD management agreed to execute it. Mr. Singhal offered silk vastram on behalf of the TTD to the Kanipakam temple on Sunday, which is having its annual Brahmotsavams. The TTD initiated the tradition of offering silk clothes in 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/golden-chariot-for-kanipakam-soon/article32482983.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||ULBs will adopt Green Space Index: KTR||Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) across Telangana will soon adopt a Green Space Index (GSI) to increase the green cover substantially and improve the living standards, said Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao on Sunday. Mr. Rao said its adoption would increase competitive spirit among municipal bodies as awards would be given every year for the next four years to best ones for park development, sapling plantation, roadside greenery etc. Satellite imagery, GIS geotagging, photo and videography would be used as tools to keep tabs on greenery being developed with 85% weightage given to overall green cover, rest for innovative methods and designs. The new scheme would be on the lines of the urban green cover, green and open spaces guidelines of the Central government's Ministry of Housing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ulbs-will-adopt-green-space-index-ktr/article32482979.ece
31 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Kateel tests positive for COVID-19||Karnataka BJP president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel has tested positive for COVID-19. He tweeted on Sunday that though he is asymptomatic he has been admitted to a hospital on the recommendation of a doctor. Mr. Kateel asked those who came in contact with him recently to be alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kateel-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article32482873.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,||State to issue Unlock 4 guidelines today||As several sections of business, including those operating bars, are keenly awaiting the guidelines on Unlock 4, the State government is set to announce them on Monday. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said that B.S. Yediyurappa would hold a meeting with senior officials on Monday, following which guidelines were expected to come. While the Chief Minister did not have any deliberations on Sunday, businesses had expected some kind of announcement on Sunday as the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines came on Saturday. Sources said it was most likely that the Karnataka government could permit bars to function according to the “original licence regulations”, which means they could serve liquor to their patrons. At present, they are allowed to only sell liquor at MRP and render parcel services. Similarly, clubs also have sought permission to serve liquor to its members. Last week, the government permitted clubs to serve food and allowed sports activities to resume. While Unlock 4 will continue to place restrictions on certain activities, metro services are also set to resume. Meanwhile, Govindraj Hegde, general secretary of the Federation of Wine Merchants Association, Karnataka, urged the State government to allow the functioning of bars as per the original licence condition. “If the government cannot allow us to function as per the conditions of the licence, it must allow us to close bar operations. MRP sale is not a financially viable option for bar owners, many of whom are in deep financial mess. Even after MRP sale was allowed, at least 10% of the bars and fine dining restaurants did not open because it is not viable,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-to-issue-unlock-4-guidelines-today/article32482872.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Will request CM to ban cow slaughter: Sudhakar||Raking up the issue of cow slaughter in the State, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Sunday said he would request Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to ban cow slaughter, and sought a discussion in the legislature to stop beef export. “Cow slaughter is a sin. A cow is like a member of the family and it’s a crime to kill cows,” the Minister said at the inauguration of a goshala, organised by Akhila Karnataka Vokkaligara Okkoota in Chickballapur, near here, on Sunday. “All State governments should ban cow slaughter,” he said. The Minister further said: “Cow is worshipped in our culture. There should be extensive discussion in the legislature on banning export of beef. Our party is committed to banning cow slaughter. There will be a decision soon on this.” ‘Special place’ Dr. Sudhakar said he was personally opposed to cow slaughter. Westerners eat beef, but “Indians should not slaughter cows. Cows have a special place in our culture. Just because the cows have become old it does not mean that they should be sold. A cow provides everything and that is why it is called Kamadhenu. It shouldn’t be killed,” the Minister said. Becoming nostalgic, Dr. Sudhakar said his family too had cows once. “Cow dung acts as a disinfectant,” the Minister said, adding there was a need for a people’s movement to create awareness against slaughter of cow. Incidentally, the BJP’s Cow Protection Cell had petitioned the Chief Minister within days after he came to power in July 2019, seeking re-introduction of the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Bill, 2010, which had been piloted by the erstwhile BJP government under Mr. Yediyurappa and passed by the Legislative Assembly in 2010. The Bill had proposed stringent punishment for cow slaughter and sought to replace the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Animals Act 1964. The then Governor, however, did not give his assent. Later, when Siddaramaiah -led Congress government came to power, it reverted to the 1964 Act that allows cow slaughter, albeit with restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-request-cm-to-ban-cow-slaughter-sudhakar/article32482871.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State targets school reopening by January||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Sunday that the government hoped to reopen schools for regular classes in January 2021. Announcing the 100-day action plan, he said school infrastructure was set for a major upgrade to welcome students to an appropriate learning environment. Elaborating on the KIIFB-funded projects for schools, he said all government schools with more than 500 students would get a facelift. Projects worth Rs. 5 crore each being undertaken in 35 schools and those worth Rs. 3 crore each in 14 schools would be inaugurated in 100 days. Construction of 250 school buildings would begin. High-tech computer laboratories would be set up in 11,400 schools by the time of reopening, he added. Laptop distribution Within 100 days, the government’s ‘First Bell’ online programme for school students would be improved and the distribution of laptops to 5 lakh students would be launched under the Vidyashree scheme. Besides opening 10 industrial training institutes, the government would sanction 150 new courses in government and aided colleges, of which 100 would begin by September 15. Construction of permanent campuses for APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University and Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University would begin within 100 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-targets-school-reopening-by-january/article32482880.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||Census, NPR unlikely in 2020||The first phase of the Census and the exercise to update the National Population Register (NPR), scheduled for this year but deferred due to the COVID-19 outbreak, may be delayed by a year as there is no sign of slowdown of the pandemic. “Census is not an essential exercise for now. Even if it is delayed by a year, there would be no harm,” a senior official said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/census-npr-unlikely-in-2020/article32482893.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||No urgency to have an elected Congress president: Salman Khurshid||Asserting that there was no urgency to have an elected Congress president, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said he “can’t see the heavens falling” for the need of a party chief as Sonia Gandhi was still at the helm and should be the one to decide on the leadership issue.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-urgency-to-have-an-elected-congress-president-salman-khurshid/article32482895.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An old city on wheels — Madras’ tryst with transport||A few months ago, the Integral Coach Factory at Perambur here rolled out its 3,000th coach in a mere 215 days. It holds the coveted title of being the largest coach-maker in the world. But do you know how and when the first coach was manufactured? Let’s go back in time to October 1955. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru inaugurated the first railway coach assembled at ICF, and that time, the government pumped in Rs. 7.5 crore to build one of the largest factories in the world. The idea of ‘Make in India’ was mooted, and he said, “There can be no real progress or real industrialisation in this country until the machine itself is made here and we cease to be dependent on other countries for setting up our factories.” A decade later, it came up with the first air-conditioned coach and subsequently began exporting coaches to Thailand. Memories of ICF are etched in the mind of 84-year-old R. Gandhi, who joined the organisation as an apprentice much before the inauguration and retired as a staff superintendent. “We started making a broad gauge third-class compartment that had wooden seats. We had collaboration with Switzerland, and their team stayed and trained us for a few years. The roof, side-wall and other parts for 100 coaches used to be shipped to Madras, and we used to assemble them. As years passed, we started making meter gauge, suburban and now even Train 18 coaches,” he recalls. He said that initially, they used to make the shell alone, and furnishing was done by the respective railways. Later, the Furnishing Division was opened in 1962. “Initially we made 350 coaches per year; now it has gone up to 4,000,” he says. T. Manoharan, organising president, ICF Labour Union, says that now the manufacture of many parts is outsourced. “We have started assembling them here. We have manufactured coaches for Kolkata Metro, we have also exported coaches to Sri Lanka, Thailand, Burma, Taiwan, Zambia, the Philippines, Tanzania, Uganda, Vietnam, Nigeria, Bangladesh, Mozambique, Malaysia, Angola and Sri Lanka,” he says. From wooden coaches to Chennai Metro and from horseless carriages to modern cars, transport has evolved in leaps and bounds in the city over the past decades. The city’s tryst with cars manufacturing started in a rather humble way, and has grown exponentially. Standard Motors made plans as early as 1949 to set up the factory, and the archives of The Hindu show there was an interest in small cars. Balraj Vasudevan of Madras Heritage Motoring Club says, “The interest has always remained quite inherent.” M. Velmurugan, former executive vice-chairman, Investment Promotion, Tamil Nadu Industrial Guidance and Export Promotion Bureau, says Madras, that used to have Standard Motors, over the decades has grown to step into the top 10 spots for automobile manufacturing, housing everything from Ford to Renault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-old-city-on-wheels-madras-tryst-with-transport/article32483053.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vigil to be intensified||With the government announcing major relaxations, including the scrapping of e-pass for travel within the State, the Greater Chennai Corporation plans to intensify door-to-door surveillance. A civic official said it planned to explore alternatives to track those who visit the city under the new system. All the 12,000 volunteers have been asked to get information from every house about the visitors arriving from other parts of the State beginning September 1. At least 50,000 people are expected to arrive in the city every day over the next week because of the scrapping of e-pass. Zones under watch “We are monitoring the condition in zones such as Ambattur, Anna Nagar, Alandur, Adyar and Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar. We will ask 12,000 volunteers to intensify door-to-door surveillance without harassing any resident. This is to help residents during this pandemic,” said a senior official. The civic body will focus on conducting fever camps in zones with a rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Out of 1.24 lakh influenza-like illness cases identified in fever camps from May to August, 20,904 people had tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai. Owing to the influx of workers, all industries would be monitored by the civic officials. The case fatality rate in the city is 2.04%. The percentage of active cases is the highest in Alandur (16) and Sholinganallur (16).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vigil-to-be-intensified/article32483035.ece
31 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Anna University to face action if final year exams are not held||The University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) have urged Anna University, Chennai, to take decisions on examinations keeping in mind the repercussions that the university may face if it violates the statutes. The heads of both the statutory bodies have taken up the issue with the university, either orally or in writing. ‘Take legal opinion’ UGC Chairman D.P. Singh said that he had advised the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University to take legal opinion as it would amount to contempt of court to not hold the exams. “I advised him to take legal opinion in the light of the Supreme Court decision day before yesterday. Whatever is being done should be done as per the regulations, the ordinances and the statutes of the university. According to the Supreme Court the examination of the final year or the terminal semester is mandatory,” he has told V-C M.K. Surappa. AICTE Chairman Anil D. Sahasrabudhe has taken a stronger stand. In a mail, he has warned the university that approvals would not be given to the courses offered by the university. “I have warned that the AICTE will not give approvals if the AICTE and UGC circulars are not followed in respect of final year students and passing them with several backlogs,” he told The Hindu .  Other colleges On whether his warning would apply to all affiliated colleges or only the university departments and constituent colleges, he said: “The examinations are conducted by the university except the autonomous colleges and hence shall affect almost all colleges.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-university-to-face-action-if-final-year-exams-are-not-held/article32483045.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 6,495 fresh infections, 94 deaths||As many as 6,495 fresh COVID-19 cases were recorded in the State on Sunday, taking its tally to 4,22,085. At the same time, 6,406 persons were discharged from various health facilities in the State after treatment. As on date, 3,62,133 persons have been discharged. The Directorate of Public Health bulletin said that at present, 52,721 persons were under treatment in hospitals or were in isolation. The officials recorded 94 deaths — 37 in private facilities and 57 in government ones — taking the toll to 7,231. In several districts, the number of persons discharged as of Sunday rose significantly. In Theni, 216 persons recovered, while 196 new cases were identified. In Cuddalore, 483 persons recovered and in Kancheepuram 223. In Ranipet, 267 persons were discharged. Of the 1,34,436 persons infected so far in Chennai, 1,18,235 have recovered. However, 16 more deaths due to COVID-19 took the city’s toll to 2,729. Health officials said that while 1,249 new cases were identified, 1,427 persons were discharged from hospitals in the city. As on date, 13,472 persons are under treatment, including those under home quarantine. Coimbatore recorded 498 cases, followed by Chengalpattu with 419 cases. In Cuddalore, 383 cases were identified, while Salem recorded 329. While Salem saw nine deaths, eight persons died in Chengalpattu, according to health officials. In neighbouring Tiruvallur, 293 fresh cases were identified. Seven persons whose deaths were recorded on Sunday had no co-morbidities. Among the deceased was a three-year-old girl, who was diagnosed with leukaemia and was being treated at the Institute of Child Health in Chennai. She was admitted to the hospital on August 27, and her test results had returned positive for COVID-19. She died on Saturday morning. A 98-year-old man with type 2 diabetes and hypertension from Chennai, who had tested positive for the infection on August 22, after he had gone to a private hospital with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for five days, died on Saturday morning due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Health officials said that as of Saturday, of the 7,38,669 passengers who had arrived in the city, 6,279 had tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-6495-fresh-infections-94-deaths/article32483057.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Firefighters hold mock drill to rescue flood victims||The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) is gearing up to handle any natural calamity during the upcoming northeast monsoon. From rope rescue to different methods of saving people stuck in floodwaters, the personnel conducted a drill in Mudaliar Kuppam on Saturday. The drill was monitored by C. Sylendra Babu, director, TNFRS. “We have trained our personnel to rescue people from any type of natural disaster, be it on land or water,” said a senior TNFRS officer. Around 70 firefighters participated in the drill from 10 a.m. till afternoon. “The personnel demonstrated how to rescue drowning people. They also showed how to use Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation to save life,” added the officer. The personnel also demonstrated their skill in rescuing people using inflatable rubber boats, kayaks, rescue boards and other methods. “We are honing the skills of the personnel and keeping them ready. Next week, we will be holding a similar demonstration in Ambattur,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firefighters-hold-mock-drill-to-rescue-flood-victims/article32483032.ece
31 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Metro ready with QR code tickets||Finally, after several months of planning, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. has decided to introduce QR code-based ticketing whenever the services resume. Although the QR code-based ticketing has been in the works for a long time, soon after COVID-19 outbreak, Metro decided to speed up the process to make it a contactless transaction for the passengers. Now, the facility is ready to be rolled out and a passenger has to show this at the automatic fare collection gate and pass through. Metro had two options for tickets, namely smartcards and tokens and passengers could purchase them either through the counter or from ticket vending machines. But owing to the pandemic, it has been thinking of doing away with the tokens since many staff and passengers will handle them and sanitising tokens would be difficult. Sources said QR code ticketing will be easy and quick for a passenger to use. This will be implemented all through the 45- km network and in each station there will be one AFC gate wherein the gate will accept this QR code-based ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-ready-with-qr-code-tickets/article32483030.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Harmonics discharge: Tangedco mulls penalty on consumers||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) has proposed to levy a penalty of 15% on consumers connected to power systems below 33 kV if they fail to provide adequate filtering equipment to avoid dumping of harmonics beyond permissible limits. Harmonics are generated by any load that draws power disproportionate to the voltage applied and affects the stability of the grid. Earlier, the norms were applicable for power systems above 33 kV. High Tension and Extra High Tension (HT/EHT) consumers from industries are connected to such power systems. In its petition before the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), Tangedco pointed out that the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) had amended the regulations in 2019 on discharge of harmonics and made it applicable to consumers connected to or seeking connectivity with electricity systems below the 33 kV voltage level (mainly at 11 kV and above). Tangedco sought approval for a new methodology to measure harmonics as well as to fix the penalty at 15% for consumers using 11 kV and 22 kV systems, which was similar to those using voltage levels of 33 kV or above. It also sought to provide new HT/EHT connections only after installation of power quality meters on the consumers’ premises and also instructed existing ones to install the meters on their own, within 12 months from when the amended regulations came into effect. Pending cases As per TNERC’s direction, Tangedco has asked stakeholders to submit their comments on the proposal by September 11. It also pointed out that some cases involving penalties on 11 kV and 22 kV consumers were pending. P. Muthusamy, former director (engineering), Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission, pointed out that the CEA Amendment Regulation does not provide for compensation and therefore, compensation could not be imposed on 22 kV and 11 kV consumers. Similarly, the CEA regulation specifies continuous metering and measurement of harmonics, hence Tangedco could not introduce a new method for harmonics measurement, he said. CEA regulations were secondary laws and therefore if a statute prescribed anything to be done in a particular manner, it had to be done in that manner or not at all, Mr. Muthusamy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harmonics-discharge-tangedco-mulls-penalty-on-consumers/article32483041.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras Day quiz held||Which part of Madras was known as Uyyakondacholapuram in honour of Rajendra Chola? The answer is Poonamallee, according to the organisers of the Madras Day quiz conducted by the C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation. The quiz, conducted online, had both illustrations and the question and answer format. Around 90 person from across the State took part in the quiz, and questions were prepared by G. Balaji, Assistant Professor, Historical Studies of the Foundation. Historian and Foundation president Nanditha Krishna said many of the participants answered more than 50% of the questions correctly and a few scored above 70%. The winners received cash prizes and all participants were given a certificate each. The first prize went to Ramesh Rajagopalan, freelance writer, Dindigul; the second prize to V. Sanjay, a student (CA), R.A. Puram, Chennai; and the third prize to Fabiola Jacob, freelance writer, Mandavelipakkam, Chennai. Consolation prizes went to Vithena Manohar, student, Saraswathi Kendra Learning Centre, Chennai, and Vignesh Kiran, Chennai, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-day-quiz-held/article32483063.ece
31 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Pesarattu, films, green avenues — throwback to T. Nagar||Tajy Prasad was born in Rajahmundry but made Chennai his home. “I used to visit the city during my school holidays and after graduation moved here,” says the 80-year-old resident of T. Nagar. He has lived here for nearly 60 years. Two restaurants that were famous among the residents of this bustling shopping hub of Madras then were Parkland and Narayana Café. The pesarattu dosa of Narayana Café at Pondy Bazaar was a favourite among film personalities. “In peak summer, we did not feel the heat as the streets had plenty of trees,” he recalls. “In those days of the unified Madras Presidency, T. Nagar had many Telugus, so it used to be nick-named ‘Telugu Nagar’. Because of the film industry there were more Telugu people — actors and writers and the cultural activities had a major representation of the Telugus. The three theatres — Nagesh, Rajakumari and Sun Theatre — used to have morning shows of Telugu movies,” he says. Mr. Tajy Prasad, a member of the Tamil Nadu Sports Writers’ Association, used to play table tennis at Club House opposite Siva Vishnu Temple on South Usman Road with actor Nagesh, lyricist Vaali and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s brother Jayakumar. A table tennis champion, he has won several State awards. His favourite memory is his visit to the Kalaivanar Arangam in May, 1953, when the Assembly was held there. “After Potti Sriramulu died, Prime Minister Nehru decided to bifurcate the Madras Presidency and create Andhra Pradesh. At that time, my uncle took me to view the meeting of the MLAs under T. Prakasam, which happened in the Assembly Hall. It is likely that I am the only living witness to that meeting as all of them who participated then were in their fifties,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pesarattu-films-green-avenues-throwback-to-t-nagar/article32483062.ece
31 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Congress likely to retain Kanniyakumari LS seat||The Congress is likely to retain the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency seat within the Secular Progressive Alliance whenever the bypoll is held, following the death of its MP H. Vasanthakumar. He had resigned from his post as MLA of the Tamil Nadu Assembly in 2019 to fight the Lok Sabha polls from Kanniyakumari. When Vasanthakumar vacated his Nanguneri Assembly seat, from where he was elected twice, the Congress lost the seat to the AIADMK in the bypoll in 2019. Sources in the Congress and the DMK told The Hindu that the Kanniyakumari seat was allotted to the Congress as per an electoral arrangement. “There was an understanding that the seat would go to the Congress [in 2019]. This is their seat. That will continue,” a source in the DMK said. Pointing out that it was very early days to discuss the topic as it has only been three days since Vasanthakumar’s death, TNCC chief K.S. Alagiri too said the seat will be retained by the Congress within the alliance. “It is our seat. The party [Congress] is strong there. We have three MLAs there. We will hold talks and decide on a common candidate. But it’s too early to talk about it,” he said. Another senior leader in the Congress too added there would be no change in the arrangement. “We don’t know when the bypoll will be held. The Election Commission might look at holding it during the Bihar polls or might wait it out till the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu to conduct it together,” the leader said. When asked if the Congress would be able to take on the BJP’s Pon. Radhakrishnan if he was fielded again by the BJP, the leader said Mr. Radhakrishnan was a strong leader in the region but the Congress would win the seat again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-likely-to-retain-kanniyakumari-ls-seat/article32483048.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health services machinery is fully geared up: Minister||As the State prepares to re-start its economy from September 1 after months of COVID-19 lockdown, the health services machinery is fully geared to meet any exigency, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Sunday. Adequate stock of oxygen cylinders, medicines and other consumables required to treat COVID-19 patients were available in all government hospitals. With the withdrawal of the e-pass system, an increased number of patients were expected to travel from the districts to tertiary care or super-speciality hospitals in major cities for treatment of various ailments. Wearing masks was the only option to control the spread of COVID-19 now. Some people think that management of this pandemic is the government’s responsibility. “While the State is ready to provide the required manpower/infrastructure and extend all assistance, controlling the spread is impossible without people’s participation. We are in the final stage of enacting a law to make masks mandatory. If all people in the State wear masks while stepping out of their home for 15 days, it will be possible to control the spread and drastically bring down the cases,” Dr. Vijayabaskar told The Hindu . He said early intervention was the key to successful treatment of COVID-19. Many patients indulged in self-medication due to stigma or some other reason resulting in late referral to hospitals. “This is a challenge to doctors since the patient would turn up after developing breathing complications.” Dr. Vijayabaskar said Tamil Nadu was ahead of others in treating senior citizens and pregnant women affected by COVID-19. More than 5,000 pregnant women who tested positive for COVID-19 recovered well, delivered babies and got discharged.  If all people wear masks while stepping out of their homes for 15 days, it will be possible to control the spread  C. Vijayabaskar  Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-services-machinery-is-fully-geared-up-minister/article32483038.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Windfall for around 3 lakh engineering students||The decision to declare all students with arrears as having passed may see as many as three lakh engineering students qualifying this year.  The Hindu has learnt that almost 71% of the students, who are in the final year of engineering programmes in the State, have arrears. Data accessed by the newspaper further showed that of the around 1,05,000 students in the final year, as many as 75,000 students have anywhere between one and 62 subjects to clear. This is apart from the around 1,14,000 students who have already completed the course last year but have arrears. An official said, “Students have to take two subjects in the final year. If they pass the two subjects then they would be declared as having passed the course.” While around 1,700 students have to clear arrears in 10 subjects each there are around 3,000 students with five arrears each. There are several thousand students who have exhausted all possible chances of appearing for the exam. Last year the University decided to permit them one final chance to sit for the exam, in an effort to help them qualify. According to sources around 10,000 students would feature in this group. University officials said fee for arrear exams had not been collected. “We have not collected the arrear exam fee as we were not sure when we were going to conduct the exam,” said an official. A senior professor said the catch is whether the companies would honour the placement order they had already issued to the students. Placement offers are made in the pre-final year based on the performance of the students and the offer is confirmed when the students qualify in the final exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/windfall-for-around-3-lakh-engineering-students/article32483047.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SOP issued for supplementary examinations||The State government has issued standard operating procedures for conducting supplementary public examinations for Classes 10, 11 and 12 from September. Supplementary exams for Classes 10 and 12 will begin on September 21, and the Class 11 exam on September 29. Apart from this, the Directorate of Government Examinations will be holding the Class 8 private-study public exam and diploma in elementary education first and second-year exams, among others, in September. Hall tickets will be available online or be given in exam centres at pre-assigned time-slots. Only 10 students will be seated in a room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sop-issued-for-supplementary-examinations/article32483055.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man injured as maanja thread slits his throat||A motorcyclist in Tiruvallur was injured after a maanja thread slit his throat on Saturday. The police arrested three persons in connection with it. According to the police, Sathyamurthy, a resident of Kakkalur, works in a private company. On Saturday, he was riding his bike on the bridge in Tiruvallur when the maanja thread got entangled around his neck. He fell from his bike. The Tiruvallur town police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-injured-as-maanja-thread-slits-his-throat/article32483033.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Extend EMI repayment relief: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday urged the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to extend to another six months relief from paying EMI for bank loans in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement here, he said the RBI should not charge interest or penal interest for the corresponding period. “This is the only way to restore the livelihood of the poor and middle class. The Reserve Bank and Finance Minister Nirmala Seetharaman should come forward to help them,” he said. Recalling RBI Governor Sakthikanda Das’ speech quoting from Leo Tolstoy’s novel War and Peace that ‘a battle is won by those who firmly resolve to win it,’ Mr. Stalin said the poor, middle class, medium and small industries were waging a similar war. “It will not be difficult for the RBI which has already released Rs. 57.128 crore to the Centre,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-emi-repayment-relief-stalin/article32483049.ece
31 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district yet to see declining trend in COVID-19 spread||Coimbatore district is yet to register a declining trend in the spread of COVID-19 as the increase in the number of tests done has resulted in a corresponding increase in the number of new cases. While the weekly cumulative positivity rate of the disease in the district was 4.0 % when 10,350 tests were done between July 3 and 9, the rate increased to 13.2 % when 21,399 testes were done between August 21 and 27, showed the district wise COVID-19 dashbaord released by the Health Department. The highest cumulative positivity rate was 14.2 % recorded in the seven day period from August 14 to 20 when 18,874 samples were subjected to COVID-19 test. G. Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Coimbatore, said that the focus was to bring down the positivity rate. According to him, a fall in the positivity rate, even when the number of tests remains high, was required to register a declining trend of the disease spread in the district. As per the Health Department data, the number of positive cases reported in a week saw a steady increase. While 415 positive cases were reported in the seven day period between July 4 and 10, the number shot up to 2,909 between August 22 and 28. The average daily new cases reported during the week in the district was 416 in the seven days period ending on August 28. While the recovery rate of the district was 74 %, the average daily recoveries in the week was 357. The average daily deaths reported in the same week was seven. Altogether, the district had a weekly case growth rate of 16.8 % against the weekly test growth rate of 38.6 % as of August 28. Meanwhile, the district recorded a decline in the trajectory of deaths reported per week. While five deaths were reported between July 3 and 9, the figure went up to 65 between August 14 and 20. The weekly deaths declined to 48 between August 21 and 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-yet-to-see-declining-trend-in-covid-19-spread/article32483098.ece
31 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Noyyal’s birthplace is now home for a tiger||Pooluvapatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division, the birthplace of River Noyyal, is now home for a tiger. Though pugmarks of the tiger were found in undisclosed locations of the forest range many times, the Forest Department has now confirmed the presence of a healthy male tiger, images of which were recorded in a camera trap recently. With this, Pooluvapatti has become the third forest range with tiger presence in Coimbatore Forest Division. During the last national tiger estimation, the report of which was released early this July, camera traps recorded 11 individual tigers in Sirumugai and Mettupalayam forest ranges that are connected to the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) and the eastern slope of the Nilgiris that is linked to the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. Quality of ecosystem “Tiger presence indicates the quality of the ecosystem. Tigers naturally move away in search of a new territory around the age of two and the individual tiger recorded in Pooluvapatti range could have moved to a new ecosystem as part of dispersal of the population from other tiger inhabiting forests. The forests of Pooluvapatti range have a good prey base for tigers in the form of gaur and sambar,” said. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle. Field staff of the department had sighted the tiger two times before it was captured in a camera trap installed with the assistance of WWF India. According to D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, Pooluvapatti forest range is gifted with thick and undisturbed forests. “The sighting of a tiger is significant as Pooluvapatti forest range is located on the southern part of the Western Ghats, which is separated by the Palakkad gap from Nelliampathy forests, Parambikkulam Tiger Reserve and Anamalai Tiger Reserve,” he noted. With tiger presence recorded in the forest range, Pooluvapatti forest range will have to be included in future tiger estimation exercises. “Sirumugai and Mettupalayam ranges, where 11 individual tigers were recorded during the national tiger estimation in 2018, are located on the northern part of Coimbatore Forest Division that are easily linked to STR. Pooluvapatti is located on the southernmost end of the forest division that is linked to a larger landscape that includes Mannarkkad Forest Division, Attapadi and Silent Valley in Kerala. The sighting of the tiger in the Noyyal watershed area also indicates good condition of the forest,” said D. Boominathan, landscape coordinator, WWF India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/noyyals-birthplace-is-now-home-for-a-tiger/article32483079.ece
31 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Businesses see hike in logistics costs||Several industries and businesses that reopened couple of months ago after complete lockdown are facing hike in transport costs. According to Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association vice president K.V. Karthik, transportation and handling costs have gone up after the lockdown. The cost for transportation between Mumbai and Coimbatore used to be Rs. 4.75 a kg. It is now Rs. 5.10 a kg. Further, there is a delay in transportation. If moving goods between two cities took three days, it now takes five days, he said. Southern India Mills’ Association secretary general K. Selvaraju said textile mills have seen 5 % to 7 % hike in transportation cost. This is said to be because of the increase in fuel prices. What is more challenging is shortage of workers for loading and unloading. This is leading to delays, he said. However, the cost of transportation has remained stable for vegetables, according to M. Rajendran, president of Thyagi Kumaran Market Vegetable Traders’ Association. For onions coming to Coimbatore from Maharashtra, the cost of transport was Rs. 3.20 to Rs. 3.50 a kg and it is almost the same now, he said. K.S. Kaliaperumal, president of Coimbatore Lorry Owners’ Association, said that just about 10 % of total lorries in the district are operating now because industrial activity is low. Several drivers and workers who went to their home towns during lockdown have not returned yet. But, the lorry sector is facing several hardships such as higher insurance cost, jump in diesel prices and toll charges. “This industry is reeling under several problems. The government should come forward to support it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/businesses-see-hike-in-logistics-costs/article32483099.ece
31 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 containment, project completion, challenges before new Corpn. Commissioner||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner-designate P. Kumaravel Pandian has two challenges before him – one short-term and another long-term, is how sources within and without the Corporation described the officer’s new assignment. The short-term one, of course, was effectively containing the spread of COVID-19 in the city, where there had been an increase in cases in the recent past. The increase in COVID-19 cases in the city, the district administration designating senior officers as coordinators to streamline containment work in the Corporation's five zones and Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath's transfer in the midst of a pandemic showed the seriousness of the challenge Mr. Pandian faced, said a civic activist, who wanted not to be identified. In reviewing the Corporation’s strategy, if Mr. Pandian were to also take up issues of shortage of doctors, paramedical staff and the issue of the Department of Public Health continuing to have administrative control of a few health centres in the city, it would help improve health service delivery, said a Corporation source. The long-term challenge before the incoming officer is expeditious completion of projects worth hundreds of crores of rupees. Right from land acquisition for the Pilloor III drinking water project to, lake front development under Smart Cities Mission to model roads to biomining to 24x7 drinking water supply improvement in core city to underground drainage in added areas, the civic body has had a number of projects that had progressed at snail’s pace. Mr. Pandian would have to ensure that the Corporation finished the projects in time to prevent cost escalation, said an officer. The new officer would have to do so also because he should be seen as delivering results for the ruling party ahead of the 2021 election, added the activist. But the over-all challenge would be to keep the Corporation going with a near-empty cash box, added the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-containment-project-completion-challenges-before-new-corpn-commissioner/article32483070.ece
31 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to share bed availability details||Coimbatore Corporation would share with the city’s residents the details of beds available at hospitals treating COVID-19 positive persons and care centres housing asymptomatic persons. To quell rumours The decision behind sharing the details was made to quell rumours that there was shortage of beds and help COVID-19 positive persons choose a hospital, outgoing Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath told The Hindu . There was enough beds available in the district and within city as well. Meet any exigencies By making public the details on availability of beds, including those at private hospitals, the Corporation wanted to reassure the people that the civic body was ready to meet any exigencies. The details that the Corporation share would be live in that the number of beds shown as available would immediately reduce if positive persons were added to hospitals or increase if persons were discharged. As the list would include data from private hospitals as well, members of public could choose a hospital closer home, if they chose to, he said. Login and password And, for the hospitals to update the details, the Corporation would provide login and password for access. Mr. Jatavath said the Corporation had also identified across the city that it could turn into COVID-19 care centres if there were to be a spike in cases, as anticipated. In less than 24 hours the Corporation would be able to add at least 1,400 to 1,500 beds,. As for the Corporation stepping up its efforts in disinfection and conducting fever clinics, the outgoing Commissioner said the civic body had added 10 more mobile testing units at two each a zone. The newly deployed vehicles would be in addition to the 32 vehicles that the civic body had given to as many urban primary health centres. The purpose of increasing the number of mobile medical units was to lift samples right at people's door steps. On the Corporation’s COVID-19 latest containment strategy, Mr. Jatavath said the Corporation did a street-wise, area-wise, ward-wise analysis on a daily basis to decide on the next day's location for holding fever clinics. Streets classified It had a classified the city's 6,200-odd streets into three categories – up-trending, repeated and down-trending – depending on the case load, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-share-bed-availability-details/article32483091.ece
31 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three held in robbery case||The Karamadai police have arrested four persons in connection with a case registered in June this year wherein three men robbed a woman of 9.5 sovereigns of jewellery at her house after assaulting her with a sickle. M. Saravanan alias Saravanakumar (40) of Mettupalayam, V. Arumugam (54), K. Ravi alias Ravindran (25) from Karamadai and Nataraj (80) from Kembanur were arrested based on a complaint filed by C. Anitha, a school teacher from Kembanur. Investigation by the police found that Ms. Anitha’s husband Chandrasekaran had a land dispute with his brother Nataraj and a civil case was pending before court. Bike, jewellery seized Police arrested Saravanakumar, a functionary of the VHP, and two others, also members of VHP, on Friday night. They recovered gold jewellery and a stolen bike from them. The three allegedly confessed to the police that they robbed the woman based on the instructions of her brother-in-law who was arrested on Saturday. All the four accused were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-in-robbery-case/article32483075.ece
31 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. calls for paid internships||Coimbatore Corporation has asked fresh graduates to apply for a paid internship programme under ‘The Urban Learning Internship Program’ (TULIP), which is a joint venture between the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and All India Council for Technical Education. A release from the Corporation said to be eligible for the internship, the applicant must be an Indian citizen who had completed a graduate programme in the last 18 months in disciplines prescribed by the Smart Cities Mission. The duration of the internship period is a year and came with a stipend of Rs. 7,000 a month for B.A. or B.Sc. graduates, Rs. 10,000 for engineering graduates, Rs. 15,000 for doctors and Rs. 8,000 for nurses. The release said it was a good opportunity to experiment and learn in a complex urban environment that would help them get ready for the job market. Last date Those interested could get further details regarding the internship programme at http://internship.aicte-i ndia.org. The last date for submission of application was September 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-calls-for-paid-internships/article32483077.ece
31 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for violating govt. norms||Police booked two persons who ran a spa in an apartment at Meena Estate in Coimbatore on Saturday. The accused are S. Rajesh (33) from Kannur in Kerala, and P. Velmani (38) from Uppilipalayam near Singanallur. Police said the accused violated Government orders with regard to the functioning of spas. The accused were booked under Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-violating-govt-norms/article32483076.ece
31 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Biomining of legacy waste nearing completion at Vairapalayam yard||Biomining of legacy waste at the Vairapalayam compost yard here is expected to be completed in a week. River Cauvery The civic body has been dumping the municipal waste collected from the town on a 7.5 acre land along River Cauvery at Vairapalayam for the last 65 years. Leachate from the waste seeps into the ground and pollutes the river. During floods two years ago, over one-third of the waste was washed away in the river. Under the Smart City Mission project, the civic body decided to biomine the waste. A private company was entrusted with the work in August last. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that over one lakh cubic metre of legacy waste was biomined and the remaining work would be completed in a week. After completion of works, the portion of the river would be restored, he added. Mr. Elangovan said that biomining of 5.35 lakh cubic metre waste at Vendipalayam compost yard was in progress and would be completed within 10 months. Both the projects are executed at a total cost of Rs. 37.25 crore, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biomining-of-legacy-waste-nearing-completion-at-vairapalayam-yard/article32483083.ece
31 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against temple official||Stating that the executive officer of a temple was allegedly involved in irregularities, members of the Erode South District BJP urged the district administration to initiate action against him. In their petition submitted to officials at the Collectorate on Friday, they said that the officer at Arulmigu Magudeswarar Temple at Kodumudi and Vengambur Arulmigu Varadaraja Perumal Temple had prepared fake expenditure bills and had swindled Rs. 3 crore. The Commissioner had ordered an inquiry and a team led by an Assistant Commissioner was conducting inquiry now. The petition said that a few officials were also part of the scandal and only a proper inquiry would bring out the truth. The petition said that since the money involved was huge, inquiry should be conducted in temples where the executive officer had worked earlier. The petition also demanded stringent action against temple officials who were involved in irregularities and the officials for supporting them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-temple-official/article32483080.ece
31 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested under POCSO Act||A 33-year-old man who abducted a 16-year-old girl was arrested under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 here. The accused, S. Thangaraj of Kavindapadi, is married and has a daughter and a son. Police said that on June 16, he took the girl from her home on the promise of marriage. Based on a complaint, police registered a case and arrested Thangaraj. The girl was rescued and sent to a government home.     Demanding the closure of a newly opened Tasmac outlet at Brahmadesam Pudur Odaipallam in Anthiyur, villagers staged a road roko here on Friday. The outlet was opened on August 25 and the villagers submitted a petition to the officials demanding closure of the outlet. However, no action was taken. Over 100 persons staged a road roko on Anthiyur – Appakudal main road and raised slogans against the outlet. Tasmac officials promised to take a decision in three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-under-pocso-act/article32483081.ece
31 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Millet cultivation set to pick up in rain-fed areas||Following recent rains, millet farmers have started ploughing and sowing the crops in five rain-fed blocks of the district. While 1,544 hectares of millets have been sowed till date during the current kharif season, the sowing and cultivation is set to increase in September, say agriculture officials. P. Subburaj, Deputy Director of Agriculture (State schemes), says, from April 1 till date, 1,544 hectares of millets have been raised in Tirumangalam, Kallikudi, T. Kallupatti, Sedapatti and Usilampatti blocks. The major millets that are cultivated are maize, sorghum (cholam), pearl millet (cumbu) and finger millet (ragi). Minor millets include barnyard millet (kuthiraivali), kodo millet (varagu) and little millet (samai). M. Ramalingam, a millet farmer from Sivarakottai, says following good rains in the monsoon, many farmers in the block had started cultivation of millets along with pulses. The target cultivation area for millets in the district is 17,100 hectares this season, says Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan. “Though the coverage area in Madurai has increased when compared to last year, other districts in the State have performed way better. With a month left for the end of the season, we are expecting the coverage area to increase,” he adds. In recent years, the Agriculture department has been encouraging farmers of rain-fed areas to cultivate millets. “The demand for millets has considerably increased in recent years as people have become more health-conscious. So we are urging farmers to go for value-additions to earn good profits,” he says. Pamayan, an organic farming expert, feels more farmers have to opt for the cultivation of minor millets. “Many farmers in the district grow major millets like maize and sorghum which have higher yield. But they can earn more profit with the minor millets even if the yield is comparatively lesser,” he says. V. Balasubramanian of “Malaioorani Varagu Urpathiyalar Kuzhu’ says processed minor millets are sold at a higher rate than rice in the market.  Though coverage area has increased when compared to last year, other districts in the State have performed way better T. VivekanandanJoint Director of Agriculture   A healthy trend 1,544 hectares of millets have been raised in four blocks  Demand has risen as people have become health-conscious||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/millet-cultivation-set-to-pick-up-in-rain-fed-areas/article32483323.ece
31 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fatality rate in Madurai second highest in State||Madurai district has registered a COVID-19 case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.5, the second highest in Tamil Nadu after Sivaganga district, as on August 28. The recovery rate is also the second highest, with an average of 91 recoveries on each day of the past week. Officials say quick identification and massive testing helped in ensuring high recovery rates. As many as 350 COVID-19 deaths were recorded tilln Friday, with an average of three deaths a day. Although the highest number of deaths recorded in a single week was 54, between July 17 and 23, the number has come down drastically to 19 between August 21 and 27. Due to late referrals Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani says the CFR is due to late referrals by private hospitals as a large number of patients were admitted with moderate and severe symptoms and comorbidities. “The patients had either one or multiple comorbidities. Many had chronic kidney disease, coronary artery disease, diabetes, leukaemia and a number of other comorbidities. There are only few cases where patients die purely because of COVID-19 induced pneumonia,” he says. “Late referrals from private hospitals posed a problem as many patients could barely survive for a day. But such cases have come down along with reduction in overall cases,” he says. Regarding the high recovery rate, Deputy Director of Public Health Priya Raj says conducting fever camps on a large-scale, recognising symptomatic patients in advance and ensuring quarantining until recovery are some of the key strategies employed in ensuring a recovery rate of 91 in the district. “Institutional discharge from COVID-19 treatment centres are high as only those with mild symptoms are housed there,” she says. Dr. Sangumani says they plan to reduce the death rate in the following weeks as they have a ‘zero-delay triage’ which ensures quick attention to patients. “The government provided ample medicines and facilities. Death audits are being conducted with private hospitals,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fatality-rate-in-madurai-second-highest-in-state/article32483326.ece
31 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A silent Sunday one last time||All commercial establishments remained closed in Madurai on the last complete lockdown Sunday of August. A police personnel said though this Sunday was an auspicious day, only a few vehicles plied on the arterial roads. S. Ramachandran, president of a flower merchant’s association in the market at Mattuthavani, said due to closure of the market, the farmers missed an opportunity to earn handsomely ahead of Onam festival when flower prices used to soar. According to the State government’s relaxation norms released on Sunday evening, there would be no complete lockdown across the State on Sundays from September. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said the complete lockdowns helped in aggressive surveillance and testing. “With the relaxation of norms, it is important that people strictly follow all safety precautions. We have also decided to do more testing and go for strict containment of those who test positive for COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-silent-sunday-one-last-time/article32483322.ece
31 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Industrial estate plans extensive green cover||Rotary Club of Madurai Innovators has embarked on a project to provide extensive green cover to the SIDCO Industrial Estate in Kappalur near here by planting 42,000 saplings under Miyawaki method. Collector T.G. Vinay, who launched the exercise on Friday when 4,000 saplings costing Rs. 3 lakh were planted over an area of 38 cents on the sprawling campus. “The advantage of Miyawaki method is that there will be dense growth in just a couple of years,” said project coordinator Shashi Fomra. It was best suited for providing green cover in urban areas. “When there is a forest-like atmosphere, the ecology of the entire campus will change for the better and reduce the temperature by up to four degrees,” said Club president Somasekar. The club plans to enlist the support of seven Rotary clubs to plant 38,000 more saplings at a cost of Rs. 30 lakh. The industrial estate association had undertaken to maintain them., said club president Ragunatha Raja and secretary Kannathasan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-estate-plans-extensive-green-cover/article32483333.ece
31 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of blue whale washed ashore||The carcass of a blue whale washed ashore on Valinokkam beach in Ramanathapuram district on Sunday. Senior officials from the forest department said the mammal, weighing between seven and eight tonnes, could not be lifted even by a large earthmover. Hence, the width of the animal could not be calculated. Forest Range Officer, Kilakarai range, S. Sikkandar Batcha said the mammal was female and was sighted at 6.30 a.m. on Valinokkam shore when officers were patrolling the area between Kilakarai and Thoothukudi range. “The length of the mammal is at least 20 metres and it is estimated to have died around a month ago because the carcass is highly decomposed. The cause of death cannot be determined,” he said. The forest range officer added that this was only the second time ever when a blue whale had washed ashore in the area. “Sightings are rare too as they usually are at least 20 to 30 km away from our usual jurisdiction.” Although members of the department acknowledged that there had been sightings of blue whales in the Gulf of Mannar region, no estimation of their population had been made yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carcass-of-blue-whale-washed-ashore/article32483316.ece
31 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on climate change||Discussions on soil erosion, plastic management, solid waste management and other topics took place among participants from different parts of the world in a webinar conducted by Soroptimist International (SI), Madurai Chapter, here on Saturday. The webinar, on Climate Change, was attended by members of four Soroptimist International chapters. Founder President of SI (Madurai) Anitha Rajarajan said members from Belgium, France, Italy, England, Australia, United States of America, Nepal, South Africa, Malaysia, Scotland and various parts of India took part in the event. The webinar which went on for over three hours had 15 speakers elaborating on the climate crisis in their part of the globe. The discussion was moderated by Mridula Ramesh, the founder of Sundaram Climate Institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-climate-change/article32483327.ece
31 August 2020||MADURAI/THENI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai goes past 14,000||Madurai’s tally of COVID-19 cases crossed 14,000 mark to touch 14,030 as 134 people tested positive – 131 of them indigenous – on Sunday. A total of 129 people were discharged from various treatment facilities. With three fresh fatalities, the death toll rose to 357. The district has 860 active cases. Tirunelveli recorded 136 fresh cases, which took the district’s tally to 9,437. There were 149 discharges from hospitals. Kanniyakumari reported 124 new cases, which pushed up its tally to 9,460. The number of patients discharged from hospitals was 113. There were 95 fresh cases in Thoothukudi, which has a total case count of 11,296. The hospitals recorded 77 discharges. Tenkasi’s tally swelled by 85 to reach 5,318 on Sunday. There were 97 discharges. Theni added 179 cases to its tally which moved up to 12,599. A total of 216 people were discharged from hospitals. Dindigul district reported 89 fresh cases, with which the total number of positive cases rose to 6,434. Hospitals recorded 51 discharges. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram’s tally went up by 22 to reach 4,687. There were 49 discharges. Sivaganga registered 33 new cases, with which its tally moved to 4,028. Hospitals in the district discharged 41 people. Virudhunagar  Virudhunagar recorded 63 fresh cases, which raised its tally to 12,622. With 150 people getting discharged, the number of active cases in the district dropped to 450. The death toll in the district increased to 188 after the death of a 60-year-old man at Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on August 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-goes-past-14000/article32483320.ece
31 August 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Vailankanni Annual Feast begins||The Vailankanni Annual Feast - 2020 commenced on Saturday evening with a flag procession around the Basilica followed by hoisting of Our Lady's Flag by the Bishop of Thanjavur Most Rev. M. Devadass Ambrose. Thereafter, the Bishop conducted the Holy Mass in Tamil in the main shrine. This year, the programme was celebrated without participation of pilgrims due to COVID-19 pandemic. The Basilica is telecasting the programmes live. Till September 8, the mass will be conducted in various languages: Tamil - 6 a.m., East Indian Marathi - 7 a.m., Konkani - 8 a.m., Malayalam - 9 a.m., English - 10 a.m., Hindi - 11 a.m., Marathi - 12 noon, Telugu - 3 p.m., and Kannada - 4 p.m. The Holy Rosary, Litany of the Blessed Virgin Mary will be at 6.15 p.m., and from 7 p.m. onwards, the sermon, benediction, and novena programme will take place followed by car procession around the shrine. At 6 a.m. on September 8, the final day, the Concelebrated Feast Mass will be presided over by the Bishop of Thanjavur. The annual feast will culminate with the lowering of Our Lady's Flag, followed by litany and benediction at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vailankanni-feast-begins/article32483100.ece
31 August 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Vasanthakumar laid to rest in home town||H. Vasanthakumar, MP of Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha Constituency, who died in Chennai on Friday due to COVID-19, was laid to rest at his home town of Agastheeswaram in the district here on Sunday. Cutting across party lines, a large number of people assembled at his residence on Saturday when the body was brought from Chennai. The body, covered with the Congress flag, was kept for public viewing for a few hours. Many recalled the assistance Vasanthakumar had given them to pursue their education. His wife Tamilselvi, daughter Thangamalar, sons Vijay Vasanth and Vinod Kumar and relatives were present. Congress leaders, including those from the All India Congress Committee led by K.C. Venugopal, MPs Jothimani and Kodikunnil Suresh, former Kottar Bishop Peter Remijues, AIADMK leader Thalavai Sundaram, MLAs Austin, Suresh Rajan, Prince, Rajesh Kumar, Mano Thangaraj, Poongothai Aladi Aruna, Kanniyakumari District Collector Prashant M. Wadnere, former Union Minister and BJP leader Pon Radhakrishnan and many others paid their last respects. In a brief chat with the media, Mr. Pon Radhakrishnan said Vasanthakumar was a humble person and a self-made man. He built his business brick-by-brick and expanded it. He helped the needy in every aspect. “We have lost an illustrious son of the soil,” he said. Around 11.30 a.m., Mr. Vijay Vasanth and Mr. Vinod Kumar led a procession and laid the body to rest in a family-owned farm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vasanthakumar-laid-to-rest-in-home-town/article32483043.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Was Angoda setting up drug smuggling network?||Sri Lanka’s underworld figure Angoda Lokka, who died under mysterious circumstances in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore in July, was developing a local network for smuggling drugs under the garb of supplying protein supplements to gyms, probe agencies suspect. “The protein supplement business could be a cover for dealing in drugs, given that Lokka was part of the syndicate in Sri Lanka which ran a major drug trafficking racket. “Just a few days ago, the Sri Lankan authorities seized 42 kg of heroin at the instance of one of his close accomplices, Shabdeen Zubair, who was arrested along with three others,” said a government official privy to the findings. ‘Hawala channel’ The investigators have also detected a “hawala” channel being run from Dubai, through which funds were also being managed for Lokka. “Payments for the heroin consignments smuggled from Pakistan to Sri Lanka by maritime route are made through ‘hawala’, usually in Dubai,” the official said. During interrogation, one of the three suspects arrested in the case by the Coimbatore police made key disclosures in this regard. Following the leads, the investigators have zeroed in on some boat operators in Rameswaram having suspected links with Lokka. Attack Lokka had fled from Sri Lanka after the gang he was part of attacked a prison bus in February 2017, killing a rival nicknamed “Samayan” and five other jail inmates, besides two prison officials. He obtained a Sri Lankan passport in the name of Sadun el Valage before going underground. It is suspected that he illegally entered India by sea, at the instance of his gang leader Madhush, who along with one Kanjipani Imran then operated from Dubai. Madhush and Imran were extradited to Sri Lanka last year and they are currently lodged in a Colombo jail. Lokka, who had arranged for himself an Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh, had been living in Coimbatore since October 2018. His phone call records suggested that he was in regular touch with some elements in Pakistan. Investigations are under way to determine if a part of the heroin landing in Sri Lanka was being diverted to India by sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/was-lokka-setting-up-drug-smuggling-network/article32483069.ece
31 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Localised lockdown put on hold in U.T.||With the proposal for localised lockdowns in large COVID-19 clusters running into opposition barely hours before taking effect on Monday, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has called for a review before the plan is implemented. The administration had opted for a week-long intense lockdown from August 31 to September 6 in 32 containment zones with high disease burden and a quick doubling rate of cases. Now, revised orders on the containment areas will be issued after a meeting convened by the Chief Minister on Monday. In a virtual address, Mr. Narayanasamy said he has asked the District Collector to put the idea on hold until the grievances were looked into after receiving several complaints from residents and elected representatives that the areas for barricading were based on obsolete data and without distributing materials to affected residents who had to stay indoor for a week. On Sunday morning, Vaiyapuri Manikandan, MLA, cut through the barricading at Muthialpet to protest the lockdown measure. Complaints about disproportionately large areas put under lockdown have also emerged from places such as JJ Nagar and Shakti Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/localised-lockdown-put-on-hold-in-ut/article32483067.ece
31 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Industry assns. seek extension of moratorium||The Consortium of Puducherry Industries Association (COPIA) has appealed to the Union Government to extend the moratorium for repayment of various loans and the validity of relief measures up to December 31. In a memorandum addressed to Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Nitin Gadkari, COPIA president R. Mananathan said the Centre had taken various proactive steps to keep the hopes and aspirations of the industries alive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-assns-seek-extension-of-moratorium/article32483064.ece
31 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Death toll in U.T. rises to 221||Puducherry recorded ten more COVID-19 deaths on Sunday taking the toll to 221, while 571 new admissions saw the overall tally cross the 14,000 mark. Puducherry accounted for nine deaths and Yanam one. While 516 of the new cases were reported in Puducherry, Karaikal recorded 12, Yanam 42 and Mahe one. The new cases were detected during testing of 1,866 samples. There are currently 2,537 patients in hospital and 2,401 patients in home isolation. During the last 24 hours, 457 patients recovered and were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-toll-rises-to-221/article32483065.ece
31 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH sets up separate area for sample collection||The work to set up a separate centre for COVID-19 swab sample collection is progressing at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The Hospital has set up 700 beds for COVID-19 treatment and separate blocks have been demarcated for this purpose. According to officials, the swab collection centre has been set up at the COVID block. However, to prevent the public from venturing into COVID blocks, a separate centre is being constructed to collect swab samples and conduct other tests. According to officials, a few incidents of patient attenders entering the blocks were reported as they managed to enter the premises in the pretext of undergoing tests. Hospital authorities said that the new set up would have equipment like X-rays to conduct necessary scans on patients visiting the hospital for COVID tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-sets-up-separate-area-for-sample-collection/article32483088.ece
31 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Patients complain of unhygienic food||Patients admitted at a Covid Care Centre near Mecheri have raised concern over the hygiene and quality of food. Staging a protest, the patients alleged despite repeated complaints with authorities no action has been taken. A 35-year-old patient said, “the food provided at the Centre is unhygienic and we find it difficult to consume it. Many of the food packets are just dumped into the bins. Most of the times, the food is served late. When we complained with officials they offered a cold response and they didn’t even bother about it.” Another patient said, “recently a patient discharged from the Centre had to literally ask with other patients for money to return to his home. When asked with officials at the Centre, they said that we need to find our own way to return to our houses and it was not their responsibility. An autorickshaw driver, who finally agreed to drop the patient home, charged over Rs. 2000.” Health officials said that they are unaware of any such issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patients-complain-of-unhygienic-food/article32483092.ece
31 August 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Micro monitoring teams formed||The Salem Corporation has formed street level micro management monitoring teams to monitor COVID-19 containment measures and create awareness among the public at containment zones. According to a release, the Corporation has formed 41 teams, including 176 staff and fieldworkers to monitor activities at containment zones. According to a release, the teams would refer persons with COVID-19 symptoms to fever camps and if the person tests positive, the patient would be referred to government hospitals for treatment. Ten teams has been deployed in Sooramangalam, Hasthampatti, Kondalampatti zones and 11 in Ammapet, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-monitoring-teams-formed/article32483087.ece
31 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The outflow from Mettur dam for irrigation in delta region was reduced to 16,000 cusecs on Sunday. According to Public Works Department officials, the water level in the dam was 91.70 ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft. The stored capacity was 54,616 mcft. The inflow into the dam was 3,839 cusecs and outflow to River Cauvery was reduced from 18,000 cusecs to 16,000 cusecs from Sunday afternoon. The outflow through East-West canal was maintained at 700 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article32483084.ece
31 August 2020||SRIVILLIPUTTUR,TAMIL NADU||Power supply to police station cut after seizure of TANGEDCO worker’s bike||In a bizarre incident, power supply to Koomapatti police station here was cut for nearly two hours on Thursday night after the police refused to entertain a request to return a two-wheeler seized from a TANGEDCO contract employee for multiple rule violations. When the police personnel from Koomapatti station were checking vehicles near Moolakkarai junction, they stopped a two-wheeler for triple riding. “It was found that the riders had no documents for the vehicle. Also, they were not wearing helmets and masks,” a police officer said. The vehicle did not have a number plate in the front and the rear side number plate had only partial details of the registration number. The trio did not have registration and insurance certificates for the vehicle. Similarly, the rider did not have a valid driving licence. “To top it all, the trio could not give proper details of the vehicle owner. All they said was that their contractor had given them the vehicle for official works,” the officer said. The police seized the vehicle and took it to the police station. “No case could be immediately registered as the vehicle did not have the registration number,” the officer said.  Assistant Engineer Meanwhile, a TANGEDCO Assistant Engineer from Koomapatti called the police with a request to release the vehicle. The police told him that they could oblige provided the documents of the vehicle were produced. Meanwhile, around 8.15 p.m. the power to the police station was snapped. Initially, the police thought that there was a power disruption. However, later they realised that the power cut was an ‘act of revenge’. The issue was escalated to Superintendent of Police P. Perumal, who took up the issue with Collector R. Kannan. Consequently, the power supply to the police station was restored two hours later. “We have sent a report on the incident seeking departmental action against the erring worker,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-to-police-station-cut-after-seizure-of-tangedco-workers-bike/article32483335.ece
31 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Incubation forum invites applications from start-ups||The marine products business incubation forum, jointly run by the Fisheries College and Research Institute and Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute (EDII), Chennai, is inviting innovative business ideas/project reports from the entrepreneurs and individuals who have passion in business start-ups. These new and innovative business ideas/project reports shall be recommended to Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute. Each proposal would be analysed under the norms of Innovation Voucher Programme (IVP). The eligible novel business ideas shall be selected and rewarded with financial aid as subsidy to the tune of 80% of the project cost or maximum of Rs. 2 lakh per proposal. The innovative business ideas which are already implemented as start-up ongoing business may also be submitted and these ongoing businesses shall be selected and rewarded with financial aid as subsidy to the tune of 50% of the project cost or maximum of Rs. 5 lakh per proposal. Aspirants may be from the non-fisheries sector as well and can submit the proposal by post or in person to the Project Coordinator / Chief Executive Officer, EDII-MPBIF, Department of Fish Processing Technology, Fisheries College and Research Institute, Thoothukudi – 628008 or contact Project Coordinator (9965344330) or Chief Executive Officer (9940658513), on working days, said Dean B Sundaramoorthy in a press release issued here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incubation-forum-invites-applications-from-start-ups/article32483312.ece
31 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||13 manned gates set for closure||The Tiruchi Railway Division has proposed to close 13 manned level-crossing gates by constructing subways in their place during this year. The manned gates proposed for closure has been identified along the Villupuram - Tiruchi chord line section via Vriddhachalam and Ariyalur; Villupuram - Tiruchi mainline section via Thanjavur and along the Mayiladuthurai - Karaikudi broad gauge section. Five among the 13 manned gates chosen for closure falls along the Villupuram - Tiruchi chord line section and four gates each identified along the Villupuram - Tiruchi mainline section and Mayiladuthurai - Karaikudi stretch. Works relating to construction of subways have commenced at some of the locations, said a senior railway official. In respect of the Villupuram- Tiruchi mainline section, two subways would come up between Tiruverumbur and Ponmalai near Tiruchi; one between Thanjavur and Alakkudi and another between Alakkudi and Budalur to replace the manned gates. As for the Mayiladuthurai - Karaikudi broad gauge stretch, the subways would be constructed between Pattukottai and Peravurani; Peravurani and Ayingudi and between Aranthangi and Kandanur Puduvayal, said the official. With regard to the Villupuram - Tiruchi chord line section, the subways would be constructed between Valadi and Srirangam near Tiruchi and between Tiruvennainallur and Parikkal. The decision for elimination of unmanned level crossings September last created the task for gradual conversion of the manned gates into subways, the official said. The Tiruchi division had already already completed the work on constructing four subways in lieu of equal number of level crossing gates along the Villupuram - Katpadi broad gauge stretch; Villupuram - Tiruchi mainline section; Villupuram - Tiruchi chord line section and Mayiladuthurai - Karaikudi section. Pump sets would be provided by the railways at the new subways to drain out stagnated water in subways during rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-manned-gates-set-for-closure/article32483375.ece
31 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Last lockdown Sunday sees traffic||Notwithstanding the total lockdown in place, many people were seen flouting rules and regulations across the city on Sunday. As per the State Government’s announcement, total lockdown had been announced on all Sundays of the month. But, unlike the first three Sundays of the month, this Sunday saw many people breaking the rule by coming out of their homes for various reasons. Arterial roads including Bharathidasan Road, Madurai Road, Rockins Road, Thillai Nagar Main Road, Sashtri Road, Salai Road, Palakarai, Srirangam, Woraiyur and other main roads were teeming with cars and bikes. Heavy movement of vehicles was seen near many marriage halls, where functions were held. In some places, marriages were being conducted at homes with large number of guests. The lockdown rules and regulations were openly violated in such places. However, almost all shops and business establishments, including restaurants remained closed. Tea shops and petty shops too chose to close down in response to the Government call to check the spread of COVID-19. According to a rough estimate, nearly 10% of private vehicles and bikes plied on the roads on Sunday. Relaxation of e-pass system and lesser visibility of police presence were also said to be reasons for heavy traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/last-lockdown-sunday-sees-traffic/article32483381.ece
31 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Road overbridge still remains unfinished||More than seven years after the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) began collecting toll on Tiruchi-Pudukottai-Karaikudi highway there are still a few works to be completed on the stretch much to the resentment of road users. As per the plan, the project on widening the Tiruchi-Pudukottai highway that began in 2010 should have been completed by 2013. But, the NHAI could complete just about 80% of the work within the estimated time. It could not complete the work on a few stretches. Building of a road overbridge bridge (RoB) at Kalamavur near Keeranur and a four km stretch near Karaikudi were among the pending works. It was initially stated that litigation was the reason for the inability to complete the works. It then turned out that financial problems faced by the concessionaire was the reason for the delay. After a public outcry, the NHAI managed to complete the four km stretch near Karaikudi. Though the NHAI resumed the construction of RoB at Kalamavur about three years ago, the work was halted again abruptly, forcing the motorists to drive on an alternative mud road. Irked over the undue delay in completion of works, residents of various villages and towns including Mathur, Mandaiyur and Keeranur resort to protests every now and then. On its part, the Southern Railway has completed its portion of the bridge. The approach roads on either side were also formed. The NHAI has to connect approach roads with the RoB and carry out the construction of the parapet. But, the works are pending for several months. Motorists, who were disappointed over the undue delay in completion of works, lament over having to pay the toll. “I have been forced to drive on an alternative route near Kalamavur for more than 10 years. It is understandable that if the work is delayed for three to six months or even a year. But it is pending for years. The irony is that we continue to pay toll for using the road for more than seven years,” M. Vinodh Kumar of Ponnagar, a regular user, lamented. When contacted a senior NHAI official told The Hindu that the NHAI had cancelled the award given to a company for failing to complete the project on time in spite of time extension given to it. A fresh contract had been awarded to another company for completing the pending works and it began the work in January. However, the lockdown, which was in force in view of the spread of COVID-19, had delayed the work. Steps would be taken to complete the pending works as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-overbridge-still-remains-unfinished/article32483367.ece
31 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Chainless bicycles being manufactured in Tiruchi||A Tiruchi-based engineering industry has ventured into manufacturing chainless bicycles, which, it claims, are more durable and efficient than conventional chain-driven bicycles. The chainless bicycles, with propeller shaft drive system, come in single-speed and three-speed geared variants and are available in four different frame sizes, including one designed for women. The company, Ceeyes Engineering Industries Private Limited, which manufactures camshafts for Defence and Railways, says its STEED bicycle is a lifestyle product meant for commuting and it is much easier to operate and maintain than conventional cycles. The chainless bicycles are made of aluminium alloy frame and the propeller shaft drive system with spiral bevel gears is made of chrome moly alloy. Some of the components and accessories, especially for premium models, are imported. The price of the models range from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 52,000, approximately. “The propeller shaft drive gives more resilience and durability than the chain drive. The chainless drive system provides smooth, quiet and efficient transfer of torque from the pedals to rear wheel. Problems such as chain slips or chain cuts are averted and the chainless cycles offer better safety,” a company representative said. The geared variant has internal gear hubs and comes with a twist shifter on the handle bar, using which the cyclist can change gears smoothly just as in a scooter. The company claims that the life of the propeller shaft drive system is more than 15000 km and requires very little maintenance. On the other hand, the life of chain and sprockets in conventional cycles is around 3000 km and require frequent maintenance. The company offers 10 years warranty for the propeller shaft and five years warranty for the frame, he said. The product, after extensive research and development, was rolled out about three months ago and despite the pandemic situation the company has sold over 800 bicycles in various cities across the country, he added. A. Chandru of Zillion Bi Wheels, a retail dealer of the bicycles at Thillai Nagar in Tiruchi, said around 75 bicycles have been sold in Tiruchi so far. The cycles are easy to operate and come with good braking and suspension system. Despite the decline in use of bicycles in recent years, a revival of interest in cycling was very much evident during the lockdown, Mr.Chandru said expressing confidence that more and more people would definitely take to bicycles in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chainless-bicycles-being-manufactured-in-tiruchi/article32483369.ece
31 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Development of Karur Bypass Road gains momentum||Development of Karur Bypass Road, which is being projected as a model road in the city, has gained momentum. As per the project, the 1.5 km stretch of the Bypass Road from Sashtri Road-Salai Road intersection to Tiruchi-Karur Highway will be developed with pedestrian pavements, central median, storm water drains and ducts for cables wherever they are possible. A sum of Rs. 7.75 crore has been sanctioned from Infrastructure Gap Filling Fund for the project involving re-laying of the road end-to-end, construction of storm water drains along the nearly 100-ft wide road, erecting lamp posts and making provision for onside car parking. The project has been divided into three segments for the quick implementation. While the 300 meter stretch from Salai Road to culvert has been named as first reach, the 200 meter stretch from culvert to Road Overbridge (RoB) is called as second reach. The third reach will be from RoB to Tiruchi-Karur Highway to a length of 620 meters. For the first reach, a sum of Rs. 3.75 crore is being spent. The Tiruchi City Corporation began the road strengthening work in February. Though the total lockdown imposed from March 24 halted the work for about two months, the civic body resumed it from May. It took up the construction of storm water drains on both the sides of the first reach. It then carried out the formation of pedestrian pavements followed by duct. The authorities thereafter shifted their attention on construction of centre median along with erection of lamp posts. The civic body has also begun road laying work. Taking advantage of total lockdown on Sunday for carrying out the work without any disturbances, the local body mobilised men and machines for laying the road. Paver machine was engaged to lay the road. More than 75 % of the road laying work on the first reach was completed on Sunday itself. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the first reach would have facilities such as onsite car parking, pedestrian pavement, centre median, cable duct and storm water drain as the road was wider than the second and third reaches. The second reach would have an end to end road with pedestrian pavement and centre median. The third reach would have no pedestrian pavement as the road was narrow. He said the pending work on laying of tiles on pedestrian pavement and fine-tuning in the first reach will be completed within a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/development-of-karur-bypass-road-gains-momentum/article32483374.ece
31 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cops help abandoned woman||An Inspector of Police helped an aged woman after finding her lying abandoned in an open area on the premises of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Saturday. Inspector K.M. Maniraj attached to the Woraiyur police station who was at the hospital escorting some foreign inmates housed in a special camp here for treatment on Saturday morning noticed the abandoned woman struggling under hot sun. He lifted her and brought her under a tree and gave her water to drink. A policewoman standing nearby and the officer put her on the stretcher. He asked the security staff to get the woman admitted before escorting the inmates back to the special camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cops-help-abandoned-woman/article32483377.ece
31 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Manapparai ‘arisi murukku’ loses its crunch and flavour||Sales of the famous ‘arisi murukku’ from Manapparai has taken a severe hit amid the COVID-19 lockdown. A major share of the sales was through travellers who would drive by the Tiruchi-Dindigul Highway but with travel restrictions in place for over five months, the production units have incurred losses, vendors say. For I. James, whose family is one among the 600 makers of the fried snack, it is the main source of livelihood. “After reopening the units in July, we have been able to sell only about 20% of our usual sales. Our customers now have shrunk to local residents in Manapparai and people within Tiruchi,” he said. When the lockdown was enforced on March 25, the 600 units had on hand a stock of at least Rs. 5 lakh worth of murukku, all of which had to be thrown out. “Since the lockdown was announced so suddenly, we could not even sell it quickly. We did hand out some to our neighbours and relatives, but most of it went stale,” Sheik Dawood, owner of another production unit said. The summer holidays are a peak season for sales as people from across the State would travel to Palani, Kodaikanal and other nearby tourism spots. “For them, purchasing the murukku was part of their trip,” Mr. James pointed out. Now, with no buses, trains or cars plying, the roads are empty and so are their pockets, he added. The sales of murukku had suffered a hit due to water crisis in Manapparai and the lockdown worsened their situation, Mr. James said. “The distinct flavour of the murukku comes from the salty well water mixed with rice flour and cumin seeds. However, as the wells dried up, we depended upon borewell water and had to additionally add salt. This changed the flavour. Soon, the plastic ban was enforced and packing of the murukku became even more difficult,” he said. Mr. Dawood said that on an average day, the sales of the murukku in the region would amount to around Rs. 1 lakh. “There were around 40 to 45 brands in the region, but now, only eight or ten remain,” he said. At least 85 men used to be stationed outside the bus stand and the railway station but since the travel ban was imposed, they have all taken up other odd jobs. “Feeding their families is a priority. While some have taken to selling other fried snacks like samosas and vadas in the town, many are now construction workers,” he said. While the vendors had submitted petitions to the District Collector and the State Government seeking relief, there has been no response, Mr. James said. “It will take at least two years to revive the business. Banks are not willing to give us loans and we do not have the funds to restart,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manapparai-arisi-murukku-loses-its-crunch-and-flavour/article32483383.ece
31 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a steep rise in new cases||The central districts on Sunday recorded 754 new cases and the number of casualties too rose with 13 deaths. Of the 13 people, four were from from Tiruchi while three each were from Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam districts. In Tiruchi, the victims, all men aged 72, 62, 87 and 60 years, died at private hospitals, while in Thanjavur, a 67-year-old man suffering from coronary artery disease, and two women aged 65 and 73, both suffering from respiratory failure and diabetes succumbed to the viral infection. A 67-year-old man suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, and two men aged 69 and 75 years, both with comorbidities of diabetes and hypertension died due to COVID-19 in Pudukottai. In Nagapattinam, three men aged 69, 78 and 55 years succumbed to the viral infection without any pre-existing conditions. Meanwhile, Tiruchi recorded the highest number of cases in the central region, with 138 cases. Most patients tested positive from existing containment zones, official sources said. In Nagapattinam, 135 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among the 135 were several primary contacts of a single patient who tested positive earlier. In Thanjavur, 117 patients tested positive that included some frontline workers and patients identified at various fever camps. In Pudukottai, a large section of the 108 patients who tested positive were local index cases with no contact or travel history. “We will be tracing the source of their infection and placing their family and other contacts on home quarantine,” a senior health official said. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur recorded 95 new cases for the viral infection, while Ariyalur recorded 89 cases, including 30 from Ariyalur town. Of the rest, 12 were from Thirumanur, five from Sendhurai, 14 from T. Palur, 11 from Andimadam and 17 from Jayankondam blocks. Karur recorded 49 fresh cases for COVID-19 including three frontline workers from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Meanwhile, 22 patients were discharged. Of the 23 patients who tested positive in Perambalur, nine hailed from Perambalur town, seven from Alathur, five from Veppur and two from Veppanthattai. Meanwhile, 311 throat swabs were lifted from residents in containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-sees-a-steep-rise-in-new-cases/article32483384.ece
31 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||26-year-old newly married woman murdered by husband||A 26-year-old newly married woman Christy Helen Rani was murdered allegedly by her husband by forcibly immersing her face in a pool of water at Coleroon river in the early hours on Sunday. The Kollidam police have detained the victim's husband Arulraj (28) on the charge of killing his wife. The woman got married to Arulraj on July 10 and had been staying with him at Valavanthapuram close to the river bank on the city's outskirts. Police said the body was found near a sheet of water close to the fourth pillar of the old Coleroon bridge. Police officials inspected the spot. Initially, the victim's husband had reportedly claimed that his wife had left home in the early hours to attend nature's call and did not return. Arulraj had reportedly claimed that gold jewels worn by his wife were found missing from her body. Police sent the body for postmortem to the Srirangam Government Hospital. The sources said Arulraj confessed to have murdered his wife as she had not cooperated with him in their conjugal life. Arulraj is said to have followed the woman when she left home in the early hours and allegedly committed the crime. The jewels which were claimed to have been missing were later recovered by the police near Arulraj's house where they were found buried. The Kollidam police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-year-old-newly-married-woman-murdered-by-husband/article32483378.ece
31 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Birth anniversary of India’s first actuary celebrated||The birth anniversary of India's first actuary, late L.S. Vaidyanathan, was celebrated by the Department of Actuarial Science, Bishop Heber College, through conduct of a webinar, earlier this month. Addressing the gathering of students and teachers through ZOOM cloud meeting platform, Hemant Kumar FIAI, Group Manager – actuary from Principal Global Services, Pune, provided guidance on preparing for actuarial exams. Principal D. Paul Dhayabaran and Department Head D. Hebsiba Beula also took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birth-anniversary-of-indias-first-actuary-celebrated/article32483387.ece
31 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 91.32 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 2,895 cusecs and the discharge was 17,250 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article32483385.ece
31 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Medical student drowns near Kumbakonam||A 21-year-old medical student drowned in Arasalar near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district on Saturday. The body of S. Poovarasan was retrieved by fire fighters on Sunday. Police said S. Poovarasan - a III-year student who was pursuing medicine in China had returned to his home at Ammapettai due to COVID-19 pandemic. Poovarasan had gone to the river for a bath when he went missing.Fire fighters gave up their operation on Saturday night due to poor lighting. The search resumed on Sunday and the body was retrieved. The Kumbakonam Taluk police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-student-drowns-near-kumbakonam/article32483331.ece
31 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Siblings found dead in pond||Two children were found dead in a pond near Thirumuruganpoondi within Tiruppur City Police limits on Sunday. Police said that Saravanakumar (10) and his eight-year-old sister Roshni went to take bath in the pond at Ammapalayam on Saturday evening and did not return home. Their parents lodged a missing complaint at Thirumuruganpoondi police station. The bodies were discovered in the pond on Sunday. Thirumuruganpoondi police have registered a case. Three booked for illegal liquor sales Palladam police booked three persons on charges of selling illegal liquor amid total lockdown outside a bar attached to a Tasmac outlet on Sunday. Police said that Perumal (21), Raja (23) and Mohideen (52) were found selling liquor in front of a bar attached to Tasmac No. 2264 in Vettupattankuttai near Palladam. A total of 28 liquor bottles and Rs. 3,800 were seized from the accused, the police said. Palladam police booked the three accused under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-found-dead-in-pond/article32483078.ece
31 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tribal communities turn to millet farming||B. Balraj, a member of the Irula adivasi community in Aracode near Kil Kotagiri, is among 50 former daily wage workers in his village to take up farming once again. “Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many adivasis, working as daily wage workers in tea estates, coffee plantations and farms, have found it difficult to find work. So many of us are now returning to farm our lands which were left fallow for the last few years,” said Mr. Balraj. One of the beneficiaries of an initiative undertaken by the Keystone Foundation in Kotagiri, Mr. Balraj is among 1,335 farmers in the Nilgiris, who are being provided assistance to reclaim their traditional farmlands to cultivate millets. Robert Leo, adviser to the Keystone Foundation, said that the farmers possess knowledge of traditional, organic farming practices, and have been provided with a “millet seed package,” comprising seven kg of foxtail millet, little millet and finger millet. Alongside other crops, such as amaranthus, mustard and varieties of vegetables, the farmers are being encouraged to take up mixed farming that is ecologically friendly, added Mr. Leo. The millets fields are inter cropped in patches with maize, beans, chilli, tomatoes, pumpkins, pigeon peas and different kinds of green leafy vegetables and tubers, said S. Bhojan, a member of the Irula adivasi community living in a village in Bokkapuram in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. The village is among a number of Irula and Kurumba communities being supported by the Keystone Foundation in Kotagiri, Coonoor and the Sigur plateau. “Many members of the community were dependent on the tourism industry to earn their living,” said Mr. Bhojan. “As the resorts have had to close down due to the COVID-19 pandemic, many were out of work,” he added. According to him, more than a hundred people in the Sigur alone have started farming anywhere between half an acre and one acre of their existing lands. “Most of these lands had been lying fallow, despite the fact that our communities had been given title deeds to them under the Forest Rights Act,” said Mr. Bhojan. The community members said that they will use the millets to help feed their families and also trade with other communities for other goods. The incorporation of millets into the diet of adivasi communities will help keep them healthy, said Mr. Robert Leo. “As most adivasis have come to rely on the Public Distribution System for their nutritional requirements, they have gradually moved away from consuming crops and foodstuffs that they would grow traditionally. By encouraging them to grow millets and other crops, we hope to also get them to eat a more balanced, nutritious diet,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-communities-turn-to-millet-farming/article32483086.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Western region records 1,267 cases, 13 deaths||Western region on Sunday recorded 1,267 cases and 13 deaths. According to a Health Department bulletin, as many as 498 persons tested positive in Coimbatore district. Majority of the patients were from urban parts of the district. In Coimbatore, five patients aged 67, 80,71,70 and 53 died of the disease taking the toll to 498. In Salem, six persons aged 91, 72, 40, 71, 80 and 74 died. One person aged 56 died in Erode taking the toll to 40. Tiruppur also reported the death of a 60-year-old. On Sunday, 3,567 patients were under treatment in Coimbatore. As many as 451 persons were discharged. In Salem, 329 cases were reported of which 326 were indigenous and three returned from other places. In Namakkal, 70 cases were reported of which four patients returned from Erode, Salem and one from Karnataka. In Krishnagiri, 69 cases were reported and all are indigenous. In Dharmapuri, 14 indigenous cases were reported.  Erode district reported 158 cases taking the district’s tally to 3,049. A total of 185 persons were discharged, while 1,287 were under treatment. Tiruppur district reported 93 cases, taking the district's overall tally to 2,649 cases. The district reported less than 100 cases after two days on Sunday. Out of the total 2,649 cases, 1,789 have recovered and 795 were active cases. Fifty-three patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 36 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 1,584, with 1,256 people having recovered so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/western-region-records-1267-cases-13-deaths/article32483095.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. eases e-pass norms, bus services to resume||All government offices would function with 100% staff from September 1, however, a nodal officer would be appointed in all private and government offices and industries to ensure all safety and precautionary measures with regard to COVID-19 are followed. Banks and allied services could function with 100% staff. The government has allowed film shoots with a cap of 75 persons but without spectators. Parks and playgrounds would be opened for exercise and sports training. “There will be no 'complete lockdown' on Sundays from September onwards,” he said. All places of worship were to be allowed by following SOP (to be issued). Worship would be allowed only till 8 p.m. and only a specific number of persons were to be in sanctum santorum at any given time. Schools, colleges, cinemas, swimming pools, amusement parks, big auditoriums, beaches, zoos, museums, and tourist spots would continue to be closed. Religious, social, political, entertainment and cultural meetings, other meetings and rallies would not be allowed until further orders. Mr. Palaniswami clarified that all fresh relaxations would not apply to containment zones across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-eases-e-pass-norms-bus-services-to-resume/article32483050.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Last Sunday lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/last-sunday-lockdown/article32483074.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Civic chief’s warning on stray cattle||Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan on Sunday said civic authorities would impound stray cattle and hand them over to goshalas for upkeep until the rightful owners turned up and assured them that they would not let their cattle on the roads. In a press release, he said there were complaints from road users over rise in cattle menace. Hence, it was decided to nab the animals and hand them over to goshal as. For each cattle impounded, the Corporation would impose Rs. 6,000 as penalty. An undertaking from the owners would also be obtained with assurance to maintain the cattle in their own space and not let them stray on public space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-chiefs-warning-on-stray-cattle/article32483314.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man kills son||A 27-year-old man was arrested on Sunday after it came to light that he had allegedly killed his 18-month-old son two days ago. Police said Muniasami, 27, of Vedalai near Mandapam was married to Maria Avista of Akkal Madam three years ago. The couple had a son. It is suspected that the couple had frequent quarrels over domestic issues. Last week, when Avista planned to go to her sister’s wedding, Muniasami took away their chiled with him. When he returned home alone, she asked him about the whereabouts of the child. Since he refused to respond, she lodged a complaint with the police. Investigation revealed that Muniasami, in a fit of anger and to settle scores with his wife, allegedly killed his son by setting him afire near the railway track in Mandapam area. Police seized the burnt body and sent it for postmortem. They registered a case of murder and arrested Muniasami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-kills-son/article32483310.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||A wrong photograph was inadvertently carried for Mr. A.V. Subramanian in the article titled ‘Puducherry PCC chief tests positive’, published in these columns on Sunday. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article32483046.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||Till August 30   Coimbatore district  No. of cases on Sunday: 498 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 14,894 Indigenous cases: 14,854 Imported cases: 40 No. of active cases: 3,567 Persons recovered: 11,033 No. of persons died: 294  Tiruppur district  No. of cases on Sunday: 93 Persons tested +ve so far: 2,649 Persons recovered: 1,789 Deaths: 65 Active cases: 795||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-update/article32483096.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s mail||Of late, one can see a lot of CCTV cameras installed in public places. However, one wonders whether all those cameras are in working condition? In the case of CCTV cameras installed near Kovalan Nagar police outpost, they were installed during of 2019 but nobody knows whether or not they are working. These cameras are sponsored by either residential associations or corporates. The authorities must see to it that all the CCTV cameras are in working order to ensure safety of people. S. Bala,  Madurai   I have accounts with State Bank of India’s West Masi Street branch and Lady Doak College branch. Since the start of COVID-19 induced lockdown, the banks refuse to fill entries in passbooks. To issue cheques, one needs to know the bank balance. For senior citizens like me, our wards support us with a portion of their income to meet our monthly commitments. The bank branches ask the account holders to places where passbook printing machines are located. But the machine seldom work. At least, the banks can keep these machines in order to solve this problem. Robin Dante,  Madurai   Most of the people living in the western end of Jeyapandian Street in Nazareth had been using a single drinking water tap in the area. Ever since lockdown started, water supply to the tap has been suspended. So people totally depend on private water suppliers. A request was made to the executive officer and the Collector a month ago. However, there has been no response. I appeal to the district administration to restore drinking water supply at the earliest. S. Jebaharan,  Thoothukudi    To consider a demand raised by political leaders and students across the country, it is learnt that the Home Ministry is rethinking of postponing National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). To put an end to the anxiety of 15.9 lakh students who have registered to write NEET, the Supreme Court recently refused to defer NEET and JEE dates due to COVID-19. Also the SC observed that they could not put the career of students in jeopardy and thus confirmed the dates of the above two entrance examinations as September 13 and 16 respectively. As there is no alternative way of evaluating merit of the students for the high-stake examinations, it would be better if they are conducted without further postponement. P. Victor Selvaraj,  Palayamkottai     In the new building complex of Ramanathapuram Collectorate, there is no provision for sitting in the veranda leading to the offices of Collector, District Revenue Officer and other top officials. So senior citizens, women and people with physical disabilities have to stand waiting till they are permitted into the respective offices. I appeal to the district administration to provide adequate seating arrangement for the convenience of the public. Asmabagh Anvardeern, Ramanathapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32483309.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Numerous potholes along the Maruvathur-Sengattupatti stretch have caused difficulties for farmers transporting their agricultural produce on their two-wheelers. Stagnant rainwater at several spots over the last two weeks is an indicator of the potholes. Motorists are vulnerble to accidents during night hours. Residents of Sengattupatti are disappointed as their complaints to district administration for re-laying of the stretch have got no results. Residents look for rectification of the stretch as soon as possible. M. Sanjay, Sengattupatti.    Protruding gravel along the Thenur Seeyalamman Kovil-Puthanampatti path has made tyres of two-wheelers vulnerable to puncture. Students from villages in Alathur taluk in Perambalur district who use the road every day to pursue their higher education at the Nehru Memorial College in Puthanampatti are the worst-affected. Requests for strengthening of the road for the purpose of operating buses are pending with the district administration. The student community expect the administration to do the needful for their safety. Saravanan Natesan, Puthanampatti.    A need has arisen for imposing speed limits along the Tiruchi-Karur National Highway in view of the on-going road-widening works. Due to the presence and movement of earthmover equipment on the sides, speeding by two wheelers, four wheelers and and sand lorries endangers lives of other road users. The rural police must act tough on erring motorists. S. Prakash, Tiruchi.    Some vehicles could be seen with number plates inscribed in regional languages, and also in fonts with designs that are not legally permissible. Law enforcing authorities must be in a position to identify the vehicle owner instantly in case of accidents. Erratic number plates would also complicate the situation for law-enforcers in hit-and-run cases. The wrongdoers have to be identified and made to fall in line. Gopalakrishnan Vijayalakshmi, Thillainagar.      Persons with disabilities dependent on public transport look for construction of a concrete ramp at Karattampatti. In the absence of the facility, the disabled people face difficulty in boarding into and alighting from buses. A prompt response from the district administration will be appreciated. M. Periyamalaiyan, Karattampatti.    The Swachh ranking of Thanjavur Corporation has turned dismal. The agricultural hub depicts water canals turning into drainage paths, thereby relegating the city’s ranking. Garbage disposal mechanism is also poor. The fault lies with the public as well. In the extension areas, piles of garbage are burnt triggering health concerns. A serious effort is needed to keep the city clean and score better in future. Sundaram, Ammapet.    The tendency to bite nails in nervous situations can seriously increase one’s risk of contracting coronavirus. The virus easily gets into the mouth as the hands can easily transfer germs into the body through the saliva, and also through abrasions in the skin around the nail bed that can form during constant nibbling. Special attention for nails is of utmost importance during the COVID-19 Pandemic. The nails should be kept short and well-trimmed. It must be known that long nails harbours pathogens on undersurface. Excessive trimming and cuticle cutting should also be avoided as it can disrupt the barrier protection of nail. During hand washing, undersurface of the nails should not be missed and diligently cleaned with soap or alcohol-based hand rub for 20 seconds. It is better to avoid nail polish. If applied, the film should not be cracked or chipped and must be regularly removed. Nail polish worn for more than four days or chipped nail coat has a potential to carry pathogens that resist cleansing by handwashing. M.A. Aleem, Tiruchi.     Though a belated decision, the Union government’s acceptance for the bifurcation of the Chennai ASI circle with Tiruchi as the new circle has gladdened archeologists, public and politicians. Since Tamil Nadu is home to over several ancient temples, monuments, habitation sites, buried sites and rock temples all over southern parts of Tamil Nadu, a special focus is absolutely necessary to maintain the originality of the structures  R. Pichumani, Thippirajapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article32483372.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth murdered in Alanganallur||A 24-year-old youth, A. Karthik, of Alanganallur was hacked to death by a three-member gang under Alanganallur police station limits on Sunday morning. Police said the deceased, along with his uncle Balan, 60, was going to attend a domestic function on a motorbike. While the bike was neaingr Chinna Ilanthaikulam junction, a motorbike that was following them hit theirs. As both the riders fell down, the assailants started to attack him with lethal weapons. He was killed on the spot. The police said that Karthik was accused in a murder of one of their relatives in 2017. The police suspect that the murder could be an act of revenge. Alanganallur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-murdered-in-alanganallur/article32483330.ece
31 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||We want to go to the root of drug abuse in State: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told journalists in Hubballi on Sunday that over the years, “we have been noticing that there is widespread drug abuse in society. It is not only prevalent among the rich and powerful but also among students. It is not only noticed in the film industry but also in several other fields.” “Till now, only consumers were being arrested and they managed to get out of jail within a few days. But now we want to go to the root of the problem and catch both the suppliers and consumers. We will wage a war on drug abuse across the State, in all walks of life. We will not only tackle the problem at the local level but also at the national and international level. We are working with the Union government in this task,’’ he said. The police recently arrested some foreigners, including a Canadian national and a Nigerian national. We have intimated the External Affairs Ministry about this,” Mr. Bommai said. Notice to Indrajit Lankesh On film-maker Indrajit Lankesh’s statement on drug menace in the Kannada film industry, the Home Minister said that the Police Department has issued a notice asking him to provide detailed information and to reveal the source of his information, which is mandatory under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985. “Indrajit Lankesh has been summoned before officers in Bengaluru on Sunday. He will come and give a statement. Let us see what he has to say,” he said. “I have already told officers not to be lenient while handling any such offence. We will keep an eye on drug abusers not just in the film industry but in all sectors,” he said. “Based on some information, the Central anti-narcotic drug wing officers came to the State and arrested some persons involved in the making and distribution of synthetic drugs. The arrested persons include a woman. The Central officers have expressed suspected drug abuse among some film personalities and some VIPs in the State,” he said. “They have continued their investigation and we are cooperating with them. Our CCB officers are also conducting raids,” he said. Awareness programmes “The Police Department will organise awareness and vigilance programmes in educational institutions, including private professional colleges. We will take action against students and managements, if they are found guilty. No one will be spared,” he said. He said that allegations that the police were lenient towards the guilty among the rich and powerful who could exert influence on the government were not correct. “The police are doing a good job. They need to be appreciated,’’ he added. “The police had managed to crack the Dark Net and obtained some clues about drug trafficking. The Dark Net is used by offenders for illegal activities such as arms trade and child prostitution. It is difficult to trace the routes of such transactions, but our police officers have succeeded in doing that. They have traced the origination and destination of some drug trafficking channels. They are working on arresting persons responsible for them,” he said. Four arrested “We have arrested four Postal Department employees for their involvement in the drug trade. There have been some instances where drugs were sent by ordinary postal services, with the connivance of some officers,” he said. “The parcels were lying in the Postal Department for months, as no one would come to collect them. Then, some department staff, who are part of the ring, would deliver them to whoever they were meant for,” the Home Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-want-to-go-to-the-root-of-drug-abuse-in-state-bommai/article32483181.ece
31 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi police tighten security around statues||The Belagavi city police tightened security around the statues of Sangolli Rayanna and Shivaji, following a protest by organisations against some defamatory posts here on Sunday. Members of some Maratha organisations and the Shivaji Yuva Morcha took out a protest march seeking action against those who had shared posts allegedly insulting Shivaji. Then they submitted a memorandum to the Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan. “We will not only take action against those who post such messages, but also those who comment on them and the admins of those Twitter handles or Facebook groups,” he said. He urged the people of the district to stop comparing the two heroes and to stop insulting one, while praising the other. “The people of Peeranwadi have amicably resolved the issue of the instllation of the Rayanna statue. The city police requests you respect the decision of the people of Peeranwadi,” Dr. Thiyagarajan said in the message. Complaint to be filed He told The Hindu an FIR would be filed based on the complaint by the protesters. “Our officers will keep a strict vigil on social media for such posts and take pre-emptive action to ensure that they don’t cause any serious law and order problems,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-police-tighten-security-around-statues/article32483024.ece
31 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tyres burnt after stones are thrown at banner||The Belagavi district police have registered a case in connection with desecration of a banner with an image of Ambedkar at Yali Hadalagi village near Athani on Sunday. Dalit Sangharsh Samiti members complained to the police that unidentified persons had thrown stones at the banner, torn the garland around the image and tried to punch holes in the banner. The samiti members burnt tyres on the village main road and threatened to block the Athani- Aigali Road if the offenders were not arrested immediately. Athani Police arrived on the spot and spoke to the protesters. They assured them of booking a case and taking up investigation. A case was registered later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tyres-burnt-after-stones-are-thrown-at-banner/article32483170.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Change in metro schedules, frequency likely||After a gap of over five months, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) is gearing towards resuming Namma Metro services from September 7. But the commute will no longer involve the mad dash for the train or crowding at the door. It may need more patience with everyone observing social distancing. According to BMRCL officials, trains are unlikely to run at the same frequency as they did before lockdown. The commute itself may become longer as trains are likely to have longer halts at the station to allow people to disembark and board while following precautions. Only smartcard holders may be allowed to avoid queues at counters. Chief public relations officer of BMRCL Yeshwanth Chavan said: “We are waiting for the Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) on running trains in a day or two. Protocols that need to be followed by passengers will be shared prior to resuming services.” Officials said that certain measures taken in the days preceding lockdown in March such as allowing only a limited number of passengers — around 350 in a six-coach train that has a capacity for 2,000 people — may continue. Use of sanitisers, thermal screening, not crowding of platforms, and restricting elderly people are likely to continue. There may be instructions on maintaining a set temperature inside the trains and metros stations. Prior to the spread of the pandemic, Namma Metro was carrying over 4 lakh passengers every day. BMRCL had also generated the highest revenue of Rs. 1.6 crore on March 2. It stopped train services from March 22 as per the order of the State government, after which it saw over Rs. 25 crore revenue losses per month. The question is whether people will use Namma Metro when services finally resume. Though bus services have resumed, ridership remains low. Regular metro commuters remain wary for now given the high number of cases in the city. “Travelling on the metro depends on touching common places right from entering, baggage scan, placing your token or card, touching the staircase railing or lift buttons. It will be impossible for workers to sanitise such spots often,” said Neeti D., a metro user. G. Gopal who used to use the Green Line every day to commute to work before lockdown said with limited frequency and passengers, it will benefit only a small number of people. “While officials and security guards will put in place several measures to ensure physical distancing among passengers, it’s highly unlikely that passengers will follow them, going by what we are seeing in buses and markets,” said Mr. Gopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-in-metro-schedules-frequency-likely/article32482989.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Symptomatic swab samples to be given preference in testing||Bogged down by delays in test results, the State government has directed laboratories to prioritise swab samples of people showing symptoms of COVID-19 over asymptomatic suspected cases. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer of laboratories and testing in the State’s COVID-19 taskforce said that testing for symptomatic cases needs to be done first. “This is so that if people who are symptomatic need medical intervention, they are taken to the hospital quickly,” he said. The positivity rate of people who are symptomatic is higher than asymptomatic cases. According to the State COVID-19 war room, the positivity rate in the last one week - among symptomatic cases is 32.4%, while it is 11.7% in asymptomatic cases. Mr. Manjunath explained that the decision was taken as the State government has decided to increase the number of tests conducted per day. He said that although they had increased the number of laboratories in the State to 110 and improved infrastructure and manpower, delay in getting test results was inevitable as the government wants to conduct around 70,000 tests per day across the State. While many people in Bengaluru have had to wait for close to a week to get their results, the delay in getting results is not as long in other districts. So far, over 28 lakh tests have been conducted across the State.  Delays render contact tracing futile Many officials who are part of contact tracing teams in Bengaluru point out that the delay in getting the test results often makes the contact tracing exercise futile. “We have been told to diligently trace contacts even though the number of COVID-19 cases are spiking by the day. When we trace contacts, we have observed that many of those who tested positive had passed on the virus to other people after they gave the swab test and were waiting for their results,” said an official, who is monitoring contact tracing efforts in Bengaluru. The official also said that although the BBMP had made repeated attempts to tell those who give swabs to remain in isolation till they received the test results, people are not complying with them. “Citizens wait for a day or two. If they do not get their results, they venture out thinking they have tested negative. If the test results are given within two days, they can remain in isolation. This will reduce the number of people they have infected, thereby reducing the number of COVID-19 cases in the State,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/symptomatic-swab-samples-to-be-given-preference-in-testing/article32483001.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||One month for three depts. to clear engineering cadre tangle||As confusion continues to prevail in the engineering cadre over the bifurcation of the Public Works Department (PWD), a month’s time has been given to clear a path for the proposal that is nearly four decades old. Sources in the PWD said that Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar issued a direction to this effect during a meeting last week. The bifurcation move — proposed way back in the 1980s but fructifying only now — will mean a separate Water Resources Department breaking away from the parent PWD. This apart, an order to move Ports and Inland Waterways to the Infrastructure Department from the PWD came last week. Till recently, it was engineers from the PWD who were deputed to works in the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, which now has its own engineering cadre. Earlier, the PWD also had within its purview the Housing Board, Slum Clearance Board, Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board, and Agricultural Produce Market Committee, among others. With all these bureaucratic changes, engineers from the PWD have been given the option to chose from the departments. Several of them have complained of problems in career moves after they were given the option to choosethe department they wanted to be with. “While there are more engineers and fewer posts in the PWD, promotion avenues are limited. In other departments, there could be promotion options. A good number of engineers have not opted for any, hoping that this bifurcation move will not happen,” a source in the PWD said. A senior official blamed the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) for the current problem. “The DPAR allowed the Water Resources Department to have its own cadre and recruitment rules in 2014, and for RDPR in 2016 when PWD engineers were still working for those departments. The DPAR shouldhave thought about the consequences. There is a permanent committee under the Additional Chief Secretary,” the official said, adding that the same committee had now been tasked with finding a solution. Acknowledging the problem, another senior PWD official said engineers were now fearing a decrease in promotion opportunities. The official said there was a thought that the deployment and redeployment process should be a systematic effort instead of each department taking its own decisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-month-for-three-depts-to-clear-engineering-cadre-tangle/article32483007.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online classes set to resume, but not everyone is ready||With the academic year for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses for intermediate semesters set to begin from September 1 with online classes, a section of students are worried that they will be at a disadvantage. Students and faculty members say that once classes begin, the ‘digital divide’ will be all the more stark. Access to digital infrastructure, Internet connectivity issues, and power disruptions are among the main concerns. “I have paid my fees, but I may have to miss many classes as I use mobile data and a portable hotspot. Apart from that, I might not understand important concepts and the learning might not be effective,” a second year law student from the city said. Another student said that he is under financial stress as he bought a laptop and took a high-speed Internet connection. “I am sure this is the problem many students from middle-class families face. We can somehow get access to such things. How will students in rural areas survive such things,” he asked. Teachers, too, are concerned about how effective online classes will be. A teacher from a government college in Bengaluru said that he and his colleagues had to struggle to conduct classes for final year students owing to power disruptions and poor Internet connectivity on the college premises. “In spite of our college being located in the heart of Bengaluru, we had to face a lot of connectivity issues. Just imagine the plight of students and teachers in rural areas. As the academic year for all intermediate semesters are slated to begin soon, there will be more load on the college’s Internet bandwidth,” he said. To tackle some of these problems, K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore University, said that he had directed principals of all the colleges not to have continuous online classes. “We understand the practical difficulties. Hence, online classes in colleges under our university will only be intermittently held,” he said. He added that they have asked affiliated colleges to give emphasis to assignments and reading material so that students do not miss out on important concepts. N. Narasimha Murthy, professor, Department of Mass Communication and Journalism at Bangalore Central University, said that limited access to academic resources will have an adverse impact on learning outcomes. Many students and even teachers pointed out that the government are yet to issue guidelines on how to conduct the classes, the length of each session, etc. “Our college has not given us any details yet. We have been informed that we have to log on to the classes on September 1. However, they have not mentioned any timings or timetable,” said a student from a private college.   I have paid my fees, but I may have to miss many classes as I use mobile data and a portable hotspot. Law student from Bengaluru   Online classes in colleges under our university will only be intermittently held. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-classes-set-to-resume-but-not-everyone-is-ready/article32483018.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suchitra Film Society to start a film school||Bengaluru’s Suchitra Film Society, which completed 49 years on August 28, launched a yearlong golden jubilee celebration on Saturday as it entered it’s 50th year. Only four other film societies have achieved this feat in the country. Suchitra Suvarna Sambhrama will feature two international film festivals and the start of a film school, apart from a host of workshops, retrospectives of auteurs among other programmes through the year. Filmmaker Girish Kasaravalli has been roped in to chalk out the programme for the yearlong celebration. “It should not only celebrate the achievements of the past five decades, but also try to provide insights into film as a medium and look at how the film society can meaningfully contribute to the industry in the future,” Mr. Kasaravalli said. Significantly, the society wants to restart an annual international film festival from this year. It was Suchitra Film Society that began the Bengaluru International Film Festival in 2006, spearheaded it for three years and later handed it over to Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy. “We want to restart the Suchitra film festival. We had planned for an international film festival to kickstart the golden jubilee celebrations. But the pandemic has forced us to postpone it to November or December. The festivities will conclude with another international film festival in August 2021 and we plan to continue holding the festival in August every year,” said B. Suresha, filmmaker and president of the society. There are also plans to start a film school. “An announcement will be made in January and classes will begin from the next academic year. The school shall offer a one year diploma course and a two year PG diploma course,” he added. H.N. Narahari Rao, one of the founding members of the society in 1971, has suggested that a digital film library be established in the society. Reminiscing the origins of the society, he said Mayura Film Society that began in 1969 in the city was so active and popular that bagging a membership was a Herculean task. “When I asked the founders of Mayura Film Society for a membership, they suggested we should start a society of our own. And so Suchitra was born,” he said. Historically, film societies played a key role in providing accessibility to international films, but that is no longer the case. “With access to films almost free, film societies have moved to curation, appreciation, film perspective and education worldwide. Suchitra made that shift in the early 2000s,” said N. Vidyashankar, artistic director, BIFFes and a Suchitra veteran. But what has remained a big challenge is a gap between the film society, the audience and the Kannada film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suchitra-film-society-to-start-a-film-school/article32482986.ece
31 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cabinet sub-committee to discuss reforms||The reforms in administration mooted earlier are gathering steam with the Cabinet sub-committee set to meet this Thursday to discuss the issue. Among other things, the sub-committee, led by Revenue Minister R. Ashok, is looking at the merger and closure of departments and offices and a review of various cadres, in line with the recommendations made by the 6th State Pay Commission, before recommending changes to the State government. Sources said that while reviewing the cadres, the sub-committee may recommend removal of posts, re-deployment of officers and employees, and revision of the cadre rules. Sources also said that the government was keen on merging departments since the resources could be pooled, and it is in the process of identifying such departments that can be done away with. Departments under the lens include lotteries and small savings to be merged with the Finance Department, and bringing together agriculture, sericulture and horticulture to enhance effective working, sources said. The Industries and Commerce Department and the Kannada and Culture Department could get smaller departments under their wings with common secretariats. Sources said that the merger of departments could reduce the number of employees and allow the State to manage the departments since there is also a shortage of IAS officers. “There are critical departments with severe shortage of staff and small departments with limited work having excess staff. These anomalies could be addressed through the administrativereforms,” a source said, adding that it could lead to huge savings for the government, which spends on salaries and maintenance or payment of rent for its buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-sub-committee-to-discuss-reforms/article32483013.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||8,852 new COVID-19 cases reported on Sunday||A total of 8,852 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State on Sunday, while 7,101 people were discharged on the same day. With this, the total number of cases in the State stands at 3.35 lakh, while the total number of discharges stands at 2.42 lakh. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, a total of 106 deaths owing to COVID-19 were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths in the State to 5,589. Out of the total 88,091 active cases in the state, as many as 730 people are admitted in intensive care units across different designated hospitals. As many as 66,957 tests were conducted in the State on Sunday. While 2,616 were rapid antigen tests, the remaining were RTPCR and other tests. Other districts Out of the total 3.35 lakh positive cases, Bengaluru Urban has recorded 1.27 lakh cases. Besides Bengaluru Urban, as many as seven districts have reported more than 10,000 cases so far. On Sunday alone, 11 out of 30 districts in the State reported more than 250 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8852-new-covid-19-cases-reported-on-sunday/article32482999.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ramped up random testing sees Bengaluru’s positivity rate drop||Despite being the highest contributor to the State’s COVID-19 tally, the positivity rate for Bengaluru Urban district has dropped from 24% in July to 14% this month (until August 28), as the number of tests conducted has increased. A look at the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) War Room data for Saturday shows that this month, until August 28, the city had 65,752 positive cases with a positivity rate of 14%. In July, Bengaluru had 52,106 cases, but its positivity rate was 24%. In fact, July had the highest positivity rate for the city since the first case was reported in Bengaluru. While in March, when 44 cases were reported, the positivity rate was 4%, in April it was 1% with 101 cases, and 1% positivity rate with 386 cases in May. In June, when there was a significant jump in the number of cases, the positivity rate was 7% with 4,904 cases. Overall, the city’s positivity rate is 15.25% for 172 days. This is amidst the total number of tests reaching 8.16 lakh - a huge increase from the 2.15 lakh tests that were conducted until July 31. In the State, until Sunday, 28,52,675 tests have been conducted cumulatively. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer said higher testing numbers was the biggest factor influencing positivity rate. “The testing numbers have seen a huge jump. Targeted testing is happening and we are adopting the trace-test-isolate approach along with increasing testing capacity,” she said. With another round of unlock in the offing, testing numbers could go further up, she added. Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) Director and State task force member C. Nagaraj said lower positivity rates had a direct correlation between the higher testing numbers. “Earlier, the testing numbers were much lower. Today, we are conducting over 60,000 tests, something which even States that hit the peak did not do. As we conduct more tests, the positivity rate will come down,” he explained. The task force has also pointed out that in Bengaluru, random testing is being carried out as opposed to more targeted testing of symptomatic people in other districts, which keeps the positivity rate low. “What we have also observed is that the fear and stigma that existed earlier, which prevented people from coming forward to getting tested, is no longer there. As home quarantine rules have been relaxed, more people are willing to come forward to get tested. So detection of infection is also happening at an earlier stage, unlike earlier,” Dr. Nagaraj added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramped-up-random-testing-sees-bengalurus-positivity-rate-drop/article32482997.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man who lost job during lockdown caught in online cheating scam||A 28-year-old man who was fired from his job during the COVID-19 lockdown and then lost all his money to a conman took to crime to make some money, only to be arrested. According to the police, he was allegedly cheating online buyers by promising them cars at cheaper than market rates. The police have identified eight instances and believe there could be more victims. The accused, Manjunath N., a resident of Thataguni village on the outskirts of the city, worked in a flower decorator shop but lost his job. Soon after, he was cheated of Rs. 5,000 by a conman who promised to sell him a second-hand mobile phone but instead made off with his money. “In desperation, he came up with a plan to approach sellers of cars who had put up listings on an online platform. He would befriend them and ask them for photos and details of the car claiming that he wanted to buy it for his brother,” said a police officer. Without the knowledge of the owner, he would post the car details on other market platforms at a throwaway price. He allegedly told potential buyers that he was selling the car on behalf of his brother who needed the money desperately. When a buyer showed interest, he took them to the original car owner after taking the money or a down payment. He would then escape leaving the buyer and the car owner confused. Based on a complaint, the Tilak Nagar police inspector Anil Kumar G.S. tracked down Manjunath and recovered valuables worth Rs. 9 lakh from him. The police also recovered 15 SIM cards and mobile phones from the accused. “He procured SIM cards by luring people with the promise of better jobs and using their identity documents,” said Mr. Kumar. “We have detected eight cases so far and suspect that there are more victims.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-who-lost-job-during-lockdown-caught-in-online-cheating-scam/article32482990.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pub owners cautiously optimistic, await green signal from government||Owners of pubs and bars are cautiously optimistic as their establishments are not on the list of prohibited activities in the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Many said they expected the State government to issue an official notification on the resumption of businesses within the next two days. Manu Chandra, who is Bengaluru Chapter Head, National Restaurant Association of India, said: “Pubs and bars have been removed from the prohibition list. After that, it comes down to every State to issue their own circulars and clarifications. That’s when we will have more clarity and information.” While pub and bar owners have safety measures and protocols in place such as use of sanitisers and social distancing norms, there is also the question of whether customers will turn up in good numbers or not. As of now, establishments cannot serve liquor. Sibi Venkataraju, co-founder of Toit in Indiranagar, predicts a surge in patrons in the days immediately after restrictions are eased. “We have been seeing a reasonable number of people coming in, especially on weekends. I think initially we will have to do a lot more crowd control at the door. Assuming the rule remains operational at 50% capacity, we will most likely face a situation where there are more people wanting to come in than tables we have free. Earlier, the crowd would wait at the bar but that’s not possible now. We have to figure out how we are going to handle this. I think that’s the primary difference between how we are already operating at the restaurant and when the alcohol services open.” However, the last five months have taken their toll on the industry, and some watering holes have already shut down. “A majority of businesses were brought to complete financial ruin, taking down with them a lot of allied businesses that were reliant on them. The only governments that gave hard cash (as relief) were largely western governments where the staff wasn’t out on the streets because there was a furlough programme in place,” said Mr. Manu. The owner of a popular pub, who did not want to be named, described the last few months as a nightmare for the F&B industry. “While there were several things that hit us hard from demonitisation to GST, this is the worst. If you go down 12th Main in Indiranagar, the sheer number of buildings that were home to restaurants and pubs but now have to-let signs is shocking.” He added that in Karnataka, no relief was given regarding renewal of liquor licence, which was collected in June. “The only option given was to pay the amount (which runs into lakhs) in two instalments,” he said.  Pubs and bars have been removed from the prohibition list. After that, it comes down to every State to issue their own circulars and clarifications. That’s when we will have more clarity and information.Manu ChandraBengaluru Chapter Head, National Restaurant Association of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pub-owners-cautiously-optimistic-await-green-signal-from-government/article32482992.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GPF annual account statements||The Office of the Principal Accountant General (A and E) has said that the annual accounts statements for 2019-20, relating to the general provident fund (GPF) of the All-India Service Officers (Karnataka Cadre), judges of the High Court, and employees of the State government, have been uploaded on www.agkar.cag.gov.in. The statements are also available on the Human Resource Management System websitehttp://www. hrms.karntaka.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gpf-annual-account-statements/article32483004.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BSY says Koppal will have country’s first toy-manufacturing cluster||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for manufacturing toys locally, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa showcased Karnataka’s efforts to set up a toy-manufacturing cluster at Koppal, already known for its Kinhal toys. “In line with PM’s vision of vocal for local and boosting toy manufacturing, Koppal will have India’s first toy-manufacturing cluster. With the ecosystem to support the toy cluster in place, this 400-acre SEZ will have top-class infrastructure and generate 40,000 jobs in 5 years,” he tweeted. Responding to Mr. Yediyurappa’s tweet, Mr. Modi tweeted: “Happy to see the states responding enthusiastically to the clarion call of making India a toy production hub.” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman also took to Twitter to praise Karnataka’s efforts. “Good step forward in support of #VocalforLocal. Indian artisans have skills and are sensitive to eco -friendly use of materials. A welcome initiative.” Meanwhile, RSS national organising secretary B.L. Santhosh also tweeted: “Big step in the direction of #AatmaNirbharBharat. Toy manufacturing cluster is announced by @BSYBJP. Along with Morbi and Gujarat, Koppal will also make a mark on global map. Well done Sir”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bsy-says-koppal-will-have-countrys-first-toy-manufacturing-cluster/article32483021.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Asking States to borrow for GST shortfall a skewed idea’||Saying that States were already under financial strain because of the COVID-19 pandemic, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda on Sunday said that to ask the States to borrow to meet the GST shortfall was a skewed idea. In a statement, he said that he agreed with the argument that the onus was on the Centre to borrow and compensate the States. “It [the Centre] cannot be seen shirking this responsibility. The States are already under financial strain, and as many have pointed out, it is the States that have done all the hard work and heavy lifting in these past few months during the pandemic,” he said. He also said that while all issues cannot be resolved to everybody’s satisfaction, but spirit of dialogue and consensus should not be abandoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asking-states-to-borrow-for-gst-shortfall-a-skewed-idea/article32483014.ece
31 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Appointed||The State government has appointed Chief Minister’s political secretary Shankaragouda Iranagouda Patil as the Special Representative to the Karnataka government in New Delhi. Mr. Patil has been given a rank that is equal to that of a Cabinet Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointed/article32483019.ece
31 August 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Relieve teachers from COVID-19 duty’||While many degree college teachers are ready to teach students online, those from government colleges say that it will be difficult to juggle classes and COVID-19 duties. “Many teachers in government colleges have been posted on COVID-10 related duties including acting as nodal and booth-level officers. It would be difficult and impractical for them to teach as well, and they should be relieved from COVID-19 duties,” said T.M. Manjunatha, president, Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relieve-teachers-from-covid-19-duty/article32483025.ece
31 August 2020||Bengaluru/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Will take strict action to control drug menace: Sood||Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood on Sunday announced that the city police will probe all cases related to drug trade and take strict action to contain the menace. This comes in the wake of two major incidents in the city, including busting of an international drug racket by the NCB — allegedly linked to the Kannada film industry — and the CCB’s recent seizure of 200kg of marijuana. Earlier in the day, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told the media in Hubballi that the police have been instructed to trace the source to root out the menace effectively. “We will not only tackle the problem at the local level, but also at the national and international level. We are working with the Union government on this task,” he said. He acknowledged the difficulty in tracking drug rings that operate in the dark net but commended the police for cracking such cases. “We have arrested four postal department employees for their involvement. There have been some instances where drugs were sent by ordinary post services with the connivance of some officers,” the Home Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-take-strict-action-to-control-drug-menace-sood/article32482991.ece
31 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Govt. official convicted of criminal breach of trust||A Tarikere court in Chikkamagaluru district has convicted a government official of criminal breach of trust, forgery and cheating and imposed a fine of Rs. 2 crore on him, besides imprisonment. Second Division Assistant at the office of the Assistant Conservator of Forests at Tarikere Mohan Kumar transferred Rs. 1.29 crore of government money to his wife’s account by forging the signatures of his seniors in 2009. He murdered his wife after she refused to cooperate. He was convicted of murder and sentenced to 10 years. He is serving a jail term in Shivamogga. Senior Civil Judge and JMFC of Tarikere M.C. Nanje Gowda, on Saturday, convicted him of cheating. He has been sentenced to two years each for criminal breach of trust (IPC 409), forgery (IPC 465) and one year each for considering a forged document as genuine (IPC 471) and disappearance of evidence (IPC 201).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-official-convicted-of-criminal-breach-of-trust/article32483002.ece
31 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Couple found murdered||An aged couple were found murdered in a farmhouse at Alagondanahalli in Channarayapatna taluk on Sunday morning. The police identified the deceased as Muralidhar (80) and his wife Umadevi (67). The couple had no children. It is suspected that they were smothered to death. The incident came to light when a worker reached home on Sunday. Channarayapatna Rural Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/couple-found-murdered/article32483171.ece
31 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rains bring ruin to many onion farmers||Baburaya Pattan, a small farmer from Suntanur village at Aland taluk, had cultivated onion on one acre during the current kharif season. He borrowed nearly Rs. 50,000 from his friends, hoping to get a good yield of around 250 bags, which would fetch him around Rs. 1.5 lakh. But the incessant rains that lashed the region for over 20 days have dashed his dreams. “I was planning to take the harvest to Bengaluru and get Rs. 2,000 a quintal. I don’t know how to repay the loan now,” Mr. Pattan said, showing his destroyed crop. Mr. Pattan’s is not an isolated case, as most of the farmers in the village of around 400 families are in the same boat. Suntanur is one of the villages in the region where farmers are heavily dependent on onion cultivation. “Prolonged waterlogging has led to many diseases and abnormal growth in the onion crop. Basal rot, bulb and stem bending, imbalanced and uneven growth, and tip burning are the common problems that theover-moisture has created. The excess rains at the crop-maturity period have inflicted irreversible damage on the crop,” P. Vasudev Naik, a horticulture scientist associated with Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Kalaburagi, told The Hindu . In a desperate bid to save the standing crop, farmers from across the district have been calling KVK scientists and seeking their advice. “We are receiving more than 200 calls and even more WhatsApp messages with photos from farmers daily. Most of them are related to the damage and diseases excess rains have caused to the crops. After examining the images, we advise them on the action to be taken. Even if the farmers try their best and nature cooperates with them hereafter, there will be a 50% reduction in yield,” Zaheer Ahamed, another farm scientist (plant pathology), said. According to the scientists, most of the kharif onion cultivated on 1.52 lakh hectares in the State, especially the crop in black soil, is in a similar condition. The crop, which was supposed to be harvested and brought to the market, is still in the soggy fields. This is threatening to create a huge shortfall in production. “The onion fields in the neighbouring Maharashtra and Telangana, from where onion is supplied to the State, are also in a similar condition. It is very likely that onion prices will shortly shoot up as the gap between diminished supply and normal demand widens,” Mr. Naik added. The rains have also affected the prospects of rabi onion, expected to be cultivated on more than four lakh hectares in the State, by inordinately delaying sowing.“The sowing should have been completed in August and the crop is supposed to have been harvested in January. Now, the rains have pushed the sowing by a couple of months, which means that the harvest will be in February or March next year.The lack of moisture content in the soil and dry weather during maturity time will leave the crop at risk to purple blotch disease, resulting in a fall in yield,” Mr. Ahmed added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rains-bring-ruin-to-many-onion-farmers/article32483006.ece
31 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Jagadish Shettar touring Kalyana Karnataka||Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar will tour the districts of Kalyana Karnataka region on Monday and Tuesday. According to a press release, Mr. Shettar will reach Kalaburagi on Monday and attend an interaction programme with industrialists at Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries (HKCCI). He will visit the industrial area in Bidar and interact with industrialists and entrepreneurs at noon. On Tuesday, Mr. Shettar will visit Kadechur Industrial Area in Yadgir district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jagadish-shettar-touring-kalyana-karnataka/article32483173.ece
31 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fishermen ready for deep sea fishing from tomorrow||After over-a-five-month holiday due to COVID-19 restrictions and the annual moratorium, deep sea fishing will resume in Mangaluru on September 1. It was re-launched in Udupi on August 20. The State government lifting the 14-day mandatory home quarantine for those coming from other States has enabled fishing workers from outside the State to return to fishing here. Mangaluru Trawl Boat Owners Association president Nitin Kumar told The Hindu that 20 % of about 75 % fishing workers from other States engaged in fishing here have returned now. They are mainly from Tamil Nadu and some parts of Andhra Pradesh. The workers have returned in private buses hired or arranged for by the boat owners. 25 % boats sailing out Of the about 900 trawl boats in Mangaluru engaged in deep sea fishing, only about 25 % are expected to sail out on Tuesday as many workers from other States are yet to return, he said and added that workers from Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand are yet to return. Of the about 1,200 fishing boats in Mangaluru, trawl boats are in a majority. Fishermen and workers in the old port or fishing harbour in the city were on Sunday seen preparing the boats and nets to sail out on Monday night itself. According to Mr. Kumar, trawl boats, each one of which with about eight to 10 fishermen, went deep into the sea spending about 10 to 11 days in fishing. Deputy Director of Department of Fisheries in Dakshina Kannada P. Parshwanath said that stakeholders in fisheries have been apprised of the need to maintain social distancing at the old port to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Once the marine catch arrived in the port, many transporters, wholesale and retail traders, exporter representatives thronged the port. “Only 30 % to 40 % boats are expected to sail out this month due to shortage of workers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-ready-for-deep-sea-fishing-from-tomorrow/article32483178.ece
31 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. urged to take steps to help revive industries||Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) president K.B. Arasappa has appealed to the State government to take steps to revive industries, more so the micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs), that have been hit hard by the lockdown. Taking to reporters in Udupi on Saturday, Mr. Arasappa said that the association has brought to the notice of the Union government and the State government the problems of MSMEs and has suggested ways to revive these enterprises. Supply chain disruptions The Union government, he said, has been requested to take steps to remove supply chain disruptions that have come in the way of renewing production in industries. The governments should inject cash into MSMEs by means of direct pay roll support till this year-end. The interest rate for bank loans taken by MSMEs should be reduced to 6 %. The Union government should consider payment of ESI contribution of MSMEs. Udupi district has around 15,280 MSMEs that provide employment to 1.17 lakh people. There were three industrial parks developed by KIADB and three parks developed by KSSIDC. “Unfortunately about 20 % of these units may not revive at all because of [the economic] shock (the units have suffered),” he said. He said that there was a need to set up two large industries in Udupi that will help in creation of more MSMEs across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-urged-to-take-steps-to-help-revive-industries/article32483179.ece
31 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two from Kerala arrested, 132 kg cannabis seized||Central Crime Branch sleuths have arrested two persons from Kerala on the charge of illegally transporting cannabis. The police gave the names of the accused as Kalandhar Mohammed Shah (35) of Varkady village and Mohiuddin Ansar (27) of Udyavara, both in Kasaragod in the neighbouring State. In a press note, Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said that the sleuths on August 21 seized a vehicle in Tharetoota near Pumpwell Junction here in which the accused were transporting 132 kg of cannabis. They also seized a multi-utility vehicle that was following the vehicle transporting cannabis and two mobile phones from the accused, he said. Initial investigation revealed that the accused were transporting cannabis to Kerala. Efforts are being made to arrest other persons involved in the crime, the police said. Those having information about cannabis transportation can pass it to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Arunanghu Giri on Ph: 9480802304, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Vinay Gaonker on Ph: 9480802305 or the Police Control Room on PH: 0824-2220800, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-from-kerala-arrested-132-kg-cannabis-seized/article32483176.ece
31 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu gets set to reopen tourist spots||Kodagu’s popular tourist attractions and pristine waterfalls are gearing up for reopening after a gap of nearly five months. This could be an economic boost to the district which has had to contend with not only the pandemic but devastating rains. Meanwhile, the hospitality industry in Kodagu is reopening from September 1 after a long gap. However, no decision had been taken yet on allowing the public to visit Talacauvery and Bhagamandala, which witnessed landslips recently. Cauvery Nisargadhama on the banks of the Cauvery and Dubare elephant camp, which had been closed since March 23, are all set to be reopened from next week as the forest authorities were preparing to unlock the popular sites. Deputy Conservator of Forest Prabhakaran told The Hindu that preparations are under way for their reopening with strict implementation of precautions. Mandalapatti, known as a trekkers’ paradise and Iruppu waterfalls are also being reopened for the visitors shortly. Abbey waterfalls, another famous tourist attraction, is expected to reopen for visitors on Monday. “In Dubare, we are barricading so that the public keeps a safe distance from the elephants unlike the past,” he added. At Iruppu, visitors cannot enter waters like in the past as strict guidelines against swimming are in place. They can just watch the waterfalls from a distance, the DCF said. Speaking to The Hindu, Karnataka Tourism Assistant Director Raghavendra said tourist attractions had not been reopened in Kodagu although many sites resumed operations in other parts of the State. A week ago, Raja Seat in Madikeri was reopened after the rains receded and the flood situation across Kodagu eased. Mr. Raghavendra said the tourist sites coming under the control of Gram Panchayats are being reopened from Monday. However, the tourists’ response has been tepid so far considering the footfall at Raja Seat since its opening. Yet, the district and forest authorities are reopening them with hopes of early revival. Kodagu Hotels, Resorts and Restaurant Owners’ Association president B.R. Nagendra Prasad welcomed the decision to reopen the major tourist attractions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-gets-set-to-reopen-tourist-spots/article32482995.ece
31 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Informal learning keeps tribal children engaged||It is schooling with a difference for tribal students living on the forest fringes, as they have skipped textbook learning for now and are engaged in non-formal education through games and songs. Almost three weeks after its launch, the response is growing to this approach in tribal haadis or hamlets. Conceived by the Department of Education, the Vidyagama programme that has teachers and volunteers visiting the hamlets is a hit here. It was introduced mainly to ensure that children do not get disconnected from learning, as schools are closed owing to COVID-19. In tribal areas the exercise is being supervised by the Tribal Welfare Department. In Mysuru district alone, there are 21 ashram schools with nearly 2500 tribal children. M.B. Prabhu, a social activist working for tribal welfare in Veeranahosahalli and Nagapura area of Hunsur, said ever since its launch, school-going tribal children are better engaged through the alternative learning format, without which there would be a discontinuity in their education as the schools are closed. Informal learning and teaching takes place underneath a tree or in the open, or community halls etc. What is significant is that children do not have to leave their respective villages or hamlet under this form of learning, according to B.S. Prabha, Project Coordinator, Integrated Tribal Development Project. “Ashram school teachers and volunteers visit every haadi to keep the children occupied for at least for two to three hours daily,” she added. Apart from informal learning through storytelling, games, songs, dance etc., children are also encouraged to work on their handwriting and given exercises in copywriting. “This is expected to keep the interest of children in learning alive. Otherwise, the prolonged gap in academics can lead to an increase in dropout rates, which would be difficult to reverse,” said Ms. Prabha. Though attendance is not compulsory, almost 60% of the students are attending such classes, said S. Sreekanth, who is engaged in tribal education through his organiation, Development through Education, in Hunsur. Offline approach is better suited as online learning is not viable here, said Mr. Sreekanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/informal-learning-keeps-tribal-children-engaged/article32483023.ece
31 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||525 pending cases eligible for settlement at e-Lok Adalat||To address grievances of litigant public and to ensure speedy disposal of pending cases, the High Court of Karnataka will hold an e-Lok Adalat on September 19, High Court judge and Executive Chairman of Karnataka State Legal Services Authority Arvind Kumar has said. In a video conference from Bengaluru with the media here, he said that owing to COVID-19, the High Court has decided to hold e-Lok Adalat to clear pending cases and ensure amicable settlement with the consent of the parties through video conference. “Most cases, particularly motor accident and matrimonial, and others where petitioners are seeking compensation were pending before the Lok Adalat. After the COVID-19 outbreak, Lok Adalats were not held to settle pending cases. Now, considering financial difficulties of the litigant public, the High Court has decided to hold e-Lok Adalat,” he explained. He advised petitioners to approach lawyers who are representing them before court and upload documents on which they are relying upon to take up the issue for settlement. Insurance companies and lawyers have assured to extend their cooperation, he added. High Court judge Alok Aradhya also spoke. In Yadgir, there are 6,983 cases pending as on July 31, 2020 and of these, 525 have been identified as eligible for settlement, sources in the District Legal Services Authority have said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/525-pending-cases-eligible-for-settlement-at-e-lok-adalat/article32483169.ece
31 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Three washed away||A woman and two children were drowned in a stream in Kotha village in Lingsugur taluk of Raichur district on Saturday. The incident took place when Parvati (28), Arjun (9), Divya (5) and Parvati’s sister’s daughter, Sowmya (10), went to wash clothes in the stream flowing near the village, the police said. Initially, Arjun fell into the stream after losing balance. Then, Sowmya followed him in a bid to rescue him. When both children were being washed away in the stream, Parvati rushed to rescue them. But, she also was drowned. The bodies of Parvati and Sowmya were found in the evening and the body of Arjun was retrieved on Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-washed-away/article32483175.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||St. Mary’s feast||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/st-marys-feast/article32482988.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Colours of Onam||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colours-of-onam/article32483012.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||Belagavi is an interestingly poised district, flanked by the Marathi-speaking Maharashtra to the north and the Konkani-speaking Goa to the west. Voters routinely elect Marathi-speaking leaders as MLAs from constituencies such as Khanapur, Kagwad, and Nippani. Those leaders rarely learn to speak fluent Kannada, as their speeches to their electorate are mostly in Marathi. About a week before the Sangolli Rayanna statue installation issue became a point of contention between Marathi and Kannada activists, another curious issue, supposedly related to language, had cropped up. MLA for Khanapur Anjali Nimbalkar criticised the district administration for its alleged complicity in the removal of a Shivaji statue in Managutti village. This led to some Kannada organisations protesting against her. Two days ago, Minister Shrimant Patil told journalists in Kagwad that some “drunkards” had harassed him claiming that they had lost their crops in last year’s floods. This led to some opposition from farmers’ groups. However, district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi(in picture)put these incidents down to “misunderstanding” between the parties as they were unable to communicate properly in Kannada. “Both of them are facing language problems. They will overcome it soon,” he said.   Karnataka Congress seems to be divided on the candidature for the post of All-India Congress Committee president. While experienced and old leaders have extended support to Sonia Gandhi continuing to hold the post, the younger generation prefers Rahul Gandhi. Meanwhile, a section of leaders seems to be throwing weight behind a non-Gandhi leader for the coveted post. Apparently this came up in the party, leading to a Congress Working Committee resolution asking Ms. Gandhi to continue as interim president till the AICC held its next session. While party seniors such as M. Mallikarjun Kharge and D.K. Shivakumar supported Ms. Gandhi’s candidature, State Congress working president Saleem Ahmed(in picture)declared his support for Rahul Gandhi, tweeting, “Mr. Gandhi is the most acceptable leader. It is high time he withdraw his resignation and lead the party.” Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah appealed to Ms. Gandhi to continue in the post, and if not give it to her son. In the midst of all this, former Union Minister M. Veerappa Moily, who was among the 23 leaders who signed the letter questioning the party’s functioning, demanded collective leadership and a “full-time and visible party president”.   With all the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) zones in the city being headed by an IAS officer and a Minister to ensure effective containment of COVID-19, there appears to be a “healthy” competition brewing among them. The officers and Ministers are developing strategies to ensure their numbers remain low, or at least it seem to remain low. With so many parameters being available to judge the COVID-19 situation in Bengaluru city, those in charge of zones are projecting the parameters their zones seem to be doing well on. If one were to judge the situation in the city by what is thus projected, one would believe all is well, despite the number of cases increasing steadily. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Nagesh Prabhu Tanu Kulkarni||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article32483010.ece
31 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha caseload increases by 92||The district reported 92 COVID-19 cases and 258 recoveries on Sunday. The new cases include 87 patients who acquired the virus through local transmission, three persons who came from other States, and one from abroad. Besides, the source of the infection of an Alappuzha native is untraceable. The COVID-19 cases continue to surge in the Alappuzha municipality with 15 out of the total 87 contact cases recorded from the municipal area. While Thumpoly ward registered five cases, rest of the 10 cases were reported from other parts of the municipality. COVID cluster Thumpoly, a large COVID-19 cluster, so far reported more than 300 COVID-19 cases. Rest of the contact cases reported from the district were from Purakkad (10), Ambalappuzha (9), Punnapra South (8), Thrikkunnapuzha (5), Kayamkulam (4), Karthikappally (4), Pallippad (4), two cases each from Arattuppuzha, Chingoli, Chengannur, Cherthala South, Keerikkad and Krishnapuram and one case each from Vandanam, Muhamma, Panavally, Aryad, Chettikkad, Mulakuzha, Cheppad, Mavelikara, Veeyapuram, Chunakkara, Thalavady, Varanam, Kallissery, Karuvatta, Haripad and Chembupuram. Total cases The district so far logged 5,635 COVID-19 cases. While 3,537 people made a full recovery, 15 succumbed to the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 2,083. District Collector A. Alexander on Sunday visited a COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centre (FLTC) set up by Aroor grama panchayat at Chandiroor. Mr. Alexander directed officials concerned to increase the number of beds at the FLTC to 150 from the present 80.  While 3,537 people made a full recovery, 15 succumbed to the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-caseload-increases-by-92/article32483354.ece
31 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Onam gift for those following guidelines, fine for violators||With the State in the grip of Onam fever, authorities have given a clarion call to strictly follow COVID-19 protocols, including wearing masks and ensuring physical distancing norms. Adding to that call is an initiative by the Mararikulam police in Alappuzha, which gift ‘Onakodi’ (gifting new clothes during Onam) to those who follow physical distancing. Rajesh S., circle inspector, Mararikulam, says the initiative was launched to create awareness and encourage people to abide by COVID-19 protocols. “Our message is very clear, you either become eligible to receive an ‘Onakodi’ or get penalised for violating physical distancing norms,” Mr. Rajesh says. According to officials, they launched the new campaign after several other initiatives failed to produce desired results. “From cycle rallies, distribution of pamphlets to awareness meetings, we conducted a host of programmes to help people understand the importance of maintaining physical distance in the fight against the pandemic. But even after all these efforts, people continue to give scant regard to the protocol, which is highly worrisome especially during the Onam season when people gather at public places in large numbers. By giving ‘Onakodi’, we hope it will encourage the public to abide by the rules,” the police officer says. The initiative, which was launched on Friday in association with a private hospital, has seen clothes—sari for women and mundu for men—presented to more than 75 COVID-19 protocol abiding citizens under the Mararikulam police station limit. Although several people have become eligible to receive ‘Onakodi’, only select ones are given the gift. Apart from giving presents to individuals, shops that follow norms are also rewarded. The police are also giving masks and sanitisers to the people as part of the initiative. Petty cases On average, the Mararikulam police register 250 to 300 petty cases daily with regard to COVID-19 protocol violations. “In view of Onam, we have intensified patrols and checks,” Mr. Rajesh adds. District Police Chief P.S. Sabu says that stringent measures have been taken to prevent crowding in public places and ensure people follow norms during Onam in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-gift-for-those-following-guidelines-fine-for-violators/article32483352.ece
31 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||SPC donates house for indigent family||District Police Chief P.S. Sabu handed over the keys of a house constructed under the aegis of the Student Police Cadet (SPC) project for an impoverished family at Thampakachuvadu here on Saturday. According to the officials, a physically challenged woman who is a widow and her ailing daughter had been living in a dilapidated house. Family’s plight After their plight was brought to the notice of SPC district officials by SPC assistant nodal officer Jayachandran, the Alappuzha police and SPC decided to construct a home for the family. District Crime Records Bureau Dy.SP S. Vidyadharan, Cherthala Dy.SP K. Subhash and others were present at the function where the keys were handed over to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-donates-house-for-indigent-family/article32483355.ece
31 August 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Bridge construction spelt doom for farmers||When the girders of the bridge across the Dharmadam river on the Mahe Bypass collapsed, more than anyone else, farmers cultivating paddy and breeding shrimp nearby were a worried lot. Ever since the construction of the bridge began, farmers have been facing enormous losses. The girder collapse added to their woes, as the bund raised to store water for breeding shrimp got damaged. The loss has been enormous for them, and despite knocking on every door, their plea for compensation and assistance fell on deaf ears, alleged P.K. Marsook, who had started farming near the bridge three years ago. He along with three other partners invested in integrated cultivation of shrimp and paddy in Kaipad field with the support of NABARD. “We took 12.5 acres on lease for five years at a cost of Rs. 3 lakh a year. The other farmers have invested Rs. 30 lakh, and since the work started, they had a loss of Rs. 18 lakh a year,” he said. According to Mr. Marsook, the bridge construction caused huge loss for farmers in the first year itself. Moreover, the brackish water generated during dredging forced them to stop work. The sluice gate and the bund got damaged several times, including the damage caused by the girder collapse. He said the farmers were now forced to spend a huge sum for reconstructing the bund. He alleged that despite bringing the issue to the attention of the Thalassery MLA, Municipal Chairman, and the Fisheries Department, no action had been taken. Nishand, another farmer, said the field had never got flooded before the commencement of the bridge construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bridge-construction-spelt-doom-for-farmers/article32483232.ece
31 August 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||2-year-old dies of poisoning||A two-year-old girl died after her mother allegedly gave her ice cream laced with poison at Payyavoor in Kannur on Sunday. The woman also attempted to end her life. The deceased was identified as Ansila. The woman and her 11-year-old child are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kozhikode. The incident took place on the night of August 27. When the younger child became unconscious the next morning, the woman informed neighbours and the police and rushed the child to hospital. According to the police, the woman owns a textile shop at Payyavoor. She had borrowed money to buy a house and land. She was in financial crisis and was not able to repay the money. Her husband works abroad. State’s health helpline - 104; Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484-2540530; Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495-2760000; Direct Intervention System for Health Awareness (DISHA) - 1056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-year-old-dies-of-poisoning/article32483230.ece
31 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Buzz missing from Onam market in city||The Onam market has remained almost immune to the spirit of the season with little activity being witnessed on Sunday, the eve of Thiruvonam. The city’s commercial hubs such as M.G. Road and Broadway remained quiet throughout the day and the traditional ‘uthradapachil’ or Onam eve shopping was without much enthusiasm. The prices of vegetables have remained under par with only a few items selling higher than normal rates. Drumsticks and carrots were in the higher range while okra, bitter gourd, French beans and ginger sold at a little higher than normal rates. Ginger was selling at Rs. 115 a kg in the retail market while okra and bitter gourd were selling at around Rs. 70 a kg. Drumsticks, a favourite throughout the season, was selling at about Rs. 67 a kg. Transport facility Broadway did not see much activity as people kept away due to COVID-19 restrictions. The lack of public transport facilities was one of the reasons why there was limited activity, said N.H. Shameed, president of the Vegetable Stall Owners’ Association. He said the prices had not been affected by the Onam season. Vegetable supplies have remained steady. There is no shortage of any item even as the Onam rush tended to pick up momentum after the first two weeks of heavy rain in August. K.K. Mohanan, who sells traditional clay pots and pans as well as ‘Onathappan’ said that there was sufficient demand to keep him in business. “We were not being allowed to sell products by the wayside for some time but on Sunday there was demand for our products,” he said. Mr. Mohanan said that for most makers of Onathappan, production was limited due to the pandemic crisis, but that the demand was not as low as they had expected. Loss of jobs and limited economic activity had prevented a number of people from coming to the Onam market, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/buzz-missing-from-onam-market-in-city/article32483245.ece
31 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tourism sector must gear up for ‘new normal’, says RT Mission head||Many stakeholders in the tourism sector and local bodies are hesitant to join responsible tourism initiatives, although responsible and sustainable tourism has emerged as the new normal following the COVID-19 outbreak, the State coordinator of Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission K. Rupesh Kumar has said. “Kerala’s tourism industry is a cut above the sector in other States, due to emphasis being given to responsible tourism. But only about half the accommodation units are part of community-driven RT initiatives, although the movement dates back to 2008. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought along the need for social distancing and heightened emphasis on hygiene. The conventional approach to tourism will not help any more. Kerala already has a parallel system in the form of RT to realise sustainable tourism through community involvement. The pandemic has shifted focus from mass tourism to village tourism. The Mission already has a mechanism to ensure safe travel. Individual hotels and resorts might not be able to realise this on their own and would have to wake up to the new normal,” he said. Mr. Rupesh said the RT Mission had a well-oiled local-produce-supply mechanism. Hotels keen to source produce from local community members can purchase them at competitive rates if they associate with RT initiatives. The produce of RT units spread across Kerala is available online. The accommodation units will also tremendously benefit if they avail workers from the Mission’s online HR directory. It has also specified the fee for different services, from hourly wages to a full day’s wage. Artists’ directory Similarly, 6,000 of the 10,000 artists associated with the Mission find mention in the directory, along with the art form they specialise in, their location and the rate they charge. Those interested in availing their services can directly contact the artists, without the involvement of middlemen who tend to corner a share of the payment made by organisers of an event. The RT Mission has also readied criteria for classification for homestays and houseboats. The certification issued by the Mission is sufficient for a venture to be classified as an approved unit. The units have to adhere to the quality benchmark set by the Mission, which is a prerequisite to find mention on the official website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-sector-must-gear-up-for-new-normal-says-rt-mission-head/article32483241.ece
31 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Probe into CRZ breaches loses steam||The investigation into Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) violations at Maradu has reached nowhere even a year after the Kerala High Court ordered it. Despite obtaining two extensions for completing the investigation, the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) could not make any headway in the process. The revised deadline for completion of the probe passed in March this year. If it was the delay in obtaining files from the Maradu Municipality that hampered the progress of the investigation in the earlier days, those at the authority maintained that the COVID-19 outbreak and travel restrictions prevented them from completing the task. While considering a writ appeal, the Kerala High Court had asked the Chief Town Planner to verify the building permits issued by the Maradu Municipality since 2013 and submit a report on violations of CRZ Rules - 2011 and other statutory provisions.  1,400 cases Though 1,400 cases were initially identified for detailed verification, a technical team constituted by the authority could evaluate only 325 cases. After its review, the team had recommended a field verification by a joint team of officials from the municipality, Town and Country Planning, and Revenue Department to find out whether the local body had issued prior CRZ clearance for projects. The committee had also suggested that details regarding the distance between High Tide Line (HTL) and the constructed structure, the status of applicants, including specifics whether they are traditional fisherfolk or local inhabitants, and the type of construction shall be obtained. It had also sought information on the nature and year of construction, building number, and whether any reclamation was carried out for the construction. However, no such verifications could be done even after obtaining extension of deadlines, sources said. KCZMA member C.P. Geevan said the files could not be verified owing to travel restrictions. “One should closely inspect the files to find out how details of the construction and related aspects are entered in each of them. It is a laborious and complicated process. No physical verification of the files could be done,” said Mr. Geevan, who was inducted into the committee for verification of files. P.K. Thulasidas, another member of the committee, said the authority had sought extension of the deadline for completing the task. The lockdown stood in the way of the inspection, as officials from Maradu could not travel to Thiruvananthapuram. Officials from the authority could not go to Maradu for inspections either, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-crz-breaches-loses-steam/article32483268.ece
31 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A sumptuous Onasadya and end to a long wait||Jenneh Paye and her son Jin from Liberia who have been staying at Lisie Hospital in the city after Jin’s cardiac surgery in March, had a sumptuous Onasadya on Sunday. The 26-year-old mother and her son have been staying in the hospital for the last six months after the surgery and recovery. Their return to Liberia was originally scheduled for April 2, but the COVID-19 lockdown forced them to defer their travel plans. The child was admitted to the hospital on March 2. The mother and child are being supported by the hospital management with help from the Liberian consulate in New Delhi and a few donors. Hardly had the mother and son finished their delicious sadya than they received a message from Ms. Paye’s husband Peter telling them to get ready to fly back home on September 6 through Mumbai, said a press release from the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-sumptuous-onasadya-and-end-to-a-long-wait/article32483247.ece
31 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Septic tank waste being emptied into canal||Protest is brewing against lorries carrying septic tank waste emptying it into Ponneth Canal at Kadavanthra, which is flanked by residential colonies, under the cover of darkness. For the past two years, this has been a perennial problem for residents, since the canal runs through the eastern side of the colony. “It was just a few days ago that we cleared the canal. But unscrupulous people dump septic tank waste during the weekend, again making life miserable for us,” said E.V.R. Nair, a resident of Indira Nagar in Kadavanthra. The residents association had given complaints to the Ernakulam MP, Thrikkakara MLA, police, and the health wing of the corporation, highlighting the issue. Making matters worse, the 5.5-metre-long culvert over the canal that links the Kadavanthra YMCA and numerous houses has sunk by two feet. This further restricts the flow of water into the Chilavannoor canal, especially during high tide. Besides, drinking water reaching houses through pipelines laid alongside the canal stands the risk of getting contaminated, Mr. Nair said. He demanded that the police and the corporation urgently convene a meeting of owners of lorries that ferry septic tank waste. “The government or the civic agency must also rebuild the culvert at a height, so that there is free flow of water,” he said. Johnson Pattathil, the councillor representing Kadavanthra, said workers had tried their best to clean the mess on Sunday. But the waste still remains in the canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/septic-tank-waste-being-emptied-into-canal/article32483243.ece
31 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Short film director killed in accident||The director of a short film that was released on Sunday died in a car accident at Angamaly in the evening. The police said that Salish Vettiyattil, 42, of Kodali, Thrissur, died after a car which he was driving rammed a median. Earlier in the day, Lodkdownaya Onam , a short film that he directed, was released at Raman Smaraka Kalagruham by R.L.V. Ramakrishnan, brother of actor Kalabhavan Mani and Jubil, son of actor Rajan P. Dev. Salish was driving from Chalakudy to Ernakulam. The accident occured soon after he dropped a couple of relatives at their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/short-film-director-killed-in-accident/article32483266.ece
31 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||231 more cases in Ernakulam||A total of 231 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. The number includes 19 persons who arrived from outside the State. Among the positive cases are 12 members of the Lakshadweep unit of India Reserve Battalion. 182 recoveries A communication from the district administration said that a total of 182 people were discharged from different hospitals on Sunday, while 919 people were quarantined in their homes. At the same time, 973 people were removed from the observation list on Sunday. The number of people under observation is now 16,554. The communication said that 146 were admitted to first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) or hospitals on Sunday while 135 people were discharged from hospitals and FLTCs. Active cases  The total number of people under COVID-19 treatment in the district is 2,122.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/231-more-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article32483248.ece
31 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam registers 151 new patients||The district reported 151 new cases of COVID-19 and 53 recoveries on Sunday. Among the patients are 142 contact cases, four NRIs and two others who had travelled from Tamil Nadu and Mumbai. Three health workers, a 35-year-old Chathannur resident, a 52-year-old Kavanad resident, and a 42-year-old Enathu resident also contracted the virus through contact. Health workers While the first has been working at a private hospital, the two others are staff of government hospitals in Kollam. The district currently has 15,730 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 45,093. While 750 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 16,748 primary and 4,907 secondary contacts of the positive cases. FLTCs Currently, 12 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning in Kollam and the total number of active cases is 1,476. With the caseload going up, the district administration has formed closed family groups to prevent further transmission of COVID-19. Ten to 15 houses from a ward or division will be part of the group while local body officials will be in charge of supervision. At district level, a special cell will be monitoring the containment measures and it is expected that the situation will be under control within three weeks. The Health Department has started monitoring positive cases in home isolation and at present, the district has around 10 patients coming in Category-A undergoing treatment at their homes. District Police Chief T. Narayanan has instructed the fishers from Kavanad Amaravila to not venture into the sea since the area comes under containment zone. All fishers are directed to register their names in Jagratha portal before venturing into the sea and surveillance will be strengthened in the coastal belt along Saktikulangara, Chavara, Karunagappally, Alappad and Oachira. Contact cases Bystanders of patients, released prisoners, and wedding attendees had caused maximum contact cases in rural parts according to police. A medical officer and teams of Excise and Forest departments will be deployed at Amaravila in Kollam Corporation that reported severe transmission.  District administration has formed closed family groups to prevent further transmission of COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-registers-151-new-patients/article32483357.ece
31 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Stakeholders hopeful of tourism revival||As the State looks to reopen its tourism sector in September, the village destinations in Kottayam have kickstarted preparations. From Kumarakom to Vaikom, locations are gradually adjusting to the current circumstances while doing what they can to plan for the future. To get the sector moving, the Tourism Department will soon be opening a house boat terminal at Naalupank and a cultural centre at Kumarakom. The boat terminal, which can accommodate 40 houseboats at a time, is scheduled to be operational later next month. The project, according to officials, is expected to bring in more visitors to experience the village life. “These villages, which heavily rely on tourism, are instituting strategies to reopen for visitors as soon as possible. The activities are led by the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission, which is also coming up with a host of packages,” said Sreekumar G., Deputy Director, Tourism Department. Work on the cultural centre at Kumarakom, which will be hosting live performances and exhibitions, are slated to be complete towards the end of September. K. Rupesh Kumar, coordinator of RT Mission, said packages that sought to network the cultural heritage of different locations were being designed to generate a new profile and visitors. To begin with, special discounted packages would be rolled out for families. Local delicacies Besides the local art and festivals, the packages also seek to offer the culinary delicacies exclusive to different locations. “With the COVID-19 restrictions to be around for some more time, the immediate focus of these packages will be intra-State travellers. It will later be extended to the inter-State and international guests as and when the global travel and tourism industry recovers,” he said. Warming up to the season, the mission has also reopened its ethnic cuisine restaurant Samridhi, besides commencing the online training for the 3,200-odd RT units under it. “The stakeholder meetings are being convened online and people are being prepared for the new normal,” Mr. Kumar added. The outbreak of COVID-19 in March has dealt a huge blow to the village destinations in Kottayam, which witnessed a massive cancellation of hotel and holiday packages. With the zero-demand situation, the local economy too came to a standstill during the period, leaving the stakeholders from top to bottom, including artisans, tour guides, and the local transport operators in dire straits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stakeholders-hopeful-of-tourism-revival/article32483252.ece
31 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||COVID-19 cases surge by 223 in Kottayam||On the back of sharp rise in local contact cases, Kottayam here on Sunday recorded the highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases on a single day. According to officials, 223 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the day. Of this, 212 contracted the virus through local transmission. With 43 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Erattupetta with 27 cases. Pambady reported 17 cases while Thrikkodithanam witnessed 13 cases. Cases were also reported from Changanassery, Thiruvarppu, Athirampuzha, Kanjirappally etc. With 73 recoveries, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,487.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-cases-surge-by-223-in-kottayam/article32483358.ece
31 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fresh cases cross 300-mark in Kozhikode||The highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases so far was reported in Kozhikode district on Sunday when 304 people were declared positive for SARS-CoV-2. The number of infected persons is crossing the 300-mark here for the first time. According to the District Medical Officer, 266 people got the infection through local transmission. The source of infection of 16 people is not known. Others had returned from either abroad or from other States. Kozhikode Corporation had 60 new cases through local transmission of the infection, Vadakara 30, Chorod 29, Peruvayal 22, Azhiyoor 20, and Villiappally had 19 cases. With 110 people recovering from COVID-19, the number of active cases in Kozhikode is 2,036 now. Surge in Vadakara Meanwhile, the Health Department claimed that Vadakara cluster was seeing a rise in the number of cases with 274 people under treatment from there and Chorod. The other clusters from where a high number of people are getting infected are Vellayil and Mukhadar. Of the 216 confirmed cases reported from various wards in Vadakara, 103 are active now. In Chorod, 307 cases were confirmed and 171 are active now. Fifty-five cases were reported from Vadakara and 26 in Chorod in the past three days alone. In Vellayil, 97 of the 197 reported cases are active. In Malappuram As many as 195 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram on Sunday. There were 328 recoveries too. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that the higher number of recoveries portended well for the district. As many as 161 of the new cases were found to have contracted the virus through local contacts. The source of infection in 23 cases could not be traced. There were three health workers among the new cases. The number of infected cases currently under treatment in Malappuram fell to 2,742 on Sunday. More than 47,000 people have been quarantined across the district. In Thrissur As many as 151 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur district on Sunday. Of them, 146 were local transmission cases. The source of infection of 18 people is not known. There are now 1,442 active cases in the district. In all, 8,754 people are under observation. ICU set up A COVID-19 isolation intensive care unit (ICU) will start functioning at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, from September 2. Chalakudy MP Benny Behanan will inaugurate the facility. The ICU has been set up using Rs. 16 lakh from the MP fund of Alathur MP Ramya Haridas. Once the pandemic dies down, the ICU facility will be useful for people with head and spine injuries, according to hospital sources. Ramya Haridas and T.N. Prathapan, MPs; Anil Akkara, MLA, and District Collector S. Shanavas will attend the function. In Kasaragod As many as 159 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kasaragod district on Sunday. Of this, 143 people contracted the disease through contact, seven came from other States and nine returned from abroad. The district also reported 117 recoveries on Sunday. In Kannur A total of 112 people tested positive for the virus in Kannur on Sunday. Of this, 88 people contracted the infection through contact. The district has so far reported 3,516 COVID-19 cases and 2,476 recoveries. In Palakkad Forty-five people tested positive in Palakkad on Sunday. There were 64 recoveries in the district. While 16 people contracted the disease through local transmission, 17 cases were from other States and one came from abroad. There were 10 cases whose source of infection could not be traced. In Wayanad Wayanad district reported 13 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Of those tested positive, eight contracted the virus through local transmission. There were 22 recoveries too in the district.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Kasaragod, Kannur, and Wayanad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-cases-cross-300-mark-in-kozhikode/article32483239.ece
31 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Amid pandemic, acts of kindness on Thiruvonam eve in Kozhikode||Despite the COVID-19 situation, the kind acts of preparing and distributing Onam kits by a number of charity groups, voluntary organisations and political party workers came to the relief of thousands of poor families in Kozhikode district on the eve of Thiruvonam on Sunday. Besides the Onam kits being supplied by the government, residents’ collectives, youth clubs and student organisations put together their humble contributions to provide kits to maximum number of families. Volunteers of the National Service Scheme (NSS) were in the forefront to cover all their adopted villages with about 2,700 kits. NSS district coordinator S. Sreechith said the remaining 300 kits would be delivered by Monday mornin. Most of the local administrators were found mobilising voluntary contributions apart form their own funds to care for underprivileged families. Azhiyoor panchayat came up with separate kits for BUDS special school children. Among many youth clubs, ‘Poomaram Brothers’ at Mokeri in Kunnummal panchayat supplied vegetable kits to over 200 households in their small village. It also marked the fifth anniversary of the youth collective in a unique way. Office-bearers of the Kottuli-based Yuvadhara Club said they would distribute home-made Onasadya to over 500 persons staying in various rehabilitation centres. “We made all the arrangements for it on Sunday. We have been offering free sadya to poor people around us for the past 19 years,” they said. Some hoteliers also prepared the traditional Onasadya on Sunday for the poor and those living on the streets. Circle Inspector of Kozhikode Town Station A. Umesh said Thiruvonam eve was special for policemen. “For us, it was a memorable day as students from Zamorin’s Guruvayurappan College came to us with the traditional Onasadya. They did it to show their respects to the service of the police during the pandemic period,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amid-pandemic-acts-of-kindness-on-thiruvonam-eve-in-kozhikode/article32483236.ece
31 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Critical zones under intensified vigil||Critical containment zones in Kozhikode district have been brought under intensified vigil of the police in view of Onam celebrations. To prevent chances of community spread, roads in such high-risk zones will remain closed on Monday. Within the Kozhikode city corporation limits, the Thoppayil ward will be locked down. Deputy Collector E. Anitha Kumari has been appointed as the incident commander. She will coordinate surveillance measures with the support of Health Department staff and the police. A police official from the Vellayil station said people were cooperating with regulations. “Late-night outing, which has been a common practice in Kozhikode, has largely come down as all are aware of the situation,” he said. On Sunday, multiple rounds of outdoor announcements were done by the city police explaining the need to comply with the health protocol. Police deployment was made stronger at S.M. Street and all other major shopping locations. Following the District Police Chief’s directive, parking was banned in public places. Patrol squads were asked to keep an eye on all important tourism destinations in the city and rural areas to prevent public entry. Additional policemen will be posted in all beach tourism destinations to prevent public gatherings on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/critical-zones-under-intensified-vigil/article32483237.ece
31 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Online art exhibition to raise funds for ailing artist||The Facebook group ‘Punarjani: helping hands for resurrection’, which is hosting a virtual art exhibition, is buzzing with activity. The 100-odd photographs of paintings and other art works that have appeared on the page overnight are part of an effort to raise funds to meet the medical expenses of artist Vikas Babu, better known as Vikas Kovoor, who is suffering from renal disease. Vikas runs ‘Agora’, an art school at Thondayad in the city. He had undergone his first renal transplantation in 2010, when his close friends and students raised funds in a similar manner. Eight years down the line, his body rejected the organ that his mother had donated, forcing Mr. Kovoor to undergo another transplantation. His well-wishers had resorted to various methods to raise funds. Exhibitions were conducted in Kozhikode and Bengaluru in the last two years, but they were not very effective. An exhibition planned in the city in April had to be cancelled due to the threat of COVID-19 spread. “We realised it was pointless to wait as Vikas’s condition is worsening and hence the online expo,” said artist Ramesh Manikkan, one of the coordinators. The show features works of around 50 artists in the group, including Mr. Kovoor. The photographs of the art works including paintings, sculptures and other handicrafts have been posted on the Facebook page, along with specifications, the medium used and the price. Those interested may buy the art works and deposit the proceedings directly in Mr. Kovoor’s bank account. The expo was opened by theatre personality Soorya Krishnamoorthy while veteran artist K.K. Marar has expressed solidarity with the artists. Popular artists such as Satheesh Thayat and Suresh Unni are part of the show. “We need to raise at least Rs. 35 lakh for the surgery through this show,” said Mr. Thayat, adding that the organ donor had been identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-art-exhibition-to-raise-funds-for-ailing-artist/article32483228.ece
31 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bikes set ablaze||The motorbikes of two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists were set ablaze by miscreants at Nadapuram on Sunday. The police said they suspected it to be a case of revenge against one of the two activists who had been remanded in judicial custody in connection with a sexual assault case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bikes-set-ablaze/article32483229.ece
31 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Thiruvonathoni sets off for Aranmula||Thiruvonathoni, the temple vessel carrying provisions for the Onam feast to be held at the Sree Parthasarathy temple on Monday, set off from the Maha Vishnu temple ghats on the Pampa at Kattoor here on Sunday evening. Led by M.R. Raveendra Babu Bhattathiri—the eldest member of the Mangattu Illam in Kumaranallur, the vessel began its journey from Kattoor by 6.30 p.m. As is being the custom, the provisions for the feast were offered by the 18 Nair families in the village. The Laka-Idayaranmula Palliyodam, the lone snake boat escorting the Thiruvonathoni this year, was set to join the procession in its last leg owing to the low water level in Pampa.  Reception Mechanised boats were also deployed to ensure the safety of the Thiruvonathoni this year. Enroute the voyage, it was given reception at Ayroor and Vechoor Mana at Melukara. However, the public were not permitted to be part of reception accorded to the vessel at any points. The Thiruvonathoni will reach the Aranmula Parthasarathy temple ghats by Monday morning.  Regulated The feast will be prepared at the temple kitchen and served to the devotees at the temple dining hall. In view of the COVID-19 regulations, the number of people attending the procession and the rituals at Aranmula have been strictly regulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvonathoni-sets-off-for-aranmula/article32483270.ece
31 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Popular Finance: probe points to fund diversion||The investigation into the Popular Finance scam in Pathanamthitta has unearthed massive diversion of funds by the accused to foreign countries. According to officials, Rinu Mariyam Thomas and Riya Ann Thomas, the two daughters of Thomas Daniel, managing director of the company, invested heavily in countries such as Australia using the money collected from the depositors. Mr. Daniel had transferred the ownership of his company to his daughters about six years ago. The investigations also revealed that the company had been collecting deposits in the name of the various LLP companies floated by them. During an inspection at the registered office of the company at Vakayar, the police also seized several documents, including receipts pertaining to these shell companies. The police may also seek the help of the Interpol to collect details of their investments abroad.  Meanwhile, the accused persons, including Mr. Daniel, his wife, and two daughters were interrogated in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. “The grilling session, carried out at the Armed Reserve Police camp in Pathanamthitta, focussed on locating their investments and the volume of gold received as guarantee, among other things,” said an official. They were slated to be produced before a magistrate through videoconferencing later in the day. Riya and Rinu had landed in police custody while attempting to flee the country from New Delhi while Mr. Daniel and his wife were arrested from their hideout near Changanassery. As per estimates by the Pathanamthitta police, the company had collected deposits worth around Rs. 2,000 crore from about 1,600 customers within and outside the country. The case is being probed by a 25-member team led by K.G. Simon, District Police Chief, Pathanamthitta. South Zone IG Harshitha Attalluri supervises the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/popular-finance-probe-points-to-fund-diversion/article32483271.ece
31 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||133 cases reported in Pathanamthitta||The COVID-19 pandemic claimed one more life in the district with a 79-year-old person succumbing to the virus here on Sunday. The deceased, a native of Chenneerkkara, was diagnosed with the disease on August 20 and died at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital at 1.45 p.m. on Sunday. The person had been suffering from high-blood pressure, diabetes, and heart disease. Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta cases continued to surge with 133 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Sunday. Of this, 107 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. Eleven persons had landed from abroad. The clusters at Kannamkodu and Kadakkadu remained active during the day. Meanwhile, the contact source of a handful of patients were yet to be ascertained. With 71 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 919 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/133-cases-reported-in-pathanamthitta/article32483359.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA to boost revenue collection||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has kicked off measures to boost lagging revenue collection, a problem that was further compounded for the government-run water utility by the COVID-19 pandemic in recent months. To co-ordinate the activities related to revenue collection, officials attached to the KWA Finance wing have been tasked with monitoring/assisting revenue collection in the KWA sub divisions. All sub-divisions have also been directed to appoint nodal officers. Orders issued in this regard sought to impress upon the KWA staff the urgency of improving efficiency in the collection of revenue, especially since with the KWA setting Rs. 761 crore as the target for the 2020-21 fiscal. As it is, revenue collection is not sufficient to meet even 50 per cent of the expenditure, the order noted. “'Due to the present situation of COVID-19 and shortage of staff, especially for revenue monitoring, the collection of water charges is below target. Poor revenue collection led to an increase in arrears from various consumers up to Rs. 1,300 crore as on June 30, 2020, which includes fine and penalty not realisable,” it said.  Missed targets With revenue collection way behind target, the KWA management has noted that efficiency in this area, with regular billing and timely collection, is the need of the hour. In the past two years also, the KWA had failed to meet revenue targets. In fact, not even 70% of the targeted revenue could be collected. The revenue collection for 2018-19 had stood at 60.09% of the target and that for 2019-20, 63.54%. Among the KWA divisions, PH Division Thiruvananthapuram (North) has been set the highest revenue target; Rs. 106 crore. This is followed by PH Division Kochi (Rs. 78 crore), PH Division Kozhikode (Rs. 63 crore), PH Division Alappuzha (Rs. 50 crore) and PH Division Thiruvananthapuram (South), Rs. 43 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-to-boost-revenue-collection/article32483265.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tap water for 1.92-lakh rural houses||The stage is set for providing a little over 1.92 lakh water connections in Thiruvananthapuram district in Phase I of Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), the Centrally assisted initiative for ensuring functional household tap connections (FHTC) in all rural households in the country by 2024. The works will be undertaken at a cost of Rs. 409.88 crore as per the administrative sanction accorded under JJM. In the district, the water supply schemes will cover 72 grama panchayats. A majority of the water connections are to be provided through multi-village schemes (MVS). The MVS will account for a little over 1.73 lakh of the total connections to be provided this fiscal. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has been designated the implementing agency in Thiruvananthapuram district. As many as 18,747 connections would be ensured through the “retrofitting” of ongoing schemes for last-mile connectivity, a KWA official said. The operational guidelines for JJM require panchayats to share 15% of the infrastructure cost and beneficiaries, 10%. After a number of panchayats expressed their reluctance citing financial burden, the State government had issued orders allowing the local bodies to mobilise funds from the Asset Development Funds (ADF) of MLAs, if needed. Total cost On August 21, the State government had accorded administrative sanction for providing 16,48,023 FHTCs in 716 grama panchayats in the State at a cost of Rs. 4,343.89 crore during the current fiscal. The water supply schemes had earlier been cleared by the JJM State Level Scheme Sanctioning Committee (SLSSC). Implementing agency The KWA is the implementing agency in majority of the grama panchayats. Jalanidhi is the implementing agency in a number of grama panchayats in Kasaragod, Thrissur and Kannur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tap-water-for-192-lakh-rural-houses/article32483362.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Family blames PSC for jobseeker’s death||Thiruvananthapuram witnessed protests on the Uthradam day on Sunday following the alleged suicide of 28-year-old unemployed youth near Karakkonam on Sunday. The deceased, identified as Anu S. of Thattitambalam, was found dead in his room. In a purported suicide note, he mentioned that his failure to find employment forced him to take the extreme step. Anu’s relatives claimed that he had been in a state of depression ever since the validity of a Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) rank list for civil excise officers, in which he had secured the 77th rank, expired in June. While Anu, a bachelor, had been engaged in various menial jobs in the locality, his inability to secure a government job worried him immensely, they said. The Vellarada police registered a case of unnatural death and ruled out any foul play. Protests The incident sparked protests and Yuva Morcha activists vented their ire on Parassala MLA C.K. Hareendran during his visit to Anu’s house. They also took out a march to the house of the legislator even while he promised that the plight of the aggrieved family would be taken up with the government. Congress MLA K.S. Sabarinadhan, who visited the family, placed the blame on the government, claiming that the deceased stood a chance to gain employment had the PSC extended the validity of the rank list by another six months. Separate demonstrations taken out by Yuva Morcha-ABVP and Youth Congress activists to the Secretariat turned violent. The Secretariat witnessed yet another incident of security breach within a few days after two women Youth Congress activists jumped the compound fence to enter the premises. Near Cliff House Following post-mortem examination, BJP workers carried Anu’s body and laid siege to the road leading to the Cliff House. The agitation led by party district president V.V. Rajesh was later called off following attempts made by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Divya V. Gopinath to mollify the protesters, who claimed that the government agreed to consider the demands of Anu’s family including providing a government job to a member of the family. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/family-blames-psc-for-jobseekers-death/article32483302.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KRSA Act to be toughened||Amendments to the Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) Act for digital and physical enforcement on National Highways and State Highways to ensure road discipline is under the consideration of the government. “The amendments to the KRSA Act for digital enforcement and to rope in the MVD personnel from the Safe Kerala and Highway Patrol of the Kerala Police will further bring down road fatalities and accidents,” DGP and Commissioner, Road Safety, Kerala Road Safety Authority, N. Shanker Reddy told The Hindu . Mr. Reddy is retiring from the Indian Police Service (IPS) after 34 years of service on August 31. The Kerala Road Safety Authority has approved the amendments. The government has set up a committee to look into the changes, Mr. Reddy said. The sweeping changes for ensuring the presence of law enforcers on the road had been mooted even as accidents and fatalities have come down in the first quarter of 2020. The KRSA, with its limited personnel and resources, had been able to make its presence felt among the road users, Mr. Reddy said. “My long pilgrimage to the God’s Own Country is coming to an end. I was very fortunate to get the Kerala cadre and work in the midst of the most enlightened people,” says Mr. Reddy. Mr. Reddy recalled the reopening of the death cases of one Sali and of Lakshmi Bai, under the Vellarada police station, which were closed as suicides much prior to his joining as Superintendent of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Rural. Subsequent investigations revealed them to be murders. “We arrested all the accused in both the cases and they were sentenced to life imprisonment,” he says.  Formidable task The appreciation from Justice Bhaskaran Nambiar Commission of Inquiry, which inquired into the Sivagiri incidents, is another feather in his cap. “Pitted against a police adversary, Shanker Reddy, SP, Rural, Thiruvananthapuram, had the formidable task of defending the police as an officer directly linked to the Sivagiri inquiry.....He was independent and intelligent without being intimidated and gave an excellent proof of an ideal police officer in the Police force,” says the report. Mr. Reddy was in charge of the police action on October 11, 1995. The Kerala State Beverages (M&M) Corporation attained tremendous growth under Mr. Reddy, who was the managing director. The additional revenue of about Rs. 90 crore generated during 2005-06 without pumping in additional capital or man power had come in for praise from the government. He had also worked as Director of Kerala Women’s Commission; DIG, Thrissur Range, Kannur Range, and Intelligence; and IGP VACB; ADGP VACB; ADGP North Zone, Kozhikode; and Director, VACB. Mr. Reddy is winner of the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service in 2003 and the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service in the year 2012. Mr. Reddy plans to settle down in his home town, Ananthapur. “I am returning to my home State happy with the work done in Kerala,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/krsa-act-to-be-toughened/article32483273.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Relief as new cases come down||The capital district registered a considerable dip in COVID-19 cases on Sunday as only 310 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The official death toll has gone up to 85 with the death of a 64-year-old Parassala native on August 27 being attributed to the disease. Barring three imported cases, all other fresh cases are due to local transmission. The rate of cases with unknown sources of infection remained high with 41 such cases being reported from places, including Parassala, Attukal, Balaramapuram, Beemapally, Vallakadavu, Poonthura, Kochuthope, Chempazhanthy, Pongumoodu, Sreekaryam, Sreevaraham, Nedumangad and Manikyavilakam. With 161 recoveries, the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in the district is 5,458. A total of 856 persons were quarantined in the district on the day. Currently, 19,723 people are undergoing quarantine in their homes. Besides, 585 others have been accommodated in 72 COVID-19 care centres.  Symptomatic cases As many as 405 symptomatic people were hospitalised on Sunday, taking the number of people being treated in hospitals for various symptoms to 3,983. Meanwhile, the City police continued to crack down on violations of the COVID-19 protocol with 41 people being booked under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. While 374 people were fined for failing to wear masks, 30 others were charged for violating physical-distancing norms.  Nine traders were also booked for violating the rules. A total fine of Rs. 80,800 was collected by the police from various parts of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-as-new-cases-come-down/article32483304.ece
31 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Questions raised over State’s fatality list||The second volume of COVID-19 death audit report released by the State Health Department has re-opened the controversy over the State’s COVID-19 death reporting process, which many senior Health officials believe has left out many legitimate “probable COVID-19 deaths” out of the official list. The audit pertains to 63 deaths in July (including two in June) which were all lab-confirmed COVID-19 cases. Eight excluded Of the 63, only 51 cases wherein the death audit committee assessed the cause of death to be COVID-19 have been included in the tally for analysis. Seven cases – three of acute myocardial infarction (MI), three of cancers, and one suicide — have been assessed as non-COVID-19 deaths and excluded. One COVID-19 death was left out as the deceased was a Tamil Nadu native. Four cases are pending for post-mortem results. A COVID-19 death is defined as one resulting from a clinically compatible illness, in a probable or confirmed COVID-19 case. Cases where there is an unrelated alternative cause of death (e.g. trauma) are not COVID-19 deaths. There should be no period of complete recovery from COVID-19 between illness and death. Govt’s version The State follows the WHO’s guidelines for classification of COVID-19 as cause of death. It quotes the WHO to claim that deaths due to “unrelated causes like acute MI” are not COVID-19 deaths. “However, it is now known that acute MI is a relevant complication of COVID19. Even acute MI deaths which occur after a COVID-19 patient has tested negative should be seen as a continuum of the disease,” a senior clinician said. Public health experts say that for death classification, the State has chosen the WHO document over the ICMR document which says that even if a COVID-positive person has co-morbidities, “that should not be listed as the underlying cause of death; the cause of death remains COVID-19.” ‘Irrational decision’ Kerala’s exclusion of one COVID-19 death from analysis because the deceased is not a Keralite is irrational because all COVID-19 deaths that occur in the State are part of the State’s pandemic picture. The death audit report analyses only lab-confirmed cases. Leaving behind all “probable cases of COVID-19” or cases wherein diagnosis of COVID-19 is not backed by laboratory confirmation, is not scientific, experts say. Many complications “New information points to neurological and vascular complications, which can trigger an altered mental status, MI, or stroke. If more people are dying of complications due to co-morbidities, these deaths, including some suicides, should ideally be listed as COVID-19 deaths. Kerala has one of the best case fatality rates of 0.37, which will not go beyond 0.6 even if all unconfirmed deaths are included. Kerala’s attempt to keep out some deaths from the official list has sullied the State’s image,” a public health official said. He cited the example of Belgium, which has one of the highest COVID-19 death rates in Europe because it has included all suspected deaths on the list. Belgium’s top virologist was quoted as saying, “it might be an overestimation but it is the only honest way to do it .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/questions-raised-over-states-fatality-list/article32483255.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Subdued Uthradom in capital||The subdued mood of Uthradom on Sunday was in stark contrast to the mood of the previous years and the last-minute celebratory rush that the day is known for. With COVID-19 cases still on the upswing in the city and the police clamping down on crowding in shopping areas, the markets witnessed comparatively less footfall. The illuminations along the main thoroughfare of the capital, a highlight of the Onam season, being absent this year, much of the sheen was already missing from the celebrations. The usual cultural events across multiple venues are also absent. Shopping trips with the entire family were mostly absent as many chose to get the required materials home delivered. According to wholesalers and shopkeepers in the Chala market, sales were much less compared to the usual Onam seasons. Shortage of vegetable stock was also experienced due to less number of loads arriving from Tamil Nadu. Prices go up “We did decent sales around Onam, compared to the week before that. But prices shot up as the festival neared due to shortage of vegetables. Prices of okra, beans and other vegetables increased as the usual number of trucks did not come from Tamil Nadu. In some smaller shops, stocks were exhausted,” said V. Ashok who runs Van vegetables at Chala. The flower sales for Athappookkalam, which was dismal in the initial days, picked up slightly towards Uthradom. According to Sreekumaran, a flower trader, he took a stock only Rs. 50,000 this season compared to the usual Rs. 3 to Rs. 4 lakh worth of stocks. Textile shops too witnessed only moderate rush as a majority postponed their purchases of new clothes owing to the pandemic.Restaurants had better business compared to the rest of the pandemic period with several orders for sadya being placed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subdued-uthradom-in-capital/article32483299.ece
31 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Priority for public health system: CM||The government will strengthen the State’s public health system further to fight COVID-19, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The State has already made a huge leap in infrastructure development in public sector hospitals as well as in augmenting human resources in health. After the COVID-19 pandemic broke in Kerala, the government has through the National Health Mission, appointed 9,768 health workers. About 1,200 house surgeons and 1,152 ad hoc employees have also been deployed for COVID containment activities. If required, more people will be deployed in the health sector in the next 100 days, Mr. Vijayan said, during his news conference called on the eve of Thiruvonam, to reveal the LDF government’s projects for the next 100 days. The functioning of COVID first-line treatment centres would be made more efficient and the number of COVID tests being conducted in the State would be increased to 50,000 daily, he added. Mr. Vijayan said that as part of the Aardram Mission, envisaged to strengthen primary care delivery in the public sector and to make the government hospitals more people-friendly, 386 primary health centres have already been converted to family health centres (FHC) , which are functioning well. In the next 100 days, another 153 FHCs would be inaugurated. The FHCs will have OP clinics in the morning and evening. New buildings He said that 24 new buildings would be constructed for the various government hospitals in the State. Ten new dialysis centres, nine new scanning centres, three Cath labs and two modern cancer treatment facilities are in the offing, Mr. Vijayan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priority-for-public-health-system-cm/article32483256.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New freshwater fish identified in the Ganga||Researchers from Kerala and West Bengal have identified a new species of freshwater fish from the Ganga in West Bengal. The fish, which is edible, has been christened Systomus gracilus for its thin and compressed body. ‘Gracilus’ means slim in Latin. This fish can be cultured in inland waterbodies. The fish was discovered, scientifically named, and described by Mathews Plamoottil, Head of Zoology Department, Government College, Chavara, Kollam, and Debargya Maji, an young researcher with the Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Kolkata. The latest issue of Journal of Experimental Zoology has published an article on the discovery. The fish, which has a light reddish-white body and fins, was discovered from Naihati, West Bengal. Systomus is a genus in the family Cyprinidae. Systomus gracilus can be distinguished from other species of the genus by its high and strongly compressed body, tiny barbels, and anal fin with six branched rays. The collected specimens were of 11 to 12 cm in length. Specimens have been deposited with the Zoological Survey of India museums at Pune and Port Blair. The fish has also received zoo bank register number from the International Commission of Zoological Nomenclature, Dr. Plamootil said. The research was funded by the Core Research Grant of SERB, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-freshwater-fish-identified-in-the-ganga/article32483250.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stir against airport leasing to be stepped up||The action council, an umbrella organisation of all political parties, except BJP, and other organisations opposing the ‘privatisation’ of the Airports Authority of India (AAI)-managed Thiruvananthapuram international airport, has decided to step up the agitation. A meeting of the council chaired by the former Minister and CPI(M) leader M. Vijayakumar decided to drum up support for retaining the premier airport of the State in the public sector. The meeting decided to come up with a ‘protection wall’ from the domestic terminal, Sanghumughom, All Saints College, Chakka, and Vallakadavu as part of the proposed agitation.  After Onam holidays The meeting, attended by Mayor K. Sreekumar, who is also the convener of the action council, decided to organise the ‘wall’ after Onam holidays. The Airports Authority Employees Union (AAEU) has intensified the stir in front of the office of the Airport Director against leasing the premier airport for 50 years to the Adani Group. The agitation will continue even as the efforts are on to retain the airport in the public sector as desired by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-against-airport-leasing-to-be-stepped-up/article32483274.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU expedites valuation of answer sheets||Seeking to allay the concerns regarding the valuation process of examinations, the University of Kerala (KU) has promised to publish the degree results in a time-bound manner. Responding to allegations of delay in the examination process, the university claimed that a majority of answer sheets had been valued within a short span of time. Notwithstanding the difficulty associated with the pandemic, the university had published the exam results of 20,687 out of the 32,627 students who had appeared for the BA, BSc, And BCom (CBCS) examinations. While the results of 810 students had been withheld for technical reasons, these would be released in due course. In an official release, the university stated that the results of all other examinations would also be published soon after the recommencement of the valuation process after the Onam holidays. Special exams Besides, the special examinations meant for final-year students who could not appear for the regular examinations would be conducted on September 15. The results of these examinations would also be declared at the earliest. While the examinations of all courses, including distance education programmes, had concluded on June 25, the valuation process got under way on the same day. The practical examinations came to an end on August 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-expedites-valuation-of-answer-sheets/article32483360.ece
31 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Samagra Shiksha makes Onam special for students||This Onam, Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has brought a little bit of joy into the lives of children with special needs in the State who receive home-based education. Samagra Shiksha personnel, on their own, are supplying food kits, new clothes, gifts and financial assistance to children with special needs and financially backward students. The gifts and assistance are being delivered by Samagra personnel led by special educators. In Thiruvananthapuram, the distribution was completed, a statement said. Creative expressions The Samagra Shiksha, Thiruvananthapuram, has also launched a programme to raise students’ flagging spirits and nudge them towards positivity this Onam. The programme is for students to detail their unusual Onam experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic through their writings, paintings or a video of their creative expression shot on mobile phone. These have to be posted by students on their schools WhatsApp groups. Two from each section (lower primary to higher secondary and vocational higher secondary) and each category (writing, painting, or video) will be selected at the cluster, block resource centre (BRC) and at the district levels. These will be documented and digital magazines will be published. The best works will be shared through new media.  Art and craft Samagra’s specialist teachers for art, drawing and work experience will also provide students small videos to help them engage in various activities, in addition to their ongoing online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samagra-shiksha-makes-onam-special-for-students/article32483300.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,631 booked for violations||Cases were registered against 2,631 persons across the State on Sunday over lockdown violations. A total of 1,279 were arrested while 137 vehicles were seized. As many as 10,040 instances of not wearing masks were reported across the State. Nine cases were registered for quarantine violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2631-booked-for-violations/article32483306.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Result of govt.’s adamant stand: Chandy||The alleged suicide of an unemployed youth in Neyyatinkara on Sunday was the result of the adamant stand of the State government and the Public Service Commission (PSC) against extending the validity of PSC rank lists, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy has said. This stand has pushed around 45 lakh of the State’s unemployed youth into disappointment. The government was indulging in back-door appointments without extending the ranklist, said Mr. Chandy. He said that the government’s decision that the rank list for police and excise should be limited to one year and the other lists to three years was the underlying reason of the current crises. In the absence of a new list, the existing list was extended up to 4.5 years under the UDF’s tenure, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/result-of-govts-adamant-stand-chandy/article32483305.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU exams from Sept. 9||The supplementary examinations for all semesters for the students of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University will begin on September 9. According to Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree, the examinations will enable students to complete their courses at one go. The decision is bound to help those who have been placed through campus recruitments. The university aims at declaring by September 20 the results of final-semester examinations held in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-exams-from-sept-9/article32483259.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Train reservation centre timings||The Passenger Reservation System (PRS) Centres in Thrissur, Aluva, Ernakulam Town, Ernakulam Junction, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thiruvalla, Chengannur, Kayamkulam Junction, Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram Central, and Nagercoil Junction railway stations of Thiruvananthapuram Railway Division will function on single shift from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Monday on account of Thiruvonam, a railway release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-reservation-centre-timings/article32483264.ece
31 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EICL employees to stage dharna today||The employees of English Indian Clays Ltd. (EICL) will stage a dharna on Monday, Thiruvonam day, outside EICL’s Veli campus as part of the ongoing agitations demanding that the company management restart operations at EICL and pay the bonus and salary dues to the employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eicl-employees-to-stage-dharna-today/article32483262.ece
31 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister thanks families of organ donors||Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja has expressed her thanks to the families of Akhilesh of Beypore and Nisha of Ramanattukara for donation of the duo’s organs, giving a fresh lease of life to eight persons. Despite being in pain, the families of both had given the families of eight persons the gift of life this Onam, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-thanks-families-of-organ-donors/article32483258.ece
31 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Darshan for 1,000 people at Guruvayur from Sept. 10||As many as 1,000 people can have daily darshan at Sreekrishna Temple Guruvayur from September 10. Facilities for darshan will be arranged on pre-booking by maintaining COVID-19 guidelines, a pressnote issued here today said. Online booking will be available for darshan. Only 50 devotees will be allowed inside the temple at a time. However, devotees will not be allowed to Nalambalam. Booking will start from August 31 to conduct 60 weddings per day at the temple. Devaswom management Committee also decided to start vehicle puja from August 31, the pressnote added. Interview  The interview for the selection of new Melsanthi will be held on September 14 at Sreevalsam guest house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/darshan-for-1000-people-at-guruvayur-from-sept-10/article32483253.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Onam vibes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-vibes/article32483234.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Onam eve offering||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/onam-eve-offering/article32483364.ece
31 August 2020||A.KONDURU(KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||RMP booked||Police registered a case against an RMP of Cheemalapadu village on charges of medical negligence. The villagers had taken a patient, suffering from fever, to Narasimha Rao on Saturday. Mr. Rao reportedly gave the patient an injection, and she died a while later. The family members lodged a complaint with A. Konduru police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rmp-booked/article32482945.ece
31 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four killed in road mishap in Chittoor||Four persons were killed on the spot, and a woman was injured when their car hit the rear of a lorry when the heavy vehicle driver applied sudden brakes after fatally knocking down a motorcyclist at Balijapalle village of Bangarupalem mandal on the Chittoor-Bengaluru NH, 25 km from here, on Sunday. According to the Bangarupalem police, a family of four from Kundanahalli of Bengaluru was on its way to Nellore to attend a relative’s function when the mishap occurred. The car and the lorry were going at a high speed. The impact left three of them dead on the spot, besides the motorcyclist. The deceased were identified as Srinivasulu Reddy, 55, his spouse Ratnamma, 49 and son Venkatesh Reddy, 29. Daughter-in-law Sirisha, 24, received moderate injuries and was rushed to the Government Hospital at Bangarupalem, and is said to be out of danger. The deceased two-wheeler rider, around 40 years old, was found to be a local from Bangarupalem. The bodies were shifted to the area hospital for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-killed-in-road-mishap-in-chittoor/article32482936.ece
31 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infant’s body found in bushes||The body of a newborn girl was found in thorny bushes behind a school at Basavaraju Kandriga of Peddapanjani mandal, 50 km from here, on Sunday. According to information, the villagers saw a pack of dogs fighting in the bushes. Suddenly, a dog emerged with an infant’s limb, unnerving the onlookers. Chasing away the dogs, some youth went into the bushes only to find a badly mauled body of a girl child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infants-body-found-in-bushes/article32482934.ece
31 August 2020||Eluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior official suspended for violation of rules||The Regional Joint Director of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department in West Godavari district, V. Srinivas, has been suspended on charges of violating provisions of Rule 3 of A.P. Civil Services (Conduct) Rules 1964, and misconduct by abusing and misusing his official position. Principal Secretary, WD&CW, A.R. Anuradha, in the suspension orders, said that the RJD allegedly committed irregularities while issuing promotion orders and caused unnecessary stress to Senior Assistant V.V. Ramana Murthy, who died on June 22 this year. The RJD will be under suspension until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/senior-official-suspended-for-violation-of-rules/article32483412.ece
31 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dy. CM orders inquiry into excise official’s harassment||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy has ordered an inquiry into a complaint of harassment lodged by a Sub-Inspector posted in the Excise and Prohibition Department, here on Sunday. Chandra Mani, an SI posted in the Excise department at Jammalamadugu in Kadapa district, had lodged a complaint with the local police accusing her immediate senior officer Chenna Reddy, a Circle Inspector, of repeatedly harassing and humiliating her. She alleged that she was going through severe mental agony due to the harassment at the workplace. Mr. Narayanaswamy, who holds the Excise and Prohibition portfolio, took note of the incident and ordered an inquiry into the incident. “I have directed officials to conduct a probe. We will not spare anyone found crossing the line. The Circle Inspector will face action if the allegations are found to be true,” the Deputy Chief Minister told reporters. Mr. Narayanaswamy said that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government would not tolerate such incidents of harassment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dy-cm-orders-inquiry-into-excise-officials-harassment/article32482938.ece
31 August 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VRA held for ‘molesting minor’||The Village Revenue Assistant (VRA) of Mylavaram in Jammalamadugu mandal was arrested for allegedly molesting a minor girl on Saturday. Police said the nine-year-old girl was playing with her friends on Saturday evening, when the VRA, Muneiah, happened to pass by the area. He dragged her away from the compound wall she was sitting on and tried to sexually assault her. “When the other children raised an alarm, he fled the spot. We have tracked him down and arrested him,” DSP (Jammalamadugu) N. Nagaraju told The Hindu . The girl was rushed to the hospital for treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vra-held-for-molesting-minor/article32482939.ece
31 August 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chief Justice visits Srisailam temple, dam||Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari visited the Bhramarambha Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple at Srisailam on Sunday. The Chief Justice was given a traditional welcome at the Mahadwaram by Temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao and temple archakas. Justice Maheshwari participated in the Mahamangalaharathi of the presiding deities. Joint Collector Ravi Pattanshetty and District Judge Radhakrishna Krupasagar accompanied the dignitary during his visit to the temple and later to the Srisailam Dam. The Chief Justice visited the dam’s view point and later went around the museum. Dam Superintendent Engineer Kamatham Srinivasulu and other officials explained to him the construction and operational aspects of the Srisailam Dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chief-justice-visits-srisailam-temple-dam/article32482941.ece
31 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore registers another high of 1,328 cases||There was no sign of the incidence of coronavirus subsiding in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as 18 more patients, 14 in Nellore district and 4 in Prakasam, succumbed to the disease, while 2,209 persons contracted the infection in the two districts in the last 24 hours. For the first time, Nellore reported the maximum number of deaths in the State on a single day. The toll mounted to 282 in the district. With 1,328 new cases, another high for the district after reporting 1,538 cases on Saturday, the tally rose to 31,110. Prakasam district, on the other hand, reported four deaths and 881 new cases. The death toll stands at 275 while the tally climbed to 22,306, a health bulletin released by the Medical and Health department said on Sunday night. While 842 patients were discharged from hospitals in Nellore district, 356 were discharged in Prakasam, including 188 from the Government General Hospital in Ongole during the period. Health authorities had a tough time as the number of fresh admissions outnumbered the number of discharged patients from hospitals by 1,000 during the period. Over 8,300 asymptomatic persons were treated from home in Ongole as the hospitals concentrated on treating 995 symptomatic patients. As many as 75 patients were treated at intensive care unit(ICS) while another 554 patients were on oxygen support, a report compiled by the Prakasam district administration said. The bed strength at the KIMS and Ramesh Sanghamitra hospitals was increased by 25 to 75 to cater to increasing number of patients requiring critical care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-registers-another-high-of-1328-cases/article32482937.ece
31 August 2020||RAMACHANDRAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Bamboo artisans need government support, says BC Welfare Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Sunday promised financial assistance to bamboo artisans under the State Government’s ‘Jagananna Cheyutha’ scheme. On Sunday, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna interacted with bamboo artisans who recently received financial assistance from the State Government. Dozens of families are eking out a livelihood from the bamboo craft in Ramachandrapuram town in East Godavari district, creating various household products. “Bamboo artisans are in need of hand-holding from the State Government to expand their units. They are earning an assured livelihood with their craft and many women artisans have received Rs. 18,750 in financial assistance through the Jagananna Cheyutha scheme,” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said. “The financial assistance for the next four years will help the bamboo artisans procure raw bamboo. I have documented a list of grievances of the bamboo artisans and will attempt to address them on a priority basis,” the Minister said. Spending at least an hour with the bamboo artisans, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna inquired about their marketing strategies, demand for their product and need for government intervention to expand their production capacity. The bamboo artisans make a range of products including baskets, interior decorative items and sun shades that are used as curtains to provide cooling in the summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bamboo-artisans-need-government-support-says-bc-welfare-minister/article32483400.ece
31 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No lockdown on Sundays from next week in Srikakulam: official||The Srikakulam Municipal Corporation has reportedly decided to do away with imposing lockdown on Sundays from next week, keeping in line with the directives issued by the Centre for the Unlock 4.0. With a spike in coronavirus cases, the district had been imposing lockdown on every Sunday for the last one month to prevent crowding at meat shops and fish markets. However, as per the fresh guidelines of the Centre, the States should not impose lockdowns outside containment zones. The directive of the Union government would come into force from September 1, said an official of the Srikakulam Municipal Corporation. In addition to lockdown on Sundays, the officials have been imposing partial lockdown on weekdays. All markets function only till 1 p.m., although there was no restriction on movement of people. This, the officials felt, would not be a violation of the new directives since it is being done voluntarily, with cooperation from business circles and Chamber of Commerce. “Lockdowns are giving little results since surge in positive cases indicate the pathetic situation in Srikakulam. Many traders and workers of shops lost their lives. The officials should ban smoking and spitting in public places,” said Perla Mahesh, Co-Treasurer of Srikakulam Chamber of Commerce. Meanwhile, the positive cases’ number reached 22,381 in the district and around 2,000 cases were reported in the district headquarters itself. Out of them, as many as 6,141 are active cases. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas urged people to go for medical tests immediately if they developed symptoms. He said that 2,75,297 samples had been collected so far and tests were ramped up to 5,000 per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-lockdown-on-sundays-from-next-week-in-srikakulam-official/article32483405.ece
31 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘NEP denies higher education to many’||Andhra Pradesh United Teachers’ Federation State secretary Gonti Giridhar said that the New Education Policy-2020 announced recently by the Union Government would lead to further privatisation of the education sector and would deter poor students from continuing their higher studies. Mr. Giridhar urged all State Governments to oppose the move since their role would be curtailed despite education sector coming under the concurrent list. Releasing a press note here, Mr.Giridhar alleged that the Union Government was shirking its responsibility as far as education was concerned and said that this was evident with meagre fund allocations for the education sector in the Union Budget. “Private educational institutions and deemed universities are already fleecing parents with high fee structures. The higher education sector will become an even costly affair in future. Ultimately, only rich people can afford to educate their children under the new policy,” Mr. Giridhar said. Meanwhile, he urged the government to find out alternate ways to salvage the present academic year for students. He said that the association would hold agitations on September 1 to oppose the Contributory Pension System for employees who joined service after 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nep-denies-higher-education-to-many/article32483402.ece
31 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-hit doctors need special care, says IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) urged the Union and State Governments to take special care of doctors of both government and private hospitals who are getting infected by COVID-19 in the line of duty IMA-Srikakulam district former secretary Bendi Sairam urged the government to allocate beds exclusively for doctors and their family members who were also at high risk of contracting COVID-19. Mr.Sairam said that around 10 doctors and 100 medical and health staff had tested positive for COVID-19 in Srikakulam district alone. “Almost all government hospitals are focusing exclusively on COVID-19 patients. They need to be given priority at COVID-19 hospitals as well as private corporate hospitals which are denying treatment citing lack of beds. The government’s order will ensure exclusive beds and treatment for doctors and medical staff,” Mr. Sairam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-hit-doctors-need-special-care-says-ima/article32483403.ece
31 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Golden chariot for Kanipakam soon||The project to prepare a golden chariot (Swarna Ratham) for the Kanipakam Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka temple will be taken up for execution soon, announced Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal. The temple, which is under the State Endowments Department, has mobilised Rs. 6 crore for the project, while the TTD management agreed to execute it. Mr. Singhal offered silk vastram on behalf of the TTD to the Kanipakam temple on Sunday, which is having its annual Brahmotsavams. The TTD initiated the tradition of offering silk clothes in 2006, to be adorned to the deities during ‘kalyanam’. Speaking to the media, Mr. Singhal said the project, which had suffered setback due to the COVID-induced lockdown, would be back on track soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/golden-chariot-for-kanipakam-soon/article32483226.ece
31 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGBV admissions: selection process completed||The Samagra Shiksha wing of the School Education department has completed the selection process from the applications received for admissions in class 6 and to fill the vacant seats in classes 7 and 8 in the 352 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) it runs across the 13 districts of the State. The last date for receiving applications for admissions in these classes for the academic year 2020-21 was August 25. In a statement on Sunday, the Samagra Shiksha State Project Director K. Vetri Selvi said the selected students should report to the respective KGBV Special Officers based on the information sent to their mobile phones, from August 31 to September 4. The students should carry with them their ration card, Aadhaar card and transfer, study and caste certificates. The list of the selected students would be displayed on the department's official website and also on the notice boards of the schools, she said. To clarify their doubts or to seek more information, students could also contact phone numbers 9441270099, 9494383617.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kgbv-admissions-selection-process-completed/article32483408.ece
31 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KBN principal felicitated on retirement||KBN College principal Vangala Narayana Rao was felicitated, along with his wife Sujatha, at a function organised by the institution to mark his retirement after 17 years of service, here on Sunday. Krishna University Registrar K. Krishna Reddy, who was the chief guest on the occasion, hailed Mr. Narayana Rao as a proficient educator who had set an example for others by being a scholar par excellence, professor and head of a prominent educational institution. Mr. Narayana Rao’s colleagues lauded his services to the college in various capacities and said that he had brought dignity to the positions he held. Mr. Rao, a recipient of the ‘State Best Lecturer’ award for his effective teaching skills, said that working at KBN College was a great learning experience for him. He thanked the teaching and non-teaching staff for their cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kbn-principal-felicitated-on-retirement/article32483407.ece
31 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP completed Durga flyover, not TDP’||Dismissing the Telugu Desam Party’s claims on completion of the Kanaka Durga flyover, Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu said that it was the YSR Congress government that completed the long-pending project in 14 months. Reacting to former MLA Bonda Umamaheshwara Rao’s statement that the YSRCP had no right to take credit for completion of the flyover, Mr. Vishnu said that Mr. Umameshwara Rao’s claims lacked credence. “Construction on the flyover had begun in 2013 to ease traffic congestion, but the TDP government had done nothing on the project when it was in power,” he said. “Vellampalli Srinivas, Kolusu Parthasarathy and I went to meet the Central Minister in 2013 seeking completion of the flyover at the earliest,” he told reporters. The MLA said that they are not taking credit for the completion of the flyover just by painting them, but had fought for it for years and added that they have played a key role in the development of Vijayawada city since 2004. “After TDP came to power in 2014, N. Chandrababu Naidu had announced that he would complete the flyover within a year but he failed to complete it during his tenure,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-completed-durga-flyover-not-tdp/article32482942.ece
31 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||In-charge DMHO for Krishna||Dr. T.V.S.N. Sastry, senior medical officer from Guntur, has been appointed as the in-charge District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) of Krishna district in the place of I. Ramesh, who attained superannuation. An order to this effect was issued by Director of Public Health and Family Welfare S. Aruna Kumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-charge-dmho-for-krishna/article32483409.ece
31 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two persons duped of Rs. 5.70 lakh in online frauds||The cyber crime police on Sunday registered two cases following complaints from two persons, who were cheated to the tune of Rs. 5.70 lakh in online frauds in the city. A person from Vepagunta had reportedly received a message that he had won Rs. 12 lakh lottery. In order to claim the amount, the victim was asked to pay some amount as security deposit, processing charges and GST, by the accused. According to Inspector of Cyber Crime R.V.R.K. Chowdhary, the victim had paid about Rs. 3.49 lakh in several instalments.  In another case, a lecturer who works in a private college in Vadlapudi area, had lost about Rs. 2.20 lakh in an online fraud case. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-persons-duped-of-rs-570-lakh-in-online-frauds/article32483428.ece
31 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||866 new cases take tally to 36,672||The COVID-19 death toll has crossed the 250-mark in Visakhapatnam district with four more persons succumbing to the coronavirus on Sunday. The total number of deaths reported in the district till date is 252, including 161, in August. The last 50 deaths were reported in just nine days. On August 21, the death toll has crossed the 200-mark in district. As many as 866 new cases were reported on Sunday taking the cumulative tally to 36,672. As many as 853 persons have been either discharged or recovered from COVID-19 in the district in the last 24 hours. As per the bulletin released by Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), Visakhapatnam, P.V. Sudhakar, the number of active cases in the district is 6,561 while the number of discharged is 29,859. The total number of clusters in the district is 738. Among them, very active clusters are 49. Active and dormant clusters are 61 and 628 respectively. Already 171 clusters have been denotified, he said. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district in August was 25,495, which indicates that on an average nearly 850 new cases are reported every day in the district. Despite the increasing number of cases, public places have been witnessing huge rush during weekends. Beach Road stretch from Park Hotel Junction to Gokul Park was packed with citizens. While most of them were seen with safety gear, a number of citizens, especially youth, were found without masks. Even the fishing harbour and local markets at Gajuwaka were overcrowded on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/866-new-cases-take-tally-to-36672/article32483427.ece
31 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leader seeks action against private hospital||BJP leader and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has written to the District Collector seeking action against a private hospital located at Ramnagar in the city for allegedly fleecing COVID-19 patients, while failing to provide basic amenities and ensure proper sanitation. He also requested the Collector to conduct an inquiry in all private hospitals that were designated as COVID hospitals. R. Gurunadha Rao, a senior electrical engineer, was admitted to the hospital for COVID-19 treatment on August 24. He alleged that AC was not functioning, stinking toilets and lack of other amenities and sought discharge on August 26. By the time of discharge, his sugar level shot up to 500 but no medicines were given to control it. The patient was charged Rs. 1.34 lakh for the two-day treatment, the BJP leader said. “We are looking into the complaint,” P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College and District COVID-19 Officer, said when contacted on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leader-seeks-action-against-private-hospital/article32483398.ece
31 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||UTF leader’s death condoled||The former district president of UTF K.K. Jajulu died while undergoing treatment at CMC, Vellore, in the early hours of Sunday. CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao, district secretary K. Lokanadham, city secretary B. Ganga Rao and CITU district general secretary G. Koteswara Rao recalled the contribution of Jajulu to the trade union movement and expressed their condolences to the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/utf-leaders-death-condoled/article32483424.ece
31 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPS staff to hold protests tomorrow||The Andhra Pradesh Contributory Pension Scheme Employees Association (APCPSEA) on Sunday urged all employees and their family members to participate in a ‘Protest Day’ on September 1 to step up pressure on the government for restoration of the old pension system. In a press release, APCPSEA Vizianagaram district president Ganta Srinivasa Rao alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy failed to fulfil his promise of restoring the old pension system within one month after assuming power. . “The government has wasted almost a year by appointing many committees instead of scrapping the CPS, which has caused mental agony to over two lakh employees in the State,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Association secretary Santosh Kumar Behara said that Mr. Jagan used to speak about CPS in almost all districts during his padayatra, but had failed to keep his word after coming to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cps-staff-to-hold-protests-tomorrow/article32483401.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toy of joy!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toy-of-joy/article32483411.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amid much fanfare||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amid-much-fanfare/article32482947.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sec’bad division completes record rail renewal of 6.76 km||South Central Railway’s Secunderabad division has claimed to have completed a record rail renewal of 6.76 km track on a single day, which is the highest renewal work achieved by any division across Indian Railways on a single day. On August 24 and 27, a total track renewal of 13.25 km (i.e 6.50 km and 6.75 km) was done making use of the reduced flow of traffic. Every year, the division renews about 130-150 km of rails. Rails are renewed once they complete the targeted 800 million tonnes for 60 kg rails and 550 million tonnes for 52 kg rails. The process of rail renewal is done duly taking line block and old rails are replaced with new rails along with fittings. An official spokesperson informed that it requires perfect coordination among all branches, immaculate planning and effective staff deployment to carry out the work in five separate locations of Mahabubabad, Tandoor, Bellampalli, Bibinagar and Madhira. It was also announced that the freight loading rules have been further relaxed especially in ‘Mini Rakes’ with composition of 20 covered wagons usually meant for transporting loads in small quantities. The initial restriction of granting train load rate up to 600 km for inter-zonal traffic and 1,000 km for intra-zonal has been relaxed and permitted to travel up to 1,500 km. Mini rakes can go beyond 1,500 km and up to 2,000 km with the addition of only 7.5% supplementary charge on the base freight rate for distance between 1,500 km and 2,000 km, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/secbad-division-completes-record-rail-renewal-of-676-km/article32483197.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RGIA bags energy efficiency awards||GMR led Hyderabad International Airport has won the prestigious awards of National Energy Leader and Excellent Energy Efficient Unit at the 21st National Awards for “Excellence in Energy Management” organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) – Godrej Green Business Centre (GBC) during the 19th edition of Energy Efficiency Summit, Virtual Conference and Exposition on Energy Efficiency held from August 6 - 28. GHIAL has been recognised with Excellent Energy Efficient Unit and National Energy Leader honour for the 4th and 2nd year in a row, respectively. GHIAL digitally received the awards on August 28 amidst industry dignitaries and participants on the last day of the event. The airport has saved substantial energy of around 4.55 million units owing to its consistent and sustainable approach towards energy efficiency measures, which has also led to a rapid dip in Green House Gas emissions. It is also a Carbon Neutral Airport having Level 3 + Neutrality Accreditation from ACI under its ACA programme, an official spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rgia-bags-energy-efficiency-awards/article32483198.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Expose failures of govt. in COVID battle’||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (T-BJP) got itself into the campaign mode for the forthcoming polls for GHMC and MLC seats in Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday exhorted the cadre to expose the ‘failures’ of the TRS government in COVID containment. The government did not even fulfil the poll promises, he said. Mr. Kumar held the maiden meeting of the newly-formed State executive body where he trained his guns on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his son K.T. Rama Rao, charging them with “singing a different tune after coming to power.” “The CM played with the sentiments of the majority community by putting restrictions on Ganesh festivities and showing a high number of positive cases to create a scare,” he said. “The government had abdicated responsibility on COVID-19 management and when Governor Tamilisai Soundararjan took up the issue, the ruling party leaders were used to criticise her,” he reminded. “Ever since the TRS formed the government, every section of population had suffered including students, farmers, women and employees,” he said. “People of TS should realise the government’s duplicity and teach a lesson as it is once again resorting to pre-poll rhetoric and making empty promises despite little to show in the last six years,” he charged. Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy joined the meeting virtually at the concluding session and advised cadre to highlight Modi government’s schemes among people that the TRS government was claiming its own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expose-failures-of-govt-in-covid-battle/article32483201.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH webinar today||As part of the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the University of Hyderabad (UoH) will organise an International Webinar on the topic ‘Peace from Within to Global Peace in Gandhian Perspective’ on August 31 in association with Gandhi-King Global Initiative, Stanford University and Gandhi-King Foundation, Hyderabad. It will be held in two sessions — one from 8-11 a.m. and the other from 6-8 p.m. The webinar can be viewed live on meet.google.com/erq-ijgd-soz, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-webinar-today/article32483191.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Farmers will get sufficient urea’||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy has assured TS agriculture officials that he would talk to his Cabinet colleague and Minister of Fertilisers Sadanand Gowda on ensuring adequate supply of fertilisers for the farmers this season. At a meeting with officials hosted at the Dilkusha Guest House on Sunday, the Minister directed officials to ensure that sufficient supply of urea and other material was made available to farmers, considering the favourable farm conditions. The Centre had already agreed to supply 10.50 lakh tonnes of urea as sought and up to 7 lakh tonnes had been lifted by farmers. The demand at this time last year was 3.5 lakh tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-will-get-sufficient-urea/article32483208.ece
31 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pus around lung of COVID patient removed||Pus formed around the left lung of a 17-year-old COVID-19 patient was removed using decortication at a corporate hospital in Hyderabad. Doctors said that the complication, known as empyema, is likely a rare one related to the infectious disease. The teenage boy suffered from acute chest pain for two weeks, and was earlier treated at a local hospital. However, the condition aggravated with time. He got admitted at Medicover Hospital complaining of the issue, and he was detected with COVID-19. “When an individual contracts coronavirus, his/her respiratory system is compromised. In this case, we presume that the boy, who was COVID-positive, suffered further complications arising due to bacterial infection. Pus formed around the left lung, making the patient feel breathless and experience pain in the chest,” said Pramod Reddy, consultant cardio-thoracic surgeon at the hospital. A CT-Scan examination helped find this complication. Decortication removal of pus and tissue which does not allow lungs to expand was performed on August 3 to address the complication. Symptomatic treatment for COVID-19 was offered. The patient has been discharged. Upon culture study of the pus, doctors found it was a regular form of Straphylococcus bacteria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pus-around-lung-of-covid-patient-removed/article32483187.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Elderly woman’s body found on footpath||The body of an elderly woman, wrapped in a blanket, was found on the footpath near Lumbini Mall on Road No. 2 of Banjara Hills on Sunday. Inspector N. Kalinga Rao said that around 2 p.m., a team was rushed to the spot after they were alerted. The woman was identified as Bhagirathi, 70, who may have died of COVID. She was suffering from fever for the last few days. Her son Ramesh, a watchman, did not have money to do her last rites. So, he wrapped the body in a blanket and left it on the footpath, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elderly-womans-body-found-on-footpath/article32483202.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Seminar Hall in Kasturba Gandhi Degree & PG College for Women inaugurated||A seminar hall at Kasturba Gandhi Degree and PG College for Women was inaugurated by Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seminar-hall-in-kasturba-gandhi-degree-pg-college-for-women-inaugurated/article32483195.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 brief Property tax revenue melas||GHMC is organising Property Tax Revenue Melas in all circle offices from Sunday, on the following days to improve collections under OTS, which is going to be closed on September 15: Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday — after lunch. On Sept. 6 (Sunday) 10 a.m. to 5 p.m, Sept. 9, 10 and 11, after lunch; Sept. 12 and 13 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-brief-property-tax-revenue-melas/article32483199.ece
31 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Coronavirus pandemic stifles trade of traditional artisans||The coronavirus crisis has forced a handful of artisans’ families of M. Venkatayapalem village in Khammam rural mandal, well known for intricate brass metal craft, into a hand-to-mouth existence. The veteran artisan couple Dasaroju Nagabrahma Chary and his wife Upendramma besides their three sons, who distinguished themselves in the traditional metal craft, are reeling under the ripple effects of the pandemic crisis. The pandemic has virtually brought the sales of brass handicrafts to a halt with almost no takers for the wide range of brass artefacts in these hard times. Adding to the miseries of artisans, the brass items made by them prior to the lockdown in mid-March based on orders from customers remained unsold. The expertise of the veteran artisan couple in brass metal craft and above all their passion to keep the handicraft tradition alive helped them win several awards in the past. The couple trained their three sons — Venkata Chary, Bhaskara Chary, both post-graduates, and Ravi in the traditional metal craft. The trio turned full-time artisans and supported their parents who own Sri Veera Brahmendra Handicrafts unit based in their village. Hard hit by the pandemic crisis, the artisans’ families are desperately looking at the persons at the helm to help them tide over the present crisis. An array of exotic brass items such as brass statues of deities, makarathoranalu and decorative artefacts are languishing in our home with the customers, who placed orders for them failing to turn up even after the relaxation of lockdown, deplored Mr. Bhaskara Chary. “We are hardly getting any new orders with the shutdown of educational institutions and decreased religious activity in the temples post-lockdown,” he lamented. The alternative option of working as a part-time lecturer to eke out a living is also missing due to the closure of colleges, according to Mr Bhaskara Chary, who holds M.Sc (Mathematics) and B.Ed degrees. “My mother has been suffering from a gynaecological problem and she urgently needs to undergo a surgery for that,” he said expressing the agony of their family. “My father has won an award from the then Governor of Andhra Pradesh Kumudben Joshi for excelling in a handicrafts competition in the 1980s and my mother was bestowed with Stree Shakti award for her rich artistry in the past,” recalled Venkata Chary. The pandemic has left our artisans families in the lurch with the sole means of livelihood being threatened by the unabated crisis, he bemoaned, seeking financial support from the government to their handicrafts unit to make both ends meet and continue with their mission to keep the glorious brass craft tradition alive.  We are hardly getting any new orders with the shutdown of educational institutions and decreased religious activity in the temples post-lockdown. Bhaskara Chary, Artisan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coronavirus-pandemic-stifles-trade-of-traditional-artisans/article32483194.ece
31 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Five rescued from drowning in canal||Five persons, including three children, travelling in a car had a miraculous escape following their timely rescue by alert locals after their car plunged into an irrigation canal at Yadavalli Laxmipuram village in Mudigonda mandal on Sunday. The "reckless" act of a youth to teach car driving to his relative, carrying three children in the vehicle, along the approach road of the Nagarjunasagar Project canal at Yadavalli Laxmipuram, endangered not only his life but also four others, creating a flutter in the village. Police said the youth identified as Ramu of Duddepudi in Konijerla mandal came to his relative’s house in the village on Sunday morning. He allegedly took a young woman aged around 18 and three children of his to the NSP canal site in his car. The car suddenly slipped into the canal when the young woman allegedly tried her hand at driving the car. Responding to the distress call of the occupants of the car, five locals ventured into the canal and rescued them by opening the windows of the car. Later, they pulled out car, using ropes. The local police rushed to the spot and shifted the rescued persons to their homes. The villagers and the police heaped praise on those who saved five lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-rescued-from-drowning-in-canal/article32483217.ece
31 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Minister’s gesture to ailing girl||In a benevolent gesture, Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar donated Rs. 50,000 to a town-based 10-year-old poor girl, who has been suffering from a brain-related ailment for the last few months, to help her get treatment. The girl, daughter of Veerakumar and Sailaja, was advised surgery, sources said. Veerakumar, who works as a painter, approached the Minister, seeking help. The Minister extended the help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ministers-gesture-to-ailing-girl/article32483216.ece
31 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Become exporter of Defence tech’||Defence Secretary and Chairman of the Deference Research Development Organisation (DRDO) G. Satheesh Reddy said India needed to develop home-grown technologies, that is, Atma Nirbhar Bharat, and should grow from being an e importer of Defence technologies to an exporter in the next 10 years. He stressed the importance of focusing on bio-medical engineering, stating that in top universities around the world both engineering and medical streams worked together to bring excellent health products. Participated in the 12th Foundation Day celebrations of the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, held virtually here on Sunday, Dr. Sateesh Reddy said doctors and engineers should join hands to make strides in bio-medical engineering.  ‘An opportunity’ He said the COVID-19 pandemic gave the country an opportunity to prove itself. India, which had produced 37,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits a year, was now producing six lakh PPE kits a day. Stressing the need for working together by academia, research and development institutes and industry, Dr. Sateesh Reddy said: “So far we are followers of technologies. We must become leaders of technologies.” Appreciating the innovations of the Centre for Healthcare Entrepreneurship (CfHE) of IITH, Dr. D. Nageswar Reddy Chief of Gastroenterology and Therapeutic Endoscopy, Asian Institute of Gastroenterology, said medical experts should update themselves on developments in metallurgy and other areas. IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said IITH could implement the new education policy which encouraged students to learn from different streams. IITH Director Murty was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/become-exporter-of-defence-tech/article32483214.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Swamy Goud is at it again!||Former Legislative Council chairman K. Swamy Goud was at it again. He rubbed the TRS leadership on the wrong side once again after having defended Congress MP and a bitter rival of the former party A Revanth Reddy a few days ago. Mr. Goud was sore that neither the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao nor the next in command K.T. Rama Rao gave him an appointment. If people like him who stood by them in the crucial phase of separate Telangana agitation were not given appointment, whom else would they give, he asked. He was also unhappy that all those who made fun of people like him in the agitation were given importance in government. He had sought party ticket to contest Lok Sabha election from the Chevella constituency but was denied. Secretariat in the news again After a lull for a few days, the State Secretariat is back in the news again. More than a dozen officials in different ranks working in the Finance department on the eighth floor of the BRKR Bhavan tested positive for Coronavirus last week. The number pertains to one department on the floor where other departments too are located. Though the employees had been appealing to the government about their apprehensions relating to the virus from time to time, senior officials were said to be insisting that it is mandatory for the staff to attend duties, come what may.Given the rapid spread of the virus across the State, especially in the limits of the GHMC, which is contributing a major chunk of positive cases, the powers that be are expected to consider the employees’ plight and evolve a mechanism so that employees’ concerns are addressed and work is not disturbed.     As the race for nomination to the 40-member Legislative Council from Governor's quota is hotting up, an interesting twist to the whole episode emerged on Sunday. There are three vacancies in the quota which Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to fill by recommending names to the Governor after the Cabinet meeting this week. Interest was generated in TRS circles with the name of former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s daughter Vani Devi emerging a probable candidate for one of the seats. Her name cropped up after Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed a desire to reward Narasimha Rao’s family in the ongoing centenary celebrations of the late Prime Minister. The others in the race for the posts are former Home Minister Nayini Narasimha Reddy and present MLC Karne Prabhakar, both of whom are looking for renomination after completing their present term, an OSD in Chief Minister's Office Desapathi Srinivas and G Deviprasad Rao, formerly with the beverages corporation.    (N. Rahul and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/swamy-goud-is-at-it-again/article32483211.ece
31 August 2020||Ahmedabad,||2,000 shifted from Narmada river bank||Heavy rainfall in parts of Gujarat on Sunday created a flood-like situation in many areas including Bharuch, where over 2,000 people from inundated areas along the Narmada river were evacuated following release of water from the Sardar Sarovar dam. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State agencies were involved in the rescue operations in Bharuch. The India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy showers at isolated places in many districts till Tuesday. Since Sunday morning, Panchmahal, Rajkot, Banaskantha, Vadodara, Botad, Ahmedabad and some other districts received heavy rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2000-shifted-from-narmada-river-bank/article32483161.ece
31 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Rs. 177 cr. deal inked when Sandip Ssingh’s company posted losses’||The Maharashtra Congress on Sunday brought out the financial details of the company owned by producer Sandip Ssingh, who is alleged to be a part of a drug cartel involved in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and accused of having close relations with leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The party put out a document which showed that Legend Global Studio suffered losses in 2019 when Mr. Ssingh signed an MoU of Rs. 177 crore in the Vibrant Gujarat summit organised by the Gujarat government. The party claimed that Mr. Singh’s firm was the only film company that inked such a big deal at the event. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant reiterated his demand for a probe into the BJP’s connection with Mr. Ssingh and the drug cartel. He also sought an investigation to find out who was his handler within the party. “Sandip Ssingh was the blue-eyed boy of the BJP. Financial records of his company reflect a different story,” Mr. Sawant said. According to documents released by Mr. Sawant, the company suffered losses of Rs. 66 lakh in 2017, while it earned a profit of Rs. 61 lakh in 2018. In 2019, the firm again declared losses of Rs. 4 lakh. ‘Special invitee’ “His was the only company specifically called for the Vibrant Gujarat summit of 2019 by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. An MoU worth Rs. 177 crore was signed by the Gujarat government. Was this MoU quid pro quo for agreeing to do [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi ji ’s biopic? Was this a token advance?” Mr. Sawant asked.  Mr. Sawant said looking at the balance sheet of the company, no government would want to get involved in financial dealings with it. “On what actual grounds did the Gujarat CM choose Mr. Ssingh’s company for the deal?” he asked. BJP counters allegation Countering the Congress, BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar on Sunday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, claiming the that CBI probe had exposed links between drugs cartel, Bollywood and ruling parties in Maharashtra. “The State Home Department and a prominent leader of the Maha Vikas Aghadi were working to ensure that this nexus is not exposed. We request that the CBI be asked to probe this nexus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rs-177-cr-deal-inked-when-sandip-ssinghs-company-posted-losses/article32483155.ece
31 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘COVID-19 cases rising due to aggressive testing’||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the spike in COVID-19 cases in the State over the last one month was due to the government’s aggressive approach of “tracking, tracing, testing and treatment”. Mr. Tope said the State government is focusing on preparedness and creating awareness of the disease. “We are aggressively focussing on four Ts- tracking, tracing, testing and treatment. There are 400 labs for COVID-19 testing and more than 50,000 tests are done daily in the State. The antigen test and RT-PCR tests are being done to the optimum capacity,” the Health Minister said. He said the spread of COVID-19 has increased in the last month due to the easing of restrictions. “Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is very conservative about the Unlock process. Even though we have begun lifting restrictions, we still haven’t opened places of worship, theatres, malls and gyms despite demands,” he said. At present, the recovery rate is 80% and the case fatality rate is 2.4%. The number of daily recoveries is almost equal to the number of new cases. Hence, there is no problem of bed availability, Mr. Tope said. “We are prepared in terms of jumbo COVID-19 facilities and other health infrastructure. We don’t want to reach a situation where the number of new cases outnumbers recoveries. So, we are going slow with the Unlock process,” he said. Mr. Tope also said the frontline COVID-19 workers deserve applause as over five lakh patients have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals. “The number of critical patients is about 2%. We are still in a mission mode and will continue to remain so till our objective is achieved,” he said, adding that the administration and frontline health workers are taking up mission with a positive attitude. Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner I.S. Chahal said the number of COVID-19 tests in Mumbai has gone up from 4,000 to 9,000 per day since the last one month. “The number touched 12,000 one day, while on Saturday it was 9,984. We are trying to raise the number of tests per day to 12,000 to 14,000 regularly, and then the cases may touch 1,800 to 2,000 for a few days. We have to be aggressive and on the front foot,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-cases-rising-due-to-aggressive-testing/article32483164.ece
31 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sena Minister condemns lathicharge on Marathi people in Karnataka||Maharashtra Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde has condemned the August 28 lathicharge by the police on Marathi-speaking people in Belagavi district in Karnataka and demanded action against offenders. The incident occurred in Peeranwadi village when a section of people objected to the installation of a statue of 18th century warrior and freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna. They were opposed to the location as they wanted to install a statue of Maratha ruler Chhatrapatai Shivaji Maharaj at the site. In a letter addressed to Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, dated August 28. Mr. Shinde, who is the Coordination Minister for matters related to the Karnataka-Maharashtra boundary dispute, stated that Rayanna’s statue was being erected in front of the statue of Shivaji Maharaj. “Marathi-speaking people are not opposed to installing the statue of the freedom fighter. But the statue is being deliberately erected close to the statue of ChhatrapatiShivaji Maharaj. A demand was also made to rename Shivaji Maharaj Chowk where the statue now stands,” the Shiv Sena leader said. Mr. Shinde said the Karnataka government should take stringent action in this matter and ensure that there is no more Marathi-Kannada conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-minister-condemns-lathicharge-on-marathi-people-in-karnataka/article32483162.ece
31 August 2020||Nagpur,||Over 14,000 evacuated as heavy rain pounds parts of Nagpur||More than 14,000 people were evacuated after torrential rains over the past two days triggered flooding in several tehsils of Nagpur district of Maharashtra, officials said on August 30. Mouda, Kamptee, Parseoni and Kuhi were the worst affected tehsils, and the administration had to call in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the Army to rescue people at some places, they said. Besides Nagpur, several villages in neighbouring Gadchiroli district also witnessed flooding in some parts following heavy rains. “Till Sunday noon, 14,234 people were evacuated from 36 affected villages in Nagpur district as incessant downpour in the last two days resulted in flow of water from dams and rivers,” Nagpur District Collector Ravindra Thakre said in a statement. Nagpur district on August 29 registered 81.43 mm rainfall, he said. Due to heavy rains, nine villages in Mouda tehsil were flooded, from where 1,568 people were moved to safer place by the State Disaster Response Team (SDRF) and the NDRF on August 29. Similarly, eight villages in Kamptee tehsil were hit by rains and 620 people were shifted to safer places the rescue teams on Saturday. Defence spokesperson Basantkumar Pande said that as per the request made by the district administration, Army was deployed for assistance in the submerged areas of Kuhi. “UMANG Sub Area pressed into service two columns overnight for rescue and relief operations. With the unprecedented rains and resultant heavy flow of water in various rivers, a number of areas in Nagpur district have been inundated,” he said. “The Army columns will be assisting the administration in rescuing villagers stranded in submerged areas of Kuhi and the surrounding places, and also help in restoring normalcy in these inundated areas,” Mr. Pande added. The District Information Office of Gadchiroli said that 52 families were evacuated from the flooded parts of Desaiganj tehsil in the district on August 29. Connectivity of five main roads was snapped due to excess water flowing from the Gosikhurd dam in Bhandara district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-14000-evacuated-as-heavy-rain-pounds-parts-of-nagpur/article32483165.ece
31 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Mahad building collapse: one more held||The Mahad police on Saturday arrested one more person in connection with the building collapse on August 24, which killed 16 people and injured nine others. Yunus Abdul Razak Shaikh had partnered with the developer, Farook Mahmoodmiya Kazi, and sold 40% of the flats at the five-storey  Tarique Garden. After the flats were sold, Mr. Shaikh made a fake receipt book in the name of a society that was yet to be formed. “The society’s name was decided, but not formed. He made a receipt in that name to receive the maintenance charges from the owners,” the Raigad police spokesperson said. Sections added to FIR Mr. Shaikh was not named in the FIR. “Initially, there were five accused in the case, of whom one was already arrested. Now the number of accused is six. With the arrest of Mr. Shaikh, two more sections — 420 (cheating) and 471 (using forged document fraudulently as genuine) — of the Indian Penal Code were added to the FIR,” the official said. Mr. Shaikh was arrested from his house at Kharkand Mohalla in Mahad. Since he has a hip fracture, he was remanded in judicial custody as the police could not keep him in their custody. However, the police have kept their rights of custody in reserve and will use that when he recovers. Mr. Shaikh has been sent to Alibaug jail. On August 25, the police had booked five people, including the builder and the RCC consultant of the building in Mahad. The five were identified as Mr. Kazi,  a resident of Taloja; Gaurav Shah, an architect consultant; Bahubali Dhamane, RCC consultant; Deepak Jhinjhad, chief officer of the Mahad municipal council; and Shashikant Dighe, a junior civil supervisor with the council. They were booked for causing death by negligence, culpable homicide not amounting to murder, and for causing grievous hurt by act endangering life  under the IPC. Mr. Dhamane was arrested on August 26, while Mr. Kazi is still absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mahad-building-collapse-one-more-held/article32483160.ece
31 August 2020||Pune,||‘Poor air quality in Smart Cities due to lack of coordination’||A survey on the deteriorating air quality in Smart Cities in Maharashtra has pointed out that there is poor convergence between civic bodies and Smart City Corporations on air quality plans prepared under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) and the Smart Cities Mission. Parisar, a Pune-based NGO, prepared  the report  after  surveying six Smart Cities — Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Thane and Solapur — last year. Authored by Sharmila Deo, Shweta Vernekar and Ranjit Gadgil of Parisar, the report said though it was mandatory for each city to report on their air quality under the Smart Cities Mission, there was no logic as to why the civic bodies in the cities proposed certain projects, ostensibly to improve air quality. The Central government launched NCAP in January last year to address the issue of urban air pollution. The main intent was to reduce particulate matter pollution by 20-30% by 2024. It said, “While a few air sensors (to monitor air pollution) have been installed in some of the cities surveyed, there is no clarity whatsoever on how the data generated by these sensors is to be utilised.” ‘Often disconnected’ The report said the project structurally lacked the capacity to fundamentally conceive and execute “smart solutions”. Ms. Deo, one of the authors, said, “Our engagement with these Smart City corporations gave us the impression of them being consultant-driven and often disconnected from the urban local body. They did not appear to have the capabilities to address multi-sectoral problems like air pollution.” Ms. Deo said the focus of air quality management in these cities was largely on displaying air quality as a single numerical entity and a ‘colour code, setting up low-cost monitors and generating data. However, the six cities did not necessarily think about how to use this data to formulate a plan to tackle the problem of air pollution. She said, “Similar is the situation with the action plans made by cities under the NCAP. The action plans are very generic and not city-specific. It is only ‘smart’ to first find out the sources of pollution in a city and then strategically tackle the largest pollutant source.” Glaring example The reports singled out Pune as a glaring example of non-convergence between the local civic body and the Smart City Corporation. “When the Pune Smart City Corporation decided to install low-cost monitors, neither the civic body nor the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology was consulted at the time of purchase or setting up of these monitors. As a result, as many as 50 low-cost monitors lie severely underutilised because there is no authority who can ratify their data.” The authors observed that while their study was focused on air quality, there was a general pattern of lack of transparency in civic bodies surveyed about the data on projects under the Smart Cities Mission. Ms. Vernekar said, “A key characteristic of a ‘Smart City’ is its reliance on data and technology-driven solutions. We found this completely missing in the cities surveyed, given that we had a tough time in securing any data on projects, their respective status, funds spent on them and so forth.” She said while Smart Cities were supposed to bring data and transparency to urban development projects, there seemed to be no clarity on what data was being collected, where it resided or how citizens could access it to help improve the functionality of the city. Ms. Vernekar said, “In fact, we found no systems in place. Procuring even basic information boiled down to personal visits and the need to resort to Right to Information applications, which generally drew a blank.” Mr. Gadgil said during the survey, several people attested to the lack of information available to the public and pointed out the opacity in which Smart City Corporations operated. He said, “In our interviews with citizens, they generally complained of the absence of any accountability, revealing a sense that the Smart City Corporations had utterly failed to deliver on their promises.”  The authorities did not appear to have the capabilities to address multi-sectoral problems like air pollution Sharmila Deo Co-author of the report||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/poor-air-quality-in-smart-cities-due-to-lack-of-coordination/article32483157.ece
31 August 2020||Pune,||Bus services suspended in Solapur ahead of VBA rally for reopening of temples||The Solapur district administration has suspended State Transport (ST) bus services for the next 36 hours, with the Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) set to stage an agitation in the temple town of Pandharpur on Monday for the reopening of temples across Maharashtra. “ST buses will not be plying outside Solapur and buses will not be permitted to enter the district. We have taken this precautionary measure to prevent any damage to property during the protest,” said an official from the Solapur district administration. Authorities have also stepped up security near the Vitthal-Rukmini Temple complex, where the VBA, along with nearly one lakh devotees, is slated to hold its agitation in the district, which has been seeing a surge of COVID-19 cases. Devotees and holy men from several other districts like Akola, Nashik, and Ahmednagar are also expected to pour into Pandharpur for the protest over large temples in the State continuing to be shut amid the easing of lockdown measures. ‘Reducing inflow’ Barricades as high as eight to 10 feet have been erected to prevent protesters from storming the temple, which sees lakhs of visitors each year. The administration is hoping the suspension of bus services would reduce the inflow of protesters into the district. Solapur District Collector Milind Shambharkar said the decision to suspend bus services was taken in view of the massive damage to public property, especially ST buses, in previous agitations held in the district. The administration is also struggling to cope with the rise in COVID-19 cases in the district. More than 19,000 positive cases have been reported so far and over 750 people have succumbed to the novel coronavirus. The VBA is supporting the Vishwa Warkari Sena’s demand for reopening of all large temples. Earlier, the party had given a call of ‘ Chalo Pandharpur ’ and demanded that the State government not only open temples but also permit devotees to sing bhajans . Mr. Ambedkar’s party, which has been opposing restrictions on resuming certain economic activities and reopening of establishments, has said such lockdown measures have wiped out the livelihoods of several people associated with temple activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bus-services-suspended-in-solapur-ahead-of-vba-rally-for-reopening-of-temples/article32483159.ece
31 August 2020||San Francisco/Washington,||1 dead in Oregon shooting after demonstrators clash||A person was shot dead on Saturday in the U.S. city of Portland following clashes between Black Lives Matter protesters and supporters of U.S. President Donald Trump, police said. The Oregon city has been an epicentere of BLM protests since the police killing of unarmed black man George Floyd in Minnesota in late May, and according to local media a “caravan of hundreds of cars” of Trump supporters also converged there on Saturday. Portland police said officers answered reports of gunfire as violence erupted during a political rally involving hundreds of vehicles “caravaning throughout downtown Portland.” “They responded and located a victim with a gunshot wound to the chest. Medical responded and determined that the victim was deceased,” the force said in a statement. OregonLive reported “clashes” and “tense moments” between demonstrators and counter-protesters, although police did not say whether the shooting was related to the rally. Probe under way The shooting occurred at around 8.45 p.m. (0445 GMT Sunday) downtown, police said later in a statement, adding a homicide investigation was under way.  Mr. Trump spent Sunday morning tweeting and retweeting dozens of posts showing or discussing what was purported to be violence in Democratic-run cities, and especially Portland. He attacked the city’s Mayor Ted Wheeler for refusing help from the National Guard, which he said “could solve these problems in less than 1 hour.”  Mr. Wheeler shared an open letter to Mr. Trump on Friday denouncing the President’s “politics of division and demagoguery.” “Portlanders are onto you. We have already seen your reckless disregard for human life in your bumbling response to the COVID pandemic,” he wrote. “And we know you’ve reached the conclusion that images of violence or vandalism are your only ticket to reelection.” Mr. Wheeler described the protesters who had been peaceful as part of a “proud progressive tradition” in Portland but condemned violence and vandalism.  Trump to visit Kenosha Mr. Trump will travel next week to the Midwestern city where African American Jacob Blake was shot multiple times in the back by a white policeman, sparking a nationwide wave of protest. Mr. Trump will meet police in Kenosha, Wisconsin on Tuesday and “survey damage from recent riots” triggered by Mr. Blake’s shooting last weekend, White House spokesman Judd Deere said on Saturday. Mr. Blake took at least half a dozen shots in front of his small children as he tried to get into a car, in an incident that has prompted an outpouring of anger over yet another shooting of a black man by police. Ms. Deere did not say if Mr. Trump would meet the family of Mr. Blake, 29, who was left paralysed from the waist down. 3 nights of violence Kenosha, about an hour’s drive from Chicago, saw three nights of violence after the Blake shooting as protesters set fire to buildings and cars. Major U.S. sports leagues including the NBA were forced to suspend play as African American and other players outraged by the shooting joined the latest national wave of anger over racial injustice and police misconduct. On Friday tens of thousands of protesters thronged the U.S. capital for a mass march marking the anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr’s historic “I have a dream” speech on August 28, 1963. It was dubbed “Get Your Knee Off Our Necks,” in reference to Floyd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/1-dead-in-oregon-shooting-after-demonstrators-clash/article32482870.ece
31 August 2020||Singapore,||Singapore to offer free tests to taxi drivers, hawkers||Singapore will offer free COVID-19 tests to community groups such as taxi drivers, food delivery workers and hawkers as part of efforts to expand the COVID-19 testing regime, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has said. While there has been “no local evidence” that these groups are at a higher risk of being infected, they will be offered tests “given the nature of their working environment, such as the high frequency of interactions with the members of the public”, the MOH said. The costs of the tests will be fully borne by the government, it said on Saturday, adding that authorities will reach out to the groups progressively. The Ministry on Sunday reported 54 new COVID-19 cases. The new cases included eight cases from the community and seven imported. The rest were migrant workers. To date, Singapore has 56,771 confirmed COVID-19 cases. With 110 more patients discharged from hospitals, 55,447 have fully recovered from the infection. Meanwhile, the MOH has also reiterated that makeshift face coverings such as bandanas, scarves and neck gaiters should not be used, as per the recommendations of the task force tackling the pandemic. Noting that there have been recent queries on the efficacy of such makeshift coverings in preventing disease transmission, the MOH said that they may not perform as well as purpose-built masks as they may not have a good fit around the wearer’s nose and mouth and are made from materials that are not specific for disease prevention. A mask should be worn such that it closely and completely covers the wearer’s nose and mouth, without leaving a gap between the mask and the face, the Ministry added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/singapore-to-offer-free-tests-to-taxi-drivers-hawkers/article32482864.ece
31 August 2020||Washington,||CIA un-censors post-9/11 memoir of former FBI agent||After a group of al-Qaeda suspects was captured in September 2002, the CIA flew Ali Soufan, an experienced FBI counterterrorism agent, to Afghanistan to help interrogate them. But when he arrived, CIA officials abruptly sent word to keep him from the two most significant new detainees. Mr. Soufan had made enemies for opposing the CIA’s abusive interrogation of its first prized prisoner, Abu Zubaydah. He eventually won permission to question the two detainees after all, but when he sought to tell the world about those sessions in his 2011 memoir, the CIA censored much of his account as classified. Nine years later, and after a lawsuit, the CIA has relented. W.W. Norton will republish his book next month under the revised title The Black Banners (Declassified): How Torture Derailed the War on Terror After 9/11 . Its restored sections add new details to the history of the United States’ early post-Sept. 11 fight against al-Qaeda. The lesson of the release, Mr. Soufan said in an interview, is “if you fight for the truth hard enough, eventually you will win.” 2014 declassification In the interim, some of what Mr. Soufan sought to discuss has become public, including in the 2014 declassification of a lengthy summary of a landmark Senate study about CIA torture. But his book adds richer details about how FBI interrogators manipulated detainees into divulging information — using rapport-building tactics, he says — and offers a preview of how Mr. Soufan might testify in the delayed military commission case at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, against five men accused of conspiring in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Ramzi Binalshibh, a defendant in the Sept. 11 case, was one of the two detainees Mr. Soufan was eventually permitted to question in September 2002 — for 45 minutes. After that, the CIA whisked the prisoner to a “black site” prison, where its torture of him rendered his subsequent statements inadmissible as evidence. Defence lawyers may try to suppress what Binalshibh told Mr. Soufan, too, as contaminated by Binalshibh’s detention in CIA custody. As Mr. Soufan tells it, he persuaded the prisoner to talk without inflicting abuse by leading him to believe that Mr. Soufan already knew everything anyway and it was in his interest to cooperate. The CIA allowed Mr. Soufan to republish his book without the black bars that had concealed those kinds of details after a journalist and documentary filmmaker sued the agency. It then conducted a new review and deemed nearly all of the contents unclassified. One of the most significant restored sections in the book recounts the agent’s interactions with Zubaydah, who was captured badly wounded. Mr. Soufan helped keep him alive and then got him talking in a hospital room, for what the agent described as a conversation that lasted about 10 days. Crucial revelation According to the book, the accidental act of showing Zubaydah a wrong photograph while asking about someone else helped Mr. Soufan uncover a crucial fact: Mohammed was the planner of the Sept. 11 attacks. Three years later, in 2005, the CIA misled the Justice Department into believing that big break followed its use of “enhanced interrogation techniques” when seeking renewed legal blessing for its torture programme. Mr. Soufan also describes how the FBI learned from Zubaydah about a Latino terrorist recruit with an American passport who had vague aspirations — though no real-world ability, in Zubaydah’s view — to detonate a radioactive “dirty” bomb in the United States. This led to the identification and arrest of Jose Padilla.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cia-un-censors-post-911-memoir-of-former-fbi-agent/article32482868.ece
31 August 2020||Washington,||White House ends key briefings to Congress||The White House has revealed it is to end in-person briefings to congressional intelligence committees about foreign election interference, sparking accusations on Saturday that it was covering up Russian help for President Donald Trump’s re-election. The move comes two months ahead of the general election, with Mr. Trump playing down the threat of foreign interference and accusing Democrats of leaking sensitive information. “Probably Shifty Schiff, but others also, LEAK information to the Fake News,” the President tweeted on Saturday, referring to House Intelligence Committee chairman Adam Schiff. He offered no evidence for the claim, which he has made several times during his presidency.  Congress will still have access to classified written reports, but lawmakers will no longer be able to question officials from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) about what they learn. Democrats furious Democrats in Congress reacted with fury, describing the move as “shameful” and accusing Mr. Trump of covering up Russian interference. “As usual, President Trump is lying and projecting. Trump fired the last DNI for briefing Congress on Russian efforts to help his campaign,” Mr. Schiff tweeted. “Now he’s ending briefings altogether. Trump doesn’t want the American people to know about Russia’s efforts to aid his re-election.” Mr. Schiff and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called in a separate statement for the administration and intelligence community to resume the briefings. “If they are unwilling to, we will consider the full range of tools available to the House to compel compliance,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/white-house-ends-key-briefings-to-congress/article32482866.ece
31 August 2020||Kabul,||Ghani names council for peace deal with Taliban||Afghanistan’s President has appointed a council for national reconciliation, which will have final say on whether the government will sign a peace deal with the Taliban after what are expected to be protracted and uncertain negotiations with the insurgents. The negotiations were envisaged under a U.S.-Taliban peace agreement signed in February as intra-Afghan talks to decide the war-torn country’s future. However, their start has been hampered by a series of delays that have frustrated Washington. Some had expected the negotiations to begin earlier this month. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani issued a decree late on Saturday establishing the 46-member council, led by his former rival in last year’s presidential election, Abdullah Abdullah, who is now in the government. The High Council for National Reconciliation is made up of an array of Afghan political figures, including current and former officials, and nine women representatives, one of whom was named Mr. Abdullah’s deputy. Mr. Ghani also appointed former President Hamid Karzai to the council but his predecessor rejected the appointment in a statement on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ghani-names-council-for-peace-deal-with-taliban/article32482859.ece
31 August 2020||Beirut,||‘Hezbollah open to new Lebanon pact proposal’||Hezbollah chief Hassan Nasrallah said on Sunday that his powerful Iran-backed Shia movement is “open” to a French proposal for a new political pact for Lebanon. His comments came a day before French President Emmanuel Macron was due in blast-hit Beirut for his second visit in less than four weeks to press for political reform and reconstruction in tandem with the start of political consultations to name a new Lebanese Premier. Western leaders have joined calls from Lebanese at home and abroad for deep-rooted political change after the explosion at Beirut port killed more than 180 people and laid to waste entire districts of the capital. “On his latest visit to Lebanon, we heard a call from the French President for a new political pact in Lebanon... Today we are open to a constructive discussion in this regard,” Mr. Nasrallah said in a televised speech. “But we have one condition: this discussion should be carried out... with the will and consent of the various Lebanese factions.” Mr. Nasrallah said his movement would be “cooperative” in the formation of a government capable of spearheading reform and reconstruction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hezbollah-open-to-new-lebanon-pact-proposal/article32482863.ece
31 August 2020||Beijing,||Beijing, Aug 30, 2020 (AFP) -||The number of people killed when a restaurant in northern China collapsed has climbed to 29, state media said on Sunday, with efforts to find survivors brought to a close. The two-storey building in Xiangfen county, Shanxi province, came down on Saturday morning, according to state agency Xinhua.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/beijing-aug-30-2020-afp/article32482860.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A development that will hardly put India at ease||On Thursday, the World Bank halted its annual publication, ‘Doing Business’ report, as it detected irregularities of data for a few countries. A World Bank Press release (https://bit.ly/2QPSXLn) of August 27 said: “The integrity and impartiality of our data and analysis is paramount and so we are immediately taking the following actions. We are conducting a systematic review and assessment of data changes that occurred subsequent to the institutional data review process for the last five Doing Business reports. We have asked the World Bank Group’s independent Internal Audit function to perform an audit of the processes for data collection and review for Doing Business and the controls to safeguard data integrity...” Rankings and ‘Make in India’ Should we bother about it? Yes, perhaps. India has sought to improve its ease of doing business index ranking, as a means to attract investments to achieve the targets set for ‘Make in India’, that was announced in 2014. The initiative aims at: raising the manufacturing sector’s share in GDP to 25% (from 16-17% per cent) and creating 100 million additional jobs in the manufacturing sector by 2022. India’s success in boosting its ease of doing business ranking is spectacular, to 63rd rank in 2019, up from the 142nd position in 2014. Policymakers celebrated it to signal India’s commitment to “minimum government and maximum governance”, the ruling coalition’s winning slogan in the 2014 general election. The World Bank decision to audit the ‘Doing Business’ report for the last five years may soon cause discomfort by shining a spotlight on the sharp rise in India’s ranking. In fact, in January 2018, Justin Sandefur and Divyanshi Wadhwa’s study at the Center for Global Development found that the improvement in India’s ranking was almost entirely due to methodological changes. The case of Chile and Russia During the same period, however, Chile’s global rank went down sharply, from 34th position in 2014 to 67th in 2017. Chile’s former Socialist President (2014-18), Michelle Bachelet, accused the World Bank of manipulating the ease of doing business index methodology to show her presidency in poor light, while showing improvement in the ranking during the regime of the right-wing party. Justin Sandefur and Divyanshi Wadhwa’s study of March 2018, with a reworking of the ranks with an unchanging methodology showed very little change in Chile’s global rank. In 2017, World Bank’s Chief Economist (and later, Nobel Laureate), Paul M. Romer admitted to the World Bank’s mistakes. He said, “Based on the things we were measuring before, business conditions did not get worse in Chile under the Bachelet administration,” He further added, “I didn’t do enough due diligence and later realised that I didn’t have confidence in the integrity” of the report’s data.” — “World Bank Unfairly Influenced Its Own Competitiveness Rankings”, The Wall Street Journal , January 2018. More details are at: https://bit.ly/2YJkfqU The contrasting experience of Chile and India casts doubts on not just the country-level data but also the changes in underlying methodologies. Therefore, the multilateral agency’s decision to suspend the publication and conduct a systematic review of the reports of the last five years is undoubtedly welcome. Going beyond the data and methodology, does the ease of doing business index have predictive power? Recent evidence about India is telling. While its rank pole vaulted, it has meant nothing on the ground. The share of the manufacturing sector has stagnated at around 16-17% of GDP, and 3.5 million jobs were lost between 2011-12 and 2017-18. Annual GDP growth rate in manufacturing fell from 13.1% in 2015-16 to zero in 2019-20, as per the National Accounts Statistics. To rub salt in the wound, India’s import dependence on China has shot up, compelling the Prime Minister to announce yet another initiative — Atmanirbhar Bharat. It has been the same with Russia. Its ease of doing business rank jumped from 120 in 2012 to 20, six years later, taking Russia ahead of China, Brazil, and India, but without becoming a magnet for investment inflows. China, on the contrary, attracted one of the highest capital inflows but its ease of doing business ranking was low and hovered between 78 and 96 for the years between 2006 and 2017. Many flaws There are many shortcomings in the design and implementation of the index. The Indicators used for the index are de jure (as per the statute), not de facto (in reality). The data for computing the index are obtained from larger enterprises in two cities, Mumbai and Delhi, by lawyers, accountants and brokers — not from entrepreneurs. The World Bank’s own internal watchdog, the Independent Evaluation Group, in its 2013 report, has widely questioned the reliability and objectivity of the index. The World Bank conducts a global enterprise survey collecting information from companies. Interestingly,there is no correlation between the rankings obtained from ease of doing business and the enterprise surveys. Writing in the well-regarded Journal of Economic Perspectives (Volume 29, Number 3 – Summer 2015), Mary Hallward-Driemeier and Lant Pritchett said, “Overall, we find that the single numerical estimate of legally required time for firms to complete certain legal and regulatory processes provided by the Doing Business survey does not summarize even modestly well the experience of firms as reported by the Enterprise Surveys.” More seriously, the theoretical underpinning of the ease of doing business index is suspect. There is little in any major strand of economic thought which suggests that minimally regulated markets for labour and capital produce superior outcomes in terms of output and employment. Economic history shows rich variations in performance across countries and policy regimes, defying simplistic generalisations that inform the construction of the ease of doing business index. Unfortunately, such simplistic homilies are used under a seemingly scientific garb of the quantitative index to the disadvantage of workers. For instance, to meet the ease of doing business targets, safety standards of factories are compromised. In 2016, the Maharashtra government abolished the annual mandatory inspection of steam boilers under the Boilers Act of 1923 and the Indian Boilers Regulation 1950. In its place “third party” inspection and employers’ self-certification are mandated. Reportedly, however, no factory has complied with self-certification or submitted the third party certification. Most other States have copied the Maharashtra practice. Hence, industrial safety standards have been practically abolished. Such a change is truly a case of a “race to the bottom”, to please the rating agency — NITI Aayog in this case. Time for a rethink To sum up, the World Bank’s decision to halt its annual ‘Doing Business’ report on account of data authenticity issues of some countries has implications for India. Since 2015, the government has invested considerable political and administrative capital to improve India’s global ranking, with impressive success. But the enhanced ranking has failed to augment investment and output growth. Why? Analytical and empirical foundations of the index are weak, if non-existent. The index is based on de jure measures, and not on de facto conditions. There is no credible association between improvement in ranking and a rise in capital formation and output growth, anywhere. Worst of all, it is an ideologically loaded measure against the interest of workers. It is time the World Bank rethinks its institutional investment in producing the ‘Doing Business’ report. India should do some soul searching as to why the much trumpeted rise in global ranking has failed miserably on the ground. R. Nagaraj was with the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-development-that-will-hardly-put-india-at-ease/article32482847.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||When crises pay politically||Contemporary India mirrors a pendulum oscillating between crises and a saviour. The recent acts of aggression by China and cartographic adventure by Nepal have underlined the question of national security and territorial integrity. The economy, already deteriorating since 2017, has experienced a further setback during the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, the forced movement of thousands of migrant workers in the wake of the sudden announcement of a nationwide lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi signified the state of the precariat of the republic, abandoned by both the state and, largely, society. This set of crises is partly systemic and partly the outcome of the Central government’s policy responses. From the vantage point of political economy, which assumes the people as rational actors, these should have heralded the beginning of the end of Mr. Modi’s populist regime. However, according to ground reports and national surveys, his popularity is on a constant rise. This presents a political puzzle. An unusual tenacity Contrary to the dominant argument that personality-driven populist regimes dissipate as quickly as they emerge, Mr. Modi’s India reveals a tenacity to surpass material and social crises by recreating and sustaining cultural narratives. Unlike the right-wing populist regime of the U.S., material and social crises in India do not seem to translate into a political predicament for the incumbent. In this sense, right-wing Hindutva populism operates in a specific and complex sociocultural matrix whose mechanisms go beyond the assumed ebbs and flows of populist regimes in general. Here, crises are not simply overcome; rather, they are created and utilised to further entrench and empower the image of the leader as the only saviour. The overarching majority breathes a sigh a relief for the fact that in all these testing times, the country is being led by Mr. Modi. This holds true even when the crises are created or aggravated by the Central government’s ineptitude, as was the case with the announcement of demonetisation or the social chaos on account of the lockdown. Some analysts have called this phenomenon as the shift from the politics of vikas to vishwas . However, the source and sheer intensity of the crises, and the shortcomings of the political-economy and political-sociology approaches to adequately understand Hindutva’s populism, warrants the employment of the framework of political psychology. This is desirable all the more in the backdrop of the euphoric societal reception of Mr. Modi as a startling political fact — particularly when it remains independent of one’s material condition — being primarily more psychological than logical. In this backdrop, the Indian case goes beyond the thesis of authoritarian resilience by political scientist Andrew J. Nathan, who explained how the Chinese authoritarian regime led by the Chinese Communist Party (CPC) has successfully been managing the democratic legitimacy crisis since the Tiananmen Square incident in 1989.  Contrary to Francis Fukuyama’s thesis, The End Of History , Mr. Nathan argues that the CPC’s strict adherence to elements like norm-bound succession politics, meritocracy over factionalism, employment of the structural-functional approach in the party, establishment of input institutions at the grass-roots levels and whopping economic success are the factors behind the resilience of the non-liberal authoritarian regime even after embracing avant-garde capitalism. Right-wing Hindutva populism does not have such mechanisms, nor does it seem to aspire for them. Rather, the Indian scenario resembles what the dissident Chinese novelist Yan Lianke termed shenshi zhuyi (mythorealism) that defies any rational attempt to establish a cause-and-effect relationship between events. Instead, it offers a grotesque, hilarious, distorted and precariat world wherein Kafkaesque absurdities constitute the everyday realities of public life. State of normative flux This shifts analytical focus back to the societal realm wherein laden with the ubiquity of the social media, something profound and sublime is taking place. The WhatsAppification of our everyday life has led to an unparalleled reach of the right-wing populist narrative. The resulting restructuring of society according to the ever-changing political expediencies of the populist regime ensures that norms and normalcy are fluid. Any thought which does not conform to their domineering cognitive wishes is labelled by the majority as being abnormal and extreme. Consequently, the Hindutva Right is perpetually obsessed with the idea of delineating authentic Indianness and declaring challengers as un-Indians. This choir derives a collective sadistic pleasure which will stop at nothing short of declaring a vast section of people as being spurious Indians, wherein the markers of authenticity are ever-expanding with time. The advent of deriving pleasure in the sufferings of one group by the other weaponises the public sphere with the discourse of political sadism. This, in turn, twists the obvious, and by deliberate mix and match of variables, leads to something grand but absurd. Hence, political sadism acts as a red herring and defines the contours of the rising wave of new politics. It offers a biographical solution for structural and systemic problems. When there are visible cracks in the material realm affecting the people, the political sadists aim at certitudes by tactically embracing a delusional but grand ideal. Therein the cultural realm emerges as the prime refuge. This state of affairs not only reinforces the primacy of cultural politics over the material one, but helps constitute a biographical villain even for the material crisis. It invests heavily in instrumental rationality where logic has become separate from moral standards. It keeps creating simplistic binaries of friends and enemies as per their cognitive desires. Among the deviants, no one is spared, whether an Army officer or a Shankaracharya. In this state of normative flux, there are neither restraints nor stakeholders of public probity. The participants constituting a significant section of society possess the need-for-chaos personality wherein disruption is constantly caused and cherished, followed by the grand invocation of the saviour to bring an order to the chaos. Therein, sections of the mainstream media and social media do their everyday bidding by devising a number of customised techniques to evoke desired psychic responses from society. In every case, while the leader is the sole saviour, the face of the villain keeps changing. This explains the celebration of absurdities in the wake of the pandemic. A public health crisis that quickly led to an economic crisis found the deafening clamour of “corona jihad” as the prime villain. While the COVID-19 crisis continues, the latest red herring is a news story targeting candidates in civil service exams on the basis of religion. Everyday presents a spectacle which defies any sense but sets the agenda of the day. These spectacles become the instrument of inflating pains of the past, real and imagined. The solution for the same is implicit. Thus, the saviour takes a mystical aura. Everydayness gets laden with the quest to define the moral decay and then tools to remedy it. The anchors of this discourse lack any sense of guilt as larger society resonates with their tune and both become a part of the populist discourse. Unfortunately, this phase seems to be there for the long haul, as we are in a state of democracy wherein we have an Opposition but no political action. They are full of angst but lack formidable convictions. Sajjan Kumar is a political analyst associated with Peoples Pulse||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/when-crises-pay-politically/article32482857.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Despite the messaging, it is still advantage China||Many U.S. companies as well as the analysts who advise them are cognisant of India’s goal of becoming an alternative supply source and investment destination to China. But based on conversations I have had with a number of different organisations and companies here in Washington, it is fair to say that expectations are tempered. First, despite media reports and strong messaging from Washington, fewer U.S. companies than predicted might quit the People’s Republic of China (PRC). Companies focused on the Chinese domestic market rather than as a base for exports will likely remain, at least for now. Those that do leave may not choose India as a relocation destination. Despite New Delhi’s noted success in attracting Apple suppliers to India, many U.S. companies with experience working with China are not convinced that India has the PRC’s established industrial base and expertise. They also see other Asian countries as more competitive. To change their minds, these sceptics must be convinced that India offers the benefits of China with fewer risks. The good and bad points To be sure, India’s identity as a democratic “un-China” is one of its strongest selling points. There are no Indian government hackers stealing foreign companies’ industrial secrets. Although Indian officials may have spurned a meeting with Amazon’s chief executive officer Jeff Bezos due to negative India-related reporting in his The Washington Post newspaper, that is a far cry from the coercive tactics that Beijing employs against criticism by foreign companies both within and outside of its borders. India’s open and vibrant press, independent judiciary, and other advantages of democratic governance also provide a favourable contrast to China. Yet, India might appear more like China to potential foreign investors than New Delhi might think, particularly given policies that seemingly disadvantage foreign investors who pose the greatest competitive threat to India’s domestic counterparts. To be clear, India’s goal of creating national champions is not necessarily anti-competitive in itself. But when policies such as taxes on foreign e-commerce companies and education providers seem constructed to disadvantage foreign investors, investors will stay away. India’s large and increasingly well-off domestic market, while alluring, will likely not convince foreign companies to accept limits and conditions they might not accept elsewhere. Although early foreign investors in China endured years of losses caused by disadvantageous PRC policies, today’s shareholders demand more accountability and faster profit-making from companies in which they are invested. There are also now many more competitor investment destinations, both within and outside of Asia. Why China scores Despite many documented negatives and the overall sour foreign relations picture right now, China continues to offer investors many advantages, such as a manufacturing infrastructure and skill level that allows innovations to move quickly from prototype to product. This took decades of strategic planning. India’s own planning has been impressively stepped up in recent months, with the government identifying key sectors; surveying major companies about perceived roadblocks to Indian investments; and increasing Invest India’s outreach. But more is needed. For example, China’s specialised industrial zones are massive, collocating companies, factories, logistics, and even research and universities. The Indian government Budget that pledged to create equivalent zones is too small and is allocated among too many locations to compete. Focus on States The recent World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute panel ruling against India’s special economic zones policies, which the Indian government intends to appeal, might actually provide a chance to take a fresh look at the kinds of WTO-consistent industrial bases that are possible. New Delhi can start by focusing development in those Indian States that have already demonstrated the ability to produce and export in key sectors. Foreign capital could also greatly increase infrastructure funds beyond government spending alone. India might also usefully build up new industrial centres with an eye to geography, for example linking the southeast of the country to supply chains in Southeast Asia. In fact, by putting resources into States not led by the ruling national party, India will signal clearly that it is committed to economic openness, no matter who is in power, reassuring investors. Work on the framework India has taken a great step to reduce the number of investments needing approval by the Centre, and to increase intra-Ministry coordination on foreign direct investment policies. The same coordination could usefully be extended to the appointment of a high-level official or body in the Prime Minister’s Office to ensure any and all proposed economic policy changes are consistent with the goal of attracting foreign investment. A policy framework that is transparent, predictable, and provides increased consultations with existing and potential foreign company stakeholders before introducing new Indian economic policies, will play a crucial role in determining India’s foreign investment outlook. Katherine B. Hadda is an adjunct fellow with the CSIS Wadhwani Chair in U.S.-India Policy Studies and a prior senior U.S. diplomat who most recently served as the U.S. Consul General in Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/despite-the-messaging-it-is-still-advantage-china/article32482849.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Popular ideas must replace populist ideas||The pandemic is one of the many ills affecting journalism. Indian broadcasting has become ‘narrow casting’ in terms of its social outlook, its adherence to standards, its ethical framework, and its growing inability to identify hate speech. We do not have journalistic language to describe the way some television channels have handled the tragic death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput or the bizarre programme on the “infiltration of Muslims” in the Civil Services on Sudarshan News, which was stayed by the Delhi High Court. Why should I, a news ombudsman for a legacy newspaper, worry about these developments in the world of television? A downward spiral The problem is that the downward spiral in the ethical standards of Indian news channels is hurting the reputation of journalism. When we analyse the trust factor in journalism, we need to look at the entire oeuvre of news and current affairs as one entity. I am not the only person who is alarmed by these developments. The Press Council of India has issued a statement advising media to adhere to journalistic norms. It reads: “The media should not narrate the story in a manner so as to induce the general public to believe in the complicity of the person indicted. Publishing information based on gossip about the line of investigation by the official agencies on the crime committed is not desirable. It is not advisable to vigorously report crime related issues on a day-to-day basis and comment on the evidence without ascertaining the factual matrix. Such reporting brings undue pressure in the course of fair investigation and trial.” However, the News Broadcasting Standards Authority has been silent about these ethical breaches that are undermining trust in journalism. It looks as if only the print media and some digital news organisations are practicing journalism, while a majority of broadcasters and their social media allies are amplifying the voices of demagogues. The 21st International Symposium on Online Journalism held in July, hosted by the Knight Center for Journalism, drew a distinction between journalism that lays emphasis on accountability and trust and the drivel that gets amplified on some broadcast platforms. A session chaired by Kathleen Kingsbury, Editorial Page Editor of The New York Times , looked at some of the threats to independent media. The participants discussed how populist leaders take over independent media, organise troll campaigns to discredit journalists, legally harass publications, publicly trash specific journalists, and orchestrate threats of violence. Aggressive media capture Sérgio Dávila, Editorial Director of Folha , Brazil’s largest independent newspaper, spoke of the crisis the newspaper is facing. When one of the reporters of his paper, Patrícia Campos Mello, investigated and reported how Jair Bolsonaro and his supporters used WhatsApp, Brazil’s most popular social network with 100 million users, to spread misinformation about a political opponent, they began a smear campaign against her, using doctored photos with sexual innuendoes. Peter Erdelyi, editor of the Hungarian news portal 444.hu , talked about aggressive media capture that is happening under the watch of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. He said: “Powerful oligarchs aligned with the party have acquired 18 independent newspapers in recent years. The government now controls a network of 476 print, radio and television news outlets.” Anna Gielewska, vice president of the Reporters Foundation in Poland, said: “Populists are more effective at stirring up fear and anger and manipulating the public. They fill social media with conflicting messages so that the public doesn’t know who to trust in the media.” The situation in Mexico is no different. Juan E. Pardinas, General Editorial Director of the newspaper Reforma , pointed out that when Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador won the presidency by an overwhelming margin in 2018, he neutralised his political opponents. He needed a new enemy and found one in the press. The Mexican government is the biggest source of advertising revenue in the country and the government uses this revenue flow to stifle independent voices. It is our democratic duty to replace populist ideas with the popular idea of journalism being a public good. To do that we must first hold our television channels accountable. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/popular-ideas-must-replace-populist-ideas/article32482853.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||An unedifying spectacle||The treatment of the Sushant Singh Rajput case by many TV news channels is a good example of how the interrelated concerns about ratings and revenues drive news coverage in substantial parts of the electronic media. Many of the national news channels have been devoting most of their time covering the controversies surrounding the unfortunate death of the up and coming actor. This is done in two formats. First, they attempt to provide “factual” coverage of the case through accounts by their reporters of the latest developments in the case that they have gleaned from their “sources”. Second, invited guests billed as experts on this and other similar cases analyse these developments. It is clear that many of these analysts’ comments based on incomplete information are akin to shooting in the dark. What is worrying is that several channels have transformed themselves into investigative agencies thus appropriating the role that belongs to the police, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and other government agencies. These channels compete with each other to show largely unverified details of the case sometimes implying that such developments implicate one person or another. A great deal of this information, according to them, is collected from WhatsApp messages, details of telephone records, and video recordings. There is little corroboration of the authenticity of such evidence by reputable and independent testing agencies. Moreover, some of the WhatsApp messages contradict what is being claimed in other messages. This leaves the viewer flummoxed. A matter of concern What is more disturbing is the claim by some channels that they have received much of the information on the case from investigative agencies ranging from the Enforcement Directorate to the CBI. The authorities need to verify if such claims are true. And if they are proved to be false, legal action should be taken against the offending channels. However, if their claims are true, this is a matter of greater concern because it could bring into serious doubt the reputation of India’s premier investigative agencies that may stand accused of making public details of an ongoing investigation and violating service rules. Furthermore, such leaks, if they have taken place, will leave pivotal agencies of the government open to legal challenges during the course of the case, especially if it turns out that the information allegedly leaked by them does not correspond to the eventually discovered facts. Blanket coverage An equally major offence that these news channels are committing is to turn the case of the unfortunate death of Sushant not only into a spectacle but also a matter of such national importance that it has almost completely dwarfed the coverage of multiple grave problems facing the nation. These include the pandemic that shows no sign of abating with cases rising exponentially and putting the public health system under unbearable strain. They also include the serious economic downturn that predates the pandemic but has been greatly exacerbated by the drastic reduction of economic activity following the outbreak. The sorry plight of millions of migrant labourers caused by the lockdown has been almost totally ignored in the rush to cover this case. The tensions on the India-China border that have the potential to escalate into a serious military conflict have also been all but forgotten. The mainstream electronic news media, it can be argued, has demonstrated a serious lack of judgment by distorting national priorities in its coverage presumably in search of ratings. If true, this shows a lack of moral sense that has turned an unfortunate death into a melodrama in order to capture viewership and increase revenues. So far, the social media has been the target of attack for irresponsible behaviour. The coverage of this case by the mainstream electronic news media lays it open to the same charge. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-unedifying-spectacle/article32482854.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Alone at the top||For most of this month, India has consistently been contributing the most number of daily confirmed COVID-19 infections to the world. This week, it reported 78,508 infections on a single day — a record single day spike — that has pushed the infection tally to over 3.6 million. In March, when the epidemic was yet to take hold in the country, there was the belief that it could be vanquished. In those days, projections based on epidemiological modelling which indicated that millions would be infected were met with denial by the government as well as disbelief by many, especially because of how it had pulverised medical health systems in Europe and the United States. The dominant note in the government’s narrative on how it has handled the pandemic is that it has kept India’s death rate low. India’s confirmed case fatality rate (CFR) is below 2% — totalling to over 64,500 deaths. The U.S. and Brazil, the only two countries with more cases than India, have a CFR of around 3% and a good number of countries that lead the COVID-19 tally have their confirmed deaths in that region. Were India too to have a similar death rate, that would work out to 103,000 deaths. Whether the nearly 40,000 averted deaths are so far evidence of a dodged bullet, or in part due to an undercount that results from States not reporting ‘suspected or probable deaths’ (as required by ICMR guidelines) and not medically certifying all deaths can only be known by more data being made available in the future for analysis. That the virus has managed to infect some of India’s most secluded tribes in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands is a pointer that it has now set deep roots within the country along with several other bacteria and viruses that thrive in India’s tropical climate. Its invincibility has contributed to the widespread adoption of face covers and masks and the vital role of maintaining hygiene and avoiding crowds. These are welcome behavioural changes that will serve well in the future when India will continue to grapple with seasonal outbreaks and epidemics of influenza, dengue as well as its old scourge of TB. The health-care system being pushed to its breaking point has also underlined the country’s historical neglect of widespread affordable health care as well as the paucity of qualified personnel to treat the poor. In spite of the availability of sophisticated labs and expert scientists and doctors, India continues to struggle to develop indigenous testing kits as well as conduct well-designed trials to check for the efficacy of drugs that might help with the infection. There must be deep reckoning to fix gaps in the manufacturing and product delivery chain to put in place new habits and erect a stronger line of defence against future blights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/alone-at-the-top/article32482843.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||For the weakest||The Supreme Court has given cogent reasons for a reconsideration of the verdict given by a five-judge Bench in 2004 that State legislatures have no power to create sub-classifications among the list of Scheduled Castes notified by the President. A five-judge Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra has affirmed the competence of the States to give preferential treatment to the weakest among the Scheduled Castes without depriving other castes of any benefit. The Court has noted that the SC list contains many castes and cannot be treated as a homogeneous group. It has recognised the obligation of States to identify for preferential treatment those sections within the SC communities to whom reservation benefits had not trickled down, and were in the same state of backwardness for decades. The Bench has disagreed with the formulation in E.V. Chinnaiah vs. State of Andhra Pradesh (2004) that classifying Scheduled Castes into groups amounts to ‘tinkering’ with the Presidential list. Also, the Constitution has been amended in 2018 to introduce Article 342A under which the President notifies, in consultation with the States, the list of Backward Classes, with a caveat similar to the ones in respect of Scheduled Castes (Article 341) and Scheduled Tribes (Article 342) that Parliament can make inclusions or exclusions in this list, and that once such a change is notified, “it shall not be varied by any subsequent notification”. What is the effect of this? The Court says it could mean that just as the BC list can be divided into ‘backward’ and ‘more backward’, the same could be done among SCs too. As E.V. Chinnaiah is also a verdict by a Bench with a strength of five, the matter has been referred to a larger Bench. If the judgment is reconsidered, it would provide welcome relief to States that wish to fulfil their obligation to the castes within the SC communities that have made the least progress. In the present case, the affected State was Punjab, which wanted to give preference to Balmikies and Mazhabi Sikhs among seats reserved for SC candidates, but the measure was struck down by the High Court, citing E.V. Chinnaiah . Tamil Nadu has also carved out 3% compartment for Arundhatiyars within the 18% SC quota. Such affirmative action programmes will be protected if a larger Bench overturns the Chinnaiah formulation. However, the outcome may not be an unmixed blessing for Dalits at large. Recent jurisprudence is veering towards the view that the ‘creamy layer’ concept should be applied to SC/ST candidates too. Given the oppression and marginalisation Dalits continue to face, it is a moot question whether this is the appropriate time to begin excluding some of them on the ground that they are better off than the rest of the community. The concern should be less about the ‘creamy layer’ occupying posts under SC quota and more about ensuring adequate representation to the most marginalised among Dalits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-the-weakest/article32482842.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The Cholera menace (From an Editorial)||The World Health Organisation has uttered the warning that this year the geographical extension of the cholera epidemic might be greater than in previous years. In many parts of Asia it is more or less endemic and generally flares up in the wake of floods, as in Assam and East Pakistan. Governments have learnt by bitter experience to tackle the disease and to undertake inoculation campaigns in time and on a large enough scale. Recently cholera has been reported from Israel in what has been called “the most westerly examples” of the disease. Usually European countries are free of this scourge and also countries where modern standards of sanitation prevail. It was therefore a matter for great concern to the Soviet authorities when cholera made its unexpected appearance in Astrakhan. They closed down some of the country’s southern ports, including the well known one of Odessa. The citizens of the region were asked to observe some essential precautions. Italy has also put into effect necessary precautions in and around its ports at which ships from the east call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-cholera-menace-from-an-editorial/article32482851.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Cunnan Chettiar memorial meet.||The citizens of Madras assembled on Sunday evening last at a memorial meeting to express their deep sense of sorrow at the loss sustained by the City and the Presidency by the death of Rao Bahadur Calavala Cunnan Chettiar, a merchant Prince, a philanthropic of non-sectarian views and an ardent patriot and to take steps to perpetuate his memory in suitable manner. The meeting was representative of all classes and creeds. Among those present were the Honorable Mr. Justice T.V. Sheshagiri Aiyar, Mrs Besant, Messers S. Kasturiranga Aiyangar, K.M. Stathem, C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar, Dewan Bahadur D.A. Govindraghava Aiyer, Rao Bahadur T. Rangachariar and S. Satyamurthi. Mr. Kasturiranga Aiyangar moved the following resolution — This public meeting of the citizens of Madras desire to record their profound sorrow and grief at the untimely death of Rao Bahadur Calavala Cunnan Chettiar whose patriotic and philanthropic munificence and activities on behalf of his fellow countrymen will ever be gratefully cherished by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cunnan-chettiar-memorial-meet/article32482850.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I am a State government employee. I deposited Rs. 1.50 lakh in my PPF account. The department is deducting Rs. 72,000 towards my NPS account. (This is the mandatory 10% basic + DA deduction). Can I claim a deduction of Rs. 50,000 u/s 80CCD(1B) on behalf of this NPS saving? I have not made any other voluntary deposit in this account.  Ravinder Singh A.Amounts contributed by your employer towards NPS are covered under 80CCD(1) and 80CCD(2) towards employee and employer contributions, respectively. Any voluntary contribution towards NPS shall only be covered under 80CCD(1B), thus the additional Rs. 50,000 benefit prescribed cannot be claimed by you under 80CCD(1B) as no voluntary contribution has been done. However, benefits can be availed for NPS contributions under 80CCD(1) and 80CCD(2) done by your employer on behalf of you and your employer in the following manner. 80CCD(1) limits are clubbed with 80CCE limits and as you have exhausted the same through your contribution towards PPF (under 80C), you will not be eligible for any claim over and above Rs. 1.50 lakh. With respect to 80CCD(2), you may claim a maximum deduction of 10% of basic plus DA (for non-central government employees) and the same is outside the purview of Rs. 1.50 lakh (80CCE) and Rs. 50,000 (80CCD(1B)). You may take the break-up of the Rs. 72,000 from your employer and claim the deduction based on the explanations provided above. Q.My daughter has received some amount from the sale of unlisted shares owned by her. She already owns a residential flat. She has held the shares for more than two years. Can she buy another residential property or 54EC bond to claim tax exemption? Showkathali M.K. A.As the unlisted shares were held for over 2 years, they are long-term capital assets. She is eligible for exemption under section 54F as she owns only one residential property as on the date of sale of the unlisted shares and exemption under section 54EC will also apply to her provided the investment is made within 6 months of date of sale. Q.My daughter (married) is studying DNB (post graduation after MBBS) in a private hospital. This course is conducted by the National Board of Diploma of G0I. This is a 3- year course. She is paying Rs. 1.25 lakh as tuition fee annually. She is also getting Rs. 50,000 as monthly stipend. In 2019-20 PY, she received Rs. 5 lakh in stipend. The hospital authorities are deducting I-T monthly. 1) I want to know whether the stipend income is taxable? 2) lf so, can the ' tuition fee’ be deducted from gross income? 3) As source deduction of tax has already been made, she is bound to file returns. If the stipend is not taxable, how can this income be shown in the returns? 4) If the tuition fee cannot be shown as deduction in her return, can the same be done in my return?  V.P. Somasekharan A.1. Stipend received by doctors pursuing higher education from private hospitals is a taxable income and considered as emoluments towards performing duties like a full-time doctor while gaining experience and is not perceived as monies received towards scholarship for education. Only amounts received towards scholarship is exempt under tax. Income tax is to be paid in accordance with slab rates applicable for individuals. 2. No, deductions for payment of tuition fee is not allowed from stipend income as this tuition fee paid is not connected with the earning of the stipend. 3. If the hospital is providing Form 16, the same is to be declared under “Income from Salaries”, if provided with Form 16A, the same is to be declared under “Income from Other Sources” or “income from business or profession” under applicable ITR. 4. Deduction towards tuition fee paid for two children can be claimed by the parent if the fee is paid to a registered university, school or an education institution based in India for full-time education courses under Section 80C. In your case, as your daughter is paying the fee herself, you cannot claim any deduction in this regard;  (The author is partner, GSS & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article32482837.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article32482839.ece
31 August 2020||New York,||Bubble-wrapped US Open unfolds today||The US Open becomes the first Grand Slam of the COVID-19 era when it starts on Monday in a spectator-free bubble at Flushing Meadows following a troubled build-up that saw several top stars withdraw over coronavirus fears. Novak Djokovic and Serena Williams headline a tournament that will be unrecognisable from previous Slams due to strict safety protocols that were still not enough to convince some of tennis' biggest names to travel to New York. High-profile absentees Defending champion Rafael Nadal and women's No. 1 Ashleigh Barty are among high-profile absentees at the US National Tennis Center. Raucous crowds are a hallmark of the US Open, but this time the cavernous Arthur Ashe Stadium will be eerily empty. The players are being kept in a tightly controlled environment with regular testing throughout the tournament. Any competitor who tests positive once the event has started will be automatically withdrawn. Most competitors are staying at one of two hotels about 30 minutes from the venue. A few, including Djokovic and Williams, have chosen to stay in private homes where they must pay for 24-hour security approved by the United States Tennis Association (USTA). The absence of World No. 2 Nadal and Swiss legend Roger Federer, who is recovering from knee surgery, give Djokovic a golden chance to close the gap on his fierce rivals in the records race. A win would take the 33-year-old to 18 Grand Slam titles, behind Nadal on 19 and Federer on 20. Djokovic has captured five of the past seven men's singles Slam crowns and is overwhelming favourite to capture a fourth US Open title. A depleted women's field hands Serena a gilt-edged opportunity for a 24th career Grand Slam title to match Margaret Court's all-time record. Paire tests positive France’s Benoit Paire, the 17th seed, tested positive for COVID-19 and pulled out of the tournament. He was scheduled to play Poland’s Kamil Majchrzak in the first round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bubble-wrapped-us-open-unfolds-today/article32482962.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Djokovic-led move to form players’ body opposed by Federer and Nadal||The Novak Djokovic-led move to form Professional Tennis Players Association (PTPA), a breakaway players’ body outside the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP), has set alarm bells ringing. The World No. 1 is the current head of the ATP Player Council, but is understood to have resigned along with Canadian Vasek Pospisil and American John Isner. The PTPA said that it was not aiming to replace the ATP, with Pospisil announcing that it was “simply to unify the players and have an impact on decisions being made that affect our lives and livelihoods.” But the ATP sees it as a clear threat. A letter co-signed by Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Kevin Anderson — all members of the Player Council — stated that the new association cannot co-exist with the ATP and asked those enthusiastic about it to think about the repercussions if tournaments went against them. The tremendous public goodwill that Federer and Nadal enjoy vis-a-vis Djokovic seems to have already skewed the debate against the latter, but it would be wrong to brush aside genuine player concerns. Last year, Pospisil and Djokovic were at the forefront of pressuring the Grand Slams to increase the total prize money. The contention was that at less than 20% of the total revenue earned by a Major, the payout was far too low. The nuanced position Andy Murray took on Saturday was reflective of this when he called on the Grand Slams to increase compensation, and said that he was not totally against a players’ union. The Brit didn’t join PTPA because he wanted the current ATP management to be given more time, and for women to be part of the conversation. While Nadal publicly questioned the timing of Djokovic’s move — in the middle of a global pandemic — the health crisis appears to have accelerated it. When tennis ground to a halt in March, those in the lower rung reeled for months without income. A player-led initiative came up with a relief fund, but the fact that it was left to a section of players to bail out the rest showed that the pay structure was flawed. Bopanna’s opinion India’s top doubles player Rohan Bopanna, while signing up for the new body, told The Hindu that the players’ voice went unheard, both in the past and during the lockdown. “The communication has been very poor,” he said. India’s top-ranked singles player Sumit Nagal is joining PTPA too. Tennis has always prided itself on treating players as “independent contractors” who are solely in control of their destinies. But with points and ranking, the two things that define a player, being the preserve of the ATP, are they truly independent? The ATP also co-owns tournaments, making its position as a players' representative questionable. It is this very structure that the PTPA, a players-only body, is challenging by giving itself collective bargaining power rather than being treated as “independent contractors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-led-move-to-form-players-body-opposed-by-federer-and-nadal/article32482949.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lakshya Institute sets its target high||Delighted with the Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puraskar, the Lakshya Institute has set its target high and has vowed to help athletes win Olympic medals. After being set up in 2010 to nurture budding talent and achieve sporting excellence, Lakshya has supported more than a 100 players across nine disciplines. It has helped them win 238 international and 445 national medals, spending about Rs. 13 crore on them. It supported 12 athletes to represent the country in the last two Olympics in London and Rio. “With the award comes the responsibility. Our aim is to help as many athletes as we can. With the pandemic, the financial situation of the corporate world will be down. Challenge is to sustain through this period and not let our players down,” said Sunder Iyer, secretary - Lakshya Institute. At the moment, Lakshya supports 40 players across eight disciplines. Boxers Pooja Rani and Simranjit Kaur have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. It has seven more hopefuls eyeing Tokyo berths. Sharath Kamal, Rutuja Bhosale, Vidit Gujrathi, Sonia Lather, Sunil Kumar and Swapnil Kusale are some of the leading players supported by Lakshya. Top shooters like Rahi Sarnobat and Anjum Moudgil had also enjoyed the it’s support. “The focus last decade was to ensure many players represented the country in the Olympics. The focus for the next decade will be on how players can start winning more medals for India in the Olympics,” said Sunder. Lakshya has utilised the services of 19 mentors, 28 sports science experts in guiding the players. Vishal Chordia, the president of Lakshya, received the award in Pune, on the National Sports Day. The team of Lakshya thanked the numerous sponsors from the corporate world who had extended invaluable support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-institute-sets-its-target-high/article32483117.ece
31 August 2020||Chennai,||Finding Raina’s replacement a challenge||Suresh Raina will be missed by Chennai Super Kings. He is arguably the most influential player for CSK after the charismatic M.S. Dhoni. It is believed Raina found it demanding to stay alone in the hotel room when there had been a bereavement in his family — the cricketers were quarantined in their rooms till they cleared the first three Covid tests in Dubai — and this bio-secure bubble finally took its toll mentally on the busy batsman. The challenge before CSK is to find someone at No. 3 who could fill the void following Raina’s departure. While CSK will seek a replacement for Raina — the franchise could zero in on a strokeful top-order batsman — the side already had two viable options in the squad. The experienced M. Vijay and the young Ruturaj Gaikwad are two names that will be seriously considered by CSK. However, Ruturaj, who has tested positive, has to recover in time that puts his participation in the early matches in doubt. While Vijay has made a name for himself in Tests with technical purity and patience, he can pull out a very different attacking game in T20s. And he has a fair record in the IPL with 2587 runs in 103 matches at a creditable strike rate of 122.83. And last season, when the opportunities for him were limited, Vijay made 64 runs in two matches, under difficult batting conditions at Chepauk. But then, Vijay who bats with a different mind-set and opens up his game — clearing his front leg and hoisting the ball over mid-wicket is among his favourite strokes — in T20s has seen glory days in IPL. In the 2016 edition, Vijay notched up 453 runs for Kings XI Punjab at (SR) 124.45. Going further back, Vijay made 458 (SR of 156.84) runs for CSK in 2010, including a brutal 127 against Rajasthan Royals. Although 36, Vijay has kept himself fit and can make the mental and technical switch for the IPL. Being an opener, walking in at No. 3 should not bother him.. Natural strokemaker Ruturaj is a natural strokemaker who can both pierce the gaps and clear the field. Just 22, his performances for India-A have been impressive. Ahead of leaving for Dubai, CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said both Vijay and Ruturaj had been striking the ball impressively at the Chennai camp. One of them may have a crucial role to play in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/finding-rainas-replacement-a-challenge/article32482956.ece
31 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,||India and Russia joint champions||First there was bitter disappointment. Then it was pure joy. It turned out to be an unforgettable day for Indian chess. India and Russia were on Sunday declared joint winners of the online Chess Olympiad by FIDE, the world chess governing body, after two games in the second match were affected by internet problems. India had been at the receiving end of both those games. As many as 163 countries took part in the tournament in which India started as the seventh seed. Top seed Russia started as the favourite. In the second match, Divya Deshmukh looked in a winning position against Polina Shuvalova, while Nihal Sarin could have drawn with Andrey Esipenko, when both Indians got disconnected from the server. They lost the games on time. If India had got 1.5 points from those games, the second match also would have been drawn (3-3) like the first one and the Armageddon game (tie-breaker) would have come into play. The Indian team management appealed to FIDE, requesting a fair solution. “FIDE president Arkady Dvorkovich took the decision that the gold should be shared by India and Russia after it became clear that the internet outage had disrupted the match,” India’s non-playing captain N. Srinath told The Hindu . “We should appreciate the Russians who could have claimed that they had won the second match and thus the gold,” said Humpy.  The Indian squad:   Vidit Gujrathi (Capt.), Viswanathan Anand, P. Harikrishna, Koneru Humpy, Dronavalli Harika, R. Vaishali, Bhakti Kulkarni, Nihal Sarin, R. Praggnanandhaa, Aravindh Chithambaram, Bhakti Kulkarni, Divya Deshmukh and Vantika Agrawal.   We are the champions!! Congrats Russia! Anand’s tweet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-and-russia-joint-champions/article32482953.ece
31 August 2020||Hyderabad,||SRH is a team with special bonding: Laxman||Sunrisers Hyderabad mentor V.V.S. Laxman said that SRH is not just a franchisee, but is like a family and has always been a team with a special bonding among all members. Introducing some of the new members of the squad for IPL 2020 to be held in UAE, Laxman suggested to all the players to be friendly with each other and continue to show the same kind of team spirit and togetherness which they have shown in the previous seasons. Different challenge “I am sure it is a different kind of challenge for all and ultimately you all will be looking forward to playing the game which you love so much,” he said. And when Laxman introduced, through a video posted on the SRH social platform, the newcomers conveyed their desire to give their best whenever they get the opportunity. “I come from Jammu and Kashmir. This is my first IPL and I have been waiting for long for this to happen. I am grateful to all the coaches and the senior players for giving me invaluable tips to pick up a few tricks,” said batsman Abdul Samad. Hyderabad’s B. Sandeep, one of the most consistent players in Ranji Trophy for close to a decade now, said he would put his best effort to live up to the expectations of the franchisee. “Any effort for the team’s cause will be my top priority,” he said. Uttar Pradesh batsman Priyam Garg said he was excited as this happened to be the first IPL for him too. “I am waiting for the big opportunity to repose the faith shown in me by the franchisee,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srh-is-a-team-with-special-bonding-laxman/article32483207.ece
31 August 2020||MANCHESTER,||Morgan and Malan do it for England||England beat Pakistan by five wickets to win the second T20I on Sunday. Skipper Eoin Morgan scored 66 and shared a third-wicket stand of 112 with Dawid Malan (54 not out) to take the hosts home. The series concludes here on Tuesday.  The scores:   Pakistan 195 for four in 20 overs (Mohd. Hafeez 69, Babar Azam 56) lost to England 199 for five in 19.1 overs (Jonny Bairstow 44, Dawid Malan 54 n.o., Eoin Morgan 66).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morgan-and-malan-do-it-for-england/article32482954.ece
31 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Laszlo is CFC’s new head coach||Chennaiyin FC on Sunday announced that it has signed Csaba Laszlo as its new head coach for the 2020-21 season. With more than two decades of coaching experience, this will be the 56-year-old Romanian-born Hungarian’s first stint in Asia. “I am incredibly proud and happy to become the head coach of Chennaiyin FC. It is my privilege to join the club on its completion of six successful years. I believe Chennaiyin is a close-knit family-like club that chases excellence with absolutely passionate fans by its side at all times. And I’m so happy now to be a part of this family. Together with my coaching staff, we will do everything possible to take Chennaiyin to greater heights,” said Laszlo. On the biggest challenge of taking up the responsibility at a short notice, the coach told The Hindu : “A big challenge, I believe, will be to play the games without our fans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laszlo-is-cfcs-new-head-coach/article32482951.ece
31 August 2020||New York,||Djokovic wins 35th Masters crown||Novak Djokovic tied Rafael Nadal’s record by earning his 35th title at a Masters 1000 tournament, overcoming a sluggish start to beat Milos Raonic 1-6, 6-3, 6-4 in the Western & Southern Open final on Saturday and improve to 23-0 this season. Djokovic was listless in the first set. It took all of 30 minutes for Raonic, a Canadian ranked No. 30, to take that set. But Djokovic asserted himself in the second set, breaking to lead 3-2 with a backhand passing shot and raising his right fist. In the third, Djokovic broke twice more, and eventually the 33-year-old from Serbia was raising his arms to mark his 80th career title and 61st on hard-courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-wins-35th-masters-crown/article32482960.ece
31 August 2020||KOLKATA,||ASBC webinar underlines safety of boxers||In the first international boxing webinar, organised by the Asian Boxing Confederation (ASBC), the continental body advised various stakeholders to give priority to safety while holding training camps. Stressing the well-being of athletes, ASBC executive director Ali Salameh said the high number of COVID-19 cases in different countries forced ASBC to postpone all events, including the Asian championship scheduled in India towards the end of the year, to 2021. ASCB Medical Commission member Dr. Karanjeet Singh spoke about the symptoms of COVID-19, its transmission, treatment, precautionary measures, training restrictions and ways to do contact and non-contact training. About sparring, an essential part of contact training, Dr. Karanjeet said, “The virus can spread if a person is affected. It will not, if the person is not affected.” He suggested a bio-secure environment, including limited access to gym and team training (for less than 10 persons) with minimum personal space of 10 feet, for contact training. If a boxer is preparing for a competition, then he/she should be prepared to self-quarantine for 14 days, Dr. Karanjeet said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/asbc-webinar-underlines-safety-of-boxers/article32483115.ece
31 August 2020||Barcelona,||Messi skips COVID testing with Barcelona||LaLiga on Sunday released a statement saying Lionel Messi’s Barcelona contract was still valid hours after he failed to attend a pre-season medical on Sunday. The ruling body said the only way for the Argentine forward to be released from the contract was to trigger a €700-million release clause.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-skips-covid-testing-with-barcelona/article32482965.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 07:02 IST,||Sudoku - August 31, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-august-31-2020/article32483643.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||BIPOC||The acronym for Black Indigenous and People of Other Colour, the term gained traction on the internet when the #BlackLivesMatter movement grew in the wake of George Floyd’s death in the US in May. Young people, aware of the intersectionality of politics and culture, and unwilling to be pushed around agenda-driven impositions, brought conversations around BIPOC to the fore, to unite people of all colours and expand its ambit. Different voices and aspirations amplified to acknowledge (rather than dehumanise) diversity in skin colour, race, and hair, it was in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic that the BIPOC movement went beyond a trend to advocate for inclusivity across all areas of life, from politics to skin care. There is a positive impact in embracing BIPOC, says Professor Gita Sen, director of social determinants of health at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru. The force behind such a movement has to do with the narrative and who/what controls society. Everyone has the right to take care of their body, mind, and soul, she says, and agrees that the so-called norms are dictated by the domination of multi-billion dollar industries. Invisible discrimination has damaging effect on wellness in the long run. A classic case is that of the cosmetics industry that whitewashed identities. A limited number of products that catered mostly to a particular skin colour meant that the ‘me’ blurs, as the mindset to surrender to outward appearances rules, and making us feel less than our real worth, says Delhi-based dermatologist Dr. Navjyot Arora with Manipal Hospitals. He reminds us that when communities are under-represented, they also remain outside the gambit of any medical research. Standardising beauty norms, so that a native of Ladakh, an adivasi from Jharkhand, a tribal from Wayanad all look the same, perpetuates stereotypes, and is one of the factors for poor mental health. The BIPOC movement can, to some extent, normalise and powerfully empower even the most ordinary, neglected and marginalised. “People of Colour may not have a resonance in India yet and the impetus is not directly health-related but it surely has health implications,” says Prof Sen. The cross-racial movement is coming of age with BIPOC beauty brands — specifically meant for women of colour to enhance their beauty routine — now entering the market. It at least shows the recognition of the diversity. July was in fact observed as BIPOC mental health month to underline that the spectrum of existence and experience can be respected.  In this column, we decode the buzzwords in health and wellness||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bipoc/article32483279.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Shripad Sinnakaar, Poet, 22, Mumbai||Preferred pronouns: he/they (identifies as gender non-binary )  Follow for: Poems on the queer experience When Shripad Sinnakaar was in junior college, he was bullied, perceived as effeminate. There were no friends, the authorities were not supportive, and he could not tell his parents about the bullying. So he turned to poetry. “It has been six years now, and it was initially a necessity, though amateurish,” he says, of his first poems that he churned out at the rate of four or five a day. “Today, I write maybe one in four months. I’ll jot down ideas and then develop them slowly.” Shripad, who is doing a postgraduate degree in Philosophy at Mumbai University, says his surroundings affect him the most. “I live in Dharavi, and the space is both limiting and liberating. It’s about how I fit my queer identity into this.” Through his poetry, he’s trying to find answers to life’s complexities: if he’s taken out of the space, how his poetry will change. Read his poetry at:Medium.com/@shripadsinnakaar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/shripad-sinnakaar-poet-22-mumbai/article32483286.ece
31 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Confusion reigns over school fees||“Hello fellow parents. I just wanted to know if schools in Gurgaon are now allowed to collect charges other than tuition fees or not. I have come across many parents stating schools are now asking for annual charges too. What is the latest update?? [sic],” read a recent post on an online forum for Gurugram parents. “Can someone guide, Are schools allowed to charge all kind of charges w.e.f. April 2020? [sic],” asked another poster. Scores of parents promptly replied with their own experiences and many conceded that they have been paying charges beyond the tuition fee. Some said they have been paying annual charges since the lockdown, while others asserted that schools have been asking for infrastructure and development charges as well. Only a few seemed to have clarity on government directions regarding the matter. Adding to the confusion, a few schools have generated fee invoices citing a month-old order by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Sarv Vidyalaya Sangh vs. State of Haryana and others . As per the court order, disposed of in terms of Independent Schools’ Association (Regd.) & others vs. State of Punjab and others, schools are entitled to collect the tuition fee, irrespective of whether they offered online classes during the lockdown or not. The court also allows the schools to collect admission fee and “their actual expenditure incurred under the annual charges for the period the school remained closed, including actual transport charges and actual building charges”. The court order further asks schools not to increase fee for 2020-21 and adopt the same fee structure as of 2019-20. Lodge a complaint Gurugram District Education Officer Capt. Indu Boken, however,saidthat the Education Department still goes by the Haryana government orders restricting schools to collect only tuition fee. “The director of the Education Department is also party to the High Court case and there are no fresh directions from his office contradicting earlier orders on tuition fee. All other charges have been deferred till the time schools open. However, the Haryana government has allowed schools to bar students from online classes in case the parents refuse to pay the tuition fee,” Capt. Boken clarified. Capt. Boken claimed that more than 500 complaints have been received from parents since the lockdown and all of them were settled to the satisfaction of the complainants. Any complaints can be forwarded to the Fee and Funds Regulatory Committee headed by the Divisional Commissioner. “In all cases, the schools agreed to adhere to the government directions after being served notices by the Education Department. However, in case of Pathways World School in Aravali, we had to write to the director seeking action. But the parents later moved the court,” said Capt. Boken. She added that parents from Heritage Xperiential School and Pathways World School had complained about charging of a “composite fee” and refusal to share the break-up giving the tuition fee. “It is clear that schools can only charge tuition fee. After we approached Heritage Xperiential School, the parents were allowed to make payments as per their convenience,” said Capt. Boken. Haryana Education Minister Kawarpal Gujjar told The Hindu that the government had written to the Advocate General of Haryana, and will soon file an appeal against the High Court order before the Division Bench. Counsel for Haryana School Parents Welfare League, an intervener on behalf of parents’ association in the case, Pardeep Kumar Rapria said as per rule 14.2 of the CBSE affiliation by-laws, unaided school maintain a reserve fund and this should be used to meet the present crisis instead of charging the parents. Mr. Rapria said that the court allowing schools to collect fee even if they were not offering online classes was not “justified”, and added that the court order was against the interests of parents and allowed schools to collect additional charges besides tuition. ‘Justified to seek fees’ However, Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (Gurugram) president Col. K. Pratap Singh said schools were justified in seeking charges as per the HC order.. He argued that the court order was seen as a “relief to private schools”, but it actually was not. “Even a static bus costs Rs. 52,607 per month to a school owing to salaries of drivers, conductors and maids; and host of taxes. Similarly, schools have to pay minimum electricity charges for the sanctioned load running into thousands of rupees,” said Col. Singh. He added that the court had prohibited an increase in fee this year and this itself had reduced the burden for parents by 10-15%. “The government thinks parents are the losers as they are making noise and do not want to make payment,” said Col. Singh. “The school have no other source of income for revenue except the fee. Budget schools are suffering,” he said, while asserting that composite fee was a “legal term” and schools were justified to charge under this component. Similar issue in Delhi Parents in Delhi have also been complaining about schools charging fees apart from tuition, including earmarked levies such as transportation, annual and development charges. In an order issued on April 18, the Delhi government said that schools can only charge tuition on a monthly basis during the lockdown. Aprajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents’ Association, said: “This month, we started receiving numerous complaints from parents that private schools have started charging fees apart from tuition. Schools are justifying this by saying that unlock orders have been issued.” She added that schools were trying to violate Delhi government orders by finding loopholes and were not being taken to task. She added that the association has sought a meeting with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to discuss the issue and that they have prepared a list of schools that have started hiking school fees/charging fees under different heads in violation of the order issued by the Directorate of Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/confusion-reigns-over-school-fees/article32483147.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Up to 40% of beds occupied by outsiders in August, says govt.||The Capital recorded 2,024 new COVID-19 cases and 22 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Sunday. It added that 1,249 patients also recovered during the same period, taking the total number of active cases to 14,793. Delhi has recorded 1,73,390 COVID-19 cases and 4,426 deaths since the pandemic started. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the government would double the number of tests conducted in the city to curb the spread of the virus, but the figures in the health bulletin showed that this is yet to happen. The government said, 6,881 RT-PCR tests and 13,555 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, which is similar to the number of tests conducted last week. The Delhi government also shared data on Sunday showing that over the past month, between 20-40% beds in city hospitals have been occupied by patients from outside the Capital, especially from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Health Minister Satyendar Jain had recently said that the rise in the number of cases was due to people coming in from other States for treatment in Delhi.  It has been stated that on August 27, out of 401 patients admitted in hospitals here, 104 patients were from outside the city – 52 from Uttar Pradesh and 18 from Haryana. In private hospitals The trend, the government said, was also similar when it comes to private hospitals in Delhi. The data showed several people who did not hail from the Capital also died here. Earlier, when the number of cases were rising in June, Mr. Kejriwal had called for reservation of beds in Delhi government hospitals for Delhiites. However, this decision was overruled by the Lieutenant-Governor. The Capital now has 820 containment zones and 7,527 people are under home isolation here. Out of the 14,145 available hospital beds, 4,030 are occupied and out of the 599 beds at dedicated COVID-19 health centres, 336 are occupied. At dedicated COVID-19 care centre, which have 10,143 beds, 5,113 are vacant at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-to-40-of-beds-occupied-by-outsiders-in-august-says-govt/article32483107.ece
31 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||AAP seeks CBI probe into ‘scam’||A day after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ordered the Chief Secretary to conduct a thorough probe into an alleged scholarship scam, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has termed it an eyewash and demanded a CBI probe into the matter. Leader of the Opposition and MLA Harpal Singh Cheema on Sunday alleged that the State government was attempting to save all those involved in the Schedule Caste scholarship case, including a Cabinet Minister, and the process of getting a clean chit from the Chief Secretary has been initiated. Mr. Cheema demanded that the investigation be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any Central agency under the supervision of sitting judge of the High Court. “The probe is a mere eyewash to divert attention of people,” he said. Hitting out at the Chief Minister for calling AAP a ‘rouge party’, Mr. Cheema said that his party will go to any extent to protect the interests of the people of Punjab as well as the country. “AAP, which is a result of mass movement against the corrupt system, does not need any certificate from Captain Amarinder Singh,” he said. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had also requested Union Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawar Chand Gehlot to recommend a CBI inquiry into what she alleged a Rs. 63 crore scholarship scam. ‘Rule of law’ Earlier, Capt. Amarinder had stated that nobody could be put on the mat without a fair probe and proper inquiry, which Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot also deserved. “There is rule of law, which needs to be followed,” said the Chief Minister, adding that he would not succumb to Opposition pressure in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-seeks-cbi-probe-into-scam/article32483135.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Water drop||One billion litres. That’s the amount of water that can be saved each year if just 1% of the Chennai population makes the switch to a water saving shower filter instead of the regular one. So says Pavithra Rao, Co-founder of WaterScience, a company established in 2014, that designs and makes a range of water saving shower and tap fittings that also clean non-drinking water. “The objective is to provide better quality water. Our shower filter saves up to 70% of water directly as it mixes water with air and as a result it is not a stream of water but a thick mist of tiny water droplets that come out of the shower,” explains Pavithra, who also heads marketing and growth strategy department. Their latest innovation is aromatherapy pads infused with natural essential oils that can be fitted to the shower filter. This is an effort to upgrade the daily showering experience into that of a spa. Here Pavithra fields questions on the devices. Are non-drinking water filtration products a part of a niche segment? We are at a place where the drinking water RO filters segment stood 15 years ago. Today, you see an RO filter for drinking water almost in every house. People are aware and actively looking for products to filter water used for bathing. Our customers are from Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru, Delhi-NCR and Pune. In 2016, we manufactured the standard shower filter; a year later we launched the shower and tap filters. Last year, we launched a multi-flow filter, and water saving shower filter. It is bound to grow. On Amazon and Flipkart, you find companies that import such products from China and sell it here. We directly manufacture at our facility in Bengaluru. Who develops the products? Our co-founder Sudeep Nadukkandy faced personal struggles with poor quality water. As there were no affordable and easy solutions in the Indian market, it sparked an idea. Sudeep’s technical background led him to design WaterScience’s flagship product, the CLEO Shower Filter.  The other co-founder Mohammad Iqbal is a serial entrepreneur who has experience setting up  telecom, real-estate, and retail businesses. They brainstormed and developed an entire range of shower filters and tap filters. All our products contribute indirectly to water saving by easing the stress of available water resources. Globally, water availability and quality has been at a decline for the past few decades. As availability becomes an issue, quality gets compromised. It’s a concern and we need to have solutions. Why do we need a filter? We’re not drinking the water. People can use water from two sources: Municipal water and bore well. The Municipal water has chlorine to disinfect the water of microbes. Chlorine is a skin irritant and it leaves your hair and skin feeling dry. Chlorine needs to be eliminated from water. Bore well water may be hard depending on the location. The hard water salts leave white deposits on taps and bathroom tiles and also a similar thing on hair and skin. Hard water salts deposited on the scalp can lead to hair breakage and hair fall. With hard water, soaps and shampoos do not lather easily, and it leaves a soapy residue. If you already have sensitive skin, the hard water can aggravate those sensitivities. How do your products address these issues? The shower filters alter the behaviour of calcium and magnesium in hard water so that it doesn’t stick to your hair, skin, taps and tiles and instead gets washed away. It is a process called hardness conditioning. The chlorine removal layer eliminates up to 95% chlorine present in the water. A micro sieve layer traps small sediments and dust. A carbon layer removes bad smell. Your bath water thus becomes cleaner and healthier. We use a technology called KDF, patented in the US that removes not just chlorine but also heavy metals like mercury and arsenic.   A DIY kit to save   water from RO systems  Did you know that a standalone RO system wastes three litres of water for every one litre it purifies? A team of Class X students — Piya Sharma, Aditya Tanwar, Mohammad Umar, Jeiya Khurana and Arjun Singh Bedi — from Shiv Nadar School in Gurugram have addressed this issue with an innovative solution. The team, called Fluid Force, has rolled out a DIY set up as a part of its science project Colloquium. “The technology curriculum for Class VIIto Class X introduces students to modern technology frameworks like programming, artificial intelligence, robotics, sound production, and graphic designing. We created a platform called Colloquium where students apply their skills to solve a real-world problem,” says Mark Nelson, mentor of the project and IT Project Head. This team, he says wanted to address water depletion (particularly groundwater) in local neighbourhoods. “We wanted to start with the RO systems because of the humongous wastage capacity and every drop saved here contributes to the larger goal.” The project involved designing multiple prototypes before arriving at the best possible solutions. Students Jeiya and Umar say that it is a simple mechanical set up that redirects the RO waste water to the tap for reuse. They have installed it at restaurants, residences and also at the Police Commissioner’s office at Gurugram.  The DIY set up  One set up is estimated to save 1,800 litres of water per day. As collecting wasted water in buckets and reusing it for household chores, washing cars, gardening and so on were not effective they designed a two-way tap with solenoid valves and sensors. It automatically cuts off the main supply and redirects the waste water to the kitchen tap making the reuse process automatic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/water-drop/article32483278.ece
31 August 2020||Intkhedi (Raisen district),||M.P. village returns to conventional mode as e-learning remains elusive||Away from school since March, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed, 12-year-old Vijay Bheel is stuck in time and learning: he still believes Congressman Kamal Nath is in power. The Class 5 student stares wide-eyed, standing sheepishly with hands clasped behind his back amid several primary school students seated cross legged in files, as assistant teacher Neeraj Saxena attempts to fill them up with events since the COVID-19 pandemic struck: Shivraj Singh Chouhan is the new Chief Minister, Chinese troops intruded into our territory leading to a fight and floods hit more than 50 lakh people in Assam. Gasps waft across, the students look in amazement at one another. “ Yeh sab kab hua ? [When did all this happen?] It is coming from masterji, it must be true,” Mr. Bheel, struggling to keep a face mask on, tries to reconcile with five-month of lost schooling — a blank slate of zero events for students and no learning virtually. ‘Back by six months’ The lockdown forced schools shut and learning outcomes of students went back by at least six months, said Mr. Saxena, who teaches 98 students at a primary school in Salegarh hamlet of Intkhedi village in Raisen district. “Allowing the unlearning to continue unabated with schools shut will mean years of effort to bring girl students to school going waste,” said Mr. Saxena. What about the State government’s e-learning modules transmitted through smartphones, TV and radio? “Parents of just two students have smartphones, while those of 10-12 have keypad ones. There is no electricity for five-six days at a stretch sometimes, and the Internet connectivity is poor,” said Mr. Saxena, supported by guest teacher Amitabh Rathore. To bridge the digital divide and continue the learning of the 92 students from Bhil and Gond tribes and six from the other backward classes, conventional teaching in a physical form was the only option left. So, starting July, Mr. Saxena, who travels every day to the hamlet, nearly 48 km from Raisen — trudging 4.5 km along an uneven trail through a dense teak forest, a sling bag dangling on his shoulder — set up five informal study groups. Chirping in unison while reciting the Hindi alphabet, around 20 students sit in the house verandah of Kiran Bhallavi, 20, a former student of Mr. Saxena studying Bachelor of Arts, the first girl from the village to reach higher education. “Villagers believed if girls study too much, they will marry according of their own accord, even elope. For parents, girls are an asset for the dowry they bring, according to a Bhil custom. And boys are usually sent to take cattle for grazing,” said Ms. Bhallavi, teaching students on a board. When asked, several girl students said they aspired to be like her. “If left to e-learning, which is exclusionary, their dreams will not be fulfilled,” said Mr. Saxena, who pays Rs. 1,000 from his Rs. 31,500 salary a month to four such former students-turned-mentors, including three girls. When Mr. Saxena was posted at the school in 2009, he wanted to quit immediately. “But I held on for five years and saw change. I took examples of bright students to other parents to convince them to send their children to school,” said Mr. Saxena, picked by the Union Steel Ministry as an ambassador of change. In 2009, there were just eight girls among 30 students. Today, there are 39 among the registered 82. Pining for the school Seven-year-old Anshika Uikey pines for the school. “I get to meet friends, play with them in the garden,” she says, sitting in another verandah class. The attendance has dipped from 95% at the school earlier to 80% in the study groups. The pressure of online modules even forced Sitaram Diwar, 36, parent of a Class 6 student, to buy a smartphone for Rs. 10,000 from the Rs. 1.2 lakh a year he makes by cultivating five acres. ‘Initiative not a failure’ Refusing to see the initiative as a failure of the online-learning programme, Rajya Siksha Kendra Commissioner Lokesh Jatav said the initiative was part of the “Humara Ghar, Humara Vidyalaya” programme which bolstered device-independent modes. “We are aware there is a limitation to online learning, yet such a success story is possible,” he said. Parents of just 25% students from Classes 1 to 8 in the State had smartphones and 50% use them for e-learning. Further, department’s Deputy Director Ashok Pareek believed such community-level initiatives could bring about a change. “We are seeing similar examples especially in rural areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mp-village-returns-to-conventional-mode-as-e-learning-remains-elusive/article32483130.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Award-winning cardiologist Dr. Padmavati passes away||Prominent cardiologist and founding director of the National Heart Institute in Delhi Padmavati Sivaramakrishna Iyer passed away here on Sunday. She was 103 years old. Dr. Padmavati was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1967 and the Padma Vibhushan in 1992. She was also the recipient of the Harvard Medical International Award, Dr B.C. Roy Award and Kamla Menon Research Award and remained active till almost the very end, advising patients and physicians. Disciplined lifestyle Though Dr. Padmavati had retired from active practice a few years ago, she would still meet older patients and remain up-to-date about medical research and literature. She often attributed her longevity to her genes and disciplined lifestyle. She also had many firsts to her credit, including establishing the first cardiac clinic and cath lab at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in Delhi; initiation of India’s first Doctorate of Medicine in Cardiology; and setting up cardiology departments at the prestigious Maulana Azad Medical College, GB Pant Hospital. Born in 1917 in Burma (now Myanmar), she was the first woman to receive a medical degree from Rangoon Medical College. Soon after she completed her studies, Japan invaded Burma in 1942. Dr. Padmavati, with her mother and four sisters, fled the country, taking the last flight to India. She was eventually reunited with her father and brothers when World War-II ended. In 1949, Dr. Padmavati moved to London as a fellow with the Royal College of Physicians in London and the Royal College of Physicians in Edinburgh. She studied in Sweden before receiving a 1949 fellowship with the Johns Hopkins University’s Department of Paediatrics. In Baltimore, she trained under Dr. Helen Taussig, who pioneered the first surgeries on ‘blue babies’, or babies born with congenital heart defects. In 1952, she joined Harvard Medical School. She returned to India in 1953.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/award-winning-cardiologist-dr-padmavati-passes-away/article32483103.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||FB, Google told to clear stand on removing child pornography||The Delhi High Court has asked the Centre and Internet majors such as Google and Facebook to submit their stand on removing “offending images” of children and preventing them from resurfacing. The court’s order came while hearing a plea by a woman who wanted removal of her objectionable photographs, which were allegedly taken when she was a minor. Her plea stated that at that time, she was studying in a well-known school. She said, now that she is a 21-year-old, she is highly distressed by the photographs and clips being published on the Internet. 49 URLs Since the plea was filed in July this year, Google, which owns Youtube; and Facebook, which owns Instagram, have removed around 49 URLs — shared by the enforcement agencies — of the offending contents. However, the court wanted answers on the vexed issue of how content can be blocked permanently from resurfacing once it is identified as “offending”. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said while enforcement agencies will report the image to Facebook and Google as an when it resurfaces, the problem was that “somebody has to keep monitoring it”. The court’s query came after the status report filed by the Delhi government stated that further URLs containing the offending images/ clips have been uploaded on Youtube, Telegram and Instagram. “Union of India has to play a proactive role in this. As far as child pornography is concerned, there has to be some protocol in place... because the images keep popping up,” Justice Bakhru remarked. The court also asked, “What is the position as far as the FIR is concerned. This image has been leaked by a person in a malafide manner. You have to prosecute that person.” Nandita Rao, Additional Standing Counsel (Criminal), Delhi government, said the investigating officer had to be hospitalised after he got sick and hence, the case could not progress. She further said the enforcement agencies are also looking at those people who are re-uploading the content despite knowing that the image is of a child. Ms. Rao submitted that this is a matter of child pornography and constitutes an offence under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Advocate Tejas Karia, appearing for Facebook, said: “We are very sensitive about it. We don’t want any offending material on our platform therefore we are cooperating with the enforcement agencies. But there has to be a process that has to be followed.” Mr. Karia said the protocols adopted in India are not different from those adopted in other countries. ‘Protocols in place’ YouTube’s counsel also said, “We have put our resources to curb child pornography. As and when any URL is shared by the enforcement agencies, we will take it down.” Both Facebook and Google submitted that there are protocols for preventing child pornography and they will file a comprehensive affidavit disclosing the same by next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fb-google-told-to-clear-stand-on-removing-child-pornography/article32483143.ece
31 August 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha virus tally breaches one-lakh mark||After reporting more than 3,000 daily cases consecutively for the past five days, Odisha’s COVID-19 tally on Sunday breached the one-lakh mark while the death toll is inching closer to 500. As many as 3,014 cases were reported on Sunday. The daily cases have been going past the 3,000 mark since August 26. The highest single-day spike of 3,682 cases was detected on August 28. After the first detection of the novel coronavirus in a student, who had returned from Italy, on March 15, Odisha has taken 169 days to reach 1,00,934 cases. Close to one fifth of the total cases was reported in the past one week. The State took 115 days to cross the 10,000 mark while the remaining 90,000 cases were detected in just 44 days. Two third of the total confirmed infections were reported in August itself. As of now, 70,714 patients have been cured while there are still 29,685 active cases. Odisha accounted for 2.91% of the country’s total positive cases while its share in active cases was estimated at 3.95%. The State lost 482 persons to the contagion accounting for 0.77% of India’s death toll. While Odisha’s two neighbours — Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal — have long breached the one-lakh mark, two other neighbours — Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand — are yet to cross 50,000 cases. ‘Peak by mid-Sept.’ “By mid-September, the country may touch a peak in the pandemic. Odisha seems to be lagging behind the national graph by two weeks. So our estimation is that State’s peak is likely to come by end of September,” said Jayant Panda, technical spokesperson of the Odisha Health Department. Due to the increase in number of tests, which was now over 60,000 per day, the State was able to detect more cases and isolate more patients than before, said Dr. Panda. “Our recovery rate is high. At present, the State’s per day cases hover around over 3,000 while the average recovery number is 2,800 per day. Our recovery numbers will improve further and overtake gradually per day detection cases,” he said. Dr. Panda said, “we are much better compared to the national scenario. Our death rate is 0.5% against national average of 1.8%.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-virus-tally-breaches-one-lakh-mark/article32483132.ece
31 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Association of COVID-affected people demands concessions||An association of COVID-19-affected people in Arunachal Pradesh, claimed to be the first of its kind, has demanded concessions in electricity and water bills besides partial waiver of Goods and Services Tax. The All Arunachal COVID-19 Affected Forum, formed a month ago, includes people who have recovered from infection as well as the kindred of those who have died. “Our focus is on the daily wagers, vendors of perishable goods, traders, drivers, skilled and unskilled workers, farmers and unemployed youth apart from the families of COVID-19-positive people,” the forum’s chairman Tai Talley said. The forum had on August 28 submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Pema Khandu seeking special relief packages from Central or State consolidated funds for all affected people across 25 districts of Arunachal Pradesh. “We have demanded exemption from renewal of trading licence and renewal of enlistment for contractors of all departments who have been forced to sit at home with fast-depleting resources,” the forum’s vice-chairman Bomkar Gara said.  Concessions in bills “The State government can provide relief through concessions in electricity and water bills and exemption from revenue charges on all documents for the last five months. How can people with no income pay their bills?” he asked. The forum has also sought relaxation in GST. “The State can always consider not charging its share of taxes,” Mr Gara said, also demanding admission in schools and colleges across the State without any fee. On the Forum’s agenda, Mr. Talley said, is pursuing cases of “harassment and mental torture” by police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/association-of-covid-affected-people-demands-concessions/article32483139.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Reopening of metro a huge relief: Gahlot||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday said the Delhi government welcomes the Centre’s guidelines to resume metro services from September 7. He said the government would ensure that all the guidelines are followed and added that it would reduce the number of commuters, who have been relying on bus services. “I am glad that after a long wait, the people of Delhi will be able to travel by metro once again. It is a huge relief. We will ensure that social distancing is maintained and thermal screening of passengers is done,” Mr. Gahlot said. He added that tokens will not be issued and commuters can only use a smart card and other digital methods of payment. The government stated that metro staff and additional Civil Defence volunteers will be deployed to ensure that stations do not get crowded. “Sanitisers will be available at every station and wearing a mask will be mandatory. If any passenger violates the rules, he or she will be issued a challan,” it stated. Air conditioners in coaches will also be operated as per new guidelines. “A list of stations — where travel services are being restored — will soon be made public,” it said. Mr. Gahlot added that not all metro stations would remain open. The DMRC on Saturday said under guidelines issued by the Home Ministry under Unlock 4, the Delhi Metro would resume services from September 7 in a calibrated manner. “Once metro resumes, the DMRC will strive to facilitate all necessary measures and precautions in its premises to provide a safe travelling experience to its commuters in the wake of ongoing pandemic,” said Anuj Daya, executive director of the DMRC. It added that further details on functioning and usage of the metro by the public will be shared once the detailed SoP is issued by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reopening-of-metro-a-huge-relief-gahlot/article32483152.ece
31 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Duty bound to raise questions against any govt. on policy’||A day after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hit out at Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, accusing him of trying to rake in political moolah over the alleged Rs. 55.71 crore scholarship ‘scam’, the latter on Sunday said as a Member of Parliament, he was duty bound to raise pertinent questions against any government, regarding matters of policy and governance. “I do so with the hope of opening the eyes and ears of the government of Punjab to serious issues that are affecting the daily lives of Punjabis. The Indian National Congress was elected to govern the State in 2017 with a mandate to undo 10 years of stagnation and corruption of the previous Shiromani Akali Dal regime. Why should we feel shy of discharging our duty honestly,” he said. “I will continue raising questions regarding the governance of the State. Any attempts to browbeat me into submission will not succeed,” he added. Earlier, reacting to Mr. Bajwa’s demand for the resignation of Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the alleged scholarship ‘scam’, Captain Amarinder had said the MP was behaving like an Opposition leader whose only agenda was to attack the government on any and every issue. The Chief Minister took on Mr. Bajwa for jumping at every opportunity to criticise his own party government. “Clearly, Bajwa has a hidden agenda,” said the Chief Minister, adding that the MP’s recent anti-party actions had exposed his intent to undermine the Congress in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/duty-bound-to-raise-questions-against-any-govt-on-policy/article32483140.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||Two held for waving flag of terror outfit||Two suspected members of a banned terror outfit — Khalistan Zindabad Force — have been arrested, the police said on Sunday. They have been identified as Inderjeet Singh Gill (31) and Jaspal Singh (27), both from Punjab. The duo was wanted in a sedition case registered at Moga. The two had allegedly raised a ‘Khalistan’ flag on the terrace of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office in Punjab’s Moga on the eve of Independence Day and also desecrated an Indian flag in the premises, a senior officer said. On Saturday, the police received information that the accused would come to Delhi to commit some anti-national activities on the directions of their foreign-based commanders, the officer said. Thereafter, a trap was laid near Sani Mandir, GT Karnal road. “Around 6.30 p.m., two persons were seen standing near Sani mandir bus stand. When police were approaching them, they started moving towards the service road coming from Singhu border, however, they were apprehended after a small chase,” said DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said.   The accused had allegedly raised a ‘Khalistan’ flag on the terrace of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office in Punjab on the eve of I-Day. They also desecrated Indian flag in the premises. Senior officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-waving-flag-of-terror-outfit/article32483151.ece
31 August 2020||Noida,||Man killed as speeding truck overturns along Yamuna e-way||A 44-year-old man was killed after a speeding truck hit a divider and overturned along the Yamuna Expressway in Gautam Buddha Nagar, the police said on Sunday. The incident took place near Jaypee Sports City, under Dankaur police station area, late on August 29, they said. “The mini-truck was carrying vegetables. It hit the divider and overturned. The occupants sustained injuries and were taken to a hospital, where one of them died,” a police officer said. The deceased has been identified as Vimal Prakash, who hailed from Mainpuri district, the officer also said, adding that others injured persons in the incident are in the hospital at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-killed-as-speeding-truck-overturns-along-yamuna-e-way/article32483113.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||Hindu Rao nurses write to Mayor over no salary||Nurses at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 facility here, have once again raised concerns over the issue of non-payment of salaries for the last three months, in a letter to the Mayor on Saturday. Healthcare workers, including nurses, doctors and paramedics, at the hospitals run by the civic body have been raising complaints over the irregularity of their salaries. Earlier in June, doctors at Kasturba Hospital, which is also run by the North corporation, had threatened of mass resignation due to delays in payment of salaries. While temporary relief was provided, the issue cropped up again in July. In its letter to the Mayor, the Nurses Welfare Association has said that there was “mass unrest and resentment” growing among hospital staffers. It accused the administration of the civic bodies of incompetence, saying that the hospital employees were not being properly remunerated for their work in the last four years. The association said that staffers should not be left to wait for three months to receive backlogged pay, especially during the present situation. The members also highlighted that despite being a COVID-19 facility, the hospital was working far below its capacity and there was a “misuse of resources”. The nurses called for swift action in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hindu-rao-nurses-write-to-mayor-over-no-salary/article32483112.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||JEE aspirants to get help in reaching exam centres||Following an appeal made by IIT-Delhi director V. Ramgopal Rao to IIT alumni, students and the public, to help the candidates of JEE (Main and Advance 2020) and NEET 2020 with transportation facility amid the pandemic, the alumni and students have created a portal to connect with candidates needing a ride. “The call-for-help germinated independent actions from IIT Delhi Alumni Association, IIT Bombay and IIT Madras alumni and finally converged into a wonderful user-friendly portal www.eduride.in. “This portal aims to ease burden of commuting for the needy candidates,” IIT, Delhi said. People can volunteer to help candidates reach their exam centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jee-aspirants-to-get-help-in-reaching-exam-centres/article32483145.ece
31 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DSGMC pharmacy selling medicines at factory price||To provide medicines to the needy at “factory price”, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has inaugurated ‘Bala Pritam Dawakhana’ at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib. The cost of medicines at the pharmacy, the DSGMC said, will be available at 70-80% less than the MRP. The committee said that it is also planning to expand its network of pharmacies selling medicines at such prices across the Capital. “All medicines here are sold at the cheapest rates as they are sold at factory prices and without making any profit. Medicines for the treatment of ailments, ranging from cancer to blood pressure, will be available here,” DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said while inaugurating the shop. He added that the medicines were being sold at the shop without any commission and at the cost that companies incur to manufacture those. Mr. Sirsa also appealed to the people and pharma companies to help the committee in its initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dsgmc-pharmacy-selling-medicines-at-factory-price/article32483111.ece
31 August 2020||Agartala,||Focus on tribal council polls in Tripura||Amid the novel coronavirus situation, political parties have stepped up activities keeping an eye on the elections to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) likely to take place by the end of this year. Official sources said the elections would be held this year though modalities were yet to be finalised.  Territorial council They said the upcoming session of Parliament is expected to give assent to a Bill to upgrade the TTAADC as territorial council which has been a long-standing demand of the indigenous political parties and forums. Both the BJP and its coalition partner Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura have been consolidating bases in the tribal areas while the Opposition CPI(M) is desperate to improve its strength. The Congress is largely dependent on its alliance partner Indigenous Nationalist Party of Tripura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/focus-on-tribal-council-polls-in-tripura/article32483137.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC restrains Delhi school from charging annual fee||The Delhi High Court has in an interim order restrained K.R. Mangalam World School here in Greater Kailash II from charging annual and development charges from the fee bill of students. Justice Jayant Nath also issued notice to the Delhi government on the plea by Parents Association of K.R. Mangalam World School, GK II, challenging the inclusion of annual development fees in the school fees received by the students for the month of July 2020. Advocate Gaurav Bahl, appearing for the association, said that the lockdown for schools is still on and likely to continue for unforeseen duration. “The same is clearly evident from the recent guidelines dated July 29 passed by the Home Ministry,” Mr. Bahl said. He drew the attention of the court to its order of April 18 where it was ordered that “annual and development charges can be charged from the parents, on pro rata basis, only on monthly basis after completion of lockdown period”. He said the fee bill received by the parents for the month of August 2020 clearly shows that the annual development fees has been included. The Delhi government’s counsel also stated that the lockdown period continues to apply as none of the school have physically opened. The court said, “In my opinion, prima facie, it appears that the annual and development charges cannot be charged from the parents during the pendency of the present lockdown”. “Let the tuition fees be paid by the petitioners,” the court ordered and posted the case for September 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-restrains-delhi-school-from-charging-annual-fee/article32483141.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||11-year-old boy dies in road accident||An 11-year-old boy died after the car he was travelling met with an accident in Dwarka’s Sector-22, the police said on Sunday. The victim — Mayank — received injury on his neck, they said. The car was driven by Mayank’s father, Sujeet Kumar (35), at that time. His mother, two-year-old sister and grandmother were also present in the car. The accident took place on Thursday night at 9.30 p.m. when the car hit a divider and flipped a number of times. The other family members sustained minor injuries, an officer said. Kumar lives with his family in Pochanpur. Mayank died on the spot. The post-mortem was conducted at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and the body was handed over to the family members. A case under relevant sections has been registered at Dwarka’s Sector 23 police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/11-year-old-boy-dies-in-road-accident/article32483150.ece
31 August 2020||August 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Solemn affair||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/solemn-affair/article32483149.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||August rainfall highest in 7 years: IMD||Delhi recorded 236.5 mm of rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years, according to India Meteorological Department data. The Capital had gauged 119.6 mm precipitation in August last year, and 206.5 mm in 2018. The rainfall in August 2013 was 321.4 mm.  Meanwhile, the weatherman on Sunday forecast intermittent light to moderate rains for Delhi over the next six days. Widespread rains are unlikely, but moderate precipitation is predicted on Thursday, the IMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/august-rainfall-highest-in-7-years-imd/article32483109.ece
31 August 2020||Noida,||11 foreign nationals held for flouting COVID curbs||Eleven foreign nationals, including four women, were arrested in Greater Noida on Sunday for allegedly partying in violation of curbs imposed due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The police said they impounded seven vehicles and seized 237 cans and 51 bottles of beer besides three bottles of liquor from the house in Surajpur. In view of the pandemic, rules have been issued which prohibit such gatherings. The arrests came on a day when Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded 107 new COVID-19 cases, pushing the district’s infection tally to 7,834, official data showed. Meanwhile, 98 patients were discharged. The death toll in the district stood at 45 with a mortality rate of 0.57%. The number of active cases has climbed to 1,009. So far, 6,780 patients have recovered from COVID-19 in the district, the third highest in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/11-foreign-nationals-held-for-flouting-covid-curbs/article32483114.ece
31 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records 1,689 new cases and 56 deaths||Punjab recorded 1,689 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday and reported 56 deaths, taking the toll to 1,404, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases have reached 52,526. The major chunk of new cases, 273 and 188, were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala districts respectively. The health department said the active cases are 15,375 and 35,747 patients have so far recovered. In Haryana, twelve more people succumbed to the virus on Sunday as the State reported another major spike of 1,295 cases, pushing its infection count to 63,282. So far, the State has reported 682 deaths due to the infection, according to a health bulletin.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-records-1689-new-cases-and-56-deaths/article32483136.ece
31 August 2020||New Delhi,||Traffic movement curtailed as portion of Madhav Rao Scindia Marg caves in||The traffic movement on Madhav Rao Scindia Marg in central Delhi was closed after a portion of the road caved in. The cause of damage is being identified and then action will be initiated accordingly, a senior NDMC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/traffic-movement-curtailed-as-portion-of-madhav-rao-scindia-marg-caves-in/article32483108.ece
