01-11-2020||Calcutta||More accidents this Durga Puja in Calcutta||The number of fatal accidents in the city during Durga Puja has gone up compared to last year despite fewer vehicles and pedestrians on the road. All the six accidents that claimed seven lives within a span of eight days involved two-wheelers, hinting that two-wheeler riders tend to be more reckless when roads are empty. According to police records, seven people died in six road accidents between Tritiya (October 19) and Dashami (October 26) while the number during the same period last year was five. Some of these accidents were reported in Jorasanko, Ballygunge, Kasba, Thakurpukur, Beleghata and Calcutta Leather Complex — all involving two-wheelers. “In majority of these accidents, the bikers had lost control and rammed either into the divider or along the side of the road. In two of these cases, other vehicles were involved that had either hit the two-wheeler or had run over the motorcyclists or pillion riders,” said an officer in the traffic department. In Ballygunge and Beleghata, the motorcyclists had apparently lost control and hit the divider while in the Jorasanko and Calcutta Leather Complex accidents, a second vehicle had allegedly hit the two-wheeler before running over the motorcyclists or the pillion rider. Police said this was a natural tendency among motorcyclists to ride recklessly when roads are empty. Possibly, because of fewer people and vehicles on roads during the Puja, some two-wheeler riders found the roads fit for speeding, an officer of the fatal squad of the traffic department said. The pandemic and the restrictions imposed by Calcutta High Court on visiting pandals had kept many people indoors, reducing the volume of traffic. But, unlike other years when there is pressure of vehicular traffic on roads in the run-up to Puja, this year, the roads were comparatively free and witnessed fewer accidents. The total number of accidents in October has reduced compared to the same month last year, indicating that fewer  people had stepped out. Last year, 179 road accidents had been reported in October while the number this year has come down to 141 as on Wednesday (October 28). The police said cops had been carrying out awareness campaigns, especially among two-wheeler riders who are most vulnerable to road accidents, apart from pedestrians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town tutorials for online services||The New Town authorities are preparing tutorial videos on how to apply for building plans, file property tax, trade licence applications, birth and death certificates online, among other services. The videos will be uploaded on the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) website so that residents can apply themselves without seeking the assistance of agents and middlemen, who offer to file on behalf of them  for a hefty charge. This is also being done so that people can apply for and avail of the services from the safety of their homes given the pandemic situation, a New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) official said. The decision to have dedicated “How to” tutorial videos was taken after some residents requested NKDA officials to find a solution since  they found the online filing  process “a bit confusing”. A sizable population of senior citizens, who live in New Town, also requested the officials to help them as most said that they had found handling the Internet difficult, let alone file important documents. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said that they would have individual videos for the services that could be applied online. According to Sen, the videos are being shot by using the screenshots of each step while a narrator guides on how to do it in the background. “We are trying to make the videos as simple as possible. We have already shot four tutorial videos and more are being processed. These videos will guide the residents step by step till the final application is uploaded on our website. We are making the videos in Bengali that will have subtitles in English so that everyone can understand,” said Sen. Several residents said it was high time that they had tutorial videos guiding them to file taxes or building plan approvals online. According to a resident of Action Area II, he had tried to do a self-assessment for the property tax of his flat but could not do so as he was left confused. Palash Bhattacharya, a retired school teacher who lives in Salt Lake, said that he had to pay a hefty sum to an agent who offered to apply for his building plan online. “We want to build a house in New Town. I had tried but I am not very comfortable working on the Internet. Finally, I got hold of an agent who charged a fair amount to submit the application online,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Morning walker hit by van, dies of injuries in Calcutta||An elderly morning walker died in a road accident early on Saturday after being hit by a bakery van near Netaji Nagar on the southern fringes of the city. Gouranga Chowdhury, 64, a resident of Suryanagar not far from the accident spot, was hit by the van on NSC Bose Road around seven in the morning. Chowdhury was first taken to Baghajatin State General Hospital from where his family shifted him to a private hospital on the Bypass where he later died of his injuries. Police said their preliminary investigation had suggested the van driver was at fault. NSC Bose Road that connects Garia and Tollygunge is lined with commercial and residential establishments and usually remains crowded  with vehicles and pedestrians. “The van driver was rash. The vehicle hit the pedestrian from behind,” said an officer of Netaji Nagar police station. According to records in the traffic department in Lalbazar, pedestrians in Calcutta are most vulnerable to road accidents, especially when most footpaths had been either encroached upon or are non-existent. More than 55 per cent of the people who died in road accidents in Calcutta in 2019 were pedestrians. The van was intercepted within a few minutes of the accident and seized by officers of Netaji Nagar police station. Driver Monirul Haque, who is originally from Ketugram in Burdwan, was arrested and charged with rash and negligent driving under Section 279 of the IPC. He has also been booked for causing death by negligence under Section 304A of the IPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||IIM student found dead on campus||A woman pursuing an executive MBA course at IIM Calcutta was found dead in her hostel room on Saturday. When members of the institute’s staff broke open the door in the presence of police, Payel Khandelwal, 28, was found hanging from the ceiling fan. Khandelwal, who hailed from Baguiati on the city’s northern outskirts, had been married to a businessman two-and-a-half years ago. An officer of Haridevpur police station said on Saturday morning IIM officials alerted them about a student not responding to knocks on the door or phone calls. She was staying at the facility called the Management Development Centre that usually accommodates those who pursue the one-year residential course meant for working executives. The course fees is Rs 27 lakh. The police said Khandelwal had committed suicide. Nilanjan Biswas, DC, South West division, said: “The executive MBA student who was staying in Room No. 327 on the third floor of the Management Development Centre building committed suicide by hanging, using a bed sheet. The room was bolted from inside. Officials of the centre broke open the door. No complaint has been received so far. No suicide note has been found.” Khandelwal’s father visited the police station after being alerted about her death. The student had been attending online classes from her home since April. She had reached the campus after IIM Calcutta in early September called students of the executive MBA course to the campus so that they could use the institute’s Net facilities and attend online classes without any disruption. Many students had found it difficult to attend classes from their homes because of poor Net connectivity. In July, IIM Calcutta had decided to refund deposit fees and offer deferred admission (next year) to students of the executive MBA course after six candidates sought a refund saying they didn’t want to pursue the course in such “uncertain financial times”. They had cited the change in the nature and the online mode and limited hardware resources to cope with the change as the reasons apart from financial uncertainty behind their decision to pull out of the course and seek a refund. The 62 students of the class — after the six had pulled out — were brought to the institute in batches and were put up at the centre. “We are deeply shocked and saddened with the demise of a resident student,” an IIM Calcutta spokesperson said. “The police are investigating the matter and we are cooperating with the authorities. In this hour of grief, the faculty and students stand by the family.” In the afternoon, the institute held an online condolence in memory of the student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||CMDA moves Supreme Court for Chhath at Sarobar with conditions ||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has filed a petition in the Supreme Court requesting permission for Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. Many people have objected to the performance of rituals in the water body because of “serious ecological consequences”. “The petition has been filed and it has been listed for Monday,” Rakesh Dwivedi, a senior advocate of the Supreme Court and the CMDA counsel, said on Saturday. “The petition says Chhath Puja should be allowed on historical and religious grounds. Instead of a complete ban, it should be allowed with some conditions.” Sumita Banerjee, who has been a regular at Rabindra Sarobar for two decades, told Metro that performing Chhath Puja rituals at the Sarobar was a recent phenomenon. “It started from 2011-12. Chhath Puja rituals were never organised at the Sarobar before that. Banerjee had earlier moved the National Green Tribunal to seek a ban on the puja rituals at the Sarobar. The CMDA, the custodian of the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar that comprises a 73-acre water body, had moved the tribunal to seek a relaxation on the ban on all pujas on the Sarobar premises. The tribunal had refused to hear the CMDA’s plea to allow Chhath Puja when the matter came up for hearing on September 17. “You should feel happy that we are not imposing the cost,” the tribunal had said while rejecting the CMDA’s petition. Several Calcuttans had then questioned whether CMDA, which is responsible for the Sarobar’s protection, should engage in a legal battle to allow puja rituals in one of the city’s few remaining green spaces. “There is a tradition of bodies that are meant to protect not doing their job in Calcutta. This is not an aberration, but it should be countered and opposed. People should continue to oppose as long as such bodies and government organs that have been entrusted with a certain duty do not do that,” author Amit Chaudhuri had told Metro. A CMDA official on Saturday said the organisation’s petition in the Supreme Court mentioned it was ready to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar with some conditions. “We will clean the place immediately after the rituals. We will not allow bursting of firecrackers or performance by DJs.” Previous experiences, however, suggest something else, according to Sarobar regulars. The tribunal had in 2018 banned all pujas, community picnics and social events on the Sarobar premises. But in 2018 and 2019, performance of rituals were allowed in the Sarobar waters. In 2018, neither the police nor the CMDA had done anything to stop entry of devotees. In 2019, the CMDA had fixed locks and cops had been posted at the gates of the Sarobar. But when devotees had broken the locks, cops had looked the other way. Once inside, many had taken to bursting firecrackers and beating drums, and lighting diyas in the water. Every year birdwatchers observe birds missing from the Sarobar a few days after Chhath Puja, many birdwatchers said. The oil from the lamps and ghee used for the rituals spill into the waters and affect aquatic life, environmentalists said. The oil and ghee form a layer on top of the water that makes the diffusion of oxygen into the water from the atmosphere “very difficult”, they said. This reduces the level of dissolved oxygen in the water. Flowers and leaves that are thrown into the water during rituals require oxygen to decompose and this further depletes the level of dissolved oxygen in water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Sari on fire during Lakshmi Puja, 63-yr-old dies in Calcutta||An elderly woman died of burns after her silk sari caught fire while she was performing Lakshmi Puja at her home on Friday evening. Dola Mitra, 63, had lighted an earthen lamp during the puja at her home on Ibrahimpur Road in Jadavpur when the accident occurred around 7.30pm, police said. Police said Dola Mitra, a 63-year-old homemaker, was performing Puja alone. She was performing the puja on the ground floor of their double-storey home and her husband was on the upper floor. She realised her sari was on fire but within seconds she was engulfed in flames. She ran across the room and tried to reach the tap in the toilet, the police said. Her screams alerted her husband and neighbours. “Her husband Kamal Mitra was upstairs. Neighbours heard her screams and came to her rescue. She was admitted to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital with 85 per cent burns,” an officer of Jadavpur police station said. Around 6am on Saturday, Mitra died of her injuries, the police said. Their two daughters stay outside Calcutta. The couple were alone in the house when the accident occurred. “It is apparent that the elderly woman did not realise initially that her sari had caught fire. It is unfortunate that she was wearing a silk sari, which caught fire easily and engulfed her in flames in no time,” the officer said. By the time police were alerted, neighbours had taken her to the hospital. The woman’s husband is a retired professional. There was no complaint till Saturday evening. The family, too, hasn’t expressed any suspicion of foul play, the police said. An unnatural death case has been started at Jadavpur police station. People should be careful, especially with Diwali approaching, about wearing synthetic clothes as they catch fire easily, the police said. “Elderly citizens who live alone should keep a bucket of water near the place where they are lighting lamps… it can help in dousing fire in case of an emergency,” an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Schoolkids at home, many bakeries on verge of closure||Schools are shut, and cakes and breads are feeling the heat. The prolonged closure of schools has plunged the bakery units in and around Calcutta into a deep crisis, owners have said. The suspension of train services has deepened the crisis. “The bulk of our products were meant for schoolchildren. Schools have been shut for more than six months. Our production has been less than half of what it used to be,” Amitava Jana, one of the directors of New Howrah (Bapuji) Bakery, known for its popular tiffin cake, said. There are more than 3,000 bakery units in the state, of which over 600 are in Calcutta and neighbouring districts. “Many units are on the verge of closure. Unless the Centre comes up with some financial incentive, it is becoming difficult to keep going,” Ariful Islam, the chief executive officer of the West Bengal Bakers’ Association, said. Members of the association held a meeting at a venue off the Kona Expressway on Saturday to discuss the future roadmap. Before the lockdown, Calcutta used to consume around 500,000 pounds of bread every day, members of the association said. The tiffin of schoolchildren comprised the bulk of that amount. For the past few months, the production has been down by more than 50 per cent, they said. The units had to grapple with a shortage of workers in the initial days of the lockdown. Gradually, most workers have returned. Now, with production going south and overhead costs rising, bakery owners are finding it increasingly difficult to keep the units running. Most of these players depend on agents, distributors and hawkers to sell their products. The suburban train services form the backbone of the sales network. The suspension of train services has hit them hard. Some of the familiar Calcutta-based players have their own or franchise-based outlets to sell their products. They are feeling the heat because of shut schools. “Our ‘tea cakes’ are very popular with schoolchildren. We used to make over 1,000 tea cakes before the pandemic. Now, we are hardly making 500. Business is lean since schools are shut,” Lovey Burman, the owner of Kookie Jar, said. Burman is not part of the association. Burman has a stall near the La Martiniere schools. The stall has been getting less than half the footfall it used to, Burman said. A Calcutta-based baker, who has a production unit in the Topsia-Park Circus area, said his cakes were mainly sold by hawkers in the Sealdah suburban section. “My breads were supplied to markets in South 24-Parganas daily. That has come to a standstill. How long can I manage to bear the fixed costs,” the baker asked. From flour to yeast, a variety of ingredients go into the making of cakes and breads. Bengal is dependent on other states for some of the products. The pandemic has posed logistical challenges in supply of these items as well. “Forget profit, most players cannot even break even,” another association member said. Some of the bakeries have been barely sustaining with orders from hospitals. “Most hospitals now need a steady and increased supply of bread. But one sector alone cannot offset the losses from other sectors,” he said. “The Centre has announced a Rs 9,000-crore package for the MSME sector. We did not get any benefit out of the package. We do not need more loans. We need interest waivers,” association CEO Islam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Sheds gutted in Salt Lake fire||A fire broke out at a construction site behind the Webel building near the Technopolis bus stop in Sector V on Saturday morning. No one was injured. Five fire engines from the Sector V fire station doused the flames in 45 minutes. Workers at the site tried to put out the flames using water from pipes and buckets. The fire started from a shed where some workers were cooking lunch, a fire officer said. “The sheds are made of bamboo poles and tin; there was diesel and other flam-mable materials in the construction site and the fire started spreading rapidly,” the officer said. Some sheds where the workers used to sleep and the kitchen shed were destroyed, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||3 arrested, ‘42 gold biscuits’ seized in Calcutta||A jeweller was arrested and 42 gold biscuits and several pieces of gold were seized from the boot of his car on Jessore Road on Saturday. A directorate of revenue intelligence officer said the agency had mounted  surveillance in front of Vikram Jhunjhunwala’s house on Bangur Avenue, based on a tip-off. When he drove out of the house, the officers asked him to stop but he allegedly swerved past and managed to drive away. They chased him and finally blocked the car near the Jessore Road crossing that leads to Nagerbazar. “The vehicle was searched and we found the gold biscuits stashed inside. He did not have any papers to prove that these were legal purchases and during questioning he admitted that these had been smuggled in from Bangladesh,” said the officer. The officers seized Rs 53 lakh from Jhunjhunwala’s house and Rs 36 lakh from his Burrabazar shop. The jeweller, his father and one of his employees were arrested. All three have been charged under various sections of the Indian customs act. They were produced in a court and sent to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Schools shut, no income, pool cars seek tax waiver||Pool car owners in Calcutta have requested the state government to waive their taxes, including road tax, because they have been out of operation for almost seven months as schools are shut and they don’t have money to pay. There are close to 2,500 car pool operators in and around Calcutta. Each ferry close to 20 children every day. The quarterly road tax for pool car owners works out to around Rs 4,000. The fitness test costs around Rs 1,500 but owners end up paying a little more than double the amount to touts, several pool car owners said. All pool car operators need to have a valid permit though there are hundreds who have been ferrying schoolchildren without one. The permit fee — to travel across various zones while ferrying schoolchildren in the city — ranges between Rs 14,000 and Rs 15,000 for five years. “Even if you set aside the permit fees, a pool car owner on average will have a pending tax of around Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000, including penalty for late payments,” Anjan Mukherjee of Bengal Carpool Welfare Association said. “None of us is in a position to pay this sum after remaining out of operation for nearly seven months. Many owners have started selling vegetables and fruits to look after their families. How will we survive?” In August, the state government had waived taxes of private buses and mini-buses. Even the annual permit fee was waived bringing a relief of around Rs 5,000 for every vehicle. Pool cars, though, were not part of the scheme. “We have been rendering essential service by carrying schoolchildren. So, why will pool car owners be deprived?” asked Arupam Dutta of Pool Car Owners Welfare Association. “Schools have been closed since end-March and there is no clarity when they will reopen. What happens to this huge number of operators who have no other alternative means of sustenance?” Several pool car owners said they had earlier requested guardians to pay 50 per cent of the fees as that would help them stay afloat. “Even if some parents are capable of paying half the amount, they have not responded to our appeal so far. So, we have been left in the lurch because our earnings have dried up,” Mukherjee said. What has made matters more difficult is financers looking for their share of the dues from those who took vehicles on loan. Many pool car owners said they had been receiving letters from banks and other institutions seeking payment of monthly dues. “The Non-Banking Financial Companies have been particularly hard about recovering their dues. Some send their representatives to the garages where the vehicles have been kept,” Dutta said. “Most of us have told them that we are not in a position to pay.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Finance worries for education stakeholders in Calcutta||Several city schools have communicated to parents the revised fee structure, complying with the directions of Calcutta High Court. The revision, though, is subject to the final outcome of the special leave petition or the final adjudication of the appeals in the Supreme Court, the schools have said. Schools have either uploaded the fee structure on their websites or have sent notices to parents through school apps. In the notice to parents, a school has said an “overwhelmingly large majority of parents” have cleared their dues till September that has enabled the school to meet its various “financial commitments”. A new-age school has drawn the notice of parents to “substantial bank borrowings” to create “infrastructure”. La Martiniere for Boys and La Martiniere for Girls have uploaded the revised fee structure and said: “The updated fee structure is pursuant to the judgement of Calcutta High Court… the said fees structure, ie, 80:20, shall be subject to the final outcome of the SLP... pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court.” “Any modification of the 80:20 fees structure (as prescribed by the high court) by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the aforementioned SLP, would ipso-facto mean that the guardian/parents will have to deposit the default fees in due course,” the La Martiniere schools have said. St Paul’s Mission School has made the announcement on its website. St James’ School posted a notice on Saturday on the website that said: “As per the ruling of Calcutta High Court, parents are informed that they may pay 80 per cent tuition fees; 20 per cent has been waived by Calcutta High Court.” Some schools under the Church of North India have filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the high court order. At the La Martiniere schools, for the fourth quarter the tuition fee for Classes IX to XII, which was Rs 16,500 has become Rs 13,200. For Classes I to VIII, Rs 17,500 has become Rs 14,000 in the fourth quarter. The reduction in session fees and infrastructure development fees have been mentioned in the first quarter fees. At South Point, the Class VI monthly fees will be Rs 3,780 instead of Rs 4,725. For Class XI (science), the reduced monthly fee is Rs 4,480 instead of Rs 5,600. At The Newtown School, the monthly tuition fee for Classes XI and XII (science) will be Rs 5,600 instead of Rs 7,000 and for Classes VI to X, it will be Rs 4,800 instead of Rs 6,000. The Newtown School, in the notice, has asked parents to keep certain facts in mind before taking the final decision. “We have created a world class infrastructure for our students which has led to a substantial capital expenditure which in turn required substantial bank borrowings,” the school, which is in its sixth year, said. “During the pandemic, because of non-payment of fees by many parents, the outflow on account of expenses and obligations has continued to be more than the inflow on account of fees.” South Point High School, in the notice to parents, has thanked them for clearing their dues that has helped the school meet its financial commitments. In its notice, South Point has said: “At the outset we are thankful that an overwhelmingly large majority of guardians have cleared their fees well within due date(s) resulting in the school receiving almost 98 per cent of the fees from April-September 2020. “The few who could not do so have been granted time and provided with the facility of paying the dues in a staggered manner or in instalments without any late fine as well as granted waivers. This has enabled the school to meet its various financial commitments on account of operational and establishment cost, administrative cost, finance cost and other costs and expenses and in turn motivated our teachers to upskill themselves and deliver quality education through the online mode (both synchronous and asynchronous) to all of our students. “The school, in compliance with the operational part of the directions of the Hon’ble High Court and pending the final adjudication of the appeals in the Hon’ble Supreme Court, would like to inform the guardians about various decisions taken by it with respect to school fee, in relation to their wards.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
01-11-2020||Calcutta||Chitpur out of the Box||Cholera introduced city grids and underground sewerage systems that dictated streets above them be straight and wide. The third plague changed door systems and threshold heights. The aesthetics of modern architecture — flat roofs and balconies — were dictated by the menace of tuberculosis. It is likely that Covid-19 with its new norms and altered living patterns will impact urban planning and architecture. Final-year students of École Nationale Supérieure d’Architecture de Paris La Villette were in Calcutta in January for three weeks for the Indo-French Workshop 2020. The workshop, themed Learning from Indian Cities, was organised in partnership with the Bharati Vidyapeeth College of Architecture in Navi Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram’s College of Architecture. The students observed up close some thickly populated areas of north Calcutta with the aim of offering architectural solutions to enhance living and working conditions. Post the corona outbreak, three of them submitted design interventions — short, medium and long-term — for Chitpur Road neighbourhoods. Urban conservationist Kamalika Bose, the local resource person for the supervised project explains the choice of place. She says, “Chitpur, with its intricate network of bazaars, is reliant on migrant workers. Labourers, artisans, porters come from neighbouring states, many of who headed home when work suffered during the lockdown. Prolonged lockdowns slowed economic activity along Chitpur.” She continues, “This design project merges socio-economic factors with spatial strategies to shape a more resilient and habitable Chitpur Road in the immediate two-year period. These are also scalable, adaptable models that can be replicated in similar sites across Calcutta.” Faculty member at École Claudio Secci says, “Occupations and economic vitality are the strength of Indian old city cores… If we ensure that occupations thrive, then inner cities like Chitpur can survive well.” Secci, who is one of the project supervisors, also tells The Telegraph, “The pandemic has spotlighted the poor conditions of the physical environments that support traditional economic activity and the lives of workers. Therefore, we have a double crisis on Chitpur Road — the bad conditions of its buildings and the fragility of the occupations. That is what we have addressed in this project.” Site summary: Set up in 1825, it employs 1.5 lakh informal workers. The phalpatti, or fruit market, congests every building and spills onto the street. Covid-19 has diverted many trading activities to Santragachi in Howrah, providing an opportunity to reassess the market’s carrying capacity, reduce operations and manpower. Proposal from Jean-Baptiste Bolet: Fruit cartons can be used as dividers to create sleeping spaces for labourers who do not have dedicated housing. Various configurations of wooden cartons could be used as beds, seating, storage, partitions and full-height space dividers to create cubicles and enable social distancing. Cartons along with flooring bands can also be used to control flow of people. As activities from the upper storeys of warehouses shift out in the long term, those spaces can be converted into dormitories for labourers. Site Summary: North of Mechuabazar, the area consists of four and five-storey tenements built in the 1920s. Each has 20-25 rooms on the ground floor, skirting the courtyard. Each of these 200-400 square foot rooms serves as karkhanas and gaddis. First floor upwards, there are 15-18 one-room tenements with common toilets on each floor. They house lower middle-income families. Proposal from Prune Berthier: The large number of karigars and workshop staff eat at roadside stalls and informal eateries in Chitpur. This leads to crowding and littering, especially dangerous in Covid-19 times. Given the recent economic distress and job losses for many families here, as a medium-term intervention, community canteens are proposed in unused courtyards and vacant tenements. These could be run as co-operatives by women of the area. Site Summary: Iron market dating back to the 1890s. In the beginning it supplied metal utensils and equipment for the sweetmeat industry, but has diversified ever since. The skilled workers are migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh who spend 11 months a year, contribute to the local economy, and yet live in abysmal conditions. Proposal from Quentin Trélet: Workshop interiors are dingy, so workers use the bylanes and open area for cutting, shaping and welding metalware. This leads to waterlogging during rains. To avoid, create a temporary raised metal floor for workshops and add larger windows. This way they can work indoors, maintain distancing and be productive despite rains. In the longer run, segregation of live-work areas should happen. This will secure workers and their families from the dangers of metalwork, eliminate noise and waste strewn around and improve quality of life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
