02-11-2020||Calcutta||Elderly pedestrian dead in accident||An elderly man walking along EM Bypass near Ajoynagar died after being hit by an unidentified vehicle on Saturday night. The pedestrian, Basudev Maji, 75, was trying to cross the road when he was hit by the vehicle and suffered grievous injuries, witnesses who found the man lying on the road told police. Maji, a resident of Sahid Smriti Colony, was taken to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where he died late on Saturday. The police said they were studying CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the vehicle that hit Maji. According to police records, more than 55 per cent of the people who died in road accidents in Calcutta in 2019 were pedestrians. “Pedestrians are most vulnerable to road accidents, especially because of encroached footpaths or lack of footpaths. Because of the absence of footpaths or encroachments, people are forced to walk down the road risking their lives,” an officer said. In 2019, the number of people who died in road accidents was 267. Of them, 150 were pedestrians. A large number of offending vehicles that hit pedestrians causing their death remains “unidentified” every year. Earlier on Saturday, another elderly pedestrian — Gauranga Chowdhury, 64 — had died after being hit by a bakery van in the Netaji Nagar area. The van driver was arrested. The body of a 29-year-old man was found hanging from the ceiling of a room in the Rabindra Nagar area, Parnasree, on Sunday. The man, Apu Dutta, was declared dead at a hospital, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Hospital seeks warm covers for animals ||An animal hospital in the city has appealed for old blankets, sheets and sacks to keep the animals warm during winter. The Calcutta chapter of Ashari, People for Animals, has been making this appeal for the last few years because the injured dogs and cats in the hospital need extra protection during winter. “With winter around the corner, we need to provide warmth for all the animals at Ashari. We would be grateful for old blankets, sweaters, sheets, jute sacks, shawls — anything you can donate,” reads the appeal made on social media. “We have dogs and cats who are undergoing treatment. Some of the dogs are paraplegic and cannot move and develop bed sores. Their beds need to be changed and we need soft beds for them,” Ashari spokesperson Moupiya Banerjee said. People keen to donate may call  8335045433 between 11am and 5pm for guidance. “There is a requirement round the year but more during winter because there are some dogs and cats who... sleep in the passage and they need something warm in winter,” she added. Currently, the hospital has 105 cows, more than 400 dogs and around 70 cats and some kites. The Covid pandemic has affected Ashari as donations have declined. “We have some regular donors who donate online. But many others who would visit us and donate in cash or kind are not coming. There were some who would donate food or medicines but that has dried up during the pandemic,” Banerjee said. “Our expenses covering treatment, medicine and food for animals and payment of staff are huge. Since we only depend on private funding, we have appealed to people to come forward with blankets and sheets.” Spread across 4.4 acres in Mukundupur, the hospital has three ponds on the campus. “It gets very cold on the campus in winter because of the water bodies and open space. Since these animals are injured and domesticated, they need some warm cover,” said Radhika Bose, a committee member at Ashari. Bose also said some of the injured animals would soil the bed frequently. The hospital only admits animals that are injured and strays who cannot survive on their own. “The idea is not to keep healthy animals but those who need care,” Bose said. Ashari also runs a passive adoption programme - one can adopt a pet but not take it home. A person can name the pet, walk and play with them at Ashari and pay for them which is Rs 1,000 a month for a cat or a dog and Rs 1,500 a month for a cow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Sunderbans villager mauled by tiger, dies||A man who had ventured into a forest creek in the Sunderbans to catch crabs died after being mauled by a tiger on Friday. Sashanka Mandal, the 18th victim of tiger attack in the Sunderbans since March, was a resident of Lahiripur village in Gosaba, over 90km from the heart of Calcutta. “He was part of a small group that had ventured into the creek on a small unlicensed boat. The incident took place inside Jhila-6 forest. The men were catching crabs in a shallow creek when a tiger pounced on Mandal. The other group members raised the alarm and the tiger could not drag Mandal away. But he was fatally injured,” said an official of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR). The place where the incident occurred falls in the STR territory. Licensed boats are allowed to fish in the rivers in the mangrove delta. But venturing into the forests and shallow creeks is prohibited. The creeks draw fishermen because of crabs. But they are extremely dangerous because the tigers often venture into these creeks. Before Mandal, at least 17 people have been killed by tigers in the mangrove forests since March. All of them, including Mondal, had ventured illegally into the forest areas, officials said. The Covid-19 pandemic has posed serious livelihood challenges to residents of the Sunderbans. Cyclone Amphan has doubled the hardships and many people are becoming dependent on the forests for livelihood. Many of them are venturing deep into the tiger territory, risking their lives, to catch fish and crabs every day. Tempers are frayed in the region because of the series of deaths, many of which have taken place in the Jhila forest area. Forest department officials have been holding meetings with panchayat pradhans, members of the joint forest management committee and villagers from the Sunderbans and asked them not to harm tigers if they spot one. “We are conducting regular awareness campaigns in the villages. But people are still venturing into the forests to catch fish and crab,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Fear sparks breathlessness in Covid survivors||A sizable number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 are suffering from breathlessness, which mental health experts said was resulting from anxiety and fear of contracting the coronavirus again. Psychiatrists who have been counselling these Covid survivors say the anxiety is so severe that it is manifesting as breathlessness in most of the callers, who are seeking consultation after cardiologists and others have ruled out any problem in their heart or lungs. “The problem of breathlessness will not be there when the person, say, is either cycling or walking briskly. It occurs when he or she is sitting at home,” said Sujit Sarkhel, a senior psychiatrist who is leading a team of counsellors on behalf of Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease. “It is the recall of the pain a patient had undergone when he or she had contracted the coronavirus that is causing this anxiety.” The Covid Care Network has tied up with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to offer free consultation on psychological issues to Covid patients or those who have recovered from the disease over the phone every day between noon and 6pm. The toll free number is 1800 889 1819. Doctors receiving such calls said that in most cases the sense of breathlessness was not related to exhaustion as several pulmonary checks would reveal. They neither have any patch of infection in their lungs nor suffer from any fall in the oxygen saturation level but still complain of breathlessness. “This post-Covid anxiety was manifesting not only in elderly people but even among those in the age group of 30 to 40 years,” said a member of the team. “The difference between actually feeling short of breath and fearing breathlessness is lost among many of the survivors because of the anxiety that has its roots in the first bout of infection.” A team of at least 20 psychologists and six psychiatrists, who have volunteered to work for the Covid Care Network, have been receiving calls in batches since mid-September. The anxiety or trauma is not limited to the survivors but even to those who continuously fear getting infected by the coronavirus. There have been calls from family members complaining about how a survivor or someone staying close to him or her has been resorting to washing hands almost every minute or undergoing sanitisation in quick succession, some counsellors said. “There are callers who would complain about losing sleep because his next-door neighbour has tested positive,” Sarkhel said. “The anxiety from anticipating the infection and its consequences is very deep and has resulted in severe mental distress among some.” Experts said people undergoing panic attacks should not shy away from consulting doctors or seeking counselling because the experience can be terrifying for the person. Some callers ask for suggestions like whether to go for an immediate test if a family member has tested positive. Some others - those who have lost a family member to Covid-19 and have not been able to complete all rituals to their satisfaction - would want to discuss their pain with doctors. "Unresolved grief can give rise to a lot of psychological problems," said a member of the team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Patience on a stool, like a book on shelf||You have seen him perched on his stool for the last 30 years or more, like patience on a monument, not exactly smiling at grief, but slightly frowning perhaps and looking contemplatively at the unending stream of humanity that is Gariahat Road. If you are walking from Golpark to Gariahat, along the right footpath, Tapas Kumar Koyal’s is the first old books stall that you come across as you cross the first lane on your left. The cluster of second-hand books stalls here is south Calcutta’s answer to College Street’s purono boi para; smaller it is, but no less significant. Koyal, 52, can be considered a minor landmark, literally. As he presides over his collection, arranged neatly according to demand, he grabs the passer-by in whose eyes he sees the slightest flicker of interest, and with practised ease quickly takes the potential buyer through a tour of his titles, starting at Amish, the blockbuster, then hopping on to Shashi Tharoor, Chetan Bhagat and then to Murakami. But if this pecking order fails to produce the desired effect, Koyal takes you to his other stuff, kind of hidden among the pile that is hidden behind the Amishes and the Bhagats. And there, in those columns made of books, you might find that one book that can change your life, slightly or more — an old copy of George Meredith’s The Egoist in surprisingly good condition or Voices from Chernobyl, long before its author became more than an unpronounceable name in these parts of the world. Koyal has no idea how many lives he has changed. He is surprised that anyone would want to interview him at all. He started work at the bookstall when he was about 12, having to leave school midway. The stall he now looks after belonged to his father. Originally residents of Sarisha, Diamond Harbour, in South 24-Parganas, Koyal, as a child, had come over with his other family members to Calcutta, to join his father. They used to live in a room in Purna Das Road. Koyal was enrolled at Lake View School. He still lives in that room. His wife and children live in their family home in Sarisha. “I had to give up school after Class VIII,” says Koyal. By that time his two other brothers were already helping their father, who would eventually own three stalls, two on the footpath and one a shop on the ground floor of a building on the other side of the lane. Their father has passed away. The three brothers now manage the business. Between them they have the stall where Koyal sits and two others, the old shop in the building and another in the same building. The three stalls hold thousands of books together. From the time Koyal has been at the stall, the city has changed much. And so has Gariahat. “I saw the Meghamallar building (one of the oldest highrises in the area) come up.” He was struck down by Operation Sunshine, like other hawkers in the city. Slowly, like his neighbours in Gariahat, he came back. “But previously I had a proper stall, with doors, like they have in College Street. This stall is only benches and my stool,” he says. He saw the Gariahat boulevard getting razed and the Gariahat flyover springing up. He misses the boulevard, but considers the flyover a good idea. And he has felt the onslaught of the availability of books online. “Book sales have gone down about 50 per cent compared to 20 years ago,” he said. And Indian writers writing in English have replaced foreign writers. “Earlier people wanted Ludlum, Sidney Sheldon, Harold Robins and Jeffrey Archer. Now it is Amish. All his books do well.” And of course Bhagat and Tharoor. And the occasional foreigner like Michelle Obama, whose autobiography is doing well here too, he said. All available at less than half the market price or less at his stall. Old favourites, however, have not been abandoned, insists Koyal. “Ludlum, Sidney Sheldon, Harold Robbins and Jeffrey Archer are still popular,” he said, pointing at rows of these writers at one of the shops in the building. He points to another, longer row, filled with another eternal: Mills and Boons. Once the M&Bs here were the lifeline for many pre-millennial young women: for as little as Rs 10 as deposit and Rs 5 as reading fees, one title could be borrowed for a month. The old book stalls functioned as lending libraries too. They still do. “The deposit is Rs 100, the reading charges Rs 30 per month,” he said. One wonders if the readers remain the same in number. The supply of old books was never interrupted, though. “We have a network. Those who buy newspapers from houses are often sold old books. If there are collections, the owner sends me a word through them,” Koyal said. Many of them come from old houses where old families live. These days when old buildings are being brought down and replaced by multi-storeyeds, especially in the areas around Golpark, many families tend to sell their old collections. The collections range from Encyclopaedia Britannica to finely produced art books to collections on photography. But who buys them in this age, especially encyclopaedias? “People do, sometimes only to decorate their houses,” Koyal said. Are his children interested in joining his business? “Why should they?” asks Koyal. “They are getting educated.” His daughter is in college and his son is still in school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Astrologer dead in bedroom fire||An astrologer died of burns after a fire broke out in his bedroom on Sunday morning, police said. Neighbours spotted flames leaping out of Jayanta Shastri’s bedroom on the first floor of his three-storey house, in Kestopur’s Samar Dey Sarani, around 7:30am and called the fire services as well as police. Shastri was alone in the house, the police said. His wife and mother were away. At least three fire tenders were sent to the house, in a narrow lane off VIP Road. A fire official said they had to spray water from outside to cool down the building before they could enter. “The entire house was filled with thick dark smoke. When we reached the first floor, we had to break down a charred wooden door before we could bring the man down. He had suffered extensive burns,” the official said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said Shastri was taken to a nursing home off EM Bypass in a police ambulance. He was declared dead on arrival. Another officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said a number of reasons might have been responsible for the fire. “It could have been triggered by an electrical short circuit in the air-conditioner in the bedroom or a lamp that burnt throughout the night. The rooms have been badly burnt and it is difficult to say right how the fire had started. We have collected samples for investigation,” the official said. The firefighters said the house had no fire-fighting systems or alarms. Rajiv Das, who lives in a house opposite Shastri's, said he woke up to a smell of something burning. “My house overlooks his. As soon as I stepped out, I saw flames leaping out of his window. I immediately alerted other neighbours,” Das said. Prashanta Paul, another neighbour, said Shastri would often stay in his Kestopur house alone, while his wife would stay in one of their several flats across the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Two water bodies, two policies||The state government’s caring approach towards Santragachhi Jheel stands in contrast to its attitude towards Rabindra Sarobar, both of which are home to thousands of birds, resident as well as migratory. The government has ensured that Santragachhi Jheel, in Howrah, is cleaned ahead of birds’ arrival this year, but has taken a different course for Rabindra Sarobar and moved the Supreme Court for permission to allow Chhath Puja there. Environmentalists fear the Chhath rituals will scare away birds and affect the ecology of the water body and the surroundings. Metro reported on Sunday that the Supreme Court had listed the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s plea for allowing Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar for hearing on Monday. At Santragachhi Jheel, work to clear water hyacinths began in July. Eleven islands or platforms of hyacinths have been created for birds to roost. Birdwatcher Sujan Chatterjee said the jheel was a resting place for birds that arrive during winter. Many of the birds live in forest habitats but migrate to warmer places in winter. They need a protective covering and the islands of water hyacinths provide that. “They roost on hyacinth islands. It is heartening to know that the islands have been built on time,” he said. Arjan Basu Roy, who is building the islands of hyacinths, said the “vegetation management work began in July”. “We have cleared water hyacinths from a large part of the jheel. We have created 11 islands. Several Lesser Whistling Ducks have already arrived. Work will be completed by November 15,” said Basu Roy, the founder of NGO Nature Mates. An official of the state environment department said a management plan for Santragachhi Jheel would soon be ready. “We are preparing a round-the-year plan for management of the jheel. The West Bengal Biodiversity Board will release the funds for management,” the official said. Till 2018, no state government department would come forward to clear the hyacinths. On most occasions, private individuals raised funds to clear the hyacinths. Since last year, the Biodiversity Board has been financing the project. The government, however, has taken a different approach towards Rabindra Sarobar. The CMDA’s appeal before the NGT -- which banned all pujas, picnics and social events on the 173-acre Sarobar premises -- to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar was not even heard before it was rejected in September. “You should feel happy that we are not imposing any cost,” the tribunal had said while rejecting the CMDA’s petition. But the CMDA, a state government agency, has now approached the Supreme with an identical plea. Sudip Ghosh, a regular at the Sarobar, said more than 100 bird species have been recorded at Sarobar since January. “Turtles have been sighted. There is a rich diversity of flora and fauna, and all in the heart of the city with human habitations around it,” said Ghosh. “Why is the government so keen on organising Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar? We are not against puja, we are only saying protect Rabindra Sarobar.” Birdwatchers said that a large number of birds go missing from the Sarobar a few days after Chhath Puja every year. The oil from lamps and ghee used for the rituals spill onto the water and form a layer that prevents diffusion of oxygen into the water from the atmosphere. This affects aquatic lives that require oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||IIM calls back Net-hit students||Fifty students from the two-year MBA programme at IIM Calcutta have been called to the institute so they can use the internet facility on the campus to attend online classes, said an official of the institute. The students are being brought in batches since the third week of October and are being put up at hostels. Classes are being held online because of the Covid pandemic. The demand to bring back students of the two-year programme was raised last month, following the institute’s decision in September to ask all students of the one-year MBA executive programme to return to the campus to tide over the connectivity issues they were facing at home. A teacher at IIM-C said the MBA programme office spoke to the students and their parents on Google Meet to determine the kind of hassles they were encountering while attending online classes from home. Students from tier-III cities, who are the worst-hit, are being given preference while making the selection. The two-year MBA programme has 462 students, compared with 62 in the executive programme. “During the interaction, commitment was sought from parents that their wards would follow the standard operation procedure on the campus,” a teacher said. A student due to arrive this week said the institute had prepared a campus entry protocol, that included mandatory testing and quarantine. During the quarantine period, food will be served at the doorstep. “A student of the MBA executive programme last month had tested positive despite following the protocol. The entire batch had to be quarantined again. So, we are being extra vigilant,” an official said. Repeated calls to IIM director Anju Seth went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
02-11-2020||Calcutta||Crowd control holds local train key||The Bengal government has to play a proactive role in crowd control for the resumption of suburban trains in the state, railway officials said ahead of their meeting with state officials on Monday. The railway officials said they were willing to resume suburban service in a phased manner and would seek the government’s support in implementation of social distancing norms. The state home secretary wrote a letter to the general manager of Eastern Railway on Saturday, asking the railways to initiate talks on how “a few pairs of trains could be run locally in the morning and afternoon hours to serve the general commuters at large”. The main hurdle in the resumption of local trains is crowd control and implementing the social distancing protocol. “The state government’s role is going to be crucial in crowd control,” a railway official said. The suburban sections of Eastern Railway ferried 30 lakh passengers every day before the services were suspended in March to contain the spread of Covid-19. Unlike Metro stations, access control at the porous suburban stations is going to be difficult, said railway officials. The number of stations in the suburban sections of Sealdah and Howrah is well over 200. The Sealdah suburban section alone saw over 900 trains and around 20 lakh passengers every day before the suspension of services. In the Howrah suburban section, the daily passenger count was around 10 lakh. Around 500 trains ran every day. “The sheer scale of the suburban network will pose a huge challenge in enforcing social distancing norms. Hundreds of stations have people entering and exiting through various unguarded points. It is not possible to deploy men in uniform at each point,” said an official of the Sealdah division. Most of the local train passengers are office goers or workers from the suburbs. Thousands of people were booked every month in different divisions for boarding trains without tickets. The platforms looked like a sea of heads during peak morning and evening rush hours. Jampacked compartments, with people jostling for space on the footboards, were a common sight across railway stations. Any technology-based solution will have to take these factors into account, said railway officials. Public health experts cautioned that resumption of local trains without proper checks and balances could trigger a fresh surge in Covid-19 infections. They cited Calcutta High Court’s intervention in the run-up to the Puja, declaring all pandals no-entry zones. “If the court had not intervened, the pandals would have turned into ideal Covid-19 hotspots. Similarly, local trains can also turn out to be an engine for the Covid-19 virus,” said a public health expert. The partial resumption of suburban train services in Mumbai for essential workers could serve as a template for Bengal, said another railway official. Around 2,000 local trains are running in Mumbai. The trains are for essential workers and at specified hours of the day. The Maharashtra government is coordinating with the railways to allow the general public to board the trains during non-peak hours and a decision is expected soon. “The Maharashtra government has played an active role in the resumption of services — from identifying essential workers to crowd control. A similar proactive role is needed by the Bengal government as well,” said the official. The railway authorities have been running a fleet of special trains on the suburban routes of Howrah and Sealdah, ferrying only railway personnel. Over the past month, a series of confrontations took place between non-railway personnel wanting to board such trains and Railway Protection Force personnel trying to stop them. Two similar incidents were reported at Howrah station on Friday and Saturday, which prompted the letter from the state government. The letter blamed the railways for “using force” to disperse people waiting to board the trains. But railway officials pointed out that two previous letters sent to the state government, seeking to work out modalities for resumption of suburban services, did not elicit any response. “A meeting has been scheduled at the behest of the state government to work out the modalities for resumption of suburban services in a phased manner. We want to run the trains and are on the same page with the government,” a senior official of Eastern Railway told Metro on Sunday. The agency that has designed the e-pass system for Metro Railway and built the Pathadisha app for the state transport department will also have a representation at Monday’s meeting, said sources in the government. “There is a need for a technology-based solution. But the efficacy of the e-pass system for Metro Railway does not necessarily mean the same system will work for the suburban trains,” said an official of the state government. A formal clearance from the Railway Board is needed for the resumption of suburban trains. “The board is in favour of resumption of services. Getting a clearance should not be a problem,” said a railway official in Calcutta. “Our representatives will meet the state government officials on Monday. We are expecting a positive outcome,” the spokesperson for Eastern Railway said on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-254
