03-11-2020||Calcutta|| Crunch begins to tell on schools||The lockdown-induced financial crunch is compelling some schools in Calcutta to take “traumatic” crisis-management steps, including layoffs, multiple sources have told The Telegraph. ⚫ A south Calcutta school has asked five teachers and around 10 non-teaching assistors to leave. The principal has resigned. ⚫ A central Calcutta school has been unable to pay salaries to teachers after August. ⚫ A small south Calcutta school has been making staggered payment to teachers, prioritising those who are the sole earning members in their families. Some of the outgoing employees of these schools spoke to this newspaper with the request that they not be named so that their employment prospects elsewhere are not affected. None of the school managements responded to questions from this newspaper, probably because an appeal against a fee waiver is pending with the Supreme Court. Moved by the plight of parents affected by the lockdown, Calcutta High Court had ordered a 20 per cent reduction in tuition fees and a complete waiver of the fees charged on facilities that students will not be using till in-person classes resume. Among those who lost their jobs with the south Calcutta school are an art teacher and a computer teacher. The principal resigned after being asked by junior colleagues why they were losing their jobs and why the principal could not help save their positions, a source said. The principal did not take calls from this newspaper. The principal of another school described the situation –- layoffs have so far been confined largely to industry —as “traumatic”. Sources in one school said that with uncertainty surrounding the resumption of in-person classes, the institution was focusing on retaining the staff necessary for upkeep and maintenance. “When things improve, the management can recruit people,” a source said. The management of a central Calcutta school is waiting for fee collection to be able to clear the teachers’ dues for the past two months. “We are somehow managing to pay the non-teaching staff every month. Before Durga Puja, we cleared the dues of the teachers till August, at least, from our reserves. It has been tough for us with barely 10 per cent of the fees collected so far,” said the head of a central Calcutta school that goes beyond classrooms and carries out commendable community service. Not that the schools do not empathise with the parents who have hit a rough patch. On Monday, a parent walked up to a south Calcutta school where the management is making staggered payments and sought a waiver because he “has no job”. The helpless principal recounted: “I had no option but to tell him that if parents did not pay, more teachers will be jobless. We have to think about the staff too.” The principal said the school was able to pay the teachers because of the staggered schedule. “We have prioritised those teachers who are the sole earning members in their families. To the rest, we are making delayed payments. The teachers are supportive,” the principal said. Several schools that have neither cut nor delayed teachers’ pay said the salaries come from the tuition fee. “With this new ruling, we will be able to barely generate 50 per cent of the staff salary. The school will use the money from the trust but that commitment can be only for some time. How long can you sustain yourself like this?” the head of a school in north Calcutta asked. A couple of schools said that expenditures under some heads were unavoidable regardless of whether the classes were being held online or in person. “We have to pay corporation tax, which works out to more than Rs 10 lakh a year. Then there is the water tax. We have not got any concession there,” the head of an Anglo-Indian school said. “If this continues, we are going to be in deep trouble.” Several schools that did not mention the dreaded word “layoff” said they were “in the process of working out our finances”. “We have to find out ways to rework the finances... but nobody knows where to find resources,” said the head of a Salt Lake school run by a private trust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Twin worries in Bengal’s Covid battle||Reluctance to get tested for Covid-19 or stay at a safe house even if there is no proper isolation facility at home are two big worries of the state government in its fight against the coronavirus, officials and public health experts said on Monday. A 15-year-old boy who lives in a slum on Keyatala Road in south Calcutta had a fever during Durga Puja. His family approached a doctor and asked him to write a prescription. “I refused to write a prescription and instead wrote advice for a Covid test,” said Sudipta Mitra, physician and chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The boy's family said they got the test done a day after Dashami and he turned out to be positive. The boy’s uncle said Calcutta Municipal Corporation and health department officials had initially called them up to enquire about his condition. “The officials had at first said he could stay at home. But when a team of CMC health workers came to our house, they shouted at us for keeping all our windows open. Then they said since we have a common toilet, my nephew and his parents needed to be shifted,” said the patient’s uncle. He alleged that the CMC workers had threatened to call police if the boy was not shifted. “The family members started shouting at me saying if I didn't get the boy tested, they would not have faced such a problem. I then arranged for the boy to stay at a private safe house and the parents at a quarantine centre,” Mitra said. CMC and health department officials and public health experts said there were several factors leading to the situation. A CMC official said that during the initial days of the pandemic, councillors were taking an active role in convincing confirmed or suspected Covid patients to get admitted to hospital or shift to safe houses and quarantine centres. “But the involvement of councillors in several wards has reduced significantly. This is creating problems for us in shifting patients and their contacts to safe houses or hospitals and quarantine centres,” the official said. “If a councillor approaches a family, they feel reassured. Health workers often don’t have the required communication skills and that is creating problems.” “Even a fortnight back, CMC workers who collect samples for Covid tests from home were much in demand. We were unable to give them dates. But the demand has dropped sharply over the past 20 days,” the CMC official said. A physician attached to the fever clinic of a government hospital said many patients were insisting that we prescribe drugs such as paracetamol and azithromycin, instead of advising a Covid test. “Many others are getting those prescriptions photocopied and going to pharmacies to buy the drugs," said the doctor. Another doctor said his prescription for an influenza patient was circulating through WhatsApp. The state government had earlier recommended that Covid patients with no symptoms stay at home provided they could isolate themselves from other family members. The intention behind the advice for home isolation was to free hospital beds for critical patients. CMC health department officials and public health experts, however, said even patients with no isolation facilities at home were preferring to stay at home. “This is a conflict we are facing everywhere. Often health workers are behaving rudely but that is a natural fallout of what is happening,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert. A CMC official said the civic body’s quarantine facility in New Town barely had 11 occupants on Monday. The number was more than 250 a few months back. “The number of active Covid cases in Calcutta is still very high. The low occupancy at quarantine facilities suggest more and more patients are preferring to stay at home,” the official said. The 200 safe homes run by the state government can accommodate 11,507 people. On Monday, there were only 965 occupants, a state health department official said. “Many Covid patients are staying at home with fever and are telling health workers that they would only go to hospital if they suffer from breathlessness. They are not realising that going to hospital in a critical condition does not make sense,” said Chowdhury. He said this was one of the reasons why the ICU beds at many hospitals were all occupied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||On table: phased resumption of suburban train services||The railways are looking to resume suburban services with “10 to 15 per cent” of the local trains that ran before the Covid pandemic, officials said after a meeting with state government representatives at Nabanna on Monday. The state government said the trains could run with 50 per cent of the capacity. The meeting did not yield any clarity on how to control passenger access at the porous suburban stations — the main challenge in resuming services. “The state government has to work out the modalities of how to run trains by maintaining Covid-19 protocols. We will run trains according to those modalities,” said a railway official. Another meeting — to finalise the crowd control modalities, number of trains, routes and time table — has been scheduled for Thursday. “We are planning to run 10 to 15 per cent of the usual number of trains to start with. The number can go up to 25 per cent,” said the principal chief operations manager of Eastern Railway. On a normal working day, the Sealdah suburban section sees 915 trains and the Howrah suburban section 460 trains, he said. The Sealdah section saw over 20 lakh passengers daily and the Howrah section over 10 lakh passengers. Bengal’s chief secretary, Alapan Bandopadhyay, cautioned that resumption of trains in the wake of the pandemic was a “very sensitive trade-off”. “Any resumption of metropolitan suburban railway service is bound to have an impact on public health…. So, the railways have been requested to accord primacy to public health protocols, physical distancing norms, social hygiene norms, mask norms, thermal scanning norms etc. Within that ambit, what is to be done to keep the passengers and society practicably safe, is a very delicate exercise,” said Bandopadhyay. The initial plan is to run trains with 50 per cent seating capacity, said Bandopadhyay. But railway officials said reducing the number of trains or seating capacity would not be of any use unless there was a way to control the number of passengers. The chief secretary hinted that the government was not in favour of introducing an e-pass system for boarding suburban trains, like the one implemented by Metro Railway. “If an e-pass system is introduced, it may leave many people in the suburbs and rural areas in trouble,” the chief secretary added. “We had a fruitful and cordial meeting. The nitty gritties will be worked out in the next meeting,” said Aneet Dulat, the additional general manager of Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||First-year classes at state-aided colleges from December ||First-year classes at state-aided colleges and universities are likely to start on digital platforms in December, said an official of the education department. While most private institutions in Bengal have started online classes for first-year students, the state-aided colleges and universities have not been able to do so. Metro had September 28 quoted education minister Partha Chatterjee as saying: “It will be difficult to start the academic session before the first week of December.” Sources in the department said Chatterjee held a meeting with officials of the school education department on Monday at Bikash Bhavan on the possibility of reopening schools from November. Endorsing the academic calendar drawn by the UGC, the ministry of education had on September 22 announced that it had taken into account the Covid-19 pandemic and decided that first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes could start on November 1. An education department official said they had pushed back the start of the classes to December considering the slew of festivals in November. “An academic calendar will soon be drawn up. The classes will be held on digital platforms. The curricula cannot be completed on time if the session does not start in December,” he said. In Bengal, classes for students in other years in aided colleges and universities are already underway on digital platforms. As the state government and railway officials are holding talks to resume suburban trains, the department is not ruling out the possibility of holding in-person classes later, sources said. A vice-chancellor said holding classes on digital platforms may not always be possible because a large number of students lack access to smartphones and the internet. Raiganj University in North Dinajpur had last month sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the state education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who can’t afford them so they could attend classes on digital platforms. Repeated calls to minister Chatterjee on Monday went unanswered. Regarding reopening of schools, a school education department official said as chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on September 30 said the Bengal government would think about reopening schools only after Kali Puja, they were preparing a report on how the institutions could be reopened. Kali Puja is on November 14. Since the Madhymik and higher secondary examinations are only months away, there is a plan to start reopening the schools with the students of classes IX, X, XI and XII.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Kite strings injure trees at Indian Botanic Garden||Chinese manja or nylon kite strings are threatening plants and trees at the Indian Botanic Garden, Howrah. Torn kites with manjas (strings laced with a mixture of glass and glue) can be seen trapped on the branches of practically all big trees at the over 300-year-old garden. Creepers and weeds can be found on these strings, covering the bark, branches and canopies of the trees depriving them of sunlight. If left unchecked, such trees will die in a few years, a garden botanist said. Such kite strings have left many two-wheeler riders and birds injured in the city. The nylon strings, known as Chinese manja, are almost unbreakable and extremely sharp. These strings have left gardeners injured, too. “Kites get caught in the branches of the tall trees and the manjas reach the ground. Often, creepers latch on to these manjas instead of growing horizontally along the ground,” Basant Kumar Singh, senior scientist, Botanical Survey of India, said. “These weeds grow very quickly and send shoots down. In no time they cover the entire bark and branches of the tree and cover the canopy. If they continue to cover the canopy, the tree will die for want of sunshine and pollination.” Most palm trees in the garden are covered by these creeper weeds. “Palms trees are particularly susceptible to such creepers because they do not branch. Other trees can branch and have a wide crown,” Singh said. The garden is surrounded by human habitation along its three sides and the Hooghly to its south. The gradual rise in population pressure in the vicinity of the garden has affected the garden’s environment. Kites, usually flown by people living nearby, have been killing many rare species, according to garden officials. In a publication titled, “Flying kites: A threat to conservation of plants in AJC Bose Indian Botanic Garden” in the Indian Journal of Biological Sciences, Singh, along with C.M. Sabapathy and Arabinda Pramanik, wrote: “The abandoned trapped kites on tree tops with long hanging strings act as an excellent primary climbing support for tender climbers, giving easy passage to reach even the top of tall trees. “Later, production of lateral branches from the top of the climber and other accessory branches, and even other climbers from the ground reaching the top taking support of the first climber, completely cover the tree top. “This reduces the assimilation rate of the trees and reduces the growth rate. It hampers pollination by suppressing the exposure of flowers to the pollinator and competing for nectar content.” There are 151 climbing plant species in the garden. Of these, 15 climbers were recorded to cause damage to trees. These climbers need support to climb according to their physiological requirement. Trees with smooth and stout stems rarely provide such climbers with support. But kite strings hanging from tree tops provide an ideal support to the climbers for easy anchoring and twisting around. In seven of 10 such instances, these weeds reach the canopy of other trees because of kite strings. These strings harm birds, too. Many have been found trapped by such strings, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Smart bus stop comes up on New Town artery||A Wi-Fi-enabled bus stand that will let commuters know the expected time of arrival of the next bus, it's route and when it is likely to reach the final destination has come up in front of the Coal India building in New Town. The bus stop on the Major Arterial Road, which will be functional from November 5, also has a counter that will sell snacks and function as a night cafe and a newspaper stand so that the stretch does not become desolate after sundown like many other streets of New Town. Two brightly lit electronic display boards at each end of the bus stop will give information about the buses at regular intervals, like the flight information boards do at the airport terminal, said an official of Hidco, the agency that built the bus stop. Apart from timings, the boards will mention the route of every bus that arrives so that even those who are new to the city can board a bus with ease. A map of the area around the bus stop with a prominent marker displaying the exact location of the bus stop is also there so that those who get off buses can walk to their destinations easily. Most of the new-age buses in the transport department's fleet have GPS-based live tracking units. Based on the data of real-time movement of these buses, a software will generate information for use at a particular bus stop, a Hidco official said. This software takes into account the travel time of a bus on a particular route, the nature of traffic congestion at various times and correlates the data to the real-time movement of the bus to work out an estimated time of arrival at a particular stop. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said the idea was to have a "smart" bus stand that not only let people know when the next bus was due to arrive but also served as a hangout zone. "While it will provide an opportunity for income generation... commuters, especially women, will feel safe at night as it is brightly lit and will have people around," said Sen. Two more “smart” bus stands are being built near Aliah University. The decision to have a bus stop with a cafe was taken as many areas in New Town turn desolate and lonely as night sets in, said an official of Hidco, which builds infrastructure in New Town. Metro has reported how the New Town authorities were banking on cafes and eateries to make the township livelier and safer, particularly for women at night. A large number of people working in the IT sector in New Town are women. According to a report submitted by a team from IIT Kharagpur to the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), women feel unsafe while returning home at night simply because the streets turn empty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||‘Collars’ to save stray dogs in Calcutta||Two women who have been rescuing people abandoned on roads during the pandemic and feeding stray dogs have started providing stray dogs with reflective collars to increase their visibility and prevent accidents. Priyanka Mitra and Priyam Dutta, both aged 33 and professionals, have identified pockets in north Calcutta as vulnerable stretches where they have found several dogs injured or killed in road accidents in the past few months. Amherst Street, Maniktala, Ultadanga, VIP Road, Dum Dum, Belghoria Expressway are some of the places where the two plan to collar stray dogs in the next few weeks. “These are the areas where we have been feeding stray dogs. We find injured dogs every second day on average. So, we decided to make an attempt to make them more visible with reflective collars,” Priyanka Mitra said. The two women — one a telecom industry professional and the other a physiotherapist — have been feeding 250 stray dogs every night during the lockdown. But with shops and eateries opening up, they have now shifted their area of focus to preventing accidents that claim the lives or limbs of such dogs. They have collared 25-odd stray dogs in the Ultadanga and Maniktala area till Monday. They want to complete at least 300 before Diwali, Mitra said. “While feeding the dogs we come across ghastly accidents like vehicles running over pregnant dogs or trucks simply crushing dogs resting under them. Now that the lockdown norms have been eased and food is available, more or less, we thought of fixing reflective collars on them to make them more visible at night.” The two have found maximum casualties on stretches like Canal Road in the Ultadanga area, Lohapatty in the Amherst Street area, places in Maniktala and Burrabazar, pockets of New Town, stretches of VIP Road, and Narkeldanga Main Road in the past few months, she said. “We recently found a pregnant dog lying near Ultadanga. A car had hit her and she had fractured her waist. We tried to revive her with medicines; but when her condition did not improve we took her to an animal hospital,” Priyam Dutta said. “She passed away after two days. We only wish the motorist who had hit her had noticed her on the road.” The two hope reflective collars would make stray dogs easily visible on roads and help prevent accidents. Last year they had found a dog in Dum Dum whose lower jaw had been blown away when it tried to chew a chocolate bomb on Diwali night. Tying firecrackers in the tails is common, according to both. The two plan to print posters of dogs and circulate them in the slum areas where they have come across maximum instances of dog abuse during festivals. “Unfortunately there is no official record of stray dogs dying on roads but one can imagine their plight by the treatment meted out to them during Diwali,” Mitra said. Instead of celebrating Diwali, the two would rescue stray dogs on Diwali night if they come across such instances, the two said. Metro had reported about the two rescuing people abandoned on roads, many of whom government agencies had hesitated to touch because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath Puja: Supreme Court notice to activist in Rabindra Sarobar case||A Supreme Court bench on Monday declined to pass any order on the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s (CMDA) plea to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar without hearing the respondents, including environment activist Subhas Dutta, a counsel for the state agency said. The bench of Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman, Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari issued a notice to Dutta. The matter will be heard again on November 16. Chhath Puja is on November 20. “Interim directions for Chhath Puja this year will be considered on November 16 after hearing the respondents. Notice has been issued to the respondents, including Subhas Dutta,” said Rakesh Dwivedi, a senior advocate of the Supreme Court who is representing the CMDA. The CMDA is the custodian of the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar, which includes water bodies spread across 73 acres. It had approached the Supreme Court following the rejection of its plea to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar by the National Green Tribunal. The tribunal, which had banned all pujas, social events and picnics at the Sarobar in 2017, had not even heard the petition before rejecting it. Environment activist Dutta had approached the tribunal in 2016, ahead of a football match under flood lights at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium. “I argued that the bright illumination and noise will negatively impact the biodiversity of the place. Rabindra Sarobar is an extremely important place in terms of biodiversity,” he said on Monday. A birdwatcher had told Metro that more than 100 species of birds have been recorded at the Sarobar since January. Besides, the Sarobar is also home to turtles and various other kinds of flora and fauna. “The tribunal had formed an expert committee to suggest how to manage the Sarobar. The committee included scientists from central and state pollution control boards, Zoological Survey of India, Botanical Survey of India and academics. Based on its recommendations, the tribunal ordered a ban on all pujas at the Sarobar in 2017,” said Dutta. Since the order was issued days before Chhath Puja, the tribunal allowed the rituals that year as a special case following a plea from CMDA. But both in 2018 and 2019, devotees went inside and performed the rituals violating the ban. The administration acted like an ally on both occasions, said environment activists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Sunderbans honey in e-shopping cart||Residents of Calcutta can now get pure honey sourced online from the Sunderbans mangroves, with groups of native honey collectors teaming up amid the Covid pandemic to offer home delivery of the natural sweetener. Aided by the state government, honey collectors in the Sunderbans have launched their offering through www.sundarbansjfmc.org. Speaking on the novel service, state government officials said the move was aimed at assisting honey collectors amid the pandemic as well as providing a shot in the arm to the famous product from Bengal. “People can now shop for Sunderbans honey from www.sundarbansjfmc.org. Buyers from Calcutta will get free home delivery and people across the country need to pay a shipping charge to get the product. The move has two-fold benefits, financial help for honey collectors and doorstep delivery for buyers,” said a senior forest official. Honey is available in jars of two sizes, 250gm and 490gm. According to the website, the jar of 250gm is priced Rs 175 and the 490gm Rs 300. There will be an option for online payment. Apart from the government site, Sunderbans honey is also be available on the online shopping platform Amazon. Sources said the state forest department, through the Joint Forest Management Committee, had helped 72 families of traditional honey collectors to form three cooperatives a few months ago and helped them in apiculture inside camps of the forest department in the deep mangroves. “The cooperatives were formed to practise traditional honey collection by groups who used to move in dense forests in search of wild beehives, leading to many of them losing their lives in tiger attacks. We trained honey collectors in packaging the produce and now they are selling it online,” said Santosha G.R., a forester who served as divisional forest officer in the Sunderbans until recently. Honey collectors said it was the first time that traditional collectors were selling their produce online and were hopeful that it would help them reap profits. “There are three cooperatives which are producing honey in the deep mangroves. The honey is the same (or as pure as) as the bees collecting it from the flowers inside the forests. We hope people will love our honey. An agency is helping us deliver the products purchased online,” said Debasish Mondal, the secretary of Kultali Sunderban Banaraksha Bahumukhi Samabai Samiti Limited, a cooperative of traditional honey collectors. Forest officials said the department had already tagged an NGO to handle the online sale and delivery process. Aniruddha Sur, who developed the online platform, said: “It is just seven days since online sale has started. We have sold around a hundred bottles of honey so far but numbers will increase. An NGO is also helping us run online sale.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Youths try to pull woman off bike on BT Road||Three youths on a bike tried to pull down a woman from a bike on BT Road early on Monday and thrashed her brothers before a passing police patrol came to their rescue, police said. Cops managed to arrest one of the youths on the spot while the other two fled. The woman was returning to her in-laws’ place in Khardah after participating in the immersion proceedings of the Lakshmi idol at her parents’ home in Sovabazar when the youths attacked her around 1am near Kamarhati, the police said. The woman was riding pillion on her brother’s bike. Her other brother and sister were accompanying them in another bike, an officer of Khardah police station said. “The woman has claimed in her complaint that three youths who were not wearing helmets started following them on a motorcycle soon after they had crossed the Kamarhati junction on BT Road,” the officer said. “The youths started trailing them before overtaking them and calling her names and making indecent gestures.” After some distance, near the Alpine Dairy on BT Road, the youths suddenly stopped in front of the bike she was on with one of her brothers. They apparently tried to pull her down from the seat and hurled abuses at her. Her other brother and sister who were on another bike came to their rescue. The woman has told the police that one of the youths flashed a knife when her two brothers tried to stop them. They thrashed her brothers, she has said in her complaint with Khardah police station. Around the same time a Khardah police patrol was passing by. The team, alerted by the woman and her sister’s cries for help, stopped. Officers managed to arrest one of the three youths. He was later identified as Mohammad Selim, the police said. A search is on for the other two youths, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur recalls 10 researchers and employees||IIT Kharagpur has called 10 researchers and employees associated with projects back to the campus “depending on the priority of their projects”. A notice issued late last month says these researchers, who are known as project staff, will come in a phased manner. As most of their project deadlines are in December, they have been recalled to the campus, which they had vacated in September following a Covid outbreak. The outbreak had led to the closure of the campus early in September for two weeks. Each project supervisor had been asked to email the dean of sponsored research and industrial faculty the name of a specific member of the project staff. “Specific information such as project code, date of completion, and specific urgency on meeting the deliverable was mentioned in the mail to help the institute prepare a priority-based list of those who would be recalled,” an IIT official said. Before starting for the campus he/she has to undergo medical check-up and an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 as closest as possible to the date of journey and send the test report to the institute. The terms and conditions says he/she has to undertake the journey from Calcutta airport or the Kharagpur rail station following the protocol advised by the BC Roy Technology Hospital, IIT Kharagpur. “On reaching the campus, the project staff will immediately report to the hospital on the campus and subsequently follow the standard operating procedure. Based on the health condition, he/she will undergo self-isolation for 14 days or as required in the designated facility,” the official said. After that the research scholars will get the institute’s approval to occupy the rooms originally assigned to them at the Vikram Sarabhai Residential Complex. “We are working on a phased entry plan for research scholars,” Tamal Nath, the IIT Kharagpur registrar, said. “We will soon take stock of the situation and decide on the entry of other research scholars,” Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affairs, said. The Centre had said higher education institutions could reopen from October 15 to research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental works. Considering the inadequate medical facilities in Kharagpur town, the institute has been cautious while recalling researchers, the official said. Although the Covid chain has been broken following the imposition of the closure, sporadic cases are being reported, he said. “As beds are not available in sufficient numbers, we are being extremely vigilant while letting them in. Earlier, those infected had to be referred to private hospitals in Calcutta.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-252
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Two die after lorry hits pillar of bus stand||Two men were killed when a lorry travelling down Vivekananda Road early on Monday lost control, mounted a footpath and knocked down a concrete pillar of a passenger shelter, causing it to collapse. The victims — Rohit Jaiswal, 31, and Santa Yadav, 39 —    were among the four who were trapped under the debris of the shelter’s roof. Police said Rohit, a resident of Ram Mohan Roy Sarani, was a professional photographer who had clicked through the night and was sipping tea when the accident took place. Santa was a resident of Machuabazar in Maniktala. “All four were waiting for the day’s first bus to their respective destinations,” said an officer. Rohit was taken to the NRS Medical College and Hospital and Santa to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. They were declared dead on arrival. Both had suffered multiple injuries that resulted in internal haemorrhage, doctors who treated them said. The other two who were at the bus stand — Rajendra Prasad Jaiswara, 54, and Ravi Das, 55 - were admitted to NRS and RG hospitals, respectively. Doctors said Ravi had suffered multiple injuries. “The lorry was speeding down Vivekananda Road around 4.50am when the driver lost control and mounted a footpath near the Maniktala market after hitting a car,” said an officer at Amherst Street police station. “Four persons were standing under the shelter shade, adjoining a tea stall. A portion of the shade collapsed after the lorry hit one of the pillars and the four were trapped under the debris.” The owner of the tea stall is said to have told the police that Rohit was sipping tea when he spotted the lorry speeding down recklessly and veering towards the footpath. He immediately jumped out of his seat to save himself. “The lorry driver escaped. A case under IPC sections related to attempt to murder and reckless driving has been started against him,” an officer said. The Maniktala crossing remains busy for most of the day and the passenger shelter that collapsed usually remains crowded. Since most shops in the market nearby were yet to open for the day, there weren't too many people on the road around the time of the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
03-11-2020||Calcutta||Tough times for models trying to build career||Ramp shows have virtually dried up and shoots are limited in the city because of the pandemic, posing livelihood problems for many struggling models. Since shooting resumed in June, a trickle of work came calling. But the pie is mostly reserved for reasonably established models. The festive season is the most lucrative time for models. But this year, the Covid-19 crisis reduced both the number and scale of the Puja campaigns, limiting the opportunities of work. Many of the struggling models are from outside Calcutta, who shifted to the city for work. Not all of them could bag product endorsements and ramp shows used to be their main source of income. For starters, modelling is a low-paying job. With shows coming to a halt because of the distancing curbs, many of them were forced to leave the city as they could no longer pay rents and bills. Some of them have been looking to switch careers but opportunities are few and far between. Prachi Pandey, 24, a professional model, had been living in Calcutta for the past five years. In the run-up to the Pujas last year, Pandey was working “over 12 hours” every day. Beside ramp shows for festive collections, there were shoots for print and outdoor advertising campaigns for half a dozen brands. That included a popular fashion brand that has over 300 stores in the country. For the past two months, she has had only a couple of contracts — with a jeweller and a baby-oil maker, both in Patna. In June, she left her rented one-BHK accommodation in Lake Town and returned home to Patna. She had to keep paying the rent of around Rs 8,000 even during her absence. “But other expenses in Calcutta are on the higher side. In hindsight, it was the right decision because I at least got some work,” Pandey said. She returned to Calcutta in early October but is still to find work. Not every other aspiring model had a fall-back option like Pandey. On September 6, a 24-year-old woman was found hanging from the ceiling of a rented accommodation in Jadavpur. Police identified her as Bithi Mondal, 24, a struggling model who had shifted to Calcutta from South 24-Parganas. “She worked with a couple of event management companies. She was depressed as her work was not going well because of the Covid-19 situation,” an officer of Jadavpur police station had said, quoting Mondal’s sister. Most struggling models work through event management companies and model coordinators, who deal with brands and give them a commission. “There is hardly any event or product launches. We are struggling to stay afloat. How can we get work for models?” one of the partners of an event management firm in Calcutta asked. Seasoned models, too, have been finding things difficult. Koyel Nath Goswami, who has worked for leading jewellery and retail chains, was busy with “at least a dozen projects” in the run-up to the Pujas last year. This year, there were “four-five projects, mostly shoots”. “The pay is approximately 30 per cent less than last year. Delayed payments have become the new normal. The absence of ramp shows is hurting,” said Goswami, who has been a ramp veteran, walking for celebrity designers and a part of big-ticket “fashion weeks”. Nick Rampal, another top model in Calcutta, used to charge “around Rs 40,000 for one shoot”. For the past two months, he has been arranging the entire shoot in that budget. “That includes everything, from photographers and stylists to myself,” Rampal said. Things had come to standstill in the first two months of the lockdown, a leading stylist in Calcutta said. “I am back to work. But the work is 60 per cent of what it used to be.” The Film Federation of India has launched an online talent hunt for models and aspiring actors to extend a helping hand in these testing times. “Search for Stars” is being held in 13 languages across the country. Winners will have their profiles sent to leading production houses, according to organisers. “On behalf of the Film Federation of India, we believe in standing by the entertainment fraternity in these difficult times. Aspiring models and actors have a great platform in this,” Firdausul Hasan, president of the federation, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-253
