04-11-2020||Calcutta||Hum a tribute to ‘Oh Malda’||Five amateur singers in Malda have become an overnight sensation with “Oh Malda”, a music video on the district that is the gateway to north Bengal. On October 23, the video of White Canvas, their band, was released. Since then, the Bangla song “Oh Malda” has been widely shared on social media and has virtually become the “theme song” of the district. Ophthalmologist Dhurjati Prasad Roy, college teacher Debraj Roy Chowdhury, entrepreneur Tanmay Das, student Sagar Saha, and engineer Jibangshu Das joined hands back in 2015 and formed the band, White Canvas. Dhurjati Prasad said initially they would just “meet up and jam to have a good time”. “But Soumitra Roy, a well-known folk singer of Bengal who happens to be my cousin, heard our compositions and encouraged us. We started to take ourselves a little more seriously as music-makers. This song, Oh Malda, is aimed at attracting tourists and rejuvenating the emotions of people who have roots in the district but live in various parts of the globe now,” he said. Debraj said it helped that all of them were passionate about Malda. “This district was the capital of eastern India and undivided Bengal in the past. History and Malda are virtually synonymous. The district has mangoes, silks, a rich folk culture and many other things to offer tourists and visitors. That is why we decided on a music video tribute to showcase the uniqueness of Malda,” he said. The first number of the album “Oh Malda” contains vivid digital presentations of the famous Jahura temple and mosques to showcase the syncretism of the district. Monuments at Nimasarai, Foara More, which offer the possibility of numerous creative discussions and addas, have been shown in the video. Dhurjati Prasad said many people with roots in Malda who live in other states and abroad miss the district. “They miss Malda, its heritage and culture. We want to keep them connected to their own land through music.” Among the many people who’ve become fans of the band is Prasun Banerjee, the deputy inspector-general of police (Malda range). “What Dhurjati, Debraj and their friends have started will surely touch the hearts of Maldaiyas (as Malda residents are colloquially known). If the district is creatively promoted, people will surely want to visit this place that has so much to offer,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Presidency University to tally plus-II marks for PG entry||Most Presidency University departments will factor in marks of the Plus-II board exams while admitting students from other universities to its postgraduate courses because the authorities think results of the final-year undergraduate exams did not reflect the merit of the aspirants. The concern arose as students wrote end semester exams at home. An admission notification issued on Tuesday states that candidates would be admitted based on their performance at the undergraduate exams and the Plus-II board exams written in 2017. At Presidency, 20 per cent of the 417 PG seats are open for students from other universities. Application forms will be available from November 5 to 16 on the university’s website. According to the admission notice, the merit list for chemistry will be prepared on the basis of 50 per cent of the marks obtained in honours and 50 per cent of the marks obtained in chemistry at Plus-II level. In sociology, the merit list will be prepared on the basis of 25 per cent of the marks obtained in honours and 25 per cent of the aggregate at graduation. “This will be added to 25 per cent of the aggregate marks (best four barring environmental science) and 25 per cent of the aggregate marks in English at Plus-II,” said a university official. For admission to the performing arts course, 50 per cent of the marks obtained in honours, 25 per cent of the aggregate and 25 per cent of the marks in English at Plus-II will be considered. Till last year, the candidates were admitted to the postgraduate courses solely on the basis of their performance in the admission test conducted by the state JEE board. The test was not held this year because of the Covid pandemic. Among the science departments, physics, statistics and life sciences will take into account 25 per cent of the marks either in the respective subjects or in the science group at the Plus-II level while drawing up the merit lists. The math department will factor in 20 per cent of the marks in the subject at Plus-II. Only three departments - Bengali, English and Hindi - will admit students solely on the basis of their performance at the undergraduate exams. Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said: “We left it to the departments to decide on how they want to screen candidates. Many of them thought the Plus-II score will help them judge the merit of a masters’ aspirant.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Air funds for Bengal cities||The Centre has released Rs 192.5 crore for “air quality improvement” in the Calcutta urban agglomeration, which includes Howrah and Barrackpore, the two cities where like Calcutta the air quality is known to be poorer than the permissible limit. The ministry of finance tweeted a document on Monday where it said Rs 209.5 crore had been set aside for Bengal. Apart from the Rs 192.5 crore for the Calcutta urban agglomeration, Rs 17 crore has been allotted for the Asansol urban agglomeration, which comprises Asansol, Raniganj and Durgapur. The air quality in all three cities is a lot poorer than the permissible limit. The money can be used to strengthen and expand the air quality monitoring network, said Kalyan Rudra, the chairperson of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board. Another state government official stressed the need to establish more air quality monitoring stations. “If we have wider monitoring, we will have a more comprehensive knowledge of air pollution of the state. This knowledge can then be used to take measures to improve the air quality,” said the official. Calcutta has seven continuous air quality monitoring stations, Howrah three and Asansol one, according to the National Air Quality Index. Barrackpore, Durgapur and Haldia have none. Mumbai has 10 stations and Delhi 37. “We can use the funds to further our action plan on air quality improvement,” said Rudra. According to officials, the action plan includes: The document tweeted by the finance ministry said the money was meant for “air quality improvement measures, including capacity building of the local bodies...as well as meeting the additional needs of State Pollution Control Boards to appropriately assist the local bodies in monitoring the ambient air quality”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Celsius set to slide from today in Calcutta||The Celsius is set to dip in the city from Wednesday, thanks to snowfall in northern parts of the country. After staying on the higher side for the past few days, the temperature will go down gradually over the next few days and is tipped to breach the 20-degree mark by Friday, said a Met official. November began with snowfall in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10 degrees on Tuesday, the lowest this season. “The cold and dry winds from north India have started entering south Bengal. The minimum temperature in Calcutta will dip gradually. By Friday, it is expected to slide to 18 to 19 degrees,” said Ganesh Kumar Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Winter, however, is still some distance away, the Met office said. Unlike the monsoon, the Regional Meteorological Centre in Alipore does not announce the onset of winter. There are, however, certain parameters that mark the arrival of the season. One such parameter is that the minimum temperature has to be 15 degrees or less for at least four days at a stretch. The monsoon withdrew from the city on October 28 this year, marked by the first arrival of north-westerly winds. The temperature had then slid to 21 degrees and the minimum relative humidity plunged to under 36 per cent. But a low-pressure system over the north Bay of Bengal last weekend led to fresh moisture incursion into the city. The moisture-laden winds blocked the flow of dry northwestern winds and led to a rise in the minimum temperature. On Monday, the minimum temperature was close to 25 degrees, three notches above normal. The minimum relative humidity was close to 60 per cent. Both parameters are set to go down from Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Couple found hanging in Parnasree||A man and a woman were found hanging from the ceiling in a room they had rented two days ago in the Parnasree area on Tuesday. Police said the couple — who had introduced themselves as husband and wife — were declared dead at Vidyasagar State General Hospital. Preliminary investigations suggested Raju Mandal, 29, and Rinki Mandal, 20, were looking for an accommodation for the past few days and they had taken the help of a rickshaw-puller to zero in on this one-room house on Becharam Chatterjee Road. They had moved in on November 1, the police said. On Tuesday noon, when the rickshaw-puller came with their meal, he did not get any response from the house that was locked from inside. He told the landlord, Ratan Chakraborty, 75, about the matter and Chakraborty alerted Parnasree police station. Cops broke open the door to find both hanging from the ceiling. In his statement to the police, the landlord has said Raju Mandal had told him that he lost his factory job during the lockdown but was in a position to pay the monthly rent of Rs1,800. “We have alerted their families. No suicide note has been found. The cause of the suicide is still to be ascertained,” an officer of Parnasree police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||In the season of ads, slots go empty in Calcutta||The pandemic has sucked the life out of outdoor advertisement in Calcutta this festive season. Banners and billboards are usually stuffed into every available space on, above and beside roads and footpaths in the city in the run-up to Durga Puja. The festive season usually continues at least a week beyond Diwali. The last three weeks of the year sees a significant spurt in outdoor advertisement. But not this time. Calcutta had close to 3,000 legal slots for outdoor advertisement, two-third of which went unsold during Durga Puja this year, according to outdoor advertisers. What remains of the festive season is unlikely to see a turnaround, they fear. “We had almost zero bookings from March to August because of the lockdown. September saw around 25 per cent and October around 40 per cent of the usual business,” Noomi Mehta, chairman of Selvel One, an outdoor advertising agency with a pan-India presence, said. The company has posted marginally better figures than the industry average. Sanjiv Lall of Pioneer, another national player with a strong presence in Calcutta, said “around 25 per cent” of the slots in the city were booked during Durga Puja. The company has around 300 slots in the city. The festive season is the best time for outdoor advertisement — from giant billboards at prime locations to a small traffic kiosk on a deserted stretch. Consumer durables to real estate — every sector has new arrivals that need flaunting. An actress endorses a festive collection of a footwear brand from one billboard. A star cricketer vouches for a health drink from another. A sleek new hatchback announces its arrival from a third. The pandemic has changed all of that and more. Most brands are reeling under the economic slump and splurging on promotions is a strict no-no. A Calcutta-based company had booked close to 60 billboards across the city during Durga Puja in 2019. This year, none. “Saving costs is the priority now. The focus is on digital marketing,” said a senior official in the marketing division of the company. A week before Durga Puja, Durgapur Bridge that connects New Alipore and Chetla was empty on either side. For years now, banners standing on wood and bamboo structures have blocked the view on either side at least a fortnight before Durga Puja. Ditto for Rashbehari Avenue. At the famed Gariahat crossing, the footpaths and the buildings behind them are usually not visible because of outdoor advertisements. Banners and hoardings have often been termed “blinding, dangerous, hideous and stifling” by conservation architects. This year, though, a tour of the city showed scores of empty billboards. Even slots with envious visibility — along the Parama and AJC Bose Road flyovers, for example — had a common message. “To advertise here, call (followed by a phone number)”. The slots that have sold did so at a much lower price than usual. “A 40ftX20ft hoarding at Gariahat came at Rs 600psf last year. This time, the space got sold at less than Rs 150psf,” a Calcutta-based outdoor advertiser said. Lall of Pioneer said “the massive dip in demand” had left space owners with no bargaining power. “We had to give in to slashed prices to sustain ourselves,” he said. Many outdoor agencies have gone for pay cuts and some have been forced to resort to lay-offs. A veteran marketer said the slump in outdoor advertising signalled that “brands had given a vote of no-confidence to the economy”. Automobile and real estate were the two main sectors that still saw bookings for some billboards and hoardings, according to outdoor agencies. Missing in action were some key players — FMCG, consumer durables, jewellers, footwear brands and restaurants. “The puja season was extremely lean. Leave bookings aside, there were hardly any enquiries from advertisers,” said Debasish Kumar, a member of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators who is in charge of advertisements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro mulls rise in train count||The possibility of resumption of suburban railway services has prompted Metro Railway to consider increasing the number of daily trains. The carrier runs 152 trains from Monday to Saturday. The daily passenger count is inching towards the 100,000 mark. But once local trains resume, the terminal stations like Dum Dum and New Garia will bear the load of many more passengers. In February, Dum Dum had recorded a passenger volume of close to 20 lakh, an official said. Before the pandemic struck, a substantial chunk of Metro passengers came from the suburbs, who arrived at Dum Dum by local trains. Metro services were disrupted for close to an hour on Tuesday afternoon after a man jumped in front of a Dum Dum-bound train at Esplanade at 12.12pm. The man survived. Trains ran between Noapara and Central in the north and Maidan and New Garia in the south till normality resumed at 12.59pm, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Diwali: Mix not Covid and crackers  ||The combination of deadly dust and smoke released by fireworks is extremely harmful to those suffering from Covid or have recovered from the disease, doctors and environmentalists say. The effect of the toxic particulates and fume will be many times more this Diwali because it falls on November 14. The cool mid-November air, environmentalists say, will trap the pollutants close to the ground for long. Metro spoke to experts to assess the impending danger. How do fireworks add to air pollution? The major gases released by fireworks are sulphur dioxide, various oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide. All of them pollute the air we breathe. “Oxides and compounds of many toxic heavy metals like copper, vanadium, cobalt, iron, cadmium and aluminum, released by fireworks, become part of particulate composition, both PM10 and PM2.5, in the air,” said Siddhartha Datta, a retired professor of chemical engineering at Jadavpur University. PM10 and PM2.5 are fine particulates that enter deep into the lungs and trigger a host of critical ailments, including cancer. How can a late Diwali add to the problem? Diwali this year will be celebrated long after the withdrawal of the monsoon. The withdrawal facilitates the arrival of the northwesterly wind. “Compared with Diwali in October, a mid-November Diwali will definitely be drier and cooler unless a major weather system develops in between,” said G.K. Das, regional director of IMD Calcutta. A drop in temperature will lead to a phenomenon called thermal inversion, which will cause pollutant-rich cool air to remain close to the surface. “Such a trend, coupled with near-stagnant air as found during the period, leads to a situation where most of us will be forced to remain in a highly polluted air bubble. Burning of fireworks enhances the toxicity of such a bubble,” said Datta. Such polluting columns, he said, may grow to about 60 feet. How enhanced air pollution will impact Covid patients? “While sulphur dioxide directly irritates the respiratory system, oxides of nitrogen increase oxidative stress and affect the protective mucosal layer of the lungs, magnifying the risk of attack from viruses like SARS-CoV-2,” said pulmonologist Arup Haldar. “Enhanced pollution is deadly not only for Covid patients, whose lungs are compromised, but also those who have recovered from the disease,” said pulmonologist Alok Gopal Ghosal. Ghosal pointed out that Covid patients, after being cured of infection, are taking long to recover from respiratory ailments. Exposure to increased pollution will only worsen the situation.“Even without Covid, according to the latest global report, almost one out of every four global air pollution deaths occurs in India. The Diwali pollution during the pandemic will add to the vulnerability,” said Anumita Roy Choudhury,  an air pollution expert from the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Who are the most vulnerable? Just about anyone. Covid patients and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease are more vulnerable. It would be worse for the elderly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Kali Puja norms to prevent Covid surge||The state government on Tuesday instructed Kali Puja organisers to keep all four sides of the pandals open, plan immersion in consultation with the respective local police stations and follow all rules related to health and hygiene. The government, which set the norms to prevent a surge in Covid cases after the festivities, also made an appeal to the conscience of the citizens to avoid organising immersion processions and bursting firecrackers this Kali Puja and Diwali. Although fewer people step out for pandal-hopping on Kali Puja compared with that of the Durga Puja days, many Kali Puja organisers build large pandals and are known for attracting huge crowds to their immersion processions. “According to the guidelines that have emerged during the meeting with the chief minister, the puja pandal should have its all four sides open. The idol should have only the ceiling. All health and hygiene rules should be followed,” said Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. He added that the respective local police stations should be consulted before scheduling the immersions, as was done during Durga Puja. “It (immersion) should be planned and informed to the local police station so that everything is done in a process as was followed during Durga Puja,” he said. The chief secretary appealed to the clubs and puja committees to avoid organising immersion processions, keeping in mind the Covid pandemic. Every year thousands of people parade across the city roads as part of Kali Puja immersion processions. Separate police arrangements are made to handle the processions and immersions. Many people stand along the roads to witness the pomp. “It will really be worrisome if clubs organise immersion processions this year. It will be impossible to maintain social distancing norms in such processions,” said an inspector posted in Calcutta police’s south division. Last month, the state government had issued specific directives related to Durga Puja, including mandatory wearing of masks and keeping hand sanitisers for visitors at pandals. The immersion carnival along Red Road was cancelled to avoid gathering. The chief secretary on Tuesday reiterated the appeal to wear masks. Sources said the officials have reasons to be hopeful that people would support the government’s initiatives because the Covid positivity rate in Bengal had not increased after Durga Puja. “Some people did come out (during Durga Puja) but the majority followed the protocols. The decreasing positivity rate is giving us hope even though many had apprehended that the situation could turn critical after the Puja,” the chief secretary said. Sources said that just before Durga Puja, Covid positivity rate was nearing 10 per cent in the state. Now, it has come down to below 9 per cent, which is a good sign. The rate, however, is much higher than the national average, which has been below 5 per cent over the past week or so. The state government urged residents not to burst firecrackers. But till Tuesday, there was no embargo on the sale or manufacture of firecrackers in the state. Babla Roy, the secretary of the West Bengal Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association, told Metro that they did not receive any direction or official communication from the state government about any such embargo till Tuesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
04-11-2020||Calcutta||Paralysed at 19, medical cracked at 24||Soumendu Rudra will begin his medical course at last. He is 24. There is nothing exceptional about it except everything that happened in his life in the past five years. Rudra was a pursuing dentistry at a Bhubaneswar college when he fell in the toilet of his home in Burdwan after a bout of dizziness. He was 19. In the next two days he started forgetting everything; he couldn’t recognise people around him and his parents rushed him to a hospital in Calcutta. His skull had to be taken apart and doctors managed to keep him alive after performing a craniectomy to relieve the pressure that had built inside his brain. He was left paralysed on one side. And that is how he has lived for all these years. But he was determined to become a doctor. So three years ago he took the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test but failed. This year, he cracked the exam in the quota for the physically challenged, securing a rank of 789. On Monday, he appeared before a medical board at the SSKM Hospital that would decide on the degree of his physical disability. He cleared it as the last hurdle before joining the MBBS course when seats are allotted and classes begin. “Since childhood I have been an ailing kid, visiting doctors often. But I always dreamt of being a doctor and I knew I would be one some day,” he told Metro. “For the past few years as doctors kept helping me, I made up my mind that I want to be like them… people who would be able to change the lives of others and bring back smiles.” From lying on a hospital bed and realising he could no longer be a dentist to clearing the NEET this year Rudra’s journey has been battling challenges one after another. Back home from hospital after a month’s stay following his brain operation, Rudra’s bone density and bone mass had been reduced to an all-time low. Early in 2016, a few months after he had recovered from secondary infections following his brain surgery, he fractured his femur. It left him fixed to the bed for months. A second round of struggle began with doctors and physiotherapists trying to recover his leg and his limp left side. “In 2016, around the time of Kali Puja, a senior doctor from SSKM, who was visiting our para to meet his relatives, turned up at our place. He recommended me to get in touch with the department of physical medicine and rehabilitation at the hospital,” he said. The journey to SSKM from Burdwan seemed impossible for the next few months. His father Kishon, a retired veterinary surgeon, kept trying various doctors in the locality as his mother kept inspiring him. In early 2017, when Rudra could barely manage to sit, his parents met doctors at SSKM. The process of rehabilitation began. “He could hardly move his left arm or leg when he first came to us,” said Rajesh Pramanik, who headed the team of doctors at the department of physical medicine and rehabilitation at SSKM. “Over the next few years, we just kept on trying relentlessly without losing our patience. He gradually started responding. His left arm started moving and then the leg. On Monday, as he stood with a smile on his face, it was a full circle for all of us.” Rudra is hopeful he will secure a seat at the Burdwan Medical College, close to his home. Till then he is just counting his blessings and best wishes from everyone who stood by him in his battle. “Now that I won’t be a dentist I want to be a surgeon. I hope to gain enough strength to perform,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-251
