05-11-2020||Calcutta||Fertiliser plan for immersion leftovers||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided on an initiative to use organic items like flowers and leaves, which have been left at the Mahananda river bank during immersion after Durga Puja, to recycle them into fertiliser and sell it to tea estates and agricultural firms. The initiative, sources said, has been taken with a two-fold plan. Firstly, it will reduce the pollution at Mahananda river, the main water body that moves through Siliguri. Secondly, it would create an avenue of additional revenue for the civic body. Asok Bhattacharya, chairperson of the board of administrators at the SMC, said that tonnes of such organic materials left at the immersion ghat by Durga Puja organisers were collected and taken to the dumping ground by civic workers. “But this time, an idea struck us as to whether these items can be used to make organic fertiliser, a product with considerable demand in the tea belt and also among farmers. We had earlier collected organic wastes from fruit and vegetable markets,” Bhattacharya, who is in Calcutta now, said over phone. He said that a separate area at the dumping ground was identified where organic items would be decomposed and treated to make the fertiliser. “Once I reach Siliguri, I will check out the progress of the project. We feel this initiative can fetch us revenue and we can continue with it,” he added. The steady rise in pollution of the Mahananda river is a major concern for Siliguri residents. In fact, the issue was even raised before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and there are strict directives from the NGT that the local civic body, the district administration and agencies like Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority should take up steps to reduce river pollution. Animesh Bose, an environmentalist in Siliguri, lauded the mode to convert leftover organic items at the river bank into fertiliser. “It is an initiative that can largely help check pollution of Mahananda. Also, disposal of wastes at the regulated market (wholesale market of fruits, vegetables and fish) can also be addressed through this plan,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Twin fires in Calcutta||Two fires broke out in the city since Tuesday evening, police said. The first fire broke out on the first floor of a four-storey residential building on Hariram Goenka Street in Posta on Tuesday evening, the police said. Three tenders doused the flames. Another fire broke out on the top floor of a three-storey building on Mominpur Road in Ekbalpore late on Tuesday, the police said. Two tenders doused the flames. The cause of both fires is yet to be ascertained. No one was trapped or injured in both fires, the police said. A 28-year-old engineer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), who had tested positive for dengue, died at a city hospital on Wednesday morning. Raheed Zaman was in charge of the CMC’s solid waste management department in Borough XVI, which covers Behala, Shakuntala Park and Joka. He was an assistant director. “As the head of the solid waste management department, he was responsible for sanitisation and keeping roads and vacant plots clean,” a CMC engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Youth held for online sexual harassment||A young man, pursuing MCA, has been arrested on the charge of sexually harassing a woman by sending her objectionable videos through Facebook messenger and making indecent proposals on the phone, police said. The person was arrested in Jadavpur by officers of the cyber police station in Lalbazar based on a complaint filed against him earlier this week. He was arrested on Tuesday and produced in a city court. He has been remanded in police custody for 10 days. According to the complainant, she had met him on Facebook a few months ago. The youth apparently started making indecent proposals on the phone and sent her objectionable videos through Facebook messenger because of which she lodged the complaint. The woman had shared a few intimate photographs with him, which the youth had used to blackmail her when she wanted to call off their friendship, the police said. One should not share personal details with people he/she has met online without physical verification, according to senior officers. “It is always advisable not to get intimate with online friends whom one has not seen in real life. Sharing personal details or photographs online leaves a digital imprint that can always be used against the person,” a police officer said. The police said women should come forward and lodge complaints against their perpetrators to set the right example and men should desist from indulging in such criminal activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Illegal cracker units blow up in Champahati||At least three illegal firecracker manufacturing units and two houses were gutted and several people injured after a godown stacked with explosives caught fire in Champahati, South 24-Parganas, on Wednesday afternoon. The explosives were meant to be used in the manufacture of crackers, the police said. Champahati, about 30km from the heart of the city, is a popular destination for many people in Calcutta, ahead of Diwali, who head there to buy firecrackers and banned bombs at a lower price. Thousands of villagers in Nungi and Champahati get into making illegal firecrackers to cater to the flourishing market, the police said. Raids are common. The explosion happened a day after the Bengal government requested everyone to stay away from bursting crackers and to consider the plight of Covid patients who suffer from breathlessness because of oxygen shortage. “The accident reveals the amount of explosives that had been stacked in the area even this year,” an officer of the Baruipur police district said. Several people have told cops they heard a huge explosion around 11.30am and saw a small godown at Haral on fire. A temporary market of firecrackers had come up in Champahati and several shops had displayed their items in front of their houses to attract customers, mostly from Calcutta. After the godown caught fire, explosives stacked inside went off. Big firework shells on display in the shop outside the house exploded and landed on adjoining houses where temporary shops had been set up. People ran out of their houses as a few tried to douse the flames with buckets of water. A fire engine from Baruipur fire station reached the spot followed by another from Narendrapur fire station and a third from Canning fire station. “Two residential buildings were destroyed and three shops gutted because of explosives stocked to make firecrackers,” Soumen Mondal, the officer in charge of Sonarpur fire station, said. “No one was killed. We have rescued the injured.” Preliminary investigations revealed the fire began at the house of Samar Naskar where explosives had been stacked. Fire officers have said many houses in the area have a huge stock of explosives. It could have turned disastrous had the fire gone out of control, a fire officer said. “We have started a case under the explosives act against several people for illegally storing explosives,” an officer of Baruipur police station said. “A forensic team will inspect the site on Thursday.” “There are thousands who are involved in this trade here. We have appealed to them not to use banned firecrackers. The state government, too, has made an appeal,” Nirmal Mondal, the MLA from Baruipur East, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge in final stages||The work of laying bitumen on the Majerhat bridge will be completed by this week setting the stage for load tests, the final step before it is thrown open, PWD officials have said. The work of painting the bridge, in blue and white, has already begun and lights have been installed. Once the bituminous coat on the suspended section of the bridge over the rail tracks is given, the approach road on either side will be taken up. The state government will then request clearance from the railways for a “load test” on the bridge after completing the formalities of checking the cables. “We will request engineers of the Swiss company that has provided the cables to do the final fine-tuning for stress-modulation immediately after the work of laying bitumen is over. Once that is completed, we will go for the load test,” a PWD official said. The load test will be a three-day affair. Vehicles will be mounted on the bridge and the performance of the cables will be monitored to understand if they are working according to the provisions laid down in the design or whether there is any deviation, a PWD engineer said. Eighty-four cables, brought from Switzerland, hold the 260m deck slab of the bridge. The work of installing cables — beneath each cable-sheath is a cluster of 19 to 43 strands — was completed ahead of Durga Puja. Engineers now want to ensure their load-bearing capacity is perfectly tuned. A portion of the earlier bridge had collapsed on September 4, 2018. “Only 40 per cent of the total load-bearing capacity of each of the cables will be utilised for the Majerhat bridge,” the PWD official said. “So, there is no threat even if there is a sudden rise in the static load on the bridge because of vehicles.” A cable-stayed bridge emerged as the best alternative among all designs proposed for the new Majerhat bridge. A portion of the bridge goes over the rail tracks and is adjacent to the ongoing Joka-BBD Bag Metro project. Once completed, the bridge will be the third cable-stayed bridge after Vidyasagar Setu and Nivedita Setu. Apart from laying bitumen, work on the four service roads around the new bridge is being carried out at top speed. Once the bridge is thrown open, these roads will see an increase in traffic, police said. “We have reached almost the end. Some tests and a few finishing touches and the bridge will be ready for inauguration,” the PWD official said. “We have not set any specific deadline. The idea is to ensure that all boxes have been checked before the bridge is thrown open.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake guest houses on cop radar ||Police have started checking if guest houses and lodges in Salt Lake, New Town, Rajarhat and adjoining areas have valid licences to run the units, a Bidhannagar Commissionerate officer said on Wednesday. Teams are checking every document, including licence, as well as the registers to keep a track on the number of guests checking in or out every day, the officer said. Sector V, Baguiati, Lake Town, Teghoria, and Kaikhali are the other areas where cops are running the checks. Police are working to create a database on the number of guest houses in these areas, the officer said. The ones that cannot furnish the papers will be marked out. The police, along with the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, will send them notices. “The number of guest houses that have police permission can be counted on one’s fingers in these areas,” another officer of the commissionerate said. In Salt Lake, a building has to be recorded as a commercial property with the civic body’s urban development department if a guest house or lodge operates out of it, an official of the department said. “In case a guest house is operating out of one or two floors of a residential building, the floors need to be converted into the commercial property category by paying a fee to the urban development department.” The operators of a guest house or a lodge need a police permit to run such a facility and a no-objection certificate from the fire department. The kitchen, too, needs to be listed separately and will be subjected to checks by the civic body’s health department at regular intervals. The building plan needs to be sanctioned by the civic body and guest houses and lodges need a certificate of approval issued by the tourism ministry. “Most guest houses in Salt Lake do not have permits and other papers. They do not even have a trade licence, which is a basic prerequisite,” the urban development department said. Operators who fail to furnish the licence and permit issued by the police and the fire department will be given some time before the authorities take legal steps against them, an officer said. “We are conducting regular checks on guest houses. We will organise regular meetings with owners and ask them to apply for the police permit and complete other paperwork that is required to run a guest house. We will give them a list of dos and don’ts and carry out sensitisation drives,” Mukesh, the Bidhannagar police commissioner, said. In September, three guest house workers had been arrested following allegations by 10 madrasa teachers from Malda that they had been driven out of a guest house in Salt Lake and refused accommodation in another because of their identity. In August, a man from Punjab was injured after an associate’s gun went off inside a Salt Lake guest house. The police had said it was an accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||November subjects on ISC/ICSE channel||The ICSE council’s virtual classes on its YouTube channel for the students of Class X in November will focus on history and civics,  geography and mathematics. The classes for the ISC (Class XII) students will focus on commerce and mathematics. The classes are being held for an hour from 11am. Videos of all live sessions will be available on the council’s website and can be viewed later. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) started live streaming of lessons in September. This month’s classes started on Wednesday. The council had asked the heads of all affiliated schools to share the schedule of the virtual learning series with the students. The links for the respective ICSE and ISC sessions have been provided in the schedule and the heads have been requested to share the links with the students and teachers. In October, the ISC classes focussed on biology, English literature and mathematics and the ICSE classes on English literature and mathematics. “Students can ask questions during live sessions…. These questions are addressed immediately after the lesson is over, in a time slot allotted for the interactive question-answer session. Answers to questions not addressed during the live session are made available on the notice board of the CISCE website,” said Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council. The council has also said that each live session at the ICSE/ISC level will include assignments, which will be given at the end of the lesson. “These may be used for practice by students or for grading students by the schools,” said Arathoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||CMC employees rapped over for refusing to upload data||Several employees of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have been showcaused after they resisted the additional work of uploading comorbidity data, a CMC official said on Wednesday. Uploading the data collected from 180,000 households in the city are still to be completed. The CMC had collected data on comorbidity from more than 730,000 households through a survey conducted between September 7 and 30. The civic body had first targeted to complete the process of uploading the data to its server before Durga Puja. It next set October 31 as the deadline. “The delay in uploading the data happened because of various reasons. There was resistance among data entry operators and we had to showcause some of them. Gradually, the resistance waned and the work gained traction,” the CMC official said. “The survey collected data from a little over 730,000 households. We have uploaded the data of close to 567,000 households and we are still to upload the data of 170,000 households.” At present, close to 9,000 households’ data are being uploaded daily, the official said. “But, ideally the number should be 15,000.” Six of 16 boroughs have completed uploading the data. The rest are nearing completion, the official said. Of the wards that are still left to complete the process, the data of close to 150 households are being uploaded every day in each ward, an official of the CMC’s health department said. “Some boroughs have outsourced the data entry work to private agencies to complete the process faster. The data entry operators are unable to upload more than 150 households’ data in a day after completing their other assignments,” he said. The operators have to upload data on the findings of vector surveillance, Covid-19 surveillance, reports of dengue and malaria patients, among others. The comorbidity survey in Calcutta was a collaboration between the state health department, the CMC and the Covid Care Network, a group of doctors, medical workers and patients who have recovered from Covid-19. An official at the CMC’s headquarters said the authorities expected to finish the process of uploading the data by November. “We have asked all boroughs to speed up and complete the work at the earliest,” the official said. Once the data is uploaded, the analysis will begin. “The analysis will be done by the Covid Care Network or anyone its members deem fit for the job. “We from the CMC will provide necessary support,” the official said. “The analysis will suggest the average age when Calcuttans develop comorbid conditions and what are the most common ones. It will show if there is any difference in the trend between genders.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Lenient laws cripple firecracker fight in Calcutta||A few hours at a police station and a fine of Rs 50 were all police could impose on citizens who were caught bursting banned firecrackers on Diwali last year. At least 15 cases had been registered last Diwali — from Shyampukur in north to Maheshtala in south — where people were caught violating the firecracker norms in highrise buildings and housing complexes. But in the absence of a stringent law, no further action could be taken against them, sources in the police and pollution control board said. This year, with the added fear of increasing comorbidity factors in young and the elderly that make them vulnerable to Covid-19, green activists and healthcare professionals feel the need for stricter rules. All that government agencies have so far done is leave the matter to the good sense of the people. In times of a pandemic, not just the banned crackers but all crackers pose a serious health risk. In such a situation, whether the collective conscience of people can be relied on is a question haunting health and environment professionals. Last year, complaints against highrise buildings, neighbourhoods and housing complexes were reported at Shyampukur, Belghoria, Uttarpara, Lake Town, Golabari and Maheshtala. The police had detained at least 15 people for illegal possession and bursting of banned firecrackers. In none of the cases, the detained persons could be held back at the police stations for more than two or three hours, sources said. Pollution control board officials said they had received dozens of complaints where no specific cases could be started in the absence of evidence. Such offenders are either booked for petty cases under the Calcutta police suburban act and fined Rs 50 or under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with disobedience of a government order that attracts a fine of Rs 200. More serious charges can be pressed only if the offence of bursting banned crackers is clubbed with other offences that are cognisable under law, police said. According to environmentalist Subhas Datta, the existing laws are inadequate to curb the bursting of firecrackers. “We have to run around so much to create awareness because our laws are weak,” Datta said. He called for steps similar to the ones taken in Rajasthan to strengthen the arms of the enforcement agencies in Bengal. The Rajasthan government has not only banned the sale of firecrackers in the wake of the pandemic, but also introduced a fine of Rs 10,000 that shopkeepers found selling any type of firecrackers will have to pay. Another fine, of Rs 2,000, has been announced, which anyone found in possession of firecrackers will have to pay. “The air pollution level is higher from October to March, compared with the rest of the year. Firecracker fumes will only aggravate the condition of the people with heart and bronchial issues. The best way to curb this problem is to quarantine the illegal firecracker manufacturing units,” Datta added. The state government on Tuesday had announced Kali Puja guidelines about the pandal and immersion processions but have not issued any specific instructions about firecrackers. Instead, the state had made an appeal to the conscience of the citizens to make this Diwali and Kali Puja firecracker free. “It will help us to execute a complete ban on firecrackers if a stringent order is passed,” said an officer in Bengal police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
05-11-2020||Calcutta||Nod for Covid ward in  AMRI fire-hit building||The state government has given its nod to set up a Covid-19 ward in the building of AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria where a fire in December 2011 had killed more than 90 people, an official of the hospital said on Wednesday. The eight-storey building has been lying unused since the fire. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said they would be able to add 150 more beds when the building would start functioning. “We have about 250 Covid beds in our three hospitals in Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake. When this building in Dhakuria starts functioning, we will be able to add another 150 beds,” he said. “We have given an in-principle approval to AMRI Hospitals to use the building (where the fire broke out) for treating Covid-19 patients only. The approval is based on the condition that they can function only if they meet all the regulatory requirements, which will include approvals from the fire services, Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), electrical inspector and a licence for clinical establishments,” state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Barua said they had proposed to the government that they be allowed to operate the annexe building in Dhakuria during a discussion on augmenting the number of beds for Covid-19 patients. “The government gave its nod to use the building as a Covid-19 ward,” he said. The ward will come up across the second, third and fourth floors of the eight-storey building, Barua said. The first floor is an OPD set-up, which cannot be opened. The hospital will also need approvals from the state pollution control board and a trade licence from the CMC before it can make the building functional again, Barua said. “We are in a position to begin operations within a month provided we get all the regulatory approvals in time. We have started the process….” “We will start admitting patients only after we are sure that the highest quality and safety standards have been met, and the regulatory bodies also give their nod.” A fire at the annexe building of the Dhakuria hospital, situated to the south-east of Children’s Little Theatre (CLT) and visible from the Dhakuria bridge, on December 9, 2011, had led to the death of more than 90 people, most of them patients who were admitted there. Twelve erstwhile directors and four officials of the hospital have been charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The charges have been framed and the trial is on, said a defence lawyer in the case. The government has been trying to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients through several means. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission had asked private hospitals to increase their bed count for Covid-19 ahead of Durga Puja. The hospitals had then said that they would together add another 500 beds. Barua said on Wednesday that AMRI Hospitals had no more space to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in its available buildings. “We have increased the number of beds within the space as much as we could have, which is why we approached the government with the proposal to use this building,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-250
