06-11-2020||Calcutta||Green immersion in south Dum Dum ghats||A total of 201 out of the total 500 Durga idols in the South Dum Dum municipal area were immersed this year following the green immersion norm drawn up by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board in two local water bodies in association with the civic body. While 148 idols were immersed in Debi Ghat off VIP Road near Ultadanga, 53 idols were immersed in Tank No 4 in Dum Dum Park. About 77 Lakshmi idols were also immersed in these two water bodies. The immersion model was prodded by directives of National Green Tribunal (NGT) and National Mission of Clean Ganga (NMCG), which mandated about three years back that there should not be any immersion in the open spread of the river Hooghly and immersions should be organised in dedicated ponds. NMCG guidelines state that “adequate arrangements should be made for designated idol immersion sites within municipal area or bank of river Ganga and its tributaries by constructing temporary confined ponds with removable synthetic liners at the bottom”. This has also been reiterated in the subsequent directive of the National Green Tribunal. NMCG recently reminded the state government of the mandate through a letter. “The ‘idol Immersion Points’ should be cordoned off and barricaded. Synthetic liner may be placed in the bottom, well in advance” reads the NGT order, dated October 6, 2017. “We created a model immersion system in two ponds in South Dum Dum, where immersion was organised as per the NMCG and NGT immersion guideline,” said state Pollution Control Board (PCB) chairman Kalyan Rudra on Wednesday. PCB sources claimed that under its watch, the municipality barricaded part of the water bodies to earmark for immersion, spread out a synthetic lining below the water to arrest the deposits, regularly cleaned the floating idol structures and garbage; and no mixing was allowed with the rest of the water body by deploying sand bag buffer. The Telegraph Salt Lake however found on October 27 that the designated immersion area in Debi Ghat was full of litter and hardly any manpower was in place. “We received a complaint on the second day and immediately made arrangements to clean the immersion zone,” said a senior PCB official. Panchu Roy, chairman of South Dum Dum Municipality, admitted that it was difficult to stop the mixing of water between the barricaded part and the rest of the water body and shared that the system would be in place till the observance of Chhath puja. Roy pointed out that both the crane and manpower were organised to shift the idols immediately after the immersion. South Dum Dum Municipality sources admitted that about 300 idols were immersed like earlier years in other water bodies of the municipal area with little regard to environmental norms. “This is the first year and hence there were a few problems. We will definitely improve both qualitatively and quantitatively next year,” said a municipal official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake's EC Block community hall gets an extension||A wing of EC Block community hall was inaugurated right before the Pujas with MLA and minister Sujit Bose and councilor Tulsi Sinha Roy coming down for the occasion. The entire building now has capacity for 750 people. “Our community hall was built in the late 80s but it has got several extensions periodically,” said Rudradeb Mukherjea, vice-president of the block. “The newly added portion used to be an open space but huge trees fell on it during the Amphan cyclone. While clearing the debris, we thought of using the space to expand our hall as well.” When hiring the hall for ceremonies, tenants would frequently hang up a shamiana over this space and make use of it, sending the message that an even bigger hall was quite welcome. Abiding by social distancing norms, the capacity of this new ground floor hall is 150 but once the pandemic blows over, it shall hold 200 people comfortably. Their ground floor now has two halls that can be used as one if the partition is removed. The first floor has a library and a banquet hall while the top floor has a learning centre where needy students are taught English, mathematics and computer. “Despite the additional concrete space, we decided not to hold our puja in the community hall this year as it is an enclosed area. We would not have been able to control crowds during anjali,” said block secretary Mouli Nath Maji. The new space was erected at a cost of Rs 11 lakh, of which Rs 1 lakh was sponsored by the sports and youth welfare department, under the infrastructure development work head. “Sujit Bose helped us with this,” said Mukherjea. “Additional funds were raised from savings from the block along with generous donations from residents Manjusha Das Ghosh and Mihir Chatterjee.” The auditorium has, in fact, been named Justice SP Das Ghosh Hall after the late husband of Manjusha Das Ghosh. “My husband had humble beginnings in rural India but he worked hard to become a lawyer and then a judge. He always wanted to give back to society so after his untimely demise I thought of furthering his cause,” said Das Ghosh. Bose congratulated the block for its latest addition. “And it’s a nice gesture to name the hall after eminent residents. That way their memories will stay alive with the next generation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||CA Block youths conduct quiz, air chat shows over loudspeaker||One of the best things about the Durga Pujas is the interaction with friends and neighbors and CA Block didn’t let the pandemic put an end to that. Youths of the block picked up the mic and conducted chat shows and quizzes that were echoed across their lanes using loudspeakers. So Snehasis Mukherjee, a businessman and part-time RJ for Saptami, asked listeners to call in and share their memories of the puja in the block. Laxmi Kanto Sukul, the first president of the block (and puja) committee back in 1979, dialed in to share his experiences of raising puja subscriptions in the initial days. “Back then, this was a Herculean task. People would head the other way if they even met me in the market, to avoid paying,” he laughed. Another RJ, Arnab Sen chatted with listeners who called in to share their experiences of puja 2020 and to explore if they were facing problems following the rituals online. Souradip Basu posed riddles that attracted not only residents but also pandal-hoppers. “We were really happy with the response. I thought I would have to announce our phone numbers four to five times before anyone dialed in but we started getting calls after announcing the number the second time itself,” said Souradip. “Even visitors to the pandal would call or come and give the answers in person and we would have to tell them that the games are for residents only. But they would wait for us to ask the next question and that really encouraged us.” Anirban Sinha was one resident who called in to answer enthusiastically. “This puja has been different. We all are experiencing it from our homes through social media and loudspeakers so this was a fun event to take part in,” said Sinha. “And I know it became popular as everyone from my family was trying to reach them over the phone but we only managed to connect once as it was always busy.” Mukherjee, who was also the coordinator of the puja this year, said the initiative had been taken to involve residents, “particularly senior citizens, so they wouldn’t feel left out in this pandemic year,” he said. Vijaya meet post-puja, the block celebrated Vijaya sammelani virtually. Little Radhika Banerjee welcomed everyone by singing Sree Krishna Govinda and Nishita Gupta danced to the dandia beats of Chogara tara. Ankita Roychoudhury dressed up in a red sari and sang Rabindra sangeet — Akash jure shuninu oi baje and Amar nayan bhulano ele while Salouni Das danced to Aigiri Nandini. Anushree Mukherjee sang Kahin deep jwale aana from Chitchor and Alokparna Chakraborty set the perfect puja mood by singing the classical Boro anondo hoy. “Some NRIs hailing from the block were eager to send in their entries too but ultimately did not manage on time,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Eastern High kids do up pandal with art||The pandal at Eastern High in New Town was cordoned off with a rope. At the entry stood a guard, sanitizing hands of visitors. And taped to the rope all around the pandal intermittently were paintings, some with sketch pen, some with color pencil and some with water color. Some carried messages on chart paper. “The puja committee asked us to create awareness. We decided on posters as the medium,” said Sanhita Das, a Class VII student of Salt Lake School. The children divided themselves into sub-groups, choosing to work on three topics — Covid-19, dengue and water and environment. While Sanhita had two more in her Covid-19 group, Maitreyee Roy worked alone on the last-mentioned topic. “Sanhita helped me at times,” said the Class VII student of Our Lady Queen of the Missions. Their posters were accepted with open arms by the puja committee. “It feels great to have people coming up to see and read our posters all through the Puja. We are overhearing some comments. Those who know us are coming up to praise us,” said Sanhita. Asked whether the involvement and appreciation made the 2020 puja more fun, they stridently shook their heads. “Half our friends are not allowed to come down from their apartment. There is no sit-down lunch which is so much fun. As we are not having on-stage cultural programs this year, yesterday we broke into a dance together on the field just for fun. We missed our friends,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Meet over meal: Uniworld City gets supper club||A club to go out, meet people and explore places together, that too over a meal or a drink. Uniworld City now has a supper club that lets its residents do just that. UWC Supper Club is the brainchild of Priyanka M, a Masterchef India Season 4 finalist who is a resident of New Town’s biggest housing complex. “The supper club concept is fairly popular in the West. There are supper clubs in Delhi and Mumbai too. But Calcutta did not have any. So I thought of starting one in my own complex which by itself is a 100 acre township with over 3,000 people,” says Priyanka, who is now working as a culinary consultant. “At Uniworld, we have groups on cricket, wellness, running and cycling, but nothing on food. This will bring foodies together,” she added. An invitation link in residents’ WhatsApp groups garnered 175 entries overnight. And on November 1, the first meet and greet of the supper club took place with about 25 members attending. Among them was Sunita Chandra, a college teacher, who came with family. “Earlier when I stayed in BA Block in Salt Lake, I used to be very active culturally. Here I have joined the music and dance club but was looking for more action. My son is also in the hospitality sector. So I happily signed up.” Siddhartha Pandey said he was looking for a chance to socialise. “Digital meetings cannot replace the experience of sitting face to face, talking and laughing. We were eager to go out after staying cooped up at home for months. This club gives us a chance to get to know our neighbours and bond with them.” The safety factor was high on everyone’s mind. Chandra admitted she was initially hesitant about attending the first meet. “But Priyanka assured us that the venue would be sanitised and well-ventilated. Also here we knew what kind of people we would meet,” said Pandey. The venue was the verandah of Legendz Cafe Terrace at Mother’s Wax Museum, which Priyanka runs. For most members, it was their first visit. “The view was mind-boggling. It must be the only location with such a view of Eco Park,” said Vaibhav Gupta, who runs the neighbouring star hotel Ibis Rajarhat. “New Town itself has so many food and beverage options that we need to break this habit of people here of travelling all the way to the city proper to dine out. The club will allow us to explore these options together. Social distancing need not mean isolation,” he said, adding that he was looking forward to visiting the Biswa Bangla Gate restaurant with fellow members. “I will also invite them to the alfresco garden at my hotel.” Priyanka has a lot of plans with the supper club. “We can do food trails, explore new restaurants, have wine pairing sessions, invite chefs to cook special dishes for us… I can tie up with venues so that they offer us privileges and special packages when we visit in group.” The club still being in its formative stage, there is no membership charge for now. “I plan to take it across New Town by the end of the year,” she signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Lapses in Covid care in Calcutta||A number of doctors and health-care workers, including nurses, were not properly monitoring the condition of Covid-19 patients in hospitals in Barrackpore, Khardah, Barasat, Naihati and Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas, a team sent by Sasthya Bhavan has found. Members of the team said that at some hospitals, patients with low oxygen saturation levels were lying unattended. At others, no one was found regularly checking on patients and regulating the flow of oxygen even when the saturation level was satisfactory. In several hospitals, doctors were not scrutinising X-ray reports of patients with chest infection. As a result, the turn-around time of patients in these hospitals was getting longer. Between Wednesday and Thursday, the team of experts visited at least six Covid-19 hospitals in North 24-Parganas, including a few private ones the state government has acquired to treat people suffering from the coronavirus disease, to check the condition of patients. The district has been recording the highest number of positive cases after Calcutta for some time now. At several of these hospitals, the team was shocked to find a laid-back attitude among doctors and health-care workers engaged in monitoring Covid-19 patients, most of whom were admitted with mild symptoms. “At a private hospital in Barrackpore, we found a patient lying with 33 per cent oxygen saturation and no one had noticed it. On inquiry, it turned out that the mask was defective and it was replaced,” said G.K. Dhali, the head of the department of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital, who was leading the team. “At some hospitals, patients were not being monitored. We told them what to do.” The pipe that supplies oxygen at high flow to patients with low saturation level was found lying outside the nostrils at a number of hospitals and there was no one to check it. In some ICUs, the team came across patients who were being given 20 litres, 25 litres and 30 litres of oxygen every day even though their oxygen saturation level was 98 or 99 per cent. “This shows that doctors and nurses had not bothered to check on the patients,” a team member said. Junior doctors at some hospitals were found not interpreting ECG and X-ray reports properly, resulting in a delay in assessing the health of patients. "There were 11 patients in the ITU of a hospital in Barasat. When we went there, we found that some didn't have their masks on. In some, the probe — a slender medical instrument used for investigation by attaching it to a tube —was lying disconnected,” the team member said. “There aren't any shortages of doctors. But there is a lack of round-the-clock monitoring.” The experts told the doctors and health-care workers at these hospitals that the government had provided all necessary equipment and all they would have to do was regularly visit the patients and monitor their health. “We visited the hospitals not to criticise the doctors and health-care workers but to help them perform their duty better,” the member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||1 dead after truck hits scooter in Calcutta||A man riding a scooter died after a truck carrying LPG cylinders hit him in Beleghata on Thursday morning, taking the road death count to eight in November, police said. Raju Santra, 46, was moving in the same direction off CIT Road as that of the truck. He was hit as the truck tried to overtake him from the right. He lost his balance on impact and came under the wheels of the truck, the police said. Santra, a resident of Nalini Sarkar Street, was declared dead at NRS hospital. The police said he was wearing a helmet at the time of the accident. “The truck fled after the accident. Officers of Beleghata traffic guard have traced the vehicle’s registration number; a search is on for it,” a traffic police officer said. “A case of causing death by negligence has been started against the driver.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||ICSE council seeks Calcutta schools’ feedback||The ICSE council has sought feedback from school heads on teaching, coverage of reduced syllabus and Classes X and XII assessments. The council sent a circular to school heads on Thursday, saying the feedback is important as it has started preparations for the 2021 exams. The heads have to answer two questionnaires related to students appearing for the ICSE and ISC exams in 2021 and submit them online by November 11. In July, the ICSE council had asked schools to answer two questionnaires regarding the status of online teaching, coverage of the reduced syllabus and assessment and evaluation. Thursday’s circular was addressed by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council. The council has reduced the syllabuses of Classes X and XII twice since July because of “significant loss” of teaching hours from March. “Since the board exams are close, the council is naturally concerned… coordinators will collect the data from teachers to answer the questionnaires about the board classes,” a city school principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Fraud in UK from call centre in Salt Lake  ||Four directors of a call centre in Salt Lake were arrested on Thursday for allegedly duping many people from the UK, Portugal and South Africa in the guise of providing software services. Police said the accused would coax the victims into installing a software in their computers, which would lead to installation of a spyware that would enable the fraudsters to gain control of the devices. The men who were arrested were Gurdeep Singh, 45, from Entally; Santosh Kumar Yada, 31, from Behala; and Howrah residents Abraz Ahmed, 30, and Jasim Anwar, 31. The police said they were part of a group of six who owned the call centre, which functioned from a building in Sector V’s EP-GP block. “We are looking for the other two men,” said an officer of the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake. “The call centre had at least 150 employees, who would call up people overseas. Employees of the call centre would call up foreign nationals and dupe them by claiming that they provided solutions to problems related to software and viruses. They used to make VoiP calls using at least 70 computers.” The employees would convince their victims that they were calling from a software major and offer to resolve problems in their computers at a nominal fee, the officer said. During the course of the conversation, the callers would ask the victims to install a software that in turn would give them remote access to the victim’s computer. Once they did so, the callers would take over control of their computers. When the victims would try to pay them for their “service”, the callers would enter an amount much higher than the “nominal fee” they had demanded. Bidhannagar police commissioner Mukesh said they had launched a drive against illegal call centres. “We are making regular arrests. This is part of our drive,” Mukesh said. The police suspect the gang had duped foreign nationals of crores of rupees. A case has been started under IPC sections related to cheating, fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy, and also under the Information Technology Act. Illegal call centres have mushroomed across the city, the police said. Over the past few months, the Bidhannagar commissionerate has arrested many suspects who allegedly cheated people across the globe posing as employees of software giants or promising high returns for a place to install mobile towers. In most cases, the alleged fraudsters convince their clients to install software in their computers through which they could access the device.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Local trains to roll out from Wednesday||Suburban trains, suspended since March 23 as a precaution against Covid-19, are set to roll out again from November 11 with roughly a fourth of the pre-pandemic strength, railway officials said after a meeting with the Bengal government’s representatives on Thursday. There was no official announcement from the railways or the state government on the number of trains that will run. Nor was there any final decision on access control at porous suburban stations. A formal announcement is likely on Monday, along with a detailed set of standard operating procedures for crowd control and train operations, sources in the state government and railways said. “To start with, we plan to run 362 trains (181 pairs) — 114 pairs in the Sealdah division, 50 pairs in the Howrah division and 17 pairs in the Kharagpur division. We want to increase the number of trains gradually, in keeping the volume of passengers,” said a railway official. Before the pandemic, around 1,500 trains ran every day in the three divisions, ferrying over 35 lakh passengers. The Howrah and Sealdah divisions — where 407 and 915 trains would run daily, respectively — are under Eastern Railway, while the Kharagpur division is under South Eastern Railway. The Covid-19 protocols already in force on special long-distance trains — which make wearing of masks and thermal scanning for body temperature mandatory — will be applicable to passengers of suburban trains, too. Railway officials said the state government would have to deploy police at the stations to check unauthorised entry. “It will not be possible to deploy Railway Protection Force personnel at every station. The state government is working on the modalities of crowd control. The modalities will come out in black and white as SOPs on Monday,” said a senior railway official. Railway officials also pointed out that since the trains would run for all passengers, it would be impossible to stop people with a valid ticket from entering stations. “In Maharashtra, local trains started running for essential service providers identified by the state government. It was easier to control the crowd by adopting a pass-based system. Here, there is no way to stop a person with a ticket from entering a station. We can only stop a person without a mask,” said an official of the Howrah division. Public health experts and doctors fear that a reduced fleet and absence of access control at small stations in suburbs will trigger a surge in Covid cases. The Sealdah division has around 175 stations in the suburban section. There are 28 RPF posts and around 40 GRP posts. “We need at least three cops at every station. They have to work in two shifts. Without the state government’s help, it is impossible to have every station manned,” said an official of the Sealdah division. The frequency of the trains will be adjusted according to the time of the day, said railway officials. Some of the suburban stations are small but see a huge rush during office hours. Three men in uniform are unlikely to be able to control hundreds of people. The initial plan is to run trains with 50 per cent seating capacity, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Bengal’s chief secretary, had said after a meeting with railway officials on Monday. The seating capacity of a suburban train is 1,200. A packed suburban train in rush hours carries well over 2,500 people. Multiple railway officials on Wednesday said it was almost impossible to adhere to the plan. An official of the Howrah division said additional services were not ruled out on the first few days if there were too many passengers. State government officials present at the meeting said the SoP had to be framed by this weekend and the railways had to advertise the schedule and time table of the trains extensively. “We are in sync with the state government. It is a good thing that the suburban trains will finally start running from Wednesday,” said Aneet Dulat, the additional general manager of Eastern Railway. “The resumption of trains is welcome. But the number of trains has to be sufficient. Otherwise, social distancing protocols will go for a toss,” said Rabi Biswas, a resident of Seoraphuli in Hooghly who was a local train regular before the Covid pandemic. “The trains barely had an inch to stand in the morning and evening rush hours. Fewer trains will only add to the rush,” said Biswas, who works at a pharmacy store in Burrabazar. Like hundreds of others from his hometown, Biswas has been travelling to the city and back in crowded buses over the past few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||School reopening not before December: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the schools, which had shut down in March because of the Covid pandemic, would remain closed at least till the first week of December and a decision on reopening would be taken after that. “Schools will remain closed till the first week of December and the government will see after that,” Mamata said at an administrative review meeting at Nabanna. Sources in the school education department said the chief minister’s comment followed feedback from officials of the department who had met on Monday to discuss the possibilities of reopening schools. Since the Madhyamik and higher secondary examinations are only months away, there is a plan to start reopening with the students of Classes IX, X, XI and XII. “A detailed guideline has to be worked out to execute the plan. Therefore the government is taking time,” said the official. Another official of the department said the government was unsure about reopening schools because a large number of Covid cases — despite a recent drop in the active case count — are still being reported from across the state. “The situation may worsen as another round of festivals is approaching and there could be gatherings in public places. There is a fear that the virus could become more virulent in winter. So, the government is not saying anything on when schools will reopen,’’ the official said. In Bengal, the number of government-run primary schools is close to 52,000. State-aided secondary and higher secondary schools total 12,000 and 7,000, respectively. Besides, there are scores of private schools. An order signed by the chief secretary on Monday stated that in-person classes and assemblies in schools (including anganwadi centres), colleges and universities would continue to be disallowed as a precaution against Covid. Mamata had said towards the end of July that the government might reopen schools and colleges on alternate days in September “if the situation improves in August’’. The plan had to be scrapped as the Covid situation continued to be grim. “The Covid situation is constantly fluctuating and the government is unwilling to commit to any dates now,’’ said an official of the education department. First-year classes at state-aided colleges and universities are likely to start on digital platforms in December. The University Grants Commission on Thursday sent to all state governments a guideline for physical reopening colleges and universities. “We are reviewing the advisory,” said an official in the higher education department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools bank on parents to bail them out||Several city schools have pinned their hopes on some parents “to rise to the occasion” and bail them out from financial difficulty by not seeking waivers. There are some parents whose income has not been affected, the heads of some schools said. If they pay the fees, it will help schools generate salaries of their employees and keep the institutions afloat. In a Christian missionary school, 60-odd parents have said in the past five days they don’t want any concession. In another Anglo-Indian school, parents of 50 per cent of the students paid the fees for the entire year months before the court order. That is the spirit of the high court order as well but it is a choice parents have to make and schools cannot make it binding on them, a school head said. “We believe there will be several parents who will not go for the concession. There are some who cannot afford but they have dignity and they don’t seek waivers but say they will pay in instalments,” Devi Kar, director of Modern High School for Girls, said. “Parents do value the education given by schools.” Kar said schools could not continue using their savings and that there would be ongoing expenses like affiliation and maintenance. Also, schools have to take care of members of the support staff who look up to the employers for protection at such times, Kar said. Although many services are not being used by students from March, schools have to bear annual maintenance charges to keep them running, many school heads said. These include computers, fire equipment, AC units, lifts, water filters and security agencies. “There is no rebate on these heads; the tuition fee, too, does not compensate for that. If parents stand by the school at least we will be able to make both ends meet,” the head of a Christian missionary school in central Calcutta said. There are additional expenses on digital platforms and some schools have to subscribe certain products against a charge. “The expectation is that some parents will pay the fees and it will help us. But ultimately it is the parents’ choice,” Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point, said. At Don Bosco Park Circus, close to 75 per cent of parents have paid the fees till October, the authorities said. “Many of our parents are central and state government employees and some get allowances for their children. Those who can afford should pay,” principal Father Bikash Mondal said. Terence Ireland, principal of St James’ School, said 50 per cent of parents had paid the fees for the entire year. “These parents have helped us to tide over this period.” “If some parents rise to the occasion, it will help schools to sustain financially,” Ranjan Mitter, the principal of The Future Foundation School, said. Some schools have announced concession but have requested parents not to go for it if they can afford to do so. “Parents understand the kind of effort teachers put in during online classes, creating videos, doing assessments and all. In some cases, teachers share their screens to help students understand better and parents are appreciative of it. We expect there will be parents who will not go for the concession,” Aruna Gomes, principal of Loreto House, said. If parents do not respond, some Loreto schools will have to dip into their reserve funds, Gomes said. “It is not for a couple of months but for a long period of time and that is what makes it more difficult.” Institutions must be preserved and there are parents who “understand it is in their best interest and they will not want their children to suffer”, Kar of Modern High said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Curbs for Kali puja pandals, temples||Kali Puja pandals will be “no-entry zones” like the ones for Durga Puja this year but since they are more in number and smaller than Durga Puja pandals, only up to 5 metres from them will be part of the restricted area, the high court ruled on Thursday. The court had ruled that 10 metres from big Durga Puja pandals and 5 metres from the smaller ones would be treated as no-entry zones. The high court also banned processions during immersion of Kali idols and said the immersions “should be low-key affairs”. The restrictions, imposed as a precaution against Covid-19, will also apply to Jagaddhatri and Kartick Puja pandals across the state. The division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee, which issued the order, said the no-entry zone would include “an area of five-metres beyond the pandals on all the open sides”. “Except for dhakis, the five-metre zone has to be kept completely free at all times,” the court said. Only 10 persons will be allowed in the covered area of a Kali, Jagaddhatri or Kartick Puja pandal “where the covered area excluding the dais is up to 150 square metres”. The order said: “For pandals with a covered area between 150 square metres and 300 square metres excluding the dais, the number of persons at any point of time may be 15. For bigger pandals, in excess of 300 square metres in area excluding the dais, a maximum of 45 persons can be within the pandals at any given point of time.” At temples, the police have to ensure “that Covid protocol is maintained”. The court said: “The local administration and police will ensure that there is no overcrowding within the temple precincts or outside. This will apply particularly to the Dakshineshwar Kali temple, the Kalighat temple, the Tarapith temple, the Kalyaneswari temple in Rupnarayanpur and other Kali and Shakti and other temples all over the State, till the lockdown is completely lifted.” The court asked the administration in the districts where the Kali pujas are held in a big way to ensure that its directions were conveyed to the organisers “well in advance”. “The local administration in Hooghly, particularly Chandernagore, has to ensure that the directions are made known to the Jagaddhatri Puja organisers well in advance so that appropriate steps can be taken. Similarly, in those pockets where Kartick Puja is held in a big way, the local administration should take appropriate steps well in advance. In Uttarpara, Barasat and other areas where Kali Puja is held in a big way, the local police and administration should make the citizens and the organisers of public pujas aware of these directions immediately,” the order read. The state government had earlier said that the pandals had to be open on all four sides. The bench added that sanitisers should be available at the pandals, wearing masks would be mandatory and distancing norms had to be maintained always. “Immersions should be low-key affairs and processions for such purpose will not be permitted,” the bench ordered. It has prohibited the “use of bands and lights” during immersion. The police will have the discretion “to provide for staggered timings so that the immersion ghats are not overcrowded”. The bench passed the order following a PIL by Ajay Kumar De seeking a court order on maintaining pandemic protocol during the festivals. The bench said the restrictions imposed for Durga Puja seemed to have had the desired effect. “Indeed, the usual crowding at puja pandals during Durga Puja was, more or less, absent. Whether as a result of the measures taken or otherwise, there does not appear to have been a spike in Covid cases, till at least a week after Durga Puja. It is thus hoped that if similar directions are issued for the conduct of Kali Puja next week, it may… (be) to the benefit of the citizens of the state,” the order said. The kind of processions that may be allowed for Chhath Puja will come up in court on November 10. The court added: “Since Christmas is some distance away, no directions in such regard are issued at the moment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Blanket ban on firecrackers easier to enforce: Cops||A blanket ban on firecrackers should be easier to implement than a selective ban that was in force on Diwali last year, police officers said hours after the high court ordered a complete ban till the end of November. Law-enforcement agencies, following the order, will shift their focus on cracking down on the points of sale without having to waste time or energy to differentiate between legal and illegal firecrackers. Last year, bursting of firecrackers producing sound up to 90 decibel at 5m from the source were allowed within a two-hour window on Diwali. However, dozens of incidents of bursting of banned firecrackers were reported from across the city. In Calcutta and the outskirts, there were 15 cases where people were taken to police stations and prosecuted or fined for bursting banned firecrackers. Most of the complaints were from highrise buildings and housing complexes. During the pre-Diwali period every year, Calcutta police conduct extensive searches and raids to seize banned firecrackers. “In previous years, whenever we would catch someone carrying firecrackers, we would have to check whether those were legal or illegal…. This year is going to be different. Any firecracker we see on the road — be it a chocolate bomb with a fancy name or a simple sparkler — will be seized,” said a senior officer of Calcutta police. The high court on Thursday directed the government to ensure that there was “no use or display or bursting of firecrackers at all during Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations. For this purpose, only wax or oil-based diyas would have to suffice, for the greater good of the citizens and in larger public interest.” The court has also instructed the police to maintain strict vigil to ensure there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers in any form. Keeping in mind the Covid pandemic, no baji bazar (firecracker market), where only legal firecrackers are sold, has been set up in Calcutta. In the run-up to Diwali in previous years, thousands of people would drive to manufacturing units in Champahati and Nungi, in South 24-Parganas, to buy firecrackers at a cheaper rate. The police would usually try to maintain vigil on such sales by setting up checkpoints. “But we would be a little lenient if we saw families with children in a car. But this year there will be no exception,” an officer said. Pollution control board officials, too, said the vigil would be stronger this year. Every year, the PCB and the police would have to depend on “spot evidence” such as empty boxes of firecrackers to prove that those were banned items. “This year, bursting of any firecracker will be illegal,” a senior officer said. Environment activist Subhas Datta welcomed the court order and said it would have been better had the court defined the nature of punishment, too, for violation of the blanket ban. Police sources said helpline numbers would be published where citizens could report any bursting of firecrackers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Few takers for CMC Covid test centres||The number of people undergoing Covid-19 tests at the 72 rapid antigen testing centres the Calcutta Municipal Corporation had set up in the past two months is below expectation, civic officials have said. Requests from housing complexes to test their residents through special camps have dropped as well, an official said. Several factors are responsible, he said. A decline in enthusiasm among ward coordinators (the outgoing councillors) to mobilise people to go for tests, a general decline in interest among people to know if they are Covid positive and a drop in Covid test rates at private laboratories are the main factors, the official said. “The CMC has the capacity to test more than 4,000 people through a combination of rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests every day; but hardly 1,200 people are getting tested daily,” the official said. The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved both tests. Rapid antigen tests give results within 30 minutes whereas RT-PCR tests take at least a day to give the results. But RT-PCR tests are considered more foolproof, which is why the ICMR has said those testing negative in rapid antigen tests but have Covid symptoms should undergo RT-PCR tests. A positive rapid antigen test result, though, is final, the ICMR has said. Role of ward coordinators: “We have noticed a decline in interest among ward coordinators, who had played a crucial role in encouraging people to get themselves tested in the early months of the pandemic,” a CMC official said. They used to persuade traders, bus drivers and conductors, auto drivers among others to get themselves tested. Isolating someone who tests positive is important to check the spread of the infection, the official said. A Trinamul ward coordinator said there was a difference between being an elected councillor and a nominated one. “That spirit among coordinators is lacking. Many ward coordinators are not sure if they will get tickets when elections happen.” Drop in test rates: The state government’s decision to cap Covid-19 test rates at Rs 1,500 has allowed many families to go to private laboratories, an official said. The state government brought down the rate from Rs 2,250 to Rs 1,500 on October 12. “Many people can now afford the test.” Asymptomatic and in isolation: People are averse to getting stuck at home, the official said. “Earlier a lot of asymptomatic people got themselves tested at our centres. But when they tested positive, it meant they had to remain isolated at home for 14 days. Many people didn’t like this. They had no severe illness but could not run their businesses or join work… now those who don’t have any symptom are unwilling to go for tests.” Many Covid positive people may not have symptoms but they end up infecting others, the official said. Fewer test requests: In the initial days in August, the daily number of test requests from housing complexes was high, a CMC official said. “We were unable to meet all requests in a day. Now there are days when we don’t receive requests from any complex.” People need to be retold, if needed, the significance of getting themselves tested and isolated till the time a medicine or vaccine is available, many officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Activists to ask highrises to shun fireworks||While the state environment department chooses to bank upon online awareness mode to minimise fireworks this Diwali, green activists plan to target the high-rises and housing complexes directly to push their ban-baji agenda. Both insist that considering the Covid-19 situation and warning from the physicians’ fraternity that the situation will deteriorate further if fireworks pollution impacts the already poor air quality of mid-November, the burning of fireworks should stop altogether this Diwali. “Personally, if you ask me, I am in favour of a ban on baji during Diwali. However, as a petition has been filed in Calcutta high court over the issue, we need to wait for the court’s final verdict. We will do whatever the court will direct,” environment minister Soumen Mahapatra told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Burning of fireworks leads to the production of gaseous substances like sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen dioxide and the like. While sulphur dioxide irritates the respiratory system, oxides of nitrogen increase oxidative stress and affect the protective mucosal layer of lungs, magnifying the risk of attack from viruses like Sars-CoV-2, say doctors. The minister further pointed out that his department and the state pollution control board would organise a series of awareness meetings to drive home the importance of bursting little or no fireworks this Diwali. “We will hold separate online awareness meetings with non-government organisations, school students and definitely with representatives of highrises to put across the message. Members of doctors’ forums and police will also participate,” stated the minister. Sabuj Mancha, a platform of environmental organisations across the state, points out that while spreading awareness is important it is unlikely to cause significant change in habits unless the administration takes strong action against offenders, particularly in the highrises which cause maximum violations. “Last year, the state PCB found several violations in a number of high-rises and even lodged FIRs against them, including those in the Lake Town area, based on a complaint filed by Sabuj Mancha. But effectively no concrete measures were taken after that. They basically went scot-free,” complained Naba Dutta of the green platform. While PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra promised to look into the issue of alleged inaction against errant highrises, a senior official pointed out that the onus was on the police to take appropriate action. In this context, this year Sabuj Mancha has decided to approach the civic authorities and the police to rein in the highrises from bursting fireworks. “We have already raised the issue of highrises in a recent letter sent to the chief minister. Further to that, we will soon write to the civic authorities in Calcutta, Bidhannagar and South Dum Dum as well as the NKDA along with local police heads, appealing to them to ensure that the experiences of last year do not get repeated,” said Dutta. Dutta shared that a delegation from the platform would soon meet the minister, state PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra and PCB member secretary Rajesh Kumar to push the demand of completely barring fireworks this Diwali and keep the high rises under strict vigil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
06-11-2020||Calcutta||Virus march in festive season||Virologists had predicted an explosion in the number of Covid cases after the Pujas but as of now daily new cases, though on the rise till Monday, have not hit the roof. Experts, though optimistic, would however, rather wait to see the week through before patting people on the back for showing restraint during the festive days. The growing reluctance among a section of people to go for tests despite showing Covid-19 symptoms is also taking away from the capacity of the numbers to reflect the true picture, warn doctors . “Despite our best efforts, residents met at large gatherings during the Pujas. They went to restaurants, roamed about without masks. The virus has an incubation period and those affected should start feeling sick by November 6 or 7,” said Pranoy Roy, mayoral council member in charge of health, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. “We are afraid that figures for fresh cases might rise further this weekend.” Even if those affected by the virus have got fever by now they are likely to have popped a few pills for three days before getting a Covid test done. The results too would take a day more to arrive. The corporation area, pointed out public health specialist Anirban Dolui, was logging 120 to 130 new cases daily for about two weeks before the Pujas. “We need to be watchful for another three-four days for the incubation period of five to 14 days after exposure to be completely over. The Covid test results need to be monitored till the end of the week for the effect of the Pujas to be understood,” said Dolui, who is one of the three co-ordinators for the state government’s home isolation monitoring team. Figures of new cases have been on the rise since the end of the Pujas. Dwadashi (October 28) saw a jump to 136 from 95 the day before. The highest spike with 142 new cases, was on November 2. For two days after that, the numbers have dipped — 102 and 114 — but experts are not sure if the downward trend will continue till the end of the week. A senior civic health official preferred to be optimistic. He said he was keeping fingers crossed that the worst was over. “It is true that we need to keep an eye on the figures for another four-five days but trends so far suggest that the figure is unlikely to spiral like it had in Kerala after Onam.” According to predictions of virologists on the post-Puja situation in Bengal, new daily infections would have been close to 200 by now. “But that has not happened,” he argued. Abhik Ghosh, a CB Block-based ENT specialist who is the co-ordinator of Protect the Warriors, a forum of doctors formed to provide support against Covid-19, said though there was no explosion of new cases across Bengal after Durga puja, figures were showing an upward curve in some pockets of the city like Salt Lake. “The picture will be clear at the end of the week. Even then, it is unlikely that the 4,000 new infection figure will double or treble. Still, we need to be careful with Kali puja and Diwali coming up. That will lead to another round of shopping and social mixing.” Six teams of four doctors each from Protect the Warriors had inspected 100 Durga pujas across the city and provided inputs on organising the festival in a safe way. “Many pujas had done their bit,” Ghosh said. Though the high court order making all Durga puja pandals containment zones largely cleared the pandal-hopping crowd off the streets at least till Saptami, mixing, Roy  points out, was on ever since Puja shopping started. Early October had seen a pre-Puja shopping spree and experts had warned that crowded marketplaces could be the site of the virus spread. Even though the footfall was not a patch on that of previous years, pujas like Sreebhumi, FD Block, BJ Block, AK Block and AE (Part I) drew sufficient crowds to make virologists see red. Not to mention how crowded restaurants like Oudh and 6 Ballygunge Place were all throughout the festive week. While smaller and sporadic gatherings seem harmless, they are enough to lead to a spread. “We saw how friends and families gathered at homes and restaurants over the past weeks and many neither wore masks nor maintained social distancing,” said a doctor attached with the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. “If even one in a group was an asymptomatic patient, he could have infected nearly everyone around.” Health officials said irrespective of rural and urban pockets, the number of cases across North 24-Parganas has been rising steadily with more than 800 cases being reported every day. The rise of infection in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area reflects the same trend. If on October 3, the total number of cases from the district was 53,441 and 641 fresh cases had been reported, on November 3, the corresponding number was 78,847 with 862 new cases. One can compare that to the September 15 situation, when the Puja shopping frenzy had not reached its peak. The total number of cases on the day had stood at 42,669 with 516 fresh cases reported in the district. The state health department figures take into account the number of tests done from a particular area from different testing centres as well as people admitted in hospitals and Covid-19 safe houses. These figures are then collated with the reports collected by field workers in terms of door to door visits conducted by them. The department, bracing for a rise in the number of cases this season, have added 50 high dependency unit (HDU) beds to the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in New Town, which is a corona treatment facility, thus doubling the previously available number of HDU beds. A dip in Covid-19 testing is worrying experts. “We have copies of prescriptions from doctors advising tests but those patients are not reflecting in the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) portal. This means they are simply not coming for tests. The stigma and inconvenience associated with isolation are making them wary to be officially identified as Covid positive,” Dolui says. Some doctors are also to blame. “They are the one who are simply prescribing medicines and asking people to rest at home without taking a test. ‘Test korlei positive asbe, so do not bother’ is what they are telling patients.” This, he explains, means that the mildly symptomatic patients are getting cured in a few days on a few doses of Paracetamol and then resuming life, bypassing the stipulated period of isolation. “They are ending up spreading the infection. This is a dangerous trend.” He shares the trend being observed in CT scan reports in pathology laboratories. “Earlier, four to five of every 20 chest scan reports indicated Covid. Now 11 or 12 of every 20 reports bear the indicative ground glass opacity. That means if the symptoms are there, maximum cases are turning out to be Covid,” Dolui said. Testing at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s swimming pool facility has also gone down. “People are going for private tests in which swab collection takes place from home or are simply sitting at home with fever without testing,” a civic official said. When testing started at the swimming pool in Central Park in July, the official recalled: “Such was the rush that sometimes we exceeded our initial daily quota of 30 by seven or eight and had to argue with Nilratan Sircar Hospital to get them to accept the extra samples. Now we are collecting way below capacity. On Monday, barely 19 people came.” Even at Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital, a senior official said, there has been no rise in the demand for tests over the last couple of months. “We are still conducting 70 to 80 tests daily,” he added. The health department is holding sessions to train doctors on the treatment protocol to follow for patients approaching them for individual consultation. “Some doctors are making delays of four to five days in prescribing tests. We are stressing that tests should be done on the day itself when symptoms appear so that they do not infect more people. It is true that the viral load would be higher as the days progress but RT-PCR is a test sensitive enough to catch Covid strains as soon as symptoms appear,” Dolui said. Apathy towards moving to safe homes to quarantine oneself after testing positive has caused the closure of the safe home run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Sector V. The Royal Courtyard Banquet Hall, a Nicco Park property, which was being used for the purpose, was de-requisitioned by the corporation on October 6. “There were no patients for almost a month. Those who are well to do stay in home isolation or get hospitalised. It was usually people from Duttabad and some slums of Rajarhat who were going there. Now NKDA has its own safe home and the situation has improved in Duttabad compared to the days when it was a containment zone. If there are any asymptomatic or mild cases needing institutional isolation, we are sending them to NBCC Square in New Town which is affiliated to CNCI,” said the civic health official. NBCC Square has a capacity of 150. Even there, barely 20 or 25 beds are occupied, sources said. The NKDA’s safe home, opened in August, currently has eight patients in the 20-bed facility. Another practice that has caused the rise in infection is the tendency among some to wear the mask imperfectly or remove it at the slightest pretext. Senior health department officials, in an October 29 meeting with the North 24-Parganas district administration, had warned that nearly half the people of the district were not adhering to the order of wearing masks and that this could result in a spurt in cases. Health department officials told the sub-divisional and block development officers to immediately start enforcing the mask rule with the help of police. If needed, more people could be booked for not wearing masks and repeat offenders could be fined rigorously, the officials were told. Health officials said the visitor turnout at pandals in parts of Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, North Dum Dum, Baranagar, Kamarhati, Panihati, Barrackpore and Barasat had jumped on Ashtami and Navami and that while most pandal-hoppers wore masks, many were spotted  without them. Since the police was busy in law and order duty back then, there was not enough prosecution for violation of the mask rule. Puja organisers, one hopes, have learnt a lesson after Durga puja and would be cautious before the festival of lights next week. The most tragic case was reported this Monday from Baisakhi Abasan, where a lady who was on the all-woman organising committee, died in hospital. “This lady roamed the complex collecting subscriptions and attending meetings with other committee members without a mask. She would even berate others for wearing one,” said a resident. “We are all worried about who all may have got infected from her. The rest of the committee is in quarantine now.” At BE (East), about half the core committee of their Durga puja was down with Covid-19 and it was well into the festival before most of them came out of quarantine. Those affected point at a fellow-member who apparently moved about despite being down with fever. “It was much later that we realised she had been popping paracetamols to keep her fever under control. She moved about without wearing masks and one by one six out of the 12-odd women in our core committee were down with Covid,” says a member. Before they knew it, there was community spread. “One of our  members was hospitalised and the octogenarian father-in-law of another even lost his life,” said the lady, who is still weak after recovery. This year BE (East)’s puja was organised by an all-women’s team and the challenges were compounded by the Covid crisis. “We had to get labourers to build the pandal over video call when most of them didn’t even have smart phones. Then no one was being able to go meet the advertisers who came to select spots to place banners; those of us supposed to get the idol from the sculptor were in quarantine…” recalls the member. “We couldn’t have pulled this through without the blessings of Ma Durga.” The members are now preparing for Kali puja but they have a stern message for puja organisers across the township: “Please care for others. Wear masks at all times and do not leave home if you are unwell. Else you put all your neighbours’ lives at risk.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-249
