07-11-2020||Calcutta||150 ghats  for Chhath ||More than 150 ghats in the city will be ready for Chhath Puja rituals on November 20, officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) said. The list does not include Rabindra Sarobar, where the National Green Tribunal has banned all kinds of puja. The CMDA has approached the Supreme Court with a plea to allow Chhath at Sarobar after the tribunal refused to hear its plea. The CMDA has built three permanent ghats in Nonadanga that can be used for Chhath rituals. The agency will also build 44 temporary ghats in Kasba, Jadavpur, Patuli and Golf Green. More than 100 ghats maintained by the CMC can be used for Chhath . A CMDA official said the ghats would have bio-toilets, drinking water facilities and changing rooms. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim chaired a meeting to discuss the arrangements for Chhath Puja on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s varsity in Shillong||Students from the Northeast will have a reason not to leave their states and reach Calcutta or other cities for higher studies. St Xavier’s University, Shillong, will come up in the next three years and the Jesuits of the Kohima region will run the institute. “Students from the Northeast and from Sikkim come to both the college and the university in Calcutta. Many students from these areas leave for Delhi, Pune, Hyderabad, and Bangalore, too, and hence there is a need to start a university to let them stay in their states,” Father J Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta, said on Friday. The Jesuit fathers run a degree college in Williamnagar near Shillong and another in Aizawl in Mizoram. “Educational work has been the main thrust of the Jesuit fathers in the Northeast just like anywhere else. We should start universities and not colleges because universities have a wider scope and are more independent,” he said. The Meghalaya cabinet on November 4 approved the St Xavier’s University Bill, 2020. The bill was introduced in the Assembly on November 5 and is likely to be passed early next week. St Xavier’s University Calcutta stands as a model for Jesuit universities in the country. This will be the third Jesuit university in the country after St Xavier’s University, Calcutta, and Xavier University, Bhubaneswar. The campus will come up on 35 acres in Shillong, given by local Congress MP Vincent Pala. Classes should start within three years from the date of passing of the bill, Father Felix Raj said. The chief minister of Meghalaya, Conrad Sangma, wrote in a letter to Father Felix Raj: “It is wonderful to hear the positive response from the Jesuits on the proposal and idea of setting up a university in Meghalaya.” Deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong said at a press conference: “St Xavier’s universities are the most successful universities in the country. The Calcutta Jesuits have established St Xavier’s University Calcutta at New Town in 2017 and it is being run very successfully.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Money from one, flat to another ||A Salt Lake resident has alleged that a developer whom she had paid Rs 74 lakh to buy two flats, in Behala and Haridevpur, cheated her by selling the flats to others. Rahul Das, 42, the developer who has multiple cheating cases against him, was arrested in Behala on Thursday night, police said. Das had apparently duped the Salt Lake resident into taking two home loans in 2018 for the flat but selling them to others once the money got transferred to his company’s account. “Once the loan was sanctioned in the complainant’s name for two projects by the promoter, the bank started disbursing the sum to the promoter’s account and the complainant started paying the EMI,” an officer of Behala police station said. “Once the projects were completed and the flats were to be handed over, they were sold to other people, the complainant had alleged.” Cops have started a case of cheating, fraud, and criminal breach of trust against Das. “He has multiple arrest warrants against him. We had raided his home several times but he was not there. Last night, we had specific information he was at a place in Regent Park and we got lucky,” the officer said. A city court on Friday sent Das to police custody till November 11. He will be questioned in connection with the other complaints against him, the police said. “It is important to cross-check the background of the developer… verify with the police if there is any existing case against the individual before booking a flat,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Refund & damages orders to hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked ILS Dum Dum to refund Rs 40,000 of the Rs 58,201 it had charged a Covid patient for PPE and other consumables for a 10-day stay at the hospital, the commission’s chairperson said on Friday. The commission also asked R Flemming Hospital to pay Rs 1 lakh to a Covid victim’s family in compensation and cough up another Rs 10,000 as penalty after it was found to be prima facie true that a nurse attending the patient in ICU was sleeping when the oxygen tube had come off her nose. Medica Superspecialty Hospital and Charnock Hospital have been asked to compensate two patients’ families Rs 50,000 each. “We have asked ILS Dum Dum to refund Rs 40,000 to Ajay Khaitan, who was admitted to the hospital in May. The hospital had charged Khaitan Rs 58,201 for PPE and other consumables for a 10-day stay. The bill showed that the hospital charged for 36 PPE sets. They also charged for masks, head cover and shoe cover separately,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The Telegraph has reported a number of times that several hospitals had charged exorbitant rates for PPE sets in the initial days of the pandemic. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on June 26 announced that hospitals could not charge more than Rs 1,000 for PPE per patient per day. The commission issued an advisory on August 1 stating that items like headgear and gloves should be considered part of the PPE and should not be charged separately. Banerjee said ILS argued that the rates were charged before the government introduced the ceiling. Debashis Dhar, the group vice-president of ILS Hospitals, said they would follow the commission’s order but added “it was not justified”. “We had charged these rates at a time when we had to buy PPE at much higher prices than now and there was no capping. We did not overcharge any of our patients for PPE. People must understand that PPE sets are used for the safety of patients and healthcare workers,” said Dhar. R Flemming Hospital in Topsia was asked to compensate the family of a woman who passed away in December. “The woman’s husband complained that a nurse attending the woman was sleeping when the oxygen tube came off her nose. When the family pointed this out, the nurse fixed it and asked them to leave,” said Banerjee. “They also complained that a hospital employee, who was not a doctor, had identified himself as one and demanded money from the patient’s family….The hospital’s conduct was negligent. We asked them to compensate the family Rs 1 lakh and pay the Rs 10,000 as penalty.” Sahid Khan, the manager of R Flemming Hospital, denied the allegations. “Our patient coordinator had spoken to the family about the bill. What can we say if after interacting with him for so many days the complainant says they thought he was a doctor. Will a doctor ever talk about bill amounts? We will go through the order and decide our course of action,” said Khan. During Friday’s hearing, Medica Superspecialty Hospital was asked to compensate the family of a 75-year-old man who alleged that the doctor who performed a heart surgery on him was not present during a subsequent check-up in February. They also alleged that a diabetologist should have checked the man, but did not, said Banerjee. The elderly man later passed away. “We felt it was the hospital’s responsibility to arrange a diabetologist to examine the patient. The hospital should have also appointed the doctor who performed the surgery for the follow-up check. We ordered the hospital to compensate the family Rs 50,000,” said Banerjee. An official of the hospital said they would not comment before going through the order in detail. Charnock Hospital in Teghoria was asked to pay Rs 50,000 for giving an incomplete death certificate to a 67-year-old woman’s family in November 2019. “The certificate did not have the woman’s age and time of death. The doctor had to go to the cremation ghat to correct the certificate,” said Banerjee. The hospital does not have a blood bank and it did not help the patient for blood transfusion, said Banerjee. The Telegraph could not reach any official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Celsius dips below 20 degrees||The Celsius dropped below 20 degrees on Friday for the first time this year since March as winds from the north made their presence felt in the city. The cool phase will continue for the next few days because of favourable conditions in northern India, the weather department said. Friday’s minimum temperature was 19.8 degrees Celsius — two notches below normal. The last time the city had recorded a sub-20 degrees temperature was on March 22, when the mercury had dipped to 19.2 degrees, according to the Met records. Winter is still some distance away, the Met office said. Unlike the monsoon, the weather office in Alipore does not announce the onset of winter. There are, however, certain parameters that mark the arrival of the season. One such parameter is that the minimum temperature has to be 15 degrees or less for at least four days at a stretch. “The sky is clear. The dry and cold north-westerly winds are getting an unobstructed access into the city. The minimum temperature is likely to remain in the range of 19 degrees over the next couple of days,” said a Met official. Snowfall in the upper reaches of the country had triggered the flow of north-westerly winds into the city at the start of this week. The cold phase in Calcutta is expected to be temporarily halted from Tuesday, when a cyclonic circulation over the Bay is tipped to inject moisture into the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||IIEST chief for fee waiver||The IIEST director has appealed to the education ministry for a waiver of tuition fee for some students who have written to the Shibpur institute that they are in no position to pay because of the Covid pandemic. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), wrote to the ministry last month after the students’ senate had requested him to waive fees because earnings have taken a hit during the pandemic. “Since the ministry fixes the tuition fees, the appeal (for waiver) has been made to the ministry,” director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. The institute's board of governors, he said, asked him to write to the ministry. The education ministry fixes the tuition fees of the institutes under the NIT council. The IIEST is part of the council. The annual tuition fee at the IIEST is Rs 1,25,000, excluding the annual hostel and mess charge of Rs 50,000. A member of the students’ senate said parents of several students ran small businesses and they were among the worst-hit by the pandemic. Many salaried employees are no better. Another member of the students’ senate said that since classes were being held online, students should not have to pay as much. “We are paying a steep charge for the internet for attending online classes from home. I guess the course fee was decided keeping in mind on-campus engagements,” he said. An IIEST official said director Chakrabarti had mentioned in the letter that the institute had in August decided that students need not pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges for the autumn semester that started on August 24. The institute has also decided to waive the activities fee of Rs 500 and bring down the infrastructure fee to Rs 1,000 from Rs 2,500 for this semester. “But the tuition fee does not come under our preview,” said Chakrabarti. An IIEST teacher said the director’s letter spoke volume about the crisis students were facing. “During the pandemic, the institute has been receiving waiver requests from all categories of students. Even students whose annual family income is above Rs 5 lakh are seeking waiver,” he said. The institute grants full waiver of the tuition fee to students whose annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh. If the income ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, he/she is required to pay half the amount. Another teacher said students are worried over the grim job situation. “They must have got jittery after knowing that a multinational company had in May withdrawn its job offer to three engi-neering students citing business decisions because of the economic downslide,’’ he said. Director Chakrabarti said they were raising a consoli-dated fund with the help of contribution from the alumni so that some support could be extended to students in distress. “But a consolidated fund can never be enough to bear the burden of the waiver of tuition fees for a section of students,” said an official of the institute. “Students can get relief only if the ministry considers the appeal for the waiver.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Candles replace crackers post blanket ban||Canning Street, Brabourne Road, China Bazar, Behala — the traditional pockets known for the sale of firecrackers in the city were selling only candles on Friday. Shopkeepers said firecrackers were being sold at these places till Thursday evening. But the boxes vanished once news of the high court order imposing a blanket ban on firecrackers spread. “Sab shoriye diyeche (all firecrackers have been removed),” said a shopkeeper pointing towards a candle seller on Canning Street. Traders said they had seen an increased presence of police officers in the Posta-Burrabazar area from Friday morning. The police said they would seize firecrackers as soon as they spot them — from shops selling them or individuals found in possession of them. In south Calcutta, police stations are planning to hold meetings with residents and guards of highrise buildings to ensure the ban is complied with. In north and central Calcutta, the police said they had started collecting information whether any shop was selling firecrackers. The high court on Thursday prohibited the sale and use or display of any form of firecracker because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the adverse effect smoke generated by crackers could have on the air we breathe. Covid patients find it difficult to breathe anyway. Air heavy with noxious fumes will make life all the more difficult for them, public health specialists have warned. The order by the division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee says: “The police should maintain a strict vigil to ensure that there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers of any form in the State between now and the end of the month. The police should make every effort to confiscate firecrackers and any kind of like material which have the potential to pollute the air. Immediate appropriate measures must be taken by the police against those seeking to act in contravention of these directions.” Several police officers said that as many sellers had procured firecrackers before the court imposed the ban, they would possibly try to sell them on the sly. Traders in central Calcutta usually buy their stock from manufacturing units in Champahati and Nungi in South 24-Parganas. “We are trying to track the potential sellers,” said an officer in central Calcutta. Every year, police allegedly half-heartedly try to crack down on illegal firecrackers — those that produce more than 90 decibel of sound at 5m from the source — by searching shops and vehicles and also by keeping an eye on highrise buildings from where the maximum number violations are reported. This year, the implementation of the ban would be easier as the police will not have to differentiate between illegal and legal firecrackers. “We will meet residents of highrise buildings and assign the responsibility of abiding by the court order to residents’ association or the guards. We will ask them to report the matter directly to us if residents violate the order,” said an officer of Shakespeare Sarani police station. Cops may be deployed in some of the highrises to ensure the court order is followed. Residents of several highrise buildings have resolved to make this Diwali pollution free. Shankar Lal Agarwala, a resident of Satyam Towers in Alipore, said bursting firecrackers had been an integral part of their Diwali celebrations every year. “But that should not be at the cost of the health of thousands of Calcuttans. This year we will light only diyas,” Agarwala said. At South City, a notice has been issued banning firecrackers on Diwali. “If anyone violates the court order, it will be reported to the authorities,” said a member of the managing board of the Prince Anwar Shah Road housing complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||App help for visitors to locate Botanic Garden trees||The Botanical Survey of India has developed an app to help visitors to the Indian Botanic Garden, Howrah, locate various trees and even buildings on the garden premises and reach them easily. The app helps members of the garden staff as well to negotiate the sprawling 273 acres that is home to 14,000 species of trees, plants and climbers. The BSI app, which can be downloaded from the Google Play Store, has been designed and developed with assistance from Geo Climate Risk Solutions Pvt Ltd. It lists the various botanic gardens in the country as well as the protected areas. An entire section is devoted to the Indian Botanic Garden, Howrah, giving the garden’s history and listing the iconic trees in the garden, the various sections, including the aromatic plant garden, the bambusetum, the cactus house, the large palm house, among others. The flowering calendar lists all the flowers as they bloom in various months. The buildings and monuments section helps one reach the Central National Herbarium, the Griffith Monument, and the Robert Kyd Monument, among others. The lakes, too, are identified and there’s a map as well. So, if a visitor wants to reach the Great Banyan Tree, all he/she has to do is to go to the Iconic trees section and tap on the Great Banyan Tree. There’s a picture, along with the option of spotting and reaching the plant. If one taps the plant in the app, a drop-down information box will provide the scientific name, the local name, and the English and Hindi names, along with its characteristics. There’s a short history of the tree, too, which can be heard orally. If one were to tap the option of “reach the plant”, he/she will be guided to it through Google Map. One has the option to visit nearby trees as well. Pressing the button on “Nearby trees” brings up a map showing nearby trees with their scientific names. “Work on the app had started four years ago. It was launched recently. The app assists not just visitors but also members of the garden staff. Not all of us know where the different trees and plants are exactly located in the garden,” Kanak Das, the garden director, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Tough get going amid odds||Sushila Birla Girls’ School, in association with The Telegraph Young Metro, organised a virtual panel discussion, Saluting the New Messiahs, to celebrate the institute’s memorial day. As the name suggests, the panel discussion was an attempt to pay homage to the corona warriors by letting the world know about their experiences during these trying times.The session comprised four speakers and a moderator. Cardiac surgeon Dr Kunal Sarkar was the moderator. Starting from giving his point of view on the pandemic to making sure that each speaker gets a fair chance of putting forth their perspectives in a timely manner, Dr Sarkar managed the session efficiently. Belle Vue Clinic CEO Pradip Tondon, Dr Sibabrata Banerjee, director of internal medicine, Fortis Hospital, Anandapur, Dr Debasish Roy, additional director-general and inspector general of police, Armed Police, Bengal and Dr Era Dutta, neuropsychiatrist, Fortis healthcare, were the four panelists. “We are thankful to all the panelists for taking out time from their busy schedule. It was indeed a stimulating morning,” said principal Koeli Dey. “We salute the indomitable spirit of the corona warriors. We are honoured that such eminent personalities who have continued to help us navigate through this crisis agreed to be a part of this occasion,” said school director Sharmila Bose. Krishnagar Public School released the second edition of their quarterly e-magazine, KPStellar on Navratri. Its inaugural edition was released during the lockdown as an initiative to keep the spirits of both students and teachers high amid the pandemic. The first edition showcased contributions of the students, teachers and parents in English, Bengali and Hindi languages, while in the second edition, contributions from the administration and support staff members also got featured. “The school e-magazine is a virtual stage, and I enjoy browsing through the pages. The most inspiring part is that it highlights our day-to-day activities and efforts which motivate us to continue our strive for engaging in all school activities,” said Class X student Aditi Sarkar. The e-magazine is also a result of the school’s initiative for focusing on the CBSE vision in imparting education in a stress-free environment, even in the pandemic. “The school came up with this idea to provide a sense of happiness and satisfaction among students, teachers, and parents at a time when their lives were significantly altered by the unusual experience of self-isolation during the pandemic. KPStellar is a result of our efforts in constantly trying to innovate, upgrade, and experiment to ensure holistic development for our students and a happy environment for all stakeholders,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta. The pandemic failed to dampen the spirit of Birla High School Junior Section in moving ahead, overcoming every challenge. The school recently conducted Quaestio, an inter-school quiz competition for junior students, on a virtual platform. This year, nine schools from all across the city took part in it. Apart from the host school, the other participating institutes were Birla High School Mukundapur, Sushila Birla Girls’ School, South Point School, The BSS School, Shri Shikshayatan School, DPS Megacity, DPS Newtown and The Heritage School. The quiz comprised five rounds that included questions from current affairs, history and geography. Birla High School Mukundapur emerged the champions, while Sushila Birla Girls’ School was the first runner-up and the host Birla High School Junior Section became the second runner-up. The lockdown has provided an opportunity to the teachers to experiment with various online tools, and make learning fun for the students. The entire faculty of Birla High School Mukundapur had undergone a training programme for one week to master the art of online teaching and making the lessons engaging and enjoyable for the students, using various applications and educational websites. The teachers took the second graders on a virtual field trip to the mountains to learn adjectives. The lesson on wild animals was brought alive through augmented reality. The same application was used to explain the mechanism of the heart. The solar system was brought down to earth to the students’ awe. In a similar vein, the Class V students celebrated World Ozone Day. The students of nursery and kindergarten prepared a lockdown diary and expressed their feelings through art. “Since early April, we have switched to this online mode of teaching. Our teachers did a course to adapt to this new way of education. It is good to see that the students are also enjoying this new form of education,” said principal Minnie Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
07-11-2020||Calcutta||Fewer trains will mean a surge in the spread of Covid-19||Fewer trains will mean more people, both on the platform and on the trains, risking a surge in the spread of Covid-19, doctors have warned. Close to 180 pairs of local trains are expected to run from November 11, across the Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur divisions, rail officials had said after a meeting with the state government representatives on Wednesday. Before the services were grounded on March 23, close to 1,500 local trains ran every day, carrying more than 3.5 million passengers. Most suburban train passengers are daily travellers who use the trains to go to work and return home. Barring schools and colleges, most offices and other business establishments are open. Local trains, though infamous for being overcrowded, are the fastest option to travel from the suburbs to the city. So, once services resume, it is likely that passenger volume will not be reduced significantly. The number of trains will be increased in a phased manner in keeping with the passenger count, multiple rail officials have said. Doctors have said even a few days of overcrowded stations and trains could be enough to trigger a surge in infections. “Very surprising, very scatterbrained kind of response to the situation,” cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar said while speaking about the “conversation going on about local trains”. In a message posted on YouTube a few days ago, following the meeting between rail and state government officials where it was decided services would resume with “10-15 per cent” of the usual fleet, Sarkar spoke of the recent “tremendous chaos” when people tried to board trains that were ferrying rail personnel. A series of confrontations between people desperate to board special trains meant for rail staff and the RPF prompted the state government to ask the railways to resume suburban train services. “They just want to reach the city for a living… daily wage earners, hawkers, daily labourers…. People have been in a sort of semi-starvation for seven months…. Our response to this problem cannot be ‘look, we are going to operate only 10 per cent of the trains in selected stations’,” Sarkar said. “The chaos, the rush, the pandemonium from one station will now be multiplied into crowds of people gathering at each and every station. So, forget about the escalation of infection… we will risk probably 100 times more escalation because there will be crowds of unmanageable people gathering at every station,” he said. “The logical response to this problem is not reducing the capacity but increasing it. We need to use the trains better, deploy more train drivers.” Pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar said local train services “should either be totally suspended or the full fleet should be run”. “A limited number of trains will automatically result in more passengers on each train. How many cops will be deployed in each compartment? There will be no semblance of distancing in the compartments. It is unfair to blame passengers because they are struggling for their livelihoods,” he said. “The natural effect will be a rise in the number of Covid-19 infections.” Several rail officials had spoken of the Mumbai model. In Mumbai, suburban train services have resumed for essential service providers identified by the state government. In Bengal, local trains will run for all passengers. That will make crowd control practically impossible, rail officials said. “We can stop a person without a mask but we cannot stop a person with a ticket,” an official of Eastern Railway’s Sealdah division said. The chief secretary has hinted that the government was not in favour of introducing an e-pass system for local trains similar to the one implemented by Metro Railway in Calcutta. Access control at suburban stations is going to be the key problem once services resume. The railways is dependent on the state government for crowd control on platforms as it does not have enough people to deploy at every station. “The government does not want to be exclusionary.... If an e-pass system is introduced it may leave many people in the suburbs and rural areas in trouble,” the chief secretary had said on Monday. Metro Railway will increase the number of daily trains from 152 to 190 from November 11. The move is to tackle an expected rise in the number of passengers because of resumption of local trains, also slated from November 11. “There will be 190 trains from Monday to Saturday. On Sunday, there will be 64 trains as usual,” a Metro official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-248
