08-11-2020||Calcutta||Museum and Victoria set to reopen on November 10||Indian Museum, Victoria Memorial Hall, Science City, and Birla Industrial and Technological Museum will reopen on November 10. The culture ministry has decided to reopen museums and art galleries in view of the festive season and has issued a detailed standard operating procedure. Victoria Memorial will restrict the number of visitors to 200 at a time. The garden can accommodate 500 visitors at a time, Jayanta Sengupta, the curator, said. “Once we sell 200 tickets for the museum and 500 tickets for the garden, we will stop selling tickets. Once those visitors start leaving, we will resume ticket sales but at no point will we have more than 200 visitors on the premises of the museum.” The museums will have foot-pedal sanitiser machines and provision for thermal screening. Buying tickets online will be encouraged though provisions to buy tickets at the counters will be there. “We will introduce online ticketing for the first time in Indian Museum,” A.D. Choudhury, the museum director, said. Manual ticketing will be there with UV boxes to sanitise currency and tickets. There will be floor markers to ensure distancing rules are followed. Not more than 25 people will be allowed in galleries at a time, according to government guidelines. As part of the SOP, the government has advised advanced booking of time slots and recording the contact details of all visitors to help in contact tracing in case of positive cases in museums and galleries. Safety officers will report unsafe conditions on premises. Members of the CISF staff who screen baggage will be in PPEs and there will be isolation rooms, too. Science City, which used to be remain open from 9am to 8pm before the pandemic will now remain open from 10am to 6pm, Science City director Subhag Chowdhury said. “Between 10am and 2pm, we will allow 500 visitors and between 2pm and 6pm another 500.” Apart from online booking of tickets, there will be ticket vending machines at Science City with sanitiser machines nearby. Several interactive displays will have foot switches. Toilets, too, will have foot switches; there will be provisions for gloves as well. Winter is the busiest season at museums, but Sengupta expects a low crowd count because of the pan-demic. “Everyone is at home now. Once local trains start running, we will see how it goes and take decisions accordingly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Birbhum police arrest brother in connection with double murder||Police on Saturday arrested a 64-year-old man from Bihar’s Munger in connection with the double murder of his sister and her husband in Birbhum’s Labhpur on September 25. Purnendu Chatterjee, 76, a retired teacher from West Burdwan’s Asansol, and his wife Swapna, 68, a retired rail employee, had been found bludgeoned to death in their bedroom. The arrested person, Mukul Mukherjee, was Swapna’s brother, the police said. “This person (Mukherjee) was the mastermind behind the murder of his sister and her husband for property-related reasons. We had earlier arrested two men who had committed the crime,” Shyam Singh, the Birbhum police chief, said. Earlier this month, Debnath Konai and Somnath Mondal had been arrested in connection with the murders. During interrogation, Mukherjee’s name had come up. There was a dispute between Swapna and Mukherjee ever since their mother gifted Swapna the entire family property, the police said. “Mukherjee bore a grudge as he felt he had been deprived of his share. So, he had planned revenge. Mukherjee contacted Debnath and Somnath to carry out the murders. These two held a grudge against Swapna and her husband,” an officer said. A Bolpur court has sent Mukherjee to seven days’ police custody. The bodies had been recovered after the couple did not respond to repeated phone calls of a neighbour. The couple’s son, Kallol Chatterjee, a travel agent in Asansol, had reached the Birbhum village home on being alerted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Dengue fear in Salt Lake||Swarms of mosquitoes have invaded Salt Lake and its adjoining areas. Dengue cases, too, are being reported regularly, triggering a scare among residents. Over a 100 residents have dengue and more than a dozen have dengue and Covid, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said. In Salt Lake, many blocks off the Kestopur canal in sectors I and II and off the Eastern Drainage Channel in sector III have reported an increase in the number of mosquitoes in the past weeks. “The water in the Kestopur canal has turned stagnant and it is a perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes. I am forced to keep all my windows and doors shut at all times,” said Priyadarshini Choudhury, a resident of AL Block. A resident of BC Block said that they had not seen civic workers spray larvicide before or after Durga Puja. “They are not spraying larvicide in the block. The number of mosquitoes has gone up manyfold in our block. This has created a scare in our block as several residents are already down with Covid-19,” said Nirmal Dasgupta. A civic official said that many contractual labourers who are part of vector control teams have not returned after Durga Puja. “We are expecting them back once Kali Puja is over. We are managing with a smaller workforce.” On Saturday, Metro saw several garbage dumps near City Centre, CGO Complex and on empty plots, where Styrofoam plates and used sanitaryware were dumped. There were piles of garbage all along the banks of the Kestopur canal and mosquitoes were buzzing over the water in the Eastern Drainage Channel. Public health experts have warned that things should not be dumped in places where water can accumulate because they provide an easy breeding ground for mosquitoes. The dengue causing Aedes ageypti mosquito can breed in a coin-sized pool of water. A BMC official said that the civic body had been spraying larvicide and conducting door-to-door dengue surveys. “We are facing the twin challenge of Covid and dengue. We are trying our best to ensure that it does not spiral out of control.” Awareness is key and residents should not allow freshwater to accumulate near or inside their houses, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Dakshineswar, Kalighat set Kali Puja rules||The sanctum sanctorum at the Dakshineswar and Kalighat temples will be out of bounds to visitors this Kali Puja, temple authorities and police have decided. Devotees will not be allowed to gather on the temple premises as well throughout the day. Visitors will be scanned and there will be special police arrangements at both the temples to ensure there are not more than 50 people in a queue at any point of time. At Dakshineswar, the puja won’t be live-streamed to giant LED screens at night like previous years to avoid crowds. At Kalighat, no offering will reach the deity from outside. Police officers in Calcutta and the Barrackpore commissionerate have chalked out plans to restrict crowd at both the temples on the day of Kali Puja. Calcutta High Court has said the police will have to ensure “Covid protocol is maintained”. “The local administration and the police will ensure there is no overcrowding within the temple precincts or outside,” the court said on October 5. At Dakshineswar, cops will be posted at the entrance to the skywalk and the main temple to ensure all visitors are in masks and their body temperatures have been scanned by temple committee volunteers. A team of police officers will take their position before the temple opens at 6am to ensure there is no gathering of people at various points, including the dala arcade and the ghats.
The nutt-mandir on the temple premises opposite the one that houses the Kali idol will be turned into a “no-entry zone”. Even the Shiva temples on the main temple premises will remain inaccessible to visitors. On Kali Puja, Dakshineswar usually attracts close to 70,000 people on average and people gather at the nutt mandir to catch a glimpse of the idol. Many even sit and pray at the nutt-mandir. “Visitors will not be allowed to stand and watch the puja proceedings from inside the temple complex,” an officer of the Barrackpore commissionerate said. There will be separate entry and exit gates and everyone will be asked to move once they are through with their offerings, the police and the temple administration have decided. “A devotee will keep his/her offering in a basket. The priest at the temple will collect it from the basket and return it to the basket after completing the puja. The devotee will then pick up his/her offering from the basket,” Kushal Chowdhury, secretary of the Dakshineswar Kali Temple Trust, said. “We will tell people this year is different because of the pandemic and everyone will have to adjust to the new normal.” The Panchabati Complex adjoining the temple in Dakshineswar will be shut and no one will be allowed to enter Sri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa’s room to the temple’s north-west. Officers will keep tabs on the crowd count from time to time and all key corners will have police presence. At Kalighat, the police have decided to allow visitors through Gate No. 2. Gate No. 4 to the east of the Sebait ghat will act as the exit gate. Moveable crash barriers have been placed outside both the gates to ensure restricted entry/exit and banners with instructions for the prevention of Covid have been fixed. “We will not allow any offering from outside to touch the deity at the sanctum sanctorum. Unlike previous years no one will be allowed inside to touch Kali Ma,” Bidyut Halder of the Kalighat Temple Committee said. On the day of Kali Puja, cops and members of the Kalighat Temple Committee have decided to open the temple from 6am to 1pm and 4pm to 9pm. Cops will be posted along Kali Temple Road right up to the main temple to prevent crowding of visitors. “CCTV cameras will capture the movement of devotees and there will be cops to ensure no one tries to perform puja outside the temple with a priest,” a city police officer said. “An armed police contingent will be posted around the temple.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||More local trains; from 362 to 700||Rail authorities have decided to increase the number of trains when suburban services resume on Wednesday. The plan was to start with 362 trains — 228 in Sealdah division, 100 in Howrah division and 34 in Kharagpur division. The new plan is to start with close to 700 trains — 410 in Sealdah, 200 in Sealdah and 81 in Kharagpur. The Howrah and Sealdah divisions are with Eastern Railway and the Kharagpur division with South Eastern Railway. South Eastern Railway has already issued a statement saying 81 trains will run from Wednesday. Eastern Railway is still to come up with a formal announcement but rail officials said the number had been increased in anticipation of a rush in passengers from Day 1. The increased number, though, is less than 50 per cent of the number of daily trains that ran in the three divisions before the pandemic. Doctors and public health experts have said a reduced fleet and lack of access control mechanisms at suburban stations would result in more crowds and trigger a surge in the spread of the novel coronavirus. “It would have been difficult to manage the rush with 200 trains. Since there is no way of controlling the access of passengers, we thought we should at least run some more trains,” a rail official in the Sealdah division said. A final set of standard operating procedures for running the trains is expected to be finalised by Monday. Rail officials have maintained the state government will have to work out the modalities of crowd control at stations. Apart from the state police, the RPF and the GRP are expected to be deployed at stations but there is little cops can do, said officials. Local trains in Bengal will run for all passengers. The state government has hinted it would not go for any “exclusionary” tech-based access control method. That means anyone with a valid ticket cannot be stopped from entering a station or boarding a train. Rail officials pleaded helplessness in ensuring a curtailed occupancy of trains. “We can try to ensure that each passenger wears a mask. That’s about it. Any effort to limit the number of people on each train might backfire and trigger a law-and-order problem,” an Eastern Railway official said. The number of trains might go up after a few days but even a short time is enough for the virus to surge, doctors have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Bengal regulator stress on ICU beds in private hospitals||Private hospitals should try to increase the number of Covid ICU beds and can think of taking ventilators “on loan”, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission requested the hospitals on Saturday. The commission will try to arrange ventilators for private hospitals who come forward with a proposal, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said in his appeal posted on a WhatsApp group comprising senior officials of private hospitals. The government has decided to give 50 ventilators, which are in its possession but still to be installed anywhere, to private hospitals so that they can increase ICU beds for Covid patients, a government official said. “We have 50 such ventilators.” Banerjee had met senior government officials on Friday where ways to augment beds for Covid patients was discussed. Dedicated government Covid hospitals have 1,090 ventilators while the private hospitals have close to 200 ventilators. There are 3,419 Covid beds in the private hospitals in Calcutta and adjoining areas, a health department official said. Only 868 of these beds were vacant on Friday. There are 13,508 Covid beds in government hospitals, including the private hospitals requisitioned by the government across the state. On Friday, 8,922 covid beds were vacant. “It is clear that there is a high demand for Covid beds in private hospitals. The picture is no different in case of demand for ventilators, too,” the government official said. “Private hospitals or nursing homes have some ventilators but the picture is comparatively better in most government hospitals… patients can get ventilator support in case their condition deteriorates.” The rush of critical patients to private hospitals is high because Calcutta has the highest number of active cases — 7,343 on November 6 — in the state and a large section of patients in the city prefer private hospitals to government ones,” the official said. There are almost no vacant critical care beds in hospitals now, an official of a private hospital said. The demand for critical care beds started to rise from around the time of Durga Puja, Sudipto Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said. “Earlier, patients used to visit the hospital the moment they developed some complications. We could treat them early. But now most people visit the hospital only when complications turn severe. There is no option but to admit these patients to the ICU. So, the demand for ICU beds has gone up.” Commission chairperson Banerjee requested hospitals to convert some general beds into ICU ones. “If you sincerely feel there is no scope to increase the number of ICU beds, why not convert some of your general beds to ICU ones or other critical care beds. You send your proposal. I will try my best that you get some ventilators on loan from the government,” he said in his appeal. “It might be so that increasing ICU beds will need considerable financial resources. After Covid you may not need so many ICU beds. You can venture for a temporary conversion like taking ventilators on loan.” Banerjee said Kali Puja, Jagadhatri Puja and Kartick Puja were celebrated with more pomp in some pockets and ICU beds needed to be increased in these places. He mentioned places like Chandernagore, Bansberia and Chinsurah in Hooghly district and Barasat in North 24-Parganas. Besides ventilators, creating new ICU beds will require allied infrastructure like high-flow oxygen and compressed air, officials of several private hospitals said. The circuit for carrying high-flow oxygen into the ICU will need some time to be built. More ICU beds will mean more doctors and nurses who can attend to more critical patients. An official of a hospital said getting more doctors and nurses was the real challenge. Wards with ventilators require uninterrupted power supply because a patient on ventilation support will die if the ventilator switches off for a minute because of a power cut, the official said. If ICU beds are increased in hospitals, such provisions also have to be made, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
08-11-2020||Calcutta||Word on street: Wait for a few days, you will get crackers||Several cracker sellers in the city and in the suburbs have been telling people either on the phone or at their shops that they can supply crackers in the next few days. “Koyek din jetey din. Tarpor hobey. Baji paben (Wait for a few days. You will get the crackers),” a 49-year old man sitting on a charpoy inside the courtyard of his house in Dakshindari near Lake Town said. A row of candles and earthen lamps are placed on top of a wooden table but residents of Lake Town and adjoining areas gather at his house for crackers, known for their “eardrum-ringing capabilities”. From chocolate bombs to bigger variants that are tied to tree trunks and lit, everything would be available once police slacken their vigil, the man on the charpoy said as a police jeep drives past. A fireworks seller in Rajarhat’s Lauhati had a similar response. “You have to order and pay at least a day in advance. Once we get the things we will call… you have to pick them up,” he said. The joint secretary of the Burrabazar Fireworks Dealers Association, Shantanu Dutta, said some retailers and small-scale sellers might try to sell fireworks and crackers on the sly. As fireworks sales are centred around Diwali and Kali Puja and a large segment of sellers had already stocked up, they might try to sell them, Dutta said. “They had already invested and bought crackers before the court ruling. Many might try to recover their money,” Dutta said. All wholesalers in Burrabazar and other areas have stopped supplying fireworks after the court order, he said. The wholesalers had ordered the bulk of fireworks from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu after making payments and are in talks with factory owners there to return them. The prospect of recovering the cost price is bleak, though, as most factory owners have agreed to take back crackers on the condition they will not make full refunds, Dutta said. On Saturday, senior police officers in Calcutta were asked to scale up intelligence and to try and trace firecrackers that may have already found their way to people ahead of the high court ban. The thrust was more on the procured firecrackers than preventing their sale. Apart from the conventional hubs of Canning Street, Old China Bazar Street and Burrabazar, the police are now trying to find out from firecracker sellers in other parts about their customers. “Usually, at the para level, sellers will know who all have bought from them,” an officer overseeing the city’s north division said. “These sellers can tell us about those who have already bought firecrackers. Officers will then visit their homes and seize the firecrackers.” The sale of firecrackers usually starts about a fortnight ahead of Kali Puja across parts of Calcutta. With just a week to go before the puja and Diwali, the festival of lights, officers are now trying to confiscate the ones that have been sold. A formal government notification about the ban on sale and use of firecrackers is still to be issued. But the police have zeroed in on some areas in Calcutta for “flush-out” operations. These include parts of Phoolbagan, Beleghata, Maniktala, Camac Street, Theatre Road, Kasba, Anandapur,  Behala, Thakurpukur, and areas adjoining South 24-Parganas, including Nadial and Garden Reach. “The target is highrises. The details of police deployment for Kali Puja and Diwali is being worked out and officers will start visiting housing complexes in a day or two to remind the associations about the ban on the use and sale of firecrackers,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-247
