09-11-2020||Calcutta||Mini idol crafted with baking tools||On Ashtami, as the pushpanjali mantra uttered by the priest blared on the loudspeaker in the streets, like many of her neighbours this year, Debadrita Das sat at home, away from the pandal and the pandemic, and repeated it word for word. Only, unlike her neighbours, she had an idol in front of her — that too made with her own hands. The 24-year-old from CJ Block had created a 10cm idol out of materials found at home. “I love craft. Even during the lockdown, I was baking and making greeting cards. During the Puja too, I wanted to do something creative. Since stepping outside was unsafe, I decided to create a Durga at home to provide the right ambience.” Initially, she had thought of painting the goddess and framing it. But soon she realised that it would only be an idol that could create the Puja feeling. The inspiration came from YouTube videos she had spotted before Ganesh Chaturthi of people creating mini Ganesha idols with air dried clay. “This is a product on sale in the market that does not need to be burnt like the conventional clay. It hardens on its own in 90 minutes if left in the open.” She got to work with six days to go for Sashthi. “I used my tools for fondant cakes to give shape to the lump,” smiled the home baker. Odds and ends, like butter paper and cartons, were at hand to decorate the idol. “There were enough boxes lying about from the home deliveries we had ordered during lockdown. With those, I made brown paper fans to place in the background. The butter papers and A4 sheets were cut to shape and pasted together to give a faux shola look to the ornaments of the mini goddess. The hands were stuck to the torso with toothpick. Alpona was painted using white acrylic paint. To add a touch of green to the look, she repotted stems of plants from the terrace garden in discarded clay tea cups. “I finished on Chaturthi and placed it next to my computer at my work station at home,” she said. “It made me feel nice and festive as I worked from home on Sashthi. Then Ma and I offered anjali here on Ashtami.” Now that Puja is over, Debadrita is planning to dismantle the decor. “I have made each piece such that they can be easily removed. I make greeting cards, so each item can be separately used to do up blank cards,” she smiled. The idol itself might be put in a glass box and showcased on the rack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||New park and playground for Labony Estate||Labony Estate got twin gifts in the run-up to the Pujas — a beautified public space with benches and a children’s playground. Both were inaugurated by MLA and minister Sujit Bose, mayor Krishna Chakraborty and councilor Tulsi Sinha Roy. A portion of land was cleaned out at long last in Labony Estate’s G Block. The new rectangular stretch is tiled, has benches and railings along the border and is illuminated by powerful high mast lighting. At one end is also a raised platform that served as the stage for the occasion. Secretary of Labony’s G Block association, Lopamudra Roy, said senior citizens would tell her how they would play badminton on that patch decades before it got overrun by wild growth. “I consulted Tulsidi and began clearing the space. There was resistance from neighbors whose gardens had spread into this land but I had to think of the majority, who claimed they felt unsafe crossing this dark patch at night,” Roy said. Groups of women and children had started making use of the benches right after inauguration. “This stretch used to be a jungle but it’s looking so pretty now. I would love to come here for breaks between my studies,” said Tanisha Chakraborty, a resident pursuing her B.Tech. A children’s playground was inaugurated in Labony Estates’ F Block on the same day. “This park used to be fallow land earlier and residents would use it to dry clothes. But we requested the councilor to build a mini park for kids here and we are happy with the result. It’s looking neat and colorful,” said Aloke Raha, better known as Kalida in the housing complex. Bose said the park would be a respite for children after being locked down for months and Chakraborty felt beautifying parks keeps them busy with visitors and hence keeps unlawful elements away. The new park sports a slide, a see-saw, a merry-go-round and two swings, and kids needed no invitation to start playing. “Before this, I would have to drive down my six-year-old Nancy and two-year-old Kanishk to CD Park to play. That was the nearest park with playthings as well as open space to run about,” said Sapna Verma Bhattacharya. “But this new playground is right opposite my flat and the kids will come here everyday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town block makes mask must for priests||Even on the most humid of the puja days Ajoy Chakraborty was in his mask at the pandal. The priest and his assistant performing the rituals at BE Block in New Town were not to take their protective gear off even when they were performing hom in front of an open fire. The same was true for the dhak and kansor players. This was the condition set by the organisers, BE Block Welfare Association. Chakraborty says he did not mind. “Even for the household pujas I perform round the year, my clients do not allow me to take off the mask once I enter their houses. So I am used to it.” This year, there are no charanamrita, no chopped fruits and no shanti jol either, added secretary Pulak Kumar Dey. “Our anjali took place in a socially distanced manner in batches of 20. And people left the spot as soon as their turn got over,” he added. The block has been sanitising its streets on a weekly basis. “Other than a healthcare worker, we have not had a single case of infection in our block,” the block committee members said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Pandal made at home||While the rest of the city was busy debating whether community pujas should be held or not, a pair of 10-year-old twin sisters in CJ Block went ahead and built their own miniature Durga puja pandal at home. Aayushi and Amritaa Dutta have always liked craft and have built miniature bags, beds and tables before. “But this was our largest and most ambitious project yet,” says Aayushi, the elder of the fraternal twins. Amritaa recalls how a few days before the Pujas the girls fished out their school shoe boxes. “We cut out a portion that would be the entrance to the pandal and glued and taped the boxes securely,” she says. They wrapped the box with coloured paper and upon their mother Manushree’s suggestion, added paper lanterns for effect. “We had a Durga showpiece at home that we placed in the pandal and it looked beautiful,” says Aayushi. Amritaa adds that since their block pandal was very simple this year, their miniature pandal looked more decorative. “Given a chance, we would love to help decorate the block pandal next time,” she smiles. Their father Abhishek added the finishing touch by fixing tooni bulbs to the pandal. The twins’ mother took pictures while the girls were at work and made a collage at the end. The video was screened on CJ Block’s Facebook page along with other cultural programmes put up by residents during the Pujas. The miniature pandal is now displayed in their living room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Remembrance Sunday at the Maidan Cenotaph||Diplomats, army officers and policemen gathered at the Maidan Cenotaph on Sunday morning to honour soldiers who laid down their lives in the two World Wars and other conflicts. Remembrance Sunday is held every year on the Sunday closest to November 11, which is commemorated worldwide as Armistice Day, marking the end of World War I. On November 11, 1918, the Allied nations and Germany signed an armistice ending the war, which had killed more than 15 million people. The British deputy high commission organised the Remembrance Sunday commemoration in Calcutta. Apart from the officials of the high commission, representatives of the army, police and other foreign consulates in Calcutta attended the event, which started around 10.30am at the Maidan Cenotaph, almost a replica of the Cenotaph in Whitehall in London. Following floral tributes and a bugle salute, a two-minute silence was observed in memory of those who lost their lives in conflicts. “Today, we remember those brave men and women who volunteered, fought and died in wars so that we have freedom and a better future. In Britain and India, we come together to salute and honour them. They shall never be forgotten,” said Yemi Odanye, the British deputy head of mission to Calcutta. After the programme on the Maidan, Odanye laid a wreath at the Commonwealth War Graves Cemetery in Bhowanipore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Preschools diversify to stay afloat amid pandemic||Several preschools are diversifying and starting “new verticals” to stay relevant and sustain themselves during the Covid pandemic. At least two of them have started a course for parents and one among them has also reached out to parents in other cities for online classes. The franchisee owner of another preschool is now concentrating on activities for school children rather than remaining only a preschool. The preschools are having to deal with dropouts since the beginning of the pandemic and many parents have not been keen on enrolling children for online classes, several preschool heads said. “There have been dropouts and we have waived off the admission fee, too. This disturbed the cash flow. To sustain ourselves and the staff, there has to be other channels of cash flow,” said Pooja Dugar, the director of Leap Years Preschool. In many preschools, owners have to pay the rent and also the cost of equipment. Leap Years Preschool has started a parents’ training programme on phonics and numbers for parents. “We are training the parents who can home school their children,” said Dugar. She said parents feel they can teach their children identification of colours or fruits, flowers and animals at home and do not need to put them in an online class for it. The preschool, therefore, has to offer them something else that would make them believe it is adding value. Bubble Blue Montessori is set to prepare the parents to home school their children better. The school will do sessions with parents for children from three months and hone the skills of parents, principal and owner Nabonita Bose Mukherjee said. “We will make the parents aware of the capabilities of their children and not focus on academics alone but also on social activities,” said Bose Mukherjee. “It is also true that with the age group we are dealing with, parents have a tremendous contribution whether it is to teach the children or help the children attend online class.” Many parents are not keen on online classes for their children because it’s a struggle to keep the young ones to sit in front of the screen during the class. "Parents need to be patient for at least seven to 10 days for their children to acclimatise with the online classes,” said Dugar. In a franchise of Junior DPS Ballygunge, the owner is concentrating on activities for older children with the preschool admission remaining dismal. The school started in November last year and though a few admissions happened in January, the lockdown hit the school hard. “I diversified and concentrated on calligraphy, drawing abacus classes and also online events. I have to pay rent for the place and pay the staff, and for that I need to think of alternatives. It is still not enough but I can manage and hopefully will be able to overcome the crisis,” said Puja Saraf, the owner. For older children parents do not have to sit through the entire length of the class like the preschoolers. Recently she hosted a halloween party for children online. About 20 children registered for it and it included doing a craft, scavenger hunt game and a magic trick for the children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||IIEST club for strays on campus||The pandemic has tested life, thrown up challenges and gifted some enduring takeaways. One such happy outcome is an animal welfare club that has been formed to take care of Bullet, Tiny, Blacky, Shiro and others amid the pandemic-induced closure of the IIEST campus. The Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) formed the Animal Welfare Club on November 5 following an appeal from the students’ senate that sought better upkeep of the stray dogs and cats amid the closure. A group of students under the banner “People for Animal Welfare, IIEST” has been raising funds since April to feed the strays on the campus that has been closed since the third week of March with the onset of the lockdown. But contributions from the students are dwindling with the continuance of the slump all around and therefore a need was felt to constitute the club that would enable the institute to chip in with resources whenever required, said an official. “In the initial months the students contributed generously. But the volume of contributions has witnessed a fall now, considering that the unprecedented slump is eating into the resources of everyone. A club, which is a statutory body, will enable the institute to help,’’ said the official. Twishampati Ghosh, the general secretary of the club, said as long as the campus was open, the 200-odd dogs and 30-odd cats did not face any problem because hostels were open and the surplus food from the mess was enough to feed them. But the closure changed the situation requiring students to extend a helping hand. A student of metallurgy and materials engineering, Twishampati said they had so far raised several lakhs of rupees to feed the strays through an NGO Priya Sathi. “But the contribution in recent months has declined. Everyone has his or her hands tied amid the crisis. We hope that the formation of the club would help us seek financial assistance from the authorities,’’ said Twishampati. Abhijit Chakrabarti, an IIEST professor of electrical engineering who is known to be a dog lover and has been associated with the fund-raising exercise, is professor-in-charge of the club. The former vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University said 40kg rice, 10kg chicken leftovers and 3kg fish are required to feed the strays. As prices have skyrocketed of late, sustained contribution is a must, he said. “Since there was a shortfall of resources from the students, I have been trying to compensate as much as possible. But now that the club has been formed, we will approach the authorities seeking assistance to meet any crunch,’’ Chakrabarti told Metro. If the strays are not fed properly, their behaviour pattern tends to change and they end up behaving in a violent way. That may lead to a conflict with the human population on the campus, said Aman Kumar, the general secretary of the students’ senate. Taking care of the strays does not mean just feeding them, said Shruti Animesh, the treasurer of the club. ’’The sterilisation drive has to be undertaken on a regular basis,” said Shruti, a fourth-year student of aerospace engineering and applied mechanics. Debabrata Mazumder, the dean of students’ welfare at the IIEST, said the institute would decide on help based on the response from the club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Chain snatcher arrested||A 30-year-old man from Madhyamgram was arrested for allegedly snatching a woman’s gold necklace while she was out on her morning walk on the fringes of Rajarhat. Shabir Khan was arrested following a complaint lodged by 57-year-old Bani Mondal, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The necklace was snatched on October 1, the officer said. “Mondal had stepped out of her house around 6am. Khan, who was following her on a motorcycle, snatched her necklace from behind and sped away before she could raise an alarm,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Undaunted, hubs promise fireworks||Two-sound shells: Rs 250-Rs 260 apiece Three-sound shells: Rs 250-Rs 290 apiece Chocolate bombs: Rs 100-Rs 150 a packet Tubri, rang mashal, phuljhuri, shells and chocolate bombs — firecrackers are on sale across parts of Nungi, Mahestla and Batanagar, on the southern fringes of Calcutta. Three days after the high court banned the sale and use of firecrackers, several dealers from these traditional baazi hubs in South 24-Parganas, around 22km from Calcutta, said all items were available. One just needs to come down. “Chole asun (Come down). Asubidha hobey na. (There won’t be any problem) Market toh cholchey (Market is running),” said a dealer from Chingripota in Mahestala. The man runs a shop on Daulatpur Road, which remains one of the favourite haunts for fireworks buyers from Calcutta and other areas. Every year, thousands would troop down to the area to pick up baskets of fireworks at a cheaper rate compared with the Calcutta markets. “Is it fine to visit this time? What about police raids?” “Na, thik achhey (No, it’s fine). Market cholchhey (Market is on),” the man said. On November 5, a division bench of the high court had banned use or display or bursting of firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali. The term firecrackers includes all types of sparklers and the like that do not produce any sound on being lit. At Nungi, around 21km south of Calcutta, a few dealers said the bulk of the scant buyers who were turning up were picking up rong moshal and phuljhuri, colourful and soundless variants of fireworks. “People are coming from Calcutta and also from surrounding areas. A few have been walking down from Nungi railway station. But the footfall so far is 10 per cent compared with previous years,” said a firecracker dealer in Nungi, who said he is keeping the shutters of his shop half down. Across parts of Budge Budge and Mahestala, thousands of villagers, including women, are involved in making firecrackers, mostly in illegal factories. Farmers switch to making firecrackers between two harvesting seasons and try to rake in a handsome amount around this time of the year. “We are open till 10pm. Market e lok khub kom kintu customer aachey (There are customers, but only a few),” said another dealer from Mahestala. “A new variety of three-piece shell is available for Rs 290 apiece. The best variety of chocolate bomb is being sold at Rs 150 a packet. They produce good sound.” The firework traders The Telegraph spoke to said they were aware of the high court order and directives from Nabanna against the sale of firecrackers. However, what buyers could see was not visible to police. “The main market is between Daulatpur Road and Khanpara. The high court order has left this entire market high and dry,” said a senior officer of Mahestala police station, which is part of the Diamond Harbour police district. But what about some traders promising to sell firecrackers even on Sunday? “There may be a few shops here and there, inside houses. But no one is selling any item,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Celsius fall set to hit Tuesday wall||Friday, 19.8 degrees. Saturday, 19.1 degrees. Sunday, 18.3 degrees. The Celsius is sliding in the city, thanks to the free flowing cold and dry winds from the upper reaches of the country. The minimum temperature plunged to 18.3 degrees on Sunday, after staying in the 19-degree range for the two previous days. The early morning nip, being felt over the past few days, was stronger on Sunday. “It was cold and windy. The weather was more like early December than early November,” said Sudip Raychowdhury, a 62-year-old Chetla resident and a regular morning walker at Rabindra Sarobar. He wore a light jacket and some of his acquaintances wore monkey caps, a cliché Calcutta proudly reinforces at the slightest hint of a shiver. Stoles also made their seasonal debut in some parts of the city early on Sunday. The hint of a chill is tipped to be disturbed from Tuesday, said a Met official. “A cyclonic circulation over the north Andaman sea will move towards the Bay of Bengal. The system is expected to inject moisture-laden easterly winds into south Bengal,” the official said. The rise in moisture content in the air will stall the free flow of northwesterly into the city, leading to a rise in temperature. “The minimum temperature is likely to start rising from Tuesday. It is tipped to reach 22 degrees in the coming days. But the cyclonic circulation, a local system, will dissipate before the next weekend,” said the Met official. Once the system dissipates, the moisture content in the atmosphere will go down and pave the way for the re-entry of cold and dry winds from north India. By Diwali, the hint of chill is expected to be back in the city, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Work on Chhath pool in park halted||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has stopped for the time being the construction of a Chhath Puja venue inside Vivekananda Park in south Calcutta. The construction had started on Saturday or Friday, said green activists who have been fighting attempts to allow Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar, which is across the road from the park. An official of the CMDA said some groups had approached the organisation for permission to build a temporary pool for Chhath Puja, to be held on November 20, at the park. They allegedly did not wait for the CMDA’s decision and started building the pool. “We have asked them to stop the construction immediately. They cannot construct anything till we give our consent,” the official said. Another CMDA official, who had visited the construction site, guessed that the pool would measure around 800sq ft. Asked if the CMDA would allow the construction, the official said: “We have to study the proposal, the kind of materials to be used and other details. A final decision will be taken only after considering all these aspects. “Prima facie, it seems their intention is not to encroach on any portion of the park. They will dismantle the construction after Chhath Puja. Whether a temporary pool can be built there will need considerable deliberations.” Vivekananda Park is spread across 1,450 cottahs (about 24 acres). The park is home to several sports academies. There are four grounds divided by paved roads. Sources in the CMDA, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the temporary pool was being made as an alternative to Rabindra Sarobar, in case the rituals are not allowed on the banks of the sprawling water body. The National Green Tribunal has banned all pujas on the Sarobar premises. The CMDA had approached the tribunal with a plea to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar, but the tribunal did not even hear the plea. The CMDA then moved a similar plea in the Supreme Court, where the matter will be heard on November 16. Activists and environmentalists have argued that people performing Chhath Puja rituals light lamps and release them on the water of Sarobar, an act that affects oxygen diffusion of the lake and aquatic beings. Also, the beating of drums and bursting of firecrackers during the rituals scare away birds. Somendra Mohan Ghosh, a green activist, went to inspect the construction site at Vivekananda Park on Sunday. “A lot of space at the park has been encroached on. A park is meant for sporting activities. A temporary pool should be allowed only if there is a firm commitment that the damaged part of the park will be restored,” he said. Former Indian cricket team selector Sambaran Banerjee, who runs a cricket academy at Vivekananda Park, said the construction would damage the grass but that would regrow with time. “It depends on what materials they are using for the pool. If brick is being used to lay the base, the regrowth of grass would take more time. In case of some other materials, the restoration can be done in a week or two,” said Banerjee, who led Bengal to Ranji trophy triumph in 1990.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Calcutta||Forget fireworks. You can still shop||Fireworks are off the table in most major shopping hubs in Calcutta, including Burrabazar, Hatibagan, Kumartuli and Ultadanga, this year and colourful lamps in various shapes and sizes, ready-to-make rangoli patterns and candles are out to woo shoppers. The Telegraph went around the city's shopping hotspots to catch the pulse on the last Sunday before Diwali. The pavements of the biggest shopping district in this part of the city were a riot of colours. Nearly every stall had stocked up on colourful clay lamps, different shades of rangoli colors and decorative items for homes. On Sunday, Burrabzar was abuzz as shoppers thronged the market to get their hands on the latest designs of earthen lamps, home decor items as well as the quintessential rangoli colours. Even those shopkeepers who used to stock fireworks have switched to these this year. Prakash Srivastava, a 35-year-old trader, said he switched to selling colours as well as different items needed to draw rangolis following the high court against the sale of fireworks. “I had picked up some fireworks but I am not selling them. Rangoli and lamps are hot cakes this year," he said. From saucer-sized easy-to-use pattern makers to colour-filled rollers, men and women alike were seen picking these up. “We need something to do now that the fireworks are banned. I have asked all the children in my family to make rangoli patterns on the floors of our house this year,” said Vipin Agarwal, who was out shopping with his daughter Shweta. The go-to destination for earthen lamps and candles, Kumartuli this year has churned up newer designs of lamps along with traditional ones. From large lamps shaped like a house to a set of elephants that have wax candles on their back, the sheer variety of lamps had shoppers in a fix. Twelve-year-old Aakriti Singh picked up a set of three clay lamps shaped like elephants for Rs 550, while her mother Vidisha picked up three dozen smaller colorful lamps. “Generally I come here to shop for lamps and other decorative pieces with my friends. However, this year I brought my daughter as she will not be able to go to Bazi Bazaar with her father,” said Aakriti. Apart from the elephant-shaped ones, lamps that can be hung from doors and windows have turned out to be best sellers, said Bulty Majhi, one of the sellers. “We made newer designs this year and the response has been quite good,” said Majhi. Nearly all the sellers who used to sell fireworks were selling candles, lamps and stickers in Hatibagan on Sunday. Shoppers were seen making their purchases but most sellers said this year the footfall had gone down. "Had we been selling fireworks, I would not have had the time to talk to you. Our customers are disappointed as well,” said Nimai Sardar, who had stocked up on fireworks but said he stopped selling them after the court ruling. Most shopkeepers, however, said they expected people to buy more once Diwali draws closer. “There are a few days left and people will come,” said Bikas Shaw, who has set up a stall that sells everything from lamps to home decor items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
09-11-2020||Calcutta||EMI paid for five years but flat goes to someone else   ||A woman who took a home loan to buy a flat five years ago recently realised that she had been cheated by the developer, who had allegedly got the amount transferred to an associate’s account and made her pay the EMIs. The woman, who had taken a loan of Rs 25 lakh from the Jodhpur Park branch of a nationalised bank in 2015 to buy an apartment on Naktala Road, realised the fraud when she found that the flat had been handed over to another person and the EMIs she paid could not be refunded, police said. Based on a complainant lodged by the woman, a resident of Tiljala Road, on Saturday, Netaji Nagar police station has registered an FIR against seven persons, including the developer, his associates and the then branch manager of the nationalised bank. A case has been started under the IPC sections related to cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy.“The complainant had taken a home loan, but prima facie the entire sanctioned amount was transferred in the name of one of the associates of the developer. The woman had kept paying EMIs thinking she was paying for her flat,” said one of the investigators. The woman got suspicious when the developer kept delaying the handover of the keys to the apartment. However, it was only recently that she learned that the flat allotted to her had been handed over to a third party. Apparently, when she checked with the bank, she learned that the entire loan amount had been transferred to the account of an individual, instead of the account of the project where she had booked the flat. A senior police officer said they had started investigating the matter after receiving the complaint. No one was arrested till Sunday evening. Earlier this week, another woman, a resident of Salt Lake, had lodged a similar complaint of cheating with Behala police station. The woman had taken a loan of Rs 74 lakh to buy two flats — one in Behala and the other in Haridevpur — but the developer had allegedly re-sold the flats to other persons without her knowledge. “Such frauds are becoming common. It is important to do a background check of any developer before booking a flat. One should check with the local police station if the person or the group has any criminal case,” said a senior police officer at Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-246
