10-11-2020||Calcutta||Biker saves turtle headed to plate||A man was locked in a 30-minute tussle with two men off Moukhali village, close to Canning station, in South 24-Parganas over a turtle on Friday night. Uttam Sardar, 38, was riding a bike when he saw the men on a road off the village, about 6km from the station. One of them was holding the turtle in his hands. They had found it by the roadside and wanted to butcher it for meat. Sardar wanted to save the turtle. Trading in and killing turtles is banned but turtle meat, considered a delicacy by many, continues to be sold in markets across the state, especially in North and South 24-Parganas, and Howrah. Sardar’s hometown is no exception. Turtle meat is sold on the sly in markets. Turtles are commonly found in wet farmlands and once spotted, usually end up as meat on a plate. Sardar, a driver in Calcutta by profession, was returning home on Friday night when he met the men with the turtle. Sardar kept requesting them to let go of the turtle — later identified by forest officials as an Indian flap-shell — but they were unwilling to budge. It took Sardar almost half an hour to persuade the two. At one point, a heated argument broke out and Sardar threatened to call police and forest officials. His unrelenting pursuit worked and the two men handed the turtle to Sardar. He came home and kept the turtle in a rice pot with water. He had the contact details of some volunteers of an NGO that had conducted an awareness camp on animals found commonly in human habitats. He alerted a member. On Sunday, members of the NGO visited his place and took the turtle. On Monday, the turtle was handed over to the forest department for releasing it into a suitable habitat. “There are so many things to eat. Why kill something that is endangered and protected by the law,” Sardar told Metro. “The men who caught the turtle first thought I was joking with them. It took them a while to realise I was serious,” Sardar, who goes to an apartment in Ajaynagar, off the Bypass, for work every day, said. “Turtle meat is commonly eaten in the area. Sardar’s act shows regular conservation outreach campaigns in the area are producing results,” a volunteer of the Human and Environment Alliance League said. Sardar had contacted this volunteer. He has been riding a bike to the city and back as the suburban train services are suspended. In August 2019, a group of friends driving back to the city from a West Midnapore village saw a turtle on the road. Some residents, too, had spotted it and wanted to kill it for meat. The friends managed to prevail upon the residents, who agreed to hand over the turtle to a team of forest officials. In May 2018, an 11-year-old boy who found a turtle on sale at a market near Howrah’s Sankrail had persuaded his father to buy it before handing it over to forest officials. “Conservation has to be a people’s cause. It is encouraging to see common people coming forward to save animals,” a forest official in Calcutta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Two held with leopard skin in Kudghat||A leopard skin was found on two men, arrested by forest officials in Kudghat on Monday. The skin “seemed around 10 years old” and was that of an “adult” leopard, a forest official said. “It had two bullet wounds, suggesting the cat had been killed.” The arrested men were being tracked by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau for a week following a tip-off. The sleuths posed as customers and set up a meeting near the Industrial Training Institute in Tollygunge. The two were arrested after one of them showed the skin to the sleuths posing as customers. They have been identified as Shankar Mahato, 29, and Pintu Mahato, 32. The forest official said they were brothers who lived in Haridevpur area. The brothers had come on two two-wheelers, both of which have been seized. “Prima facie, it seems the leopard had been killed years ago. The skin was not well preserved,” an official of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau said. The agency assisted the the state forest department’s wildlife wing in the operation. From nose to tail, the skin is around 2.19m long. The brothers brought it wrapped in a white sheet of cloth, kept in a plastic bag inside a jute sack, a forest official said. “The two are being interrogated. They seem to be couriers or middlemen part of a bigger racket,” a forest official at the departmental headquarters in Calcutta said. The two men arrested on Monday will be produced in Alipore court on Tuesday. They have been charged under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The body parts are usually taken out of the country through the Northeast corridor and then via Nepal and Bhutan, an official said. A full skin, also in solid demand in fashion in the West, sells for a “few lakhs”, another official said. In late January this year, a Bengal tiger skin was seized from three men in a hotel along the Bypass. “They are out on bail now. We are investigating if the two seizures are linked,” a forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Rs 35cr fake FD case, bank manager held||Three men, including a bank manager, are suspected to have duped The Institution of Engineers on Gokhale Road into investing close to Rs 35 crore in fake fixed deposits, police said. They apparently sent fake invitation letters to the institute, offering “a very high rate of interest”. Even fake fixed deposit certificates had been issued to the institute, the police said. All three have been arrested. The alleged mastermind, a resident of Sinthi, has been arrested while he was holidaying in Mandarmani. He has been found to possess a BMW. Apart from that Rs1.94 crore and two gold coins, each weighing 100g, have been seized from him and his associates.The city police had received a complaint from the institute in the first week of November saying it had been cheated of Rs 35crore. In the complaint, the institute had alleged it had been issued fake fixed deposit certificates against payments it had made. The Institution of Engineers (India) is a statutory body to promote and advance engineering and technology. It was established in 1920. It is a multi-disciplinary professional body of engineers covering 15 engineering disciplines with a corporate membership of over 200,000 with its headquarters on Gokhale Road in the Bhowanipore area and branches across the country, according to the institute’s website. “Three people, including the then bank branch manager, have been arrested in connection with the case. All three have been remanded in police custody,” Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner (crime), said. Preliminary investigations have shown the institute thought it had been transferring money to the Bowbazar branch of a nationalised bank for the fixed deposits. In reality, the money had been transferred to two other accounts from where it was siphoned off. “During investigation it became apparent that Samrat Paul who was then the branch manager was involved in the matter in connivance with the mastermind — Aroun Pandey,” an officer of Muchipara police station said. “One of Pandey’s associates, Krishnendu Mallick, had approached the institute on behalf of the bank and misguided the institute officials to invest in the fixed deposit scheme,” the officer said. The institute was apparently misled into transferring the money to two dubious bank accounts from where it was withdrawn in parts by the men. “The accused branch manager had made the institute officials believe they had transferred the money to the right account by handing over fake fixed deposit certificates from the bank,” the officer said. Once the crime was reported, tracking the trail of the bank accounts, the police could zero in on two of the accused apart from the then branch manager. Pandey, the alleged mastermind, is a resident of Kalicharan Ghosh Road in Sinthi, and his associate Krishnendu Mallick is a resident of Muchipara. Paul, the former branch manager, is a resident of Habra in North 24-Parganas. All three were arrested on Saturday and produced in court on Sunday. They have been sent to police custody till November 20. Pandey, who was picked up from Mandarmani, was in the possession of a BMW. It has been seized. The two gold coins and the money were seized from him and his associate Mallick. “We need their custody to find out what they did with the remaining money,” an officer said. The three have been booked for cheating, forgery, fraud, criminal conspiracy and criminal breach of trust by a public servant (for the bank manager).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Residential complexes plan noiseless Diwali||Sale and bursting of firecrackers banned this Diwali, several residential complexes have come up with various ideas to celebrate the festival of lights in a noiseless way. As an alternative to bursting firecrackers, Urbana, a highrise residential complex off EM Bypass, is organising a light-and-sound laser show in the garden area. Residents of Upohar Condoville, another highrise complex off the Bypass, are planning to donate the money they spend on firecrackers to orphanages and old age homes this year. The residents’ association of South City, on Prince Anwar Shah Road, will celebrate Dhanteras this year by distributing sweet boxes to residents. In previous years, the complex organised a firecracker show as part of their annual cultural programme on Dhanteras. “We had started campaigning against firecrackers even before Calcutta High Court ordered a blanket ban on their sale and use. On behalf of the association, we have circulated a voice note where we are appealing to all residents to make this Diwali safe for all our neighbours, especially those who have breathing problems and have suffered from Covid,” said Debjani Mukherjee, a senior official of Urbana Residential Projects. The Urbana residents, who used to organise a firecracker show every year on Diwali, have this year shifted to a light-and-sound laser show in the garden area. “All flats facing the garden will be able to see the laser show from their balconies. Others will have to come to the garden area. Everything will be done following the Covid hygiene protocol,” Mukherjee said. The high court had last week issued a ban on bursting of any form of firecrackers this Diwali to keep a check on air pollution, keeping in mind the health of Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the disease but are still vulnerable to breathing problems. The court has allowed only wax or oil-based diyas for celebrating Diwali this year. Following the same order, residents of Upohar Condoville have decided to donate their Diwali spendings to underprivileged people. “A large section of society, especially the underprivileged elderly and the children, has faced unprecedented problems because of Covid. We have decided to donate the money to these people from the fund which we usually spend on buying firecrackers,” said Debasish Sarkar, a member of the executive committee of the housing project. To ensure the court order is not violated, all the terraces are being locked every evening till Diwali, Sarkar said. The committee has issued notices making repeated appeals to residents not to buy their children any firecrackers this year. South City towers is gearing up for a “sweet and silent” Diwali this year. In the absence of any cultural programme and firecracker show on Dhanteras, which has become an annual programme for the housing complex with an approximate occupancy in 1,200 flats, the residents have decided to distribute sweets instead. “We are distributing sweets among 500-odd flats whose residents have contributed to the festival. We are also organising... rangoli competitions to discourage residents from bursting firecrackers,” said Rajesh Kataruka, one of the board managers at South City.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Nehru Children’s Museum set to reopen||Nehru Children’s Museum will reopen this weekend and visitors will have to wear masks and carry sanitisers, the museum authorities said on Monday. Visitors to the 48-year-old museum will be allowed from 11am to 6pm every day except on Mondays and Tuesdays from November 15. The museum has been closed since the third week of March. The museum will be cleaned and sanitised before it is reopened. “Visitors will be allowed after a thermal screening. There will be foot pedal sanitisers at the entry,” Sudip Srimal, the museum director, said. “Visitors should wear masks and carry sanitisers for their own use.” Srimal said the authorities did not expect more than 40 to 50 people a day. “The crowd will be spread across three floors… in case there are more people we have provision to accommodate them on the ground floor. We will follow distancing rules according to government guidelines,” Srimal said. The museum has clay models that tell the stories of Ramayana and Mahabharata and costume dolls from more than 96 countries. Recently, members of the staff paid tribute to Jugal Srimal, the founder- director of the museum, on the occasion of his birth centenary. The culture ministry has decided to reopen museums and art galleries in view of the festive season and has issued a detailed standard operating procedure. “Usually, the museum has maximum visitors between November and January and again in May. But this year we do not know how things will turn out,” Srimal said. Indrani Sengupta, the secretary of the museum, said it would not be difficult to monitor the crowd because there wouldn’t be school trips. “It is when schools organise field trips that we get 300 to 400 children at one point of time. Since schools are closed, there is no possibility of that,” Sengupta said. She said tickets would be issued at the counter but visitors could avoid touching them. “To avoid contact, visitors need not take the tickets themselves. It will be directly given at the entry from the counter.” The closure of the museum for more than seven months has impacted its funds. “We have appealed to the culture ministry for funds,” Srimal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town fight to prevent stubble and grassland fires||The New Town authorities will coordinate with residents, birdwatchers, NGOs and police in an attempt to stop people burning stubble and empty grasslands in the township. Several New Town residents have got in touch with the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and expressed their concerns regarding such fires that not only pollute the environment but also pose a risk of spreading when fanned by the wind. A WhatsApp group, which will include cops, titled “Air Pollution Resistance Group Party”, will be created where people will be able to share photographs and locations of grasslands that are on fire. Cops, along with NKDA teams, will coordinate and reach the spot to catch those setting the fires. Apart from this, NKDA officials and volunteers from various housing societies and blocks in New Town will move on motorcycles to cover all the action areas and look out for those burning grasslands and dumping garbage on empty plots in New Town. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said burning stubble and grasslands was a worrying factor in the township. “It is not clear why people setting these on fire. We are going to start a WhatsApp group and will work in close coordination with the police to find out those who are behind this. This not only increases the pollution level but also increases the risk of the fire spreading,” Sen said. Although the NKDA has received photographs from residents and sent teams immediately on being alerted, officials could not catch anyone in the act, an NKDA official said. There are several explanations NKDA officials have come across. “Some of the things we heard are probable while others are hard to believe. They range from people trying to drive away snakes from the grasslands to people trying to steal underground cables by burning the grasslands,” an official said. The NKDA has received several photographs of stubble being burnt and the photographs have been forwarded to police stations, the official said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said New Town police station, Eco Park police station and Rajarhat police station have been instructed to remain vigilant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Joint inspection of Majerhat bridge||A team of railway officials headed by the chief bridge engineer inspected the Majerhat bridge along with their counterparts from the PWD on Monday to ascertain whether the structure has been built according to the design approved by the Centre and the Bengal government. The team wanted to know from the PWD officials about their findings on the stress-bearing capacity of various components of the bridge and whether they were within the acceptable range. “The central team was told about the dry load of the bridge (without any vehicle over it), the stress-bearing capacity of the cables and how much wind force the bridge can endure,” said a PWD official. For every parameter, the railway team wanted to check whether there were any deviations from the set of fixed indices in the design. The commissioner of railway safety has held several rounds of meetings to satisfy himself on all aspects of the cable-stayed structure over railway tracks, which replaces the structure that collapsed on September 4, 2018. Monday’s inspection was in response to an invitation from the Bengal government before seeking an official clearance for the load test. “The team will send a report to the state government,” the PWD official said. “The report will specify whether the railway will give clearance to carry out a load test of the structure.” During a load test, empty and fully loaded vehicles are mounted on a bridge and the stability of the structure is monitored. Engineers calculate the load-bearing capacity of the structure and make note of how various elements are functioning. PWD officials said the load test would take at least three days. This will be followed by certain formalities before the bridge is finally left open.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town tunnel plan: solution to dig and repair curse ||The New Town authorities are going to build a “man-height” underground corridor that will carry various utility networks such as water pipes, sewage pipes, electricity wires and telephone and internet cables. An official of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), which builds infrastructure in the township, said they wanted to have an integrated underground corridor where maintenance crew would be able to enter and work at ease as more often than not roads have to be dug up to carry out repairs. A stretch of a 4.5km-long-road in the central business district of New Town, near the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre, has been earmarked for the corridor. Across Calcutta, roads are dug up by multiple agencies at multiple times after a fault emerges in underground utility lines. The blacktop has to be dug to get access to the channels. The result is a vicious cycle of road digging and repairs. The Hidco official said they were planning to build an underground network that would be at least 6ft high — enough to let a person of average height stand straight — and wide enough to accommodate at least three men standing side by side. Different lines will be alloted to different utility networks and they will be colour coded like in the US and European countries, so that the repair crew can identify them quickly. The entire corridor will have air ventilation shafts so that it does not feel stuffy inside. Hidco is also mulling to install an air-conditioning system as maintenance teams often have to spend hours at a stretch to identify and rectify a problem in an underground channel. The tunnel will have an integrated lighting system with a provision for an emergency back-up. Fire hydrants and other fire-fighting measures will also be installed along with emergency exit hatches, the Hidco official said. The corridor will be built in such a way that there would be access hatches at regular intervals which can be opened by keys that only authorised personnel will carry. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said the idea was to minimise the need to dig up a road. “Repair work of various underground utilities is characterised by their unpredictable nature. Faults appear at random locations and times. Roads have to be dug up again and again as the utility lines lie beneath them, causing inconvenience to commuters as well as residents. We want to eliminate that,” Sen said. According to him, Hidco has started the tender process to select a consultant, which will conduct a feasibility study and then help the agency build the corridor. Japan, the US, Germany and the Netherlands are among the countries that have an extensive network of underground utility tunnels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Work on Chhath pool at Vivekananda Park continues||The construction of a temporary pool at Vivekananda Park for Chhath Puja continued on Monday in alleged violation of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s (CMDA) order to stop work for the time being. A local club had written to the CMDA — the custodian of the south Calcutta park — seeking permission to build the pool, but started work without waiting for the consent. A senior CMDA official told The Telegraph on Monday evening that no permission had been given to the club to go ahead with the construction. “We have not given any permission to anyone to build the pool. Our engineers may visit the site tomorrow and see what is being done,” said the official. On Sunday, a CMDA official had told this newspaper: “We have to study the proposal, the kind of materials to be used and other details. The final decision will be taken only after considering all these aspects.” This newspaper visited the park on Monday afternoon and saw that walls about 4ft high had been erected on two sides of the rectangular pool under construction. Four masons were working. A trench about 1.5ft deep had been dug to raise walls on four sides. Grass got buried under the soil dug up from the trenches. “We have been working since morning. No one stopped us,” said a mason at the site. “The CMDA should immediately take strong action. Restoration is easier said than done. The organisation building the pool should be charged for restoration if it were allowed to go ahead with the construction,” the environmentalist said. Sourav Basu, the president of Cockler Lane Tarun Sangha, the club that sought permission for the construction, said the pool was being built as an alternative to Rabindra Sarobar. “If the Supreme Court on November 16 does not allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, where will devotees go? That is why we are making the temporary pool,” said Basu, who is also the president of Ward 86 Trinamul Congress. Chhath Puja is on November 20. Asked why the construction was started without the CMDA’s permission, Basu said: “We cannot wait for so long to start the construction. I have informed the CMDA, police and the CMC about the proposal to build the pool. We will restore the park once Chhath Puja is over…. The permission was communicated verbally to us on Monday evening.” The National Green Tribunal has banned all pujas at the Sarobar. The CMDA had approached the tribunal with a plea to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar, but the tribunal did not even hear the plea. The CMDA then moved a similar plea in the Supreme Court, where the matter will be heard on November 16. Vivekananda Park is spread across 3 acres, said a CMDA official. Metro had erroneously reported on Monday that the park measured 24 acres. The park is home to several sports academies. A CMC engineer experienced in maintaining Calcutta’s parks said soil without any concrete should be used to fill the trench. “Water should be sprayed to make it slushy. New grass should be sown. The grass has to grow and cut twice before it can be said that the portion has been restored,” the engineer said. Blocks of Mexican grass, which are costlier, can be used for faster restoration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||English honours must for master’s at JU||The English department at Jadavpur University this year will allow students from other universities in its master’s programme only if they have honours in English. The department till last year had allowed students from any discipline to study MA in English if the applicants cracked an admission test. Since the admission test cannot be held this year because of the Covid pandemic, the department will screen aspirants for the postgraduate course based on their marks at the undergraduate level. Hence, only students with English honours will be allowed to apply. A member of the admissions committee, which met on Sunday to finalise the modes of screening across disciplines, said the English department was of the view that screening students with English honours on the basis of their marks at the undergraduate level was the only practicable option in the current circumstances. “It is the only tenable option, very far from the best option. But it is the only practicable option…” said Rimi B. Chatterjee, the head of the English department. A teacher of the department said that since they did not consider screening aspirants based on marks as the best option because different universities have different marking patterns, they wanted to conduct a viva voce. “But we were told by the university authorities that the higher education department insisted on admitting students at state-run universities based on marks this year,” said the teacher. Another teacher said the graduation scores would hardly reflect the merit of an applicant, given the way the end-semester exams for the undergraduate students were held last month. Since gatherings on campuses have been banned because of the pandemic, the examinees wrote their papers at home. The same concern has prompted Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous), Narendrapur, to test applicants for the postgraduate course in English through home assignments and viva voce this year. Asked why JU could not follow the RKM model, an official of the university said the education department did not impose its writ on RKM institutions since they enjoy academic autonomy. Two other JU departments — comparative literature and film studies — will admit students by giving equal weightage to the graduation score and group discussions to be held on digital platforms. Asked why group discussions would be allowed in the two subjects, another JU official said: “The education department insisted that the screening would be based on graduation marks so long as the subjects were taught at the undergraduate level across institutions. Comparative literature is taught at the undergraduate level only in JU. Film studies is taught as a generic elective subject at the un-dergraduate level only at St Xavier’s College and JU.” JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said the admission notification would contain details of screening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-244
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Covid patients at home to be monitored||Health workers from civic bodies in Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, Baranagar and other areas and health department officials will monitor the condition of Covid-19 patients in home isolation in these areas the health department has decided. The monitoring will be separate from the one being done by tele-callers from Sasthya Bhavan. Health workers of the civic bodies will ascertain whether a patient is responding to supportive treatment while in home isolation and whether his or her condition is deteriorating or not. They will be in touch with the heads of the local civic bodies and doctors in the Covid control room of North 24-Parganas. Based on their feedback, doctors will decide whether a patient needs to be shifted to hospital. “The idea is to take a quick call on the level of medical support a Covid-19 patient needs and in the process, try and arrest deaths,” said an official of the health department in North 24-Parganas. “Besides callers from Sasthya Bhavan, a separate team of tele-callers from the district control room will call patients’ relatives and find out about their conditions.” North 24-Parganas has been recording the highest number of positive cases after Calcutta for some time now. On Monday, Calcutta recorded 861 positive cases and North 24-Parganas 852 cases. During the day, senior health department officials met representatives of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to discuss the blue-print of monitoring Covid patients. There is a possibility of a surge in Covid cases post-Kali Puja/Diwali, an official said. “Many full-time medical officer posts are vacant in North 24-Parganas. These will be filled up soon so that patients in home isolation are better taken care of,” another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
10-11-2020||Calcutta||Eighteen fire stations for Kali Puja, Diwali||The state fire and emergency services department will set up 18 temporary fire stations across the city and its fringes in order to minimise the threat of fires during Kali Puja and Diwali. While nine temporary fire stations will come up in the city in places like Park Circus and Tollygunge, seven such fire stations will be spread across North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose said. Firecrackers are banned this year but lamps and candles at homes, especially highrises, are still a worry. One of the fire stations in North 24-Parganas will come up near Chapadali More in Barasat, where Kali Puja pandals draw thousands of people every year. A few temporary stations will be set up near big-ticket pujas in Howrah. A fire department official said these temporary fire stations would have tenders best suited to the area on standby along with crew. All fire divisions will also mobilise at least four motorcycle-mounted fire-fighting systems in north and south Calcutta and in all district headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-245
