11-11-2020||Calcutta||Nursing college answer to Covid crisis||The Institute of Child Health in Park Circus will on Wednesday inaugurate a nursing college, from where 120 nurses will graduate every year. In Bengal, healthcare delivery is hobbled by the absence of enough qualified nurses. The shortage is being felt more during the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials of private hospitals said the shortage could only be met if more nursing colleges were opened and existing colleges increased their seat count. Metro had on October 20 reported that a fresh round of exodus of nurses from private hospitals had threatened to derail plans to increase the number of Covid beds. The requirement of nurses has gone up because of the pandemic, said officials. While nurses used to work in three shifts of eight hours each earlier, they are now working in four shifts of six hours each. Working for a longer duration wearing PPE is difficult. “We will offer two degrees. One is a diploma in general nursing and midwifery (GNM). The other is a bachelor’s degree in nursing. Both courses can admit 60 students,” said Apurba Ghosh, the director of the Institute of Child Health (ICH). The course will be offered by ICH in collaboration with Nirmala Foundation, a trust that runs a nursing college in Kalyani. The courses will be affiliated to the West Bengal University of Health Sciences. Classes will start towards the end of November or December, said Ghosh. Private hospitals in Calcutta face repeated exit of nurses. Most of the nurses who leave private hospitals join the government health care. Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI), said the shortage of nurses in Calcutta was in the thousands. “The Nursing Council of India must relax some of its rules to encourage more hospitals to set up nursing colleges. Only then the deficit can be met. Rules have to be more practical and realistic.” He cited two rules that he said were posing obstacles to plans to set up nursing colleges. “For every 50 student, there must be about 22,000 sq ft space. Also, the rules say the college has to be within 9km of the hospital. A hospital without untouched land in Calcutta will not be able to open a nursing institute,” Barua said. Ghosh said they had plans to start a postgraduate course in paediatrics nursing from next year. “Nursing an adult and nursing a baby require very different skills. A baby will cry and the nurse has to take the baby in lap to calm him or her down,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
11-11-2020||Calcutta||50 shanties gutted in afternoon Tiljala fire||A fire destroyed more than 50 shanties along GJ Khan Road in Tiljala on Tuesday afternoon, police said. Twenty-two fire engines were able to control the fire by 6pm. The fire broke out close to Forum Atmosphere — a residential highrise on the Bypass — at 3.38pm. There were no reports of anyone being injured in the fire. People in the locality said the fire started spreading from one shanty to another and went out of control. “More than 50 families have been left homeless. Luckily, no one was trapped or injured,” an officer of Tiljala police station said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the area in the evening and instructed the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to provide the families with relief material at the earliest. “The actual cause of the fire can be ascertained only after forensic tests. The cooling process is still on,” a fire officer said. A forensic  team can visit only after the fire has been completely doused and cooled down, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Snatcher strikes after Salt Lake dinner  ||A snatcher fled with the handbag of a woman walking back home with her sister after dinner at a Salt Lake restaurant on Monday night, police said. Rhitama Basak, 24, and her sister had stepped out of their home in FE Block to have dinner at a restaurant close by. This was their first outing since the imposition of the lockdown, she said. After leaving the restaurant opposite Central Park around 9.30pm, the sisters decided to go for a walk. “When we were close to a small park inside the Karunamoyee Housing Estate, a cyclist enquired the time. I told him the time before heading for home,” Basak said. She said they were walking down a lane near the Bidhannagar Municipal School when she felt someone pulling her handbag. She struggled to hold on to the bag but the man managed to grab it and flee. The sisters gave chase and saw it was the same man who enquired the time, Basak said. They called their parents and their father Basab Basak reached the spot, along with some neighbours. He alerted police and a team reached the spot. “The bag had some money and a smartphone. We have filed a police complaint.” Anuradha Paul, 36, another FE Block resident, said men often drank in the park in the darkness. “The lights here don’t function most of the time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta cop help after delivery on road||A 29-year-old woman who was due to deliver 10 days later started having labour pains in a bus she boarded from Park Circus on Tuesday morning. She delivered a boy baby on Basanti Highway, around 8km from the government hospital she was returning from after her check-up. Manwara Bibi with her newborn and her sister-in-law Shabina Bibi were on the road for close to 30 minutes with a few people to help them till a police vehicle rescued them. Both mother and baby have been admitted to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. Manwara, a resident of Bhojerhat off Basanti Highway, had visited the hospital with Shabina for her check-up. “We were told at the hospital that the delivery date was 10 days later. We completed her check-up and boarded a bus for home,” Shabina said. “Her labour pain started in the bus and we had no choice but to get off, hoping to catch another bus to return to the hospital.” The two women got off the bus at West Chowbaga on Basanti Highway and could barely cross the road when Manwara went into labour. “I started shouting… an old woman from the neighbourhood came to our help. But others did not. The baby was born on the road. I was standing helplessly when a police vehicle came out of nowhere,” Shabina said. Souvik Chakraborty, the additional officer-in-charge of Tiljala traffic guard, was on his daily round when he spotted the women with the baby. He arranged to take them to hospital. “We were told that the woman and the child had been lying on the road for quite some time. It goes without saying they were most vulnerable at that time and needed immediate medical care,” the officer said. “We could manage to get the woman admitted to the gynaecology department of Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. Now, both mother and baby are doing fine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Fewer buses can pose transport challenge in Calcutta||Howrah station used to see 950,000 commuters travelling on suburban trains daily before the pandemic. And the bus terminus used to see close to 2,500 buses moving in and out till late at night. On Wednesday, when suburban train services resume, a little over a 1,000 buses will be available outside the station complex to address the transport needs of the majority of close to 500,000 commuters expected to turn up on Day 1. Most bus operators have withdrawn their buses from 60-odd routes ending at the bus terminus adjoining the station complex in Howrah. On Tuesday, several of them told government officials they won’t be able to resume services “so soon”. Many of their drivers and conductors have returned home to the districts in the past few months, several private bus operators said. Owners have withdrawn their buses to cut down on losses. Some of these drivers and conductors have switched to other professions to fend for their families and things can’t be restored overnight, the operators said. “How can it be done?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “Most bus owners have been incurring huge losses. Some have been unable to clear their dues. It is not possible to get back all members of our staff overnight and start running buses like before.” The challenge of arranging transport for the tens of thousands of daily passengers travelling by local trains is not lost on the state government. Sealdah station attracts close to 2 million suburban train passengers every day. Between Howrah and Sealdah, close to 3 million people use suburban trains for their daily commute. A quarter of this figure on the first few days of the resumption of suburban train services will mean more buses have to be on the roads to cater to the demand, particularly between 8am and 11am and 4pm and 8pm. “Unlike Howrah, there is no bus terminus outside Sealdah station. The station falls on close to 95 bus routes. We have requested private bus operators to increase the frequency of buses with each bus doing more trips to address the demand,” a transport department official, said. On Tuesday, senior department officials had met representatives of private bus and minibus operators at Bhowanipore, Alipore, Barasat, and Barrackpore in an attempt to find a way to meet the transport demands of daily passengers. There were no immediate promises, though. By the time the state government waived taxes, many bus owners had already started paying fines for not renewing fitness certificates of their vehicles within the grace period, bus owners said. The state government has not said anything regarding fitness certificates and fines. “We have asked the transport department to frame a policy on the matter of fitness certificates and fines,” Rahul Chatterjee of All Bengal Bus Minibus Samanoy Samity said. “There are several owners who have fines running into several thousands. How will they bring out buses?” The state government has decided that teams of transport officials will be outside stations from Wednesday to assess the demand-supply gap during rush hour and make arrangements accordingly. “If the waiting time is too long, we will run state buses to address the problem,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro braces for commuter surge||The passenger count of Metro Railway, knocking on the doors of the 1,00,000 mark, is expected to go well past the figure once suburban trains resume on Wednesday. The Metro authorities have increased the number of trains in anticipation of the rush. But the next few days will tell whether the increase is enough, said officials. Starting Wednesday, the number of daily trains will be 190, up from 152, on weekdays. Most of the additional trains will start from Dum Dum. A substantial chunk of Metro passengers came from suburbs and got off at Dum Dum to board a Metro train before the pandemic. Metro officials are jittery about a possible surge in the number of passengers at Dum Dum station from Wednesday. “Additional Metro staff and RPF personnel will be deployed at Dum Dum Metro station to help suburban train passengers get familiarised with the process of booking an e-pass. Many of the passengers might not be aware of the system,” said Metro general manager Manoj Joshi. An e-pass is now a must for entry into a Metro station for passengers below 60. For boarding a train, a smart card is mandatory, irrespective of the age of the passenger. Before the pandemic forced the suspension of suburban services in March, Dum Dum looked chaotic with a sea of heads every day. A continuous swarm of passengers kept moving between the Metro and suburban stations. Metro services resumed on September 14 with a curtailed service to maintain Covid-19 protocols. Between September 14 and November 2, Dum Dum recorded close to 71,000 passengers, said a Metro official. In February 2020, the station had recorded a passenger volume of close to 20 lakh, the official said. The total footfall at Dum Dum, the busiest Metro station, has been around 20,000 every day over the past several days. “Around 10,000 passengers boarded trains from Dum Dum and another 10,000 got off at Dum Dum,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Trains to roll again in ‘very sensitive trade-off’||Local trains will leave Howrah and Sealdah stations before dawn on Wednesday, more than seven months after suburban services had been suspended to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The first train from Sealdah to Budge Budge is scheduled to leave at 3.45am and the first train from Howrah to Tarakeswar at 4.22am, a rail official said. The suburban services will start with close to 700 trains in the Sealdah, Howrah and Kharagpur divisions combined. It is less than 50 per cent of the number before the pandemic. The state’s chief secretary has called the resumption of services a “very sensitive trade-off” between livelihood and public health. The suspension of local trains has crippled the livelihoods of tens of thousands of people. At the same time, doctors have warned of a possible surge in Covid-19 numbers as local trains start running. Metro takes stock of the situation on the eve of the resumption of services. The RPF, GRP, and state police are expected to stop people without masks and tickets from entering stations. The city and Bidhannagar police are expected to deploy cops at stations in its jurisdiction — close to 25 in the Sealdah division. Random thermal screenings and staggered entry of passengers are on the cards. “If the platform appears crowded, passengers will be stopped in the concourse area for a while. If the concourse is full, people will be asked to wait outside the station,” an officer said. The arrangement will be similar to the crowd-control mechanism at Metro stations during Durga Puja. Staggered entry is unlikely to have much impact if there is no crowd-control at suburban stations. The state government has asked district administrations to be on their toes and coordinate with the railways to ensure the standard operating procedure it issued on Monday is implemented. Busy stations will have only one or two gates for entry and exit. The others will remain shut, a rail official said. But the fact that any person with a valid ticket is entitled to enter a station and board a train makes the job of maintaining distancing practically impossible. The Sealdah division has close to 175 suburban stations. The administration is looking at more than one person in uniform at every station. The prospect of a couple of cops versus a few hundred passengers — the rush used to be way more at several nondescript stations during rush hour — is not good. Multiple rail officials have said they have to bank on the “the awareness and good sense of people” to follow Covid-19 protocols. Even if everyone wears a mask, a few hundred people holed up in a compartment will be a public health nightmare, doctors have said. Representatives of the agency that has developed the Metro e-pass system were present at the meeting between government and rail officials at Nabanna on November 2. The meeting had been convened to work out the modalities of the resumption of services. But government officials had said they did not want to implement an “exclusionary” tech-based solution similar to the one adopted by Metro Railway. For passengers below 60, an e-pass is mandatory to enter a Metro station. In the absence of such access-control mechanism, the risk of overcrowding looms large on stations and on trains. The number of trains that will run between 8am and 11am and 4.30pm and 8.30pm can help ease the rush of passengers, a rail official said. “We will run 148 trains during peak hours compared to the 177 before the pandemic,” the official said. The new fleet will be less than 50 per cent of what it was before the pandemic but the number of trains during rush hour is “around 84 per cent” of the earlier number. The volume of passengers will go down because schools and colleges are shut and many senior citizens will avoid travelling on trains, another rail official said. “People who have no other option will travel by trains. Even a marginal dip in the passenger volume will help.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath venue at Vivekananda Park razed||The Chhath Puja venue being built at Vivekananda Park since Friday, in violation of an order from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), was pulled down on Tuesday. The club that was constructing the temporary pool for the Chhath rituals broke the walls that had been built. When Metro visited the park on Tuesday afternoon, bricks were being removed. Some men were filling the trenches that had been dug to raise the walls. An official of the CMDA, the custodian of the park, repeated on Tuesday that they did not give any permission to build the temporary pool inside the park. “The temporary structure was dismantled on Tuesday,” the official said. The CMDA had ordered that the construction of the pool, undertaken by Cockler Lane Tarun Sangha, be stopped for the time being. An engineer at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) with years of experience in maintaining parks said temporary constructions for pujas should be allowed but on condition that the organisers would restore the grounds after the events were over. “If any dais or a pool is constructed, it will inevitably damage a portion of the ground. There should be a clause that the party doing the temporary construction would restore the ground to the original condition,” said the engineer. “The clause should also mention that the custodian of the park will be the sole authority to decide if the resto-ration has been done properly or not.” The engineer rued the absence of such a clause when Durga Puja or Kali Puja pandals are erected inside parks of Calcutta. Apart from Vivekananda Park, Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar are among the parks and lakes that are looked after by the CMDA. The CMC is the custodian of over 700 parks, including Deshapriya Park, Tallah Park and Deshbandhu Park. “The CMDA did not give us permission to build the temporary pool. We have dismantled the structure,” said Sourav Basu, the president of Cockler Lane Tarun Sangha and also president of the Ward 86 unit of the Trinamul Congress. The club had written to the CMDA for permission to build the pool and started work without waiting for the consent. Sumita Banerjee, a green activist who has been vocal against the construction at Vivekananda Park, said the authorities should also impose strict conditions for erection of Puja pandals in parks. “There are parks in Calcutta where Durga Puja or Kali Puja pandals are set up. Deshapriya Park is an example. They do considerable damage to the parks. The authorities should allow the pandals on condition that the organisers restore the grounds after the pujas are over. No one should be allowed to destroy the parks at will,” said Banerjee. Another activist said parks were common resources that were best kept reserved for people to walk, run and play.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court lays down Chhath norms||Two persons per family will be allowed to perform Chhath Puja rituals on November 20, the high court said on Tuesday. The division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee directed the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) to ensure elaborate publicity to inform Chhath worshippers about the cap in the city. As for the rest of the state, the respective district authorities have to undertake the publicity drive. The order said the vehicles that would ferry worshippers must not be covered. “Persons intending to travel to a water body should come in vehicles maintaining Covid protocol and without jostling with each other to get a toehold in the vehicle,” the order also said. Wearing masks will be mandatory at all stages. “Even when a vehicle… comes to a water body… all persons should not be permitted to alight or go to the water body,” the order said. The bench was hearing a public interest litigation by Ajay Kumar Das seeking a court order on maintaining the pandemic protocols during the upcoming festivals. In the previous hearing on November 5, the court had asked the Bengal government to “ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers at all” during Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhath Puja, Jagaddhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday celebrations. Following a prayer by environment activist Subhas Datta, the National Green Tribunal had earlier issued an order directing the state not to allow Chhath Puja on the Rabindra Sarobar premises. The CMDA has approached the Supreme Court with a plea to allow Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. The two lakes still remain off limits for Chhath worshippers. The high court curbs are for festivities elsewhere. At the November 5 hearing, when the high court was laying down the Diwali and Kali Puja norms, it did not take up Chhath because the matter was supposed to have been heard in the Supreme Court before Tuesday’s hearing. But the top court has yet to take up the matter. The NGT order will stand for now, unless the Supreme Court decides otherwise, the division bench said on Tuesday. More than 150 ghats in the city will be ready for Chhath Puja rituals on November 20, CMC and CMDA officials have said. The bench said the government would have to strictly implement the November 5 directives banning the sale and use of firecrackers during the upcoming festivals. The bench said it would make the director general of the state police and the Calcutta police commissioner responsible for any violation of the directives but relented after an assurance from the advocate general, Kishore Datta. “Please keep trust in the state administration. The order of the court will be complied with. The state will take all measures to implement the order,” said Datta. The bench asked both the top cops to file a compliance report a week after the reopening of the court after the Puja vacation. The vacation ends on November 17. A senior official of the state administration said the government had already started working on implementing the court’s directives. Advocate-general Datta told Metro: “Please keep faith in the state administration. The state will take all necessary measures to implement the order. Just like for Durga Puja.” The high court said the “state should consider whether it may be in the best interest of all to suspend the operation of local trains on November 14 and November 15 and on the day of Jagaddhatri Puja or to manage the running of trains in such manner that people do not find it convenient to come to the city… or travel to other places of interest.” The state is “left free to make appropriate arrangements with the railways”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Bengal government issues SOP for suburban trains ||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for suburban train services, which are scheduled to resume on Wednesday. The SOP was drawn up after home secretary H. K. Dwivedi held a video-conference with the district magistrates and superintendents of police of the districts where suburban trains would run such as Howrah, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, East Burdwan, East Midnapore, West Midnapore and Nadia. According to the SOP, passengers will have to mandatorily wear masks and the railways will have to make available an adequate number of trains keeping in mind public health constraints in the existing situation. Entry and exit points will be demarcated for movement of passengers and all the exit and entry points may not be made operational in order to handle movement of passengers in a proper manner. The Government Railway Police and the state police will work, in association with the Railway Protection Force, to control crowds. The railways have been advised to open ticket counters at the earliest so that passengers can buy or renew monthly tickets and a rush for daily tickets can be avoided. All passengers have to produce tickets while entering the stations to avoid unnecessary gathering. Train compartments and toilets at stations have to be sanitised at regular intervals for the safety of passengers. The railways have been advised to ensure that only a certain number of passengers are allowed on rains so Covid protocols can be maintained. The state government as well as the railways will continue with the publicity measures to make passengers aware of the dos and don’ts during their journey. The state government will also arrange for enough transport facilities at the stations to disperse passengers at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools send pay-up mail to parents||The La Martiniere schools have started writing to parents who have not paid fees of their children to clear the dues by the end of November, failing which the students may not be allowed to attend classes after December 8. “Please note that in terms of the Calcutta High Court Order… if you fail to clear the… outstanding fee by 30th November 2020, your child may not be allowed to continue classes with effect from 8th December, 2020,” reads the email sent by the schools. “We started sending the email to parents on Tuesday,” sources in the La Martiniere schools said. Hard copies of the letter will be sent later. Parents of about 900 students in both schools — La Martiniere for Girls and La Martiniere for Boys — have not cleared their dues, sources in the institutions said. Most of these parents did not pay the fees between April and September, while some have dues accruing since January. The outstanding amount varies between Rs 9,000 and Rs 80,000, a school official said. “The outstanding dues for a period of six months in both schools is Rs 5.5 crore.” The emails mention the outstanding amount for each student. “It is very unfortunate that in spite of reminders to clear the outstanding fees, you have not cared to make any payment so far,” the email reads. The school has a system by which the fee gets debited from parents’ bank accounts. “These accounts are having insufficient funds,” the school official said. The high court had on October 13 ordered private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of the tuition fees of students between April and one month after the resumption of on-campus classes. The schools have also been restrained from charging fees on non-academic heads such as “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extra curricular activities or the like” till in-person classes resume. The court order also said the discounted fees would have to be paid by November 30. Beyond December 8, schools have been given the liberty to disallow students for non-payment. The La Martiniere schools announced the revised fee structure on October 31. The management announced a 20 per cent waiver across all classes. The schools had said that the “updated fee structure is pursuant to the judgement of the Calcutta High Court... the said fees structure, i.e, 80:20, shall be subject to the final outcome of the SLP (special leave petition) ...pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
11-11-2020||Calcutta||No need to queue up for life certificate||This November, pensioners will not have to queue up at the bank or the post office to submit their life certificates. India Post has launched a doorstep delivery service, through its India Post Payments Bank, keeping in mind how unsafe it is for the elderly to step out amid the Covid pandemic. Retired employees of central government, state governments and public sector undertakings can apply for the service and a postman from the nearest post office offering the service will come to generate a Digital Life Certificate (Jeevan Pramaan) at his doorstep. Metro explains how the service can be availed. What is a Life Certificate? Pensioners are required to furnish a “Life Certificate” to their pension disbursing authority i.e. bank or post office, every November either by presenting themselves personally or by delivering a life certificate. This year, in view of the situation, the last date has been extended till December 31. In itself, having to prove being alive is a difficult experience for many aged people. While marking physical attendance, many elderly people complain of indifferent government officials who do not appreciate the trouble they have taken to make the appearance. The whole process has become even more difficult because government offices and banks are allowing only a certain number of people inside and the rest have to wait outside in the sun. How to apply for doorstep delivery of the digital life certificate? What are the conditions to avail of the service? The pensioner should have his/her own Aadhaar number and mobile number. The Aadhaar card should be linked with the records of the bank or the post office paying the pension. Both pension paying authority and disbursing agency should be on record on the Jeevan Pramaan portal — jeevanpramaan.gov.in. What documents or information to keep at hand when the postman comes? Pension payment order number, type of pension scheme, name of the pension disbursing authority, pension account details, mobile number and Aadhaar number. The postman will come within two to three working days of the request being made. How will the certificate be generated? The postman will scan the fingerprint of the pensioner with his handheld Aadhaar-based fingerprint scanner for biometric authentication and to authorise the request. Digital life certificate will be instantly generated with Pramaan ID sent to the pensioner’s mobile phone as confirmation message. The certificate details will be automatically updated with the pension department on the Jeevan Pramaan portal. The certificate thus generated is stored online and can be accessed by the pensioner and the pension disbursing agency as and when required by them. What is the charge for the service? The charge is Rs 70. The service will be available till December. For further information on IPPB, visit www.ippbonline.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-243
