12-11-2020||Calcutta||Mamata calls for more trains||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday demanded more local trains to prevent crowding, echoing doctors and public health experts. “They should run more trains so that people are not too close to each other. More trains would mean less crowding,” the chief minister told a news conference at Nabanna. The state government and the railways will hold a meeting on Thursday at Bhabani Bhavan to review the situation. Sources in the state administration said the top brass had felt that the number of trains and compartments needed to be increased to ensure Covid protocols, especially physically distancing, could be maintained during rush hours. “We will ask the railway authorities to increase the number of trains, number of compartments in a train and the number of ticket counters so that Covid protocols could be followed properly. We don’t want Covid to spread rapidly following the resumption of suburban train services,” said a government official. The chief secretary, home secretary, health secretary, transport secretary and top police officers will attend the meeting, along with officials of the Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway. Close to 700 daily trains will run for now, railway officials had said before the resumption of services on Wednesday. Around 1,500 local trains used to run every day before the Covid-19 pandemic forced suspension of suburban services in March. On November 7, Metro had reported on the concern of doctors on a curtailed fleet of local trains. Less trains will mean more people, both on platforms and on trains, risking a surge in Covid cases. Pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar had said the local train services “should either be totally suspended or the full fleet should be run”. “A limited number of trains will automatically result in more passengers on each train,” he had said. On the first day of resumption of suburban services, the crowd on some trains during office hours showed the fear was not misplaced. Howrah and Sealdah divisions accounted for around 35 lakh passengers every day, most of whom were daily commuters. The crowd seemed less than usual on the first day of resumption but the numbers are expected to go up. During office hours, around 4,000 people used to travel on every single train before the pandemic. On Wednesday, the number seemed around 2,000, said a railway official. More trains on Wednesday would have distributed the load and could have added a semblance of physical distancing. Talks had been on between the railways and the state government to run around “10 to 15 per cent” of the usual fleet. The services, however, resumed with around half the usual number. Railway officials said they preferred a “need-based” rise in the number of trains. They pointed to “around 280 trains” that ran in the Howrah division, instead of 202 trains notified earlier. Similarly, the Sealdah division saw more than the number of trains notified. “To ease the rush, we will run additional trains on busy routes as and when needed,” said an official of Eastern Railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court upholds firecracker ban order||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with Calcutta High Court’s November 5 decision to ban the use of firecrackers during Diwali and other for-thcoming festivals this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court said the high court’s decision was justified as people’s lives could not be imperiled, although it agreed that festivals were an important facet of India’s culture. “We are not inclined to entertain the special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution. The special leave petition is dismissed accordingly,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said after briefly hearing senior counsel Siddharth Bhatnagar, who appeared for petitioner Gautam Roy. The petitioner had moved the apex court assailing the high court’s judgment which was passed while dealing with two public interest litigations that had sought a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers on Diwali, Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja because of the pandemic. “We understand these festivals are important… but we don’t want to interfere with the high court’s order…. The high court knows the local situation better. You must understand that today we are in the midst of a pandemic. Preservation of lives is paramount…” the bench observed. Though the senior counsel tried to argue that citizens had a fundamental right to celebrate their festivals, the court was not impressed with the argument. He submitted that the high court passed an erroneous order, despite there being no empirical data available on pollution caused by firecrackers. “You can look at the situation in the country. Can you tell us whether people are able to step out of their houses in Calcutta, Delhi or any other part of the country (because of the pandemic)?” the bench asked. Justice Chandrachud noted that on account of the pandemic every section of society was facing hardships. “…We as judges are conscious that these are festivals, mean a lot to all of us. But you must understand that there are some values which are above the festivals. We are living in a situation where life is imperiled…” the bench observed while dismissing the petition. The division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee of the high court had on November 5 banned the use and sale of firecrackers to curb pollution amid the pandemic. The court had further said the ban would be in force during Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Risk of curtailed services exposed||Packed trains on Day One of resumption of suburban services left implementation of pandemic protocols largely to individual passengers and bared the risks of running a curtailed fleet. Railway officials said no one was allowed to enter a station or board a train without a mask. Many passengers underwent random thermal screening at stations. But beyond that, other Covid-19 protocols went for a toss at most places as the day progressed. The seats on the trains have been marked alternately to maintain physical distancing. Some early morning trains saw passengers adhering to the markers. But as the day progressed, no seat was left vacant. During the office hours, many compartments had no place to stand as well. A state government official said it was unfair to blame passengers crowding train compartments because “most of them are driven by livelihood demands”. A substantial number of people from districts, who come to Calcutta for work, are dependent on suburban trains. Their livelihood had been crippled by the suspension of the services. A fleet of 696 trains was announced in the run-up to the resumption. But on Wednesday, additional trains had to be run in both Howrah and Sealdah divisions to accommodate a surge in the number passengers, said railway officials. But the number was still far less than 1,500, the usual quota of daily local trains before the pandemic forced suspension of services in March. In the absence of enough trains, implementation of pandemic protocols was left largely to passengers. Howrah, Sealdah and Dum Dum stations saw a sizeable deployment of RPF, GRP and state police personnel. In the early hours of the day, the cops were proactive in ensuring that people stood according to the markers drawn on the platforms. As the crowd kept swelling, the markers were rendered useless at many places. At smaller stations in Calcutta and outside the city, social distancing seemed a distant dream. Around 10am, the Sealdah-bound Lakshmikantapur local entered Ballygunge station. Swarms of passengers made their way out of the compartments. But the train was still packed to the hilt. Four persons sat on most benches meant for three people. Around 100 people were jostling for space at the ticket counter at Serampore station around the same time. Around 9am, GRP personnel at Baruipur station were struggling to streamline passengers waiting for a Sealdah-bound train. “When I boarded the train at Barrackpore, it was packed but I found a place to stand. By the time the train went past Sodepur, there was hardly any place to stand as many more entered the same compartment,” said Atanu Ghosh, a Barrackpore resident who got off at Dum Dum. Pinaki Ghosh, a Serampore resident who works with a retail pharmacy chain’s outlet in central Calcutta, took a train to Howrah at the first chance on Wednesday. “The train was crowded but I reached my work place within 50 minutes. Till now, I used to ride a bike and it would take well over 90 minutes to come to work,” said Ghosh. Railway officials said the first day was better than expected. “The normal seating capacity of a train is 1,200. During office hours, around 4,000 people travel on every single train. On Wednesday, the number seemed around 2,000 during office hours. Two thousand people on a train are a lot but not like it used to be before the pandemic,” said an official of the Sealdah division. An official of the Howrah division said some trains on the Bandel route were most crowded. “But we had feared a bigger turnout. Perhaps some people are still wary,” said the official. But both divisions saw more trains than announced earlier. The Howrah division was allotted around 200 trains but over 275 ran. The Sealdah division also saw more trains than announced earlier. “We were prepared to run additional services according to the rush. Most of the additional services were run during the morning and evening rush hours,” said an official of the Howrah division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Dial 100 to report cracker ban flout||Police on Wednesday announced helpline numbers on social media for people to report against crackers in the city. The move is in line with Tuesday’s high court order banning firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali and asking the police to execute the ban. People can dial 100 or 9432610444 to report anything related to firecrackers. “Say ‘No’ To Firecrackers”, read a poster, along with the helpline numbers, published by the city police. “Strict action will be taken if anyone is found violating the ban on firecrackers,” a senior cop in Lalbazar said. A person can be booked under the Calcutta police suburban act and the explosive substances act for violating the ban. Depending on the nature of the offence and the amount of seizure, if someone is charged with sections of the explosive substances act, he/she can be arrested. The charges carry a maximum punishment of three years in jail. The other penal sections that vary from disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant (Section 188 of the IPC) to sections of the Calcutta police suburban act result only in prosecutions and a fine of Rs 50. The adjoining commissionerate areas, including Bidhannagar, Howrah, and Barrackpore, have already started holding awareness campaigns and raiding various places to seize firecrackers. “We have circulated advisories to all police stations to implement the firecracker ban. The general level of awareness is high this year. The amount of seizure is comparatively less this year,” an officer of the Howrah commissionerate said. Bidhannagar police have started moving around Salt Lake, New Town, and Lake Town with loudhailers to announce the ban and holding meetings with people and asking them to follow the ban on buying, possessing and bursting firecrackers. The high court order mentioned the state had in its affidavit in court assured that measures had been taken to ensure complete implementation of the ban. “The state assures the court that measures have already been taken to ensure the complete implementation of the order and no effort would be spared to see that the air quality in the state is not polluted and the relevant order carried out without any breach,” the court order read. Police stations across the city have started holding anti-cracker awareness rallies and meetings with residents of highrises to make people aware of the court order. Raids and random searches were carried out on Tuesday and Wednesday, the police said. At least three people were arrested in Beniapukur, Tangra and the Survey Park area with firecrackers on Tuesday evening. One of them had 12kg firecrackers, another 10.5kg of chocolate bombs and the third 10 packets of multi-coloured firecrackers weighing around 1.2kg. “This year, our work has been reduced to a large extent because people are visibly scared to violate the ban. Every year around this time we seize large quantities of banned firecrackers; but this year, the seizure has been almost negligible,” an officer in the city police’s south division said. The court has directed the police to announce phone numbers on their websites and on hoardings and boards prominently across the state for people to report the use of firecrackers. “Such numbers should be attended to so that the complaints are immediately addressed without the identity of the complainants being revealed. The relevant numbers should be put up on the website and display boards by November 12, 2020,” the court had said in its order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||16,500 teacher recruitments in 2 months||The state government will recruit 16,500 teachers in state-aided schools in the next two months, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Wednesday. In all, 20,000 candidates have cleared the Teacher Eligibility Test for appointment as teachers of Classes V to VIII (upper primary) in schools. “There are 16,500 vacant posts; so, within December and January recruitment will be done. The rest among the 20,000 will be recruited in phases,” she said at Nabanna. Those who clear the exam have to appear for an interview to get their documents checked, she said. At least 250,000 candidates applied for the TET primary exam that could not be held because of the pandemic. “The West Bengal Board of Primary Education will conduct the exam as soon as possible in the offline mode. Many of our students will then get employment. There is an importance of government service and everyone wants to be a teacher,” Mamata said. These applicants are looking for appointment as teachers of Classes I to IV (primary). The Teacher Eligibility Test for upper primary and primary was last held in 2015. The TET (primary) was held in October 2015. Around 3 million candidates took the exam for appointment to 43,000 vacant posts of assistant teachers in the 59,000-odd state-aided primary schools. The results were declared in 2016 and more than 41,000 candidates secured jobs in 2017. The West Bengal School Service Commission conducts interviews to recruit upper primary teachers and the West Bengal Board of Primary Education primary teachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Fitness certificate, licence, road permit fines waived||The state government on Wednesday waived penalties on lapsed fitness certificates, driving licences and road permits with effect from January 1. But the fees have to be paid by June 30, 2021. The decision is applicable to all vehicles. Several bus owners have kept their vehicles off the roads as they have not been able to pay the fines for not renewing fitness certificates or road permits. A fall in the passenger count in the past few months because of the pandemic has hit their earnings and many bus operators have said they would not run their vehicles to avoid paying huge fines. Police said the fine for buses and minibuses running without valid fitness certificates is Rs 3,000 for the first offence and Rs 6,000 for every subsequent offence. The government decision will benefit private vehicle owners as well. Many haven’t been able to renew their driving licences during the pandemic. The fine for driving without a valid driving licence is Rs 450 followed by Rs 500 for every subsequent offence, the police said. “This has been done so that vehicle owners can run their vehicles without any fear. As a result of this decision I think everyone from bus, lorry, auto to taxi will find stability in their lives,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday. “The fear will not be there. If an owner finds his/her vehicle is not in good condition, he/she should run a check on his/her own.” The absence of buses was felt on Wednesday when suburban train services resumed. Thousands of passengers landed up at Sealdah and Howrah stations only to find there weren’t enough buses during rush hour. Several bus owners have not been able to pay their EMIs on vehicle loans for the past few months… how will they pay fines for not renewing fitness certificates?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. “This move by the state government will provide all bus owners with huge relief… we hope to buses will return to the roads after Diwali.” The cost of running a fitness test is around Rs 900 but it can be done when pending dues, including road tax and permit fees, have been cleared, several private bus operators said. After the “grace period”, Rs 50 a day is additionally charged for lapsed fitness certificates. “In August the state government had offered relief from paying taxes. But there was no word on fitness certificates. Several bus owners have been sitting on fitness certificate fines ranging between Rs 7,000 and Rs 9,000,” Rahul Chatterjee of the All Bengal Bus Minibus Samanoy Samity said. “We are sure buses will now return to roads.” There are around 8,000 private buses in Calcutta and neighbouring areas. Almost half the number has been on the roads for the past few months. The state government had requested private bus operators to bring out their buses in full strength when local trains start running from Wednesday. At a meeting on Tuesday, most bus operators had told transport department officials that a waiver of fines on lapsed fitness certificates would be helpful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Selection tests called off, all can write Madhyamik and HS||Students of the Bengal board in Classes X and XII will be allowed to write the Madhyamik and higher secondary exams next year without appearing in a selection test, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Wednesday. “For the Madhyamik and HS exams 2021, there will be no (selection) test. All students who are currently in Classes X and XII will be allowed to appear in Madhyamik and HS exams 2021,” the chief minister said. The education department, she said, decided to call off the selection tests because gatherings on campuses are not being allowed as a precaution against Covid-19. Usually, the selection tests for Madhyamik and HS are held towards the end of November and the beginning of December. The exams are conducted by individual schools and those who qualify in them are allowed to write Madhyamik and the Higher Secondary exams, which are usually held in February and March. Madhyamik is conducted by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and HS exam by the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education. The schools have been closed since March because of the pandemic. The chief minister had said last week that the institutions would remain closed at least till the first week of December, and any decision on reopening would be taken after that. Mamata, however, did not specify the dates of next year’s Madhyamik and Higher Secondary exams. “It will be informed when the exams will be conducted... right now schools have not yet reopened,” she said when asked if Madhyamik and HS exams would be held in the usual time next year. About 11 lakh students are expected to appear in Madhyamik and close to 9 lakh students in the HS exam next year. The heads of government and private schools in the city said the health of children was a primary concern. However, the government’s decision will lead to Class X students appearing in the first public exam of their life without any rehearsal. “Considering the pandemic and keeping the safety of children in mind, the students should not be made to go to school and write an exam,” said Sunita Sen, the principal of The BSS School. “But without any mock exam, students won’t be in a position to evaluate themselves. So, before the final exam, if the situation permits, some kind of a practice or rehearsal could be organised that will boost their confidence and prepare them to handle the questions better.” Sen also urged parents and teachers to ensure students get more exposure to sample questions. “Students should be encouraged to practise those within a stipulated time,” Sen said. School heads called for a more pro-active role by teachers and parents in the current situation to ensure the students do not suffer. “The decision to call off the selection test was taken perhaps to avoid the spread of infection. But schools could send model questions to students online. Students can write the answers at home and parents can submit the answer scripts to schools or teachers for evaluation. This will help the students,” said Parimal Bhattacharyya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith. This system, however, cannot be implemented in remote areas because many students there lack smartphones and internet connectivity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to three hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Wednesday asked three hospitals to return various amounts to two men who were treated for Covid-19 and the family of a woman who died of the disease. The commission feels all three patients were overcharged. Fortis Hospital in Anandapur was asked to refund Rs 1 lakh, Divine Nursing Home in Beleghata Rs 1.3 lakh and BP Poddar Hospital in New Alipore Rs 1.84 lakh. A man who had been admitted to Fortis Hospital complained that he had been overcharged. “We examined the bill. It showed that the hospital charged the first six doses of Remdesivir at Rs 4,000 each, but the next six doses were charged Rs 5.400 each. We have asked the hospital to return Rs 8,400 for the additional Rs 1,400 they charged for each of the later six doses,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, told a news conference. The patient was at the hospital from July 16 to August 3. “We also found that the patient was not offered the cheapest available brand of Meropenem. We had said in an advisory issued in August that a hospital must keep three to four brands of a medicine required for Covid treatment. If the doctor does not mention a brand, the hospital should offer the cheapest one available. But this was not done in this case,” said Banerjee. Remdesivir is an anti-viral drug and Meropenem is an antibiotic. They are both being prescribed for Covid-19 treatment, a doctor said. “The patient had to pay Rs 1.69 lakh out of his pocket. The insurance company paid Rs 7.89 lakh. We have asked the hospital to refund the patient Rs 1 lakh,” said Banerjee. A Calcuttan now living in the US complained to the commission that his mother was treated for Covid at Divine Nursing Home for 24 days. “The hospital billed Rs 7,30,192 for the stay. The complainant said the hospital had forcefully discharged the woman on August 20. She died on September 2,” said Banerjee. “The insurance company has approved the payment of Rs 90,000 and the rest was paid by the family…. The family alleged that the hospital did not admit the patient under cashless facility, which is why they had to pay such a huge amount. We have asked the hospital to refund Rs 1,30,000 to the patient’s family.” The chairperson added that the hospital said they did not allow the cashless facility because they were not sure whether insurance would cover charges of many aspects of Covid treatment. As for BP Poddar Hospital, the chairperson said the commission “did not find any justification” for the billed amount - Rs 4,34,800. The patient was treated at the hospital from July 6 to 20. “The hospital charged Rs 2,000 per day as doctors’ consultation fee, exactly double the amount at which the state government capped the fee. We also found that pathological tests were charged at exorbitant rates… The hospital has been asked to refund Rs 1.84 lakh to the man,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Medica Superspecialty directed to feed poor kids||Medica Superspecialty Hospital has been asked by the state health regulator to spend Rs 10 lakh to feed poor children after it found the hospital guilty of charging more than the price capped for sanitisation. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Wednesday said Medica’s action was a “blatant violation of the advisory issued by the commission on August 1, 2020”. The money has to be deposited with Lady Brabourne College within a month, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson, said. The children will be identified from among those living close to the college, he said. “The order is meant to send a strong message to all clinical establishments that they cannot violate the commission’s advisories and charge more from patients. If required we will have to penalise them,” Banerjee said. The order against Medica has not been termed “a penalty”, though, he said. A retired state government employee lodged a complaint with the commission that the hospital had charged his wife and him Rs 250 each as sanitisation charges when they visited the hospital’s OPD to meet a doctor on October 15, Banerjee said. The commission’s order said the advisory it had issued on August 1 said patients visiting OPDs have to “pay Rs 50 as sanitation charge, Rs 50 for companion charge, and another Rs 50 in case a physician examines him/her in a PPE gown”. Amitava Chakraborty, the complainant, who lives in Dhakuria, had pointed out to members of the hospital staff that they could charge him only Rs 50 according to the commission’s advisory. But they did not listen to him. “He was asked to talk to higher officials of the hospital who, too, said that Rs 250 would be charged. Chakraborty told them that he knew the clinical establishment commission had capped the sanitisation charge at Rs 50,” Banerjee said. The couple were forced to pay “Rs 500 for infection control charges for two patients”, the commission said in its order. “They were forced to pay the money because they had to meet the doctor. Chakraborty wrote a complaint to us the same day he visited the hospital. He came back home and lodged the complaint,” Banerjee said. “It is a fit and proper case where we should impose a heavy penalty on the CE (clinical establishment). However, we refrain from doing so. We direct the CE to fund a benevolent project for Rs 10 lakh as and by way of CSR attracting appropriate tax benefit,” the commission said in its order. Alok Roy, the chairperson of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, said the hospital would spend the money. “We will comply with the order because this is for a good cause,” he said. “This happened because of some error on part of our employees. We have told the commission that we will check our system and find out if a similar error had happened with other patients. We will refund all of them the extra money that has been taken. We do not overcharge any of our patients.” The commission set up a three-member team, comprising Siuli Sarkar, the principal of Lady Brabourne College, Maitrayee Banerjee, a consultant biochemist and member of the commission, and Barnali Ghosh, a paediatrician with the Institute of Child Health at Park Circus. “They will be at liberty to involve students and teachers of Lady Brabourne College for the project,” Banerjee said. The project team will identify 100 to 150 malnourished children in the vicinity of Lady Brabourne College and “ensure intake of one boiled egg a day” by such malnourished children till the entire fund is utilised, according to the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Leopard run over on sanctuary fringes||A leopard was run over by a speeding vehicle on NH55, on the fringes of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary, near Sukna on Wednesday morning. Foresters of the Darjeeling wildlife division have recovered the carcass. The killer vehicle is yet to be traced. Officials said the injury marks suggested the leopard was crossing the highway when it was hit by the vehicle. “Early in the morning, some residents spotted the leopard’s bloodied carcass on the highway near the Koklang forest beat of the Sukna forest. The animal was around one year old,” said a forest official. The accident spot is around 12km from Siliguri, between Sukna and Rongtong.   In recent years, this is the first time a leopard was found dead on this stretch of NH55, which skirts the wildlife sanctuary that is famous for leopards and elephants. Such accidents have been reported in the Dooars, near Gorumara National Park, as well. “Large stretches of the foothills are surrounded by forests and roads leading to the hills cut throughforests. Despite display boards marking animal crossing zones, some drivers do not slow down,” a forester said. The department, he said, will approach the Darjeeling district administration and the police to spread awareness among drivers. Wildlife conservationists have expressed concern over the death of the leopard. “It is necessary to conserve leopards. Stern action should be taken against those who flout rules while driving through fringes of wildlife habitats,” said Animesh Bose, an environmentalist in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
12-11-2020||Calcutta||Leopard run over on Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary fringes||A leopard was run over by a speeding vehicle on NH55, on the fringes of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary, near Sukna on Wednesday morning. Foresters of the Darjeeling wildlife division have recovered the carcass. The killer vehicle is yet to be traced. Officials said the injury marks suggested the leopard was crossing the highway when it was hit by the vehicle. “Early in the morning, some residents spotted the leopard’s bloodied carcass on the highway near the Koklang forest beat of the Sukna forest. The animal was around one year old,” said a forest official. The accident spot is around 12km from Siliguri, between Sukna and Rongtong. In recent years, this is the first time a leopard was found dead on this stretch of NH55, which skirts the wildlife sanctuary that is famous for leopards and elephants. Such accidents have been reported in the Dooars, near Gorumara National Park, as well. “Large stretches of the foothills are surrounded by forests and roads leading to the hills cut through forests. Despite display boards marking animal crossing zones, some drivers do not slow down,” a forester said. The department, he said, will approach the Darjeeling district administration and the police to spread awareness among drivers. Wildlife conservationists have expressed concern over the death of the leopard. “It is necessary to conserve leopards. Stern action should be taken against those who flout rules while driving through fringes of wildlife habitats,” said Animesh Bose, an environmentalist in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-242
