13-11-2020||Calcutta||Part of New Town show, from the US||This year, Durga Puja was unique. The sad part was I did not get to see a single thakur. Ma Durga appeared virtually on a computer screen at home. The happy part was I got to participate in cultural programmes of two pujas — one in California, where we live, and another in Greenwood Park, our former home in New Town, where my grandparents live now. I have not attended Greenwood Park’s Durga puja for a while. I was born in Noida and moved to New Town when I was a year and half. Since then, I participated in Durga puja there every year until we moved to Los Angeles in 2016. When my mom was part of the Greenwood Park puja committee, I used to tag along with her to puja meetings, shopping and post-puja prize distribution ceremonies. In the cultural programmes, I used to sing and recite poems. For my last puja in Greenwood Park, I took part in a play with my neighbours Takai, Pablo, Rishav, Gogol, Arya, Rishi and his sister who would come over to our house daily for over a month to rehearse. Different competitions were organised in our complex in those Puja days by The Telegraph and I used to hang out in the pandal with my friends. After Puja got over, we got on a truck with the idol for immersion. After we moved to Los Angeles in March 2016, our family joined a group called Valley Bengali Community (VBC) where the members started Durga puja that year. A community school auditorium was rented for the weekend. The school was only two miles from my house. Most of the others had to drive an hour or two to get there. There were more people and a lot less decoration in the auditorium than there would be in our Greenwood Park pandal. I remember reciting a Bengali poem that year. Later, I joined Path Bhawan Bangla School to pick up the language as we do not have Bengali in school. Classes take place on alternate Sundays. We, the students of Path Bhawan, put up a performance at the puja held by the Bengali Association of Southern California (BASC). We usually stage a Bengali play, for which we rehearse at someone’s house in the weekends leading up to the puja. Last year, too, we attended the BASC puja, which is about 50 miles away from home. So we had to stay in a hotel for two nights. The puja was held in a school auditorium. At night, famous singers performed in a concert which people had bought tickets for. At the end of the Puja, we hired a U-HAUL truck in which all the idols and decorations were loaded. Then we drove it to someone’s garage where it would be stored till a year later when the same idol would be worshiped again. There was no immersion. This year, everything was online. The BASC puja was held in someone’s backyard and live-streamed. I gave virtual anjali and did a programme with my friends on puja in various regions of India. I spoke on Calcutta puja. I also played Rabindrasangeet on synthesiser and sent the video to the Greenwood Park organisers for their cultural programme. It felt nice to get to take part from so far away as my first performance there was when I was barely two and half! Abhiyan Lahiri is a 12-year-old student staying in California||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Finally an idol to celebrate||Puja evokes sentiments that hold a dear place in every Bengali’s heart, as it did in ours. However, in 2008 we moved to Kuwait, where Puja celebrations were virtually nonexistent. For seven long years, our celebrations in Kuwait lacked the quintessential feeling of ‘Pujo aschhe’. Since religious celebrations of other faiths were soft-banned in Kuwait, the Bengali association would manage to rent a school compound every year during the Puja week, and once school timings were over, in the evening, we would gather there to meet. A small puja would be held followed by a cultural programme and dinner, but it kindled no feeling of pujo. Everything had to be held in silence behind closed doors and end quite early in the night. It was an informal gathering of us Bengalis, worshipping a picture of Durga Ma since idols are banned in Kuwait. Everything changed when we came for our first Durga Puja in Greenwood Park in 2015. My daughter Aheli, who had grown up watching those Kuwait pujas, was mesmerised at the round-the-clock celebrations and activities that started well before Mahalaya. There was a real sense of community and spirit here; it wasn’t a glorified dinner party. The energy was infections as my daughter and I immersed ourselves in Puja preparations — from painting alpona to rehearsing dances for the evening cultural shows that lasted five days, from choosing all the attires we would wear to practising dhunuchi nach for bisarjan, my daughter finally felt the true essence of Puja. (In fact, mother and daughter were part of the dhunuchi dance team that picked up the runner-up prize in the contest at Upasana Ghat in 2018. This year, too, they presented dance items that were part of the cultural programmes that were webcast for Puja.) As for me, I was elated at finally coming back home and rekindling the old excitement of my youth, and re-experiencing what Puja meant for me. Piyali Gupta spends her daughter Aheli’s vacation in Greenwood Park. She is awaiting the resumption of flight services to return to Kuwait.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Hidco organises rangoli contest on Diwali-eve||There might be no rockets lighting up the night sky and no flower pots to add a dazzle to the street post-sundown this Diwali, in adherence to the high court order banning fireworks to prevent the air quality from deteriorating further and aggravating conditions of Covid-19 patients. But the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has come up with an event that promises to add both colour and light to an occasion which has been robbed of much of its sheen by the raging pandemic. With twin messages to save the environment and to shun crackers, Hidco has announced a diya festival and a rangoli competition, in association with local social welfare organisation New Town Forum & News. “We want to spread the message that there can be fun without bursting crackers,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. At 4pm, teams of four will take the field at Mangaldeep Island. “There will be 15 spots surrounding the installation. The first 15 teams to register will compete. We will provide colours for the rangoli,” Sen said. From 5pm, everyone present will be asked to light earthen lamps. “The area has been decorated. Close to 1,000 lamps are being purchased. We will have drones taking photographs,” said Sen. The lighting will stay for three days through the festive weekend. A dandiya dance will be put up by residents while the lamps will be lit. On Saturday, gate no. 2 of Eco Park, Misti Hub and Taj Mahal in the Seven Wonders of the World corner of Eco Park will be lit up at 5pm. In the evening, Swapno Bhor, the senior citizens’ park, will host a community lamp-lighting ceremony. “We had a green fireworks show there last year. But there will be no fireworks this time. A musical performance has been arranged as well,” Sen summed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Neighbours come to aid of New Town pensioners||A residential complex and a block committee in New Town have come forward to help out their elderly pensioner neighbours. They have taken the initiative to help generate their digital life certificate, which is a proof of the pensioner being alive. Submitting this to the pension disbursing authority — bank or post office — every November is mandatory in order to continue getting the pension. This year, the last date is December 31. The BA Block Cultural and Social Association has bought a biometric thumb impression scanner. “It cost us about Rs 3,000. We just had to install the driver,” said Prabir Mazumdar of the block. “The investment is insignificant compared to the comfort and security we are being able to provide our elderly neighbours who will not have to travel to the bank or the post office amid this pandemic,” he said. The best part of the initiative is that the block is ready to provide the service to anyone who turns up, irrespective of which block the person is from. A camp will be held again on November 15, from 11 am to 1pm, at the block’s puja venue. The idea came from block resident Ashish Mukherjee whose company had created the Jeevan Pramaan website through which the digital life certificate is generated. “We do have a couple of banks within walking distance but they are so crowded we are scared to visit them. This is so convenient,” said Tapan Ghoshal, a 68-year-old committee member. At Jal Vayu Towers, the treasurer of the apartment owner’s association Syed Humayun Siraj got in touch with the State Bank of India branch housed in Ahirini market. The bank held a camp at the housing complex for SBI customers last week. But I realised that since it was Aadhaar-based it could be extended to others as well,” said Siraj. “So I picked up from a bank official how to do it.” He is now offering the service on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday all November from 11am to 12.30pm. The bank has lent him the device. Service manager Prosenjit Das of the bank said he had been getting life certificates signed at customers’ doorsteps for the last two years. “This year, we are extending the service till Chinar Park without any service charge to customers of other SBI branches to which I will mail the certificates.” He is ready to train whoever wants to invest in the device and offer the digital life certificate service to his own housing or block pensioners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Matching steps with mom, stick in hand||Corona or no corona, the tots of Eurokids Salt Lake love their annual dandiya celebration and this year they performed in a mix of online and offline shows. “Every year, we celebrate Navratri with this vibrant dance on campus but this time we asked students to dance from home, online. However many parents said their kids were desperate to come to class and so we allowed six of them to come and dance on campus. Another six danced from home,” said Soma Chandra, principal of the school’s BB Block branch. The school also has a branch in CK Block. The kids had come dressed in fineries — bright ghagras, kurtas and masks — and counted family members as backup dancers. Abir Sarkar danced to the Ramleela song Nagara sang dhol baje with his mother, Anya Banerjee Gomes did garba with her mother while Sarthak Sinha danced to Dholi taro with his mother and grandmother. Once in a while, the kids watching the show over Zoom unmuted themselves and others could hear and see what they were up to. Little Rishika Mundra was visible once in a while wearing a red Spiderman mask watching the show from inside her car. Mehenba Huidrom entertained on and off stage. Once in a while when his video inadvertently got turned on, others got to see him running around the room chasing objects that he sent flying and sometimes the four-year-old even rolled on the floor. But when he took stage Mehenba was a picture of poise. He remembered all the steps of Chogada tara and needed no cues from his mother and sister, who danced with him. “Had I given him a chance to dance he would have felt lazy and not practised. But I told him this was compulsory and he spent every evening learning the steps,” laughed mother Aurora. The family is originally from Manipur and Aurora danced with her son and daughter Malem, who too is a former student of Eurokids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Laser show planned at Uniworld City||Residents of New Town’s biggest housing complex will get to enjoy a laser show on the night of the festival of lights. A 45-minute show high on technology and visual delight has been planned on Kali puja night on the premises from 8.30pm. “We used to have a half-hour fireworks show every year. But in view of the Covid situation and the high court order, we had to rule that out. Instead, we have arranged with a city-based company to present a laser show,” said joint secretary of the Uniworld City Cultural Association Pradipta Dutta. The cost will be almost double that of the fireworks display. Covid has also claimed another of their popular customs — an inter-tower rangoli contest. “Residents used to draw rangoli in front of their respective towers and we had a contest based on that. But that too has been ruled out to prevent a gathering,” Dutta said. The alternative has been spectacular. Professional artistes have been asked to draw alpona all along the sides of the 60ft street inside the complex. Residents, aged three to 60 years, are enthusiastically filling in the designs with rangoli in accordance with the colour schemes suggested by the artistes. On Saturday, a tribute has been planned to those who have lost the battle to Covid-19. About 1,300 lamps will be lit in their memory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Festival retail mood in Calcutta: something is better than nothing||It is Dhanteras-Diwali time and stores in Calcutta on Thursday are decked out like every year, flaunting “best deals”. But it hardly had any effect on footfall, which was nowhere close to previous years. Retailers pinned their hopes on straws of positives, saying demand that had reached the pits during lockdown was on the rise. Around 3.30pm, a jewellery store in Gariahat had a handful of customers on each of the three floors. An employee held a gold earring close to her right ear for demonstration in front of a prospective buyer. “June to September saw business coming to an almost standstill. We hardly sold anything. There was a hint of a turnaround during Durga Puja. Things are finally looking hopeful during Dhanteras and Diwali,” the store manager said. A queue at the billing and delivery counter in the Moulali store of another chain had six buyers. Two months ago, the entire store did not have six potential customers at one go, store executives said. The volume of jewellery purchased is less than previous years because of a significant rise in the price of gold and silver over the past year, jewellers said. According to the calendar, Dhanteras started on Thursday night and would last till Friday evening. For retailers, the Dhanteras-Diwali period starts a day or two before Dhanteras and lasts till Diwali, which will be celebrated on Saturday this year. Dhanteras is usually mad rush at jewellery outlets, followed by consumer durable stores. From the traditional gold lane in Bowbazar to jewellery showrooms on Camac Street to consumer durable stores across the city, the crowd keeps rising by the hour and queues often spill on to streets. Buying gold on Dhanteras is an age-old tradition. Many people believe it is auspicious to buy some jewellery, even a small token item, during Dhanteras. Bulk buying, especially for the upcoming wedding season, also takes place during Dhanteras because of lucrative deals on offer at every store. Many people believe buying something new, like a TV, fridge or a small iron brings good luck. “We had expected the festive season to spur growth and help in recovery from the six-month drought. The price of gold has gone up significantly over the past year. But the spending capacity of people has not gone up. There is a renewed faith in gold, though. People still want to buy gold assuming it will be costlier in future,” Soumik Roychoudhury, director of MP Jewellers, said. At the Dalhousie outlet of a consumer durable retail chain, a group of sales executives looked expectantly at passers-by. Inside the store, dozens of people were busy checking out washing machines, TVs and microwaves. Another store of a different chain in Gariahat looked slightly busier. But even a casual walk-in customer got enough space and the individual attention of store employees, something unthinkable during this time in previous years. The chaos, typical of a festive night, was missing, though. “There is little ras (juice) in Dhanteras this time. But something is better than nothing,” an employee of the Dalhousie store said. When other sectors were crippled because of the pandemic, consumer durables did marginally better, retailers said. They attributed this to more people spending more time at home. “Android TV sets sold because people had to watch over-the-top media service. Washing machines and dishwashers saw a boom in sales because maids were absent from work,” Pulkit Baid, the director of Great Eastern Retail, said. “Consumers want to spend on things they would use every day. That is very much visible during Dhanteras and Diwali as well. They want to upgrade from a normal to an Android TV. They want to upgrade to a fully automated washing machine from a semi-automatic one,” he said. “Apart from gold, there is a promising demand for diamond jewellery, too, especially light and easy to wear items that can be carried off at the workplace,” Suvankar Sen, executive director of Senco Gold, said. “There is a kind of bullish sentiment that is not limited to the jewellery sector alone. During Durga Puja, people came out and bought a lot of stuff. That sentiment is still there and we hope it continues,” Subir Kumar Sen, director of BC Sen Jewellers, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Siblings weigh Covid risk in Salt Lake||It’s Kali puja tomorrow but pandals are no-entry zones. The day is Diwali also but the high court has banned fire crackers. Monday is Bhai Phonta but, again, how many sisters would be willing to meet their brothers and pray for their longevity while risking their lives at the same time? Like most other festivals this year, the three upcoming ones are set to be eclipsed by coronavirus. The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to residents across the twin townships to learn how they are planning to spend the extended weekend. Debalay Gonchowdhury will be spending most of Bhai Phonta asleep in his New Town apartment, recuperating. He has tested positive and is in quarantine with his wife. “My sister, who lives in Budge Budge, will still come to our family home in Salt Lake’s GD Block to apply phonta to our dog, Dodo. She will cook something for me and send through the driver and I on my part, will send her some money over Paytm so she can buy something for herself,” says the 30-something man living behind Central mall. “It will be a Bhai Phonta like never before.” For octogenarian Samaresh Bandopadhyay, Bhai Phonta is sacrosanct. “I remember the festival of 1945 when my grandmother’s freedom fighter brother hoodwinked the police and came to take phonta from his sister. That’s how important the day is in my family,” reminisces the DL Block resident. His sister in Garia now holds a gala feast on the day with over 200 members of the extended family dining and taking part in stage events like mimicry of one another. “Three years ago, I was in Shilong on work but upon her insistence, took a flight and went over straight from the airport for phonta. This year, too, she is pleading with us to go meet her but it wouldn’t be right. How can she apply phonta from 2m away? Which brother would she leave out to reduce the crowd?” Just as deep is the grief in Somnath Banerjee’s heart. “Didi lives all alone in Chandernagore and waits the whole year to meet her three brothers,” says the senior citizen of AJ Block. “In a year that she has barely been able to socialise with neighbours, it would have meant the world to her if we could have gone over. But my brothers are against the idea. This will be the first time we will miss Bhai Phonta and I’m feeling worse as the day draws nearer.” Sankalan Datta recalls visiting his ancestral home in Behrampore every Bhai Phonta. “We bathe in the Ganga, visit the Charak mela nearby and have an awesome time with the extended family. It’ll all be virtual this time and it won’t be any fun,” says the resident of Karunamoyee F Block. Many adults, up to their 40s, however, don’t mind visiting one another for phonta, especially if the siblings live within Salt Lake and New Town. “The brother-sister relationship is created by God himself and I cannot miss meeting my sister at any cost,” says Soumen Goswami of CB Block. “And if people are visiting markets and restaurants without a worry why are they compromising on meeting siblings?” Tarasankar Chatterjee of HA Block, too, said he would fasten his mask, smear the sanitiser and visit his sisters in Ballygunge at any cost. “This time of the year is usually filled with fun and games,” says Sonali Sen of CK Block. During Kali puja she is involved with hosting antakshari under the Spectrum banner in neighbouring BL Block; for Diwali she and her family go to the park to watch fireworks display and on Bhai Phonta she and her brother go over to their sister’s apartment in Baranagar for a picnic of sorts. “This year, none of these will happen,” she sighs. “My brother, Basabbijay Sarkar, is a doctor in charge of 90 Covid patients at a time and obviously cannot seek leave now. Maybe my didi will come to Salt Lake to apply phonta and I shall tag along,” Sonali says. In other years, BE Block’s Jyoti Agarwal hires at least two pairs of helping hands to clean her home thoroughly over five or six days. “This time it is unsafe to call outsiders so we family members are slogging it out ourselves. Cleaning is a vital part of the festival as we believe Lakshmi may refuse to enter a home that is unkempt,” she says. Diwali shopping from Burrabazar has got replaced by online purchases but small scale pujas for the home and office are still on the cards. “Usually we visit the elders in the family the day after Diwali to seek blessings but this time we shall have have to do this over video call,” she says. If Jyoti wishes the court ruling allowed at least fuljhuris for the sake of tradition, Manish Kumar Hissaria is delighted the whole lot is banned. “My grandmother had asthma and I’ve seen how she suffered on Diwali nights,” says the BE Block resident whose family seldom bursts crackers anyway. “We shall clean up, perform puja, decorate the house with diyas and spend time chatting with one another,” says the entrepreneur. “Four or five of our relatives are down with Covid so we are neither inviting anyone over nor going over. We’ll miss full-fledged Diwali but there is no choice.” Despite the ban, Karunamoyee residents claimed they saw and heard fire crackers in the sky last Friday, from the FE Block side and at least one resident confessed that he is making plans to burst them on Saturday. “My friends and I usually spend about Rs 20,000 on fire crackers and burst them all night. This time the ban will make it difficult but my sources can still get me Rs 5,000 worth. I won’t buy the noisy ones and will burst the crackers alone without meeting friends as it’s unsafe,” said the Sector III resident in his 30s. Then again, some residents have stopped moping and are trying to do something for the needy this season. “Since our friends won’t be able to come over, we are collecting clothes and sweets from neighbours in AJ Block and shall distribute them with slum dwellers behind our block,” says Namitha R. Dalmia. “This will give me more happiness and satisfaction than bursting crackers.” Kakoli Das Mandal will be sharing food with inamtes of Prabortak, a home for the specially-abled in CL Block this weekend. “It will be an opportunity to teach compassion to my six-year-old too,” says the BL Block resident. Jyoti of BE Block felt the Lakshmi puja was more imporant than any fanfare. “And that we can do at home without a crowd. As for the fun and happiness, if it isn’t inside you, you’ll never derive it by busting crackers. Everyone is suffering due to the pandemic so we might as well grin and bear it this one year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake police on cracker alert||The police are conducting regular raids in areas where fireworks are generally sold and have made seizures from Dakshindari in Lake Town this week. They found chocolate bombs, fuljhuris, chorkis and kali potka from a house-cum-shop there. The high court has banned the use of fireworks in Calcutta and its adjoining areas and an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said they had started awareness campaigns asking people not to use fireworks of any kind. More than 2,000 police personnel will be on the roads of Salt Lake and adjoining areas this year to not only ensure safe and peaceful celebrations but also to stop anyone from lighting up fireworks. The police have also mapped out areas from where most complaints had been recorded in the earlier years such as Lake Town, the airport area, Baguiati and pockets of Rajarhat. Special patrol teams will be despatched in these regions. “Let alone crackers, this year we will prosecute anyone using fireworks. We will keep an eye out for highrises as well,” said Mukesh, the police commissioner of Bidhannagar. Apart from prosecutions, the police is banking on raising awareness and are conducting regular announcements in markets, asking sellers not to sell the banned items. A similar exercise is being carried out in residential areas, asking residents not to light up fireworks. Like in past years, this year police pickets will be placed around big pandals like those in BF-CF Block, Rajarhat and Sukantanagar. The top brass of the commissionerate has already held meetings with the puja organisers and issued necessary directives. Police have noted that residents of highrises burst crackers on their rooftops and are not taking a chance. “We will deploy civic police volunteers in some housing complexes to dissuade residents from doing so,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Covid tests must for contacts of people who test positive||Ward coordinators or outgoing councillors of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have to ensure that contacts of people who test positive for Covid-19 undergo Covid tests, a member of the civic body’s board of administrators told them at a meeting on Thursday. Atin Ghosh, the member who is in charge of the CMC’s health department, told the ward coordinators if someone among the contact tests positive, they should be isolated immediately. Public health specialists have stressed on the three pronged strategy to trace, test and isolate to contain Covid-19. More tests would help identify more people who are carrying the novel coronavirus but do not have any external manifestation of symptoms and freely mix with others. Isolating them will prevent the transmission of the virus from asymptomatic carriers to uninfected people, the specialists have said. Metro reported on November 6 that the number of people undergoing Covid tests at the 72 rapid antigen testing centres of the CMC was below the expectation of civic officials. “Ghosh urged coordinators to mobilise people for tests,” a ward coordinator said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-240
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Fire kills 70-year-old, injures artisan in Calcutta||A 70-year-old woman died of burns and a 40-year-old artisan was seriously injured after a fire broke out in a house in Kalighat’s Patuapara early on Thursday. Residents of the area saw thick fumes coming out of the double-storey house on Kalighat Road around 4.40am and alerted the fire station. Four fire engines managed to douse the flames in little over an hour. By the time fire officers could rescue residents, Biva Pal, a widow, had suffered severe burns and was gasping for breath. She was sleeping in her first-floor room and was not aware of the fire. Two of her relatives managed to bring her out with the help of fire fighters. She was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Rajib Pal, the artisan, is being treated at the critical care unit for burn patients. Fire officers said they were still to ascertain the exact cause of the fire though they suspect it was caused by a leaking LPG cylinder. A forensic team will visit the house on Friday. Patuapara in Kalighat is dotted with makeshift studios where artisans make idols. Pal had been working on Kali idols till late on Wednesday and had returned home past midnight, the police said. The fire has destroyed two of his unfinished Kali idols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Thief strikes on test ride pretext in Calcutta||A city doctor who advertised on OLX — an online portal to buy/sell goods — he wanted to sell his motorcycle lost the two-wheeler when a person fled with it on the pretext of going for a test ride, police said. Investigations have shown the SIM card this person had used to call the doctor in Jadavpur belongs to a rickshaw-puller in Dum Dum, the police said. The rickshaw-puller has told cops that his SIM card had been stolen by one of his passengers a few weeks ago when that person had taken his phone to make a call during the ride. The SIM card is currently inserted in a phone that belongs to a youth in Bongaon. This phone had been used to make the call to the doctor. But the police have found that the Bongaon resident’s phone had been stolen a few weeks ago. Cops, though, managed to track down the suspected bike thief when he used the stolen SIM card in his phone. That gave him away, the police said. “The man has cunningly used stolen things to commit the crime… he thought he had not left any trail. But the police got a copy of his photograph he had used as his profile picture on WhatsApp,” an officer in Lalbazar said. “The doctor and the rickshaw-puller saw the photograph and confirmed his identity. He has been identified as Gauranga Kirtaniya. He was arrested earlier this week from his Hridaypur home in Barasat.” The motorcycle has been seized. There are two cases registered against him: one by the doctor whose two-wheeler was stolen and the other by the other by the Bongaon resident whose phone had been stolen. Kirtaniya has been booked for criminal breach of trust, cheating, theft and criminal conspiracy. He has been remanded in police custody till November 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Teacher’s shock: Driver on hire and WagonR gone||A college lecturer who had hired a driver for a few hours lost her WagonR when she stepped out of the car to buy medicines at a shop in Patuli. Investigations showed the “car agency” owner who had supplied the driver had neither seen the person nor collected any of his details, which might have helped cops track him down, police said. The woman lost her laptop and bag containing her ATM cards and some money, along with the car. Cops tracked the driver down through the tower location of his mobile phone and arrested him in Salar, about 170km from Calcutta in Murshidabad, on Thursday. He has been identified as Sarfaraz Hussain, a Beckbagan resident. Somrita Chakraborty, a resident of Usha Park, Harisabha Math, in Brahmapur had booked the driver on Wednesday. When she returned after buying the medicines, she found her car gone and the phone on which she had contacted him earlier switched off, the police said. She later lodged a complaint with Patuli police station. “The owner of Garia Car centre from where the family had hired the driver said he had never seen the driver nor had he any clue about his whereabouts,” an officer of Patuli police station said. “The centre does not even have an office. The complainant got to know of it by word of mouth.” The woman’s laptop and bag have been seized. Hussain has told cops he had kept the car in the Kalikapur area, the police said. He has been booked for criminal breach of trust. People who do not know driving often hire a driver. This option helps people travel in the safety of their own vehicles, more so during the pandemic, many officers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||4,000 Calcutta school bus operators seek waiver||Close to 4,000 school bus operators in Calcutta and adjoining areas have requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to waive fines on lapsed fitness certificates and road tax as they have been out of business for over seven months. Vehicles have been in garages as schools are shut and it is discriminatory on the government’s part to offer certain sops to private bus and minibus operators, several school bus operators said. On Wednesday, the government had announced waiver of fines on lapsed fitness certificates, driving licence and road permits from January 1 for all vehicles and asked owners to pay the fees by June 30, 2021. Even though the government’s waiver is meant for all vehicles, including commercial ones, there is no clear mention about contract carriage bus operators who run school buses. Senior government officials said on Thursday they were still to get a notification of the decision and so couldn't say for sure if contract carriage operators had been included or not. “We have been paying road tax of around Rs 4,000 for every quarter even though private bus and minibus owners have stopped because of the government's relaxations,” Himadri Ganguly of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association said. “Neither the schools nor the guardians are ready to pay even half the amount that we had requested for. How do school bus owners survive?” “We hope the chief minister will look into our problems and find a way out,” Ganguly said. “She has been very sympathetic towards bus and minibus operators.” In August, the state government had waived all taxes for bus and minibus owners till September 30 and also the annual component of the permit fee bringing to bus operators a relief of around Rs 2,000 for each bus. School buses did not get that relief. School bus owners said the fees for renewing a fitness certificate was around Rs 800 but all pending taxes needed to be cleared before it could be done. “Unlike private buses and minibuses, we don't operate throughout the day and there are several conditions that have to be met for obtaining a permit to run a school bus,” a school bus owner who caters to several schools in and around parts of north Calcutta said. “The insurance fee is around Rs 45,000 to Rs 55,000.” The government is still to decide on the reopening of schools. “A driver needs to be paid Rs 12,000 to Rs 14,000, a helper Rs 8,000 and an attendant, which includes women at times, Rs 7,000. Over half the year is gone. How long can we pull through?” a school bus owner asked. Police said fines on lapsed fitness certificates for contract carriage bus owners was Rs 3,000 for the first offence and Rs 6,000 for every subsequent ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Pollution control board lists cracker hotspots in Calcutta ||The West Bengal pollution control board has sent a list of firework violation hotspots to both city and state police based on cracker-related complaints received last year. A senior official of the state board said on Thursday that this would help ensure better monitoring this year. The board pointed out that the onus to implement the high court’s blanket ban on fireworks lies on the police. Last year, the level of most toxic PM2.5 pollutants rose 10 times over the national permissible limit in Calcutta on Diwali night. “We have prepared a list of firework bursting hotspots with both Calcutta Police and state police based on the last year complaints,” said Rajesh Kumar, member secretary of state PCB. Last year, PCB lodged 15 firework-related complaints to the cops on the basis of the environmental protection act, but not much progress has been made on those cases. “I have to check the current status of those complaints,” said Kumar. The PCB, like earlier years, will maintain a control room to accept complaints and have mobile teams on the road to locate violations. The green lobby said that unless the administration swung into action immediately to  confiscate fireworks being illegally sold, the high court order will be largely flouted. “We have written to the chief minister demanding appropriate government order to implement the high court order about blanket ban on fireworks throughout the state as till now we could not see any serious effort on part of administration to  implement the order seriously,” said Naba Dutta of green platform Sabuj Mancha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||More rush hour trains from today in Calcutta||The number of suburban trains will go up during the morning and evening rush hour from Friday, rail officials said after a meeting with state government representatives at Bhavani Bhavan on Thursday. Additional trains ran in the Howrah and Sealdah divisions on Wednesday and Thursday but trains were still overcrowded. A formal announcement regularising the additional trains is unlikely to have “much impact” on the implementation of distancing rules, rail officials said. “We will try to run close to 100 per cent of the trains during the office time from Friday. We will run at least 95 per cent,” U.K. Bal, the principal chief operations manager of Eastern Railway, said. The morning rush hour means 8am to 11am and the evening 4.30pm to 8pm, a rail official said. The number of trains that ran in the Howrah and Sealdah divisions during these periods before the pandemic was 354 (177 pairs). On Wednesday and Thursday, close to 145 pairs of trains ran during the morning and evening rush hour. The risk of running a curtailed fleet came to the fore on both days, forcing the authorities to run additional trains. “In the Howrah division, 202 trains were notified. But we ran around 300 trains throughout Wednesday as well as Thursday. Additional trains ran in the Sealdah division as well. But rush hour trains were still overcrowded,” an official said. From Friday, the number of notified trains during office hours will go up to around 170 pairs. “We are close to the maximum capacity during rush hour. But there is still overcrowding. Unless there is some access-control mechanism, maintaining distancing rules is not possible,” another rail official said. Packed trains in both the Howrah and Sealdah divisions made a mockery of distancing rules on Thursday, too. At Baruipur station, a senior citizen fell on the platform while trying to get off a local train amidst the rush of passengers in the morning. He had to be admitted to hospital. At Mullickpur station in South 24-Parganas, the queue at the ticket counter got so crowded that the RPF had to intervene. From the Krishnagar local in the Sealdah division to the Bandel local in the Howrah division, trains saw people fighting for space to stand. The formal rise in the number of trains came after the state government mounted pressure on the railways following a prod from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The chief minister demanded more local trains to prevent crowding, something doctors and public health experts have been saying. Rail officials said the two days had shown a clear pattern. “The crowd is highest during rush hour. At other times, the seats marked to maintain distancing rules are empty. But during office hours, all seats are full and four people are sitting on a seat for three,” an official said. The railways had initially planned the resumption of services with “10-15 per cent” of the usual fleet. The number was raised to around 50 per cent following a prod from the state government. “The railways, particularly Eastern Railway, was asked to increase the number of trains, number of ticket counters and the number of compartments. They agreed to run 95 percent of trains during rush hour from Friday. It is expected that 100 per cent suburban trains will start running in the next few days,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
13-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta teachers worried over loss of practicals||Teachers across schools are concerned about the loss of practical classes because of the pandemic, especially for students in Class XII who are expected to appear for board exams next year. Usually, for each of the science subjects — physics, chemistry and biology — students in Class XII attend approximately 45 to 50 hours of practical classes in an academic year but this year there has been none so far. The heads of several ISC and ICSE schools have expressed their concern about the loss of practical classes to the council. The CBSE and state board schools are conducting staff meetings to discuss how and when the practical classes can be conducted. On the basis of lab experiments students prepare a file and have marks assigned on that file in ISC. In Higher Secondary, students have 30 marks assigned for practicals, of which some marks are assigned on what they do the entire year. But they could not do the hands on experiments and though schools are sending or planning to send them videos of the experiments or live demonstrations, teachers across boards said looking at videos was not the same as doing the experiments themselves. A physics teacher said it would be difficult to show optical experiments virtually. The practical is important not only for board exams but also for the next level of study, a school head said. “The skills that practical application of theoretical concepts give is necessary for anyone who wishes to take up science at the graduation level or pursue engineering or medicine,” Damayanti Mukherjee, principal of Modern High School for Girls, said. “It is not just learning by heart or being able to do derivatives but one needs to know the skills required for the next level and in the absence of that it will impact their learning. Therefore one cannot do away with the practicals. “For middle school a visit to the laboratory is ideal or desirable but for students in Classes XI and XII it is a non-negotiable aspect of gaining knowledge and skills.” Usually in most schools children have two periods of practical classes (40 minutes each) for each of the science subjects. “A part of the practical syllabus is a continuation of Class XI. But there are some new experiments (chemical kinetics) also and they need practice to be able to perform in the final exam else they will feel pressurised,” Suroopa Chakraborty, chemistry teacher at St James’ School, said. The head of a CBSE school said the first target for them would be to have practical classes once they reopen. “Practical is an extension of the theory and an important element to understand the theory,” Sharmila Bose, director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School, a CBSE school, said. Another CBSE school, Indus Valley World School, had a staff meeting to discuss about practical classes. “The real training is hands on,” said director Amita Prasad. Santosh Sen, a physics teacher in an ICSE school, said it was difficult to show some experiments in a video. "It is difficult to show some of the optical experiments in videos because students might not be able to understand in a video what they can do on their own in classes. But under the circumstances we will be sending videos to students,” Sen said. “If the situation improves and permits teachers can take extra practical classes for students.” Teachers felt students who have not handled instruments round the year and unlike books they do not have the apparatus at home. “Teachers also teach them how to handle instruments, some of which are sensitive and delicate. If they do not know how to handle, their balancing can go wrong and they will not be able to understand measurements,” Terence Ireland, principal of St James’ said. The ICSE council has sought feedback from schools regarding ICSE and ISC syllabus coverage, teaching and assessments. The council has asked how practical classes have been conducted and several schools have told the council that they could only do live demonstrations or send videos. “There is a difference between doing experiments on their own and seeing it. When children are doing it on their own and they do not arrive at a desired result they try it again. Being able to complete an experiment successfully generates an experience and satisfaction,” Sujoy Biswas, principal of Ram Mohan Mission High School, said. Suvina Shunglu, principal of Sri Sri Academy, said for junior classes they had been able to do practicals on videos. “But for seniors it is difficult to guide them on videos.” The administrator at Apeejay Schools, Rita Chatterjee, said “learning outcome is only theoretical without practical”. The problem is there in higher secondary schools, too. “I have practical classes in physics, chemistry and biology and in statistics, nutrition, and geography. If the situation improves and we can reopen we will have the important practical lessons in school,” Sunita Sen, principal of The BSS School, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-241
