14-11-2020||Calcutta|| Soumitra Chatterjee recites ‘Abol Tabol’ in YouTube rendition||A YouTube channel on the occasion of Children’s Day released the first episode of an animated series of ‘Abol Tabol’ on Saturday, which was recited by Soumitra Chatterjee before he was admitted to the hospital. A timeless creation of filmmaker and Oscar recipient Satyajit Ray and his father Sukumar Ray, the collection of 53 rhymes was first published in 1923. To date, the lines appeal to a huge spectrum of Bengali readers, regardless of their age. "Soumitra Chattopadhyay had agreed to be part of the project once we approached him with our proposal during the nationwide lockdown,” the director of the YouTube channel said. "We had goosebumps during the recording session, which was completed in two consecutive days. Watching Soumitra babu recite the rhymes with great enthusiasm was an amazing experience," Shiladitya Chaudhury, who released the first of the four episodes on the channel, added. Rhymes including 'Gnof Churi', 'Kath Buro', 'Khichudi', 'Sawt-Patro' and 'Ganer Gnuto' feature in the debut episode. “The remaining three episodes will be released in the subsequent weeks,” Chaudhury said. Speaking about the launch, Satyajit Ray’s son Sandip Ray, who is also a filmmaker, said, “It is an interesting project to bring the literary works of Sukumar Ray to the present generation through virtual media. I recall how much I loved the characters depicted by my late grandfather in 'Abol Tabol' in my childhood."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Lights, legal & lovely ||With firecrackers out of the fray, many residents are preferring to spend on lights this year. And despite the general lull in the market, some shops have stocked up on new and innovative items. "The rush has not reduced,” assures Rishiraj Ghosh of Sri Guru Bhandar in IA Market. “This I realised during Lakshmi puja when we nearly ran out of stock of puja materials and I had to call for more in the last minute. This year people want to pray more than ever. If anything, they have started shopping days ahead instead of on the eve of Diwali hoping to avoid crowds.” Sankar Cosmetics in CK Market has a wide range of candles - from the tealight variety mounted on miniature chariots (Rs 70-100) to the gel variety shaped like rosebuds (Rs 100). Indrapuri in BJ Market has earthen diyas (within Rs 100) as well as battery-operated candle replicas where a “flame” lights up and dances in the wind (Rs 20-80). “These are the best sellers this year as they are attractive and don’t need to be refilled with oil or ghee halfway through the evening,” says the salesgirl, Jhuma Naskar. IA Market has candles set in beads and stones as well as blocks with “Happy Diwali” painted on them. Another eye-catching candle comes in attractive little bottles resembling those of face cream. “These scented candles cost about Rs 90 and are being lapped up by customers. We also have star-shaped wooden stands with pompoms at the edges which one wouldn’t find elsewhere,” says Rahul Sahni of Parampara in CB Block. The elephant in the room, of course, is the state of the economy and despite how beautifully shops are decorated, Nitai Chandra Debnath of Needs in Baisakhi is worried that footfall is low. Manika Biswas of New Town’s Action Area 1A Market has got electric string bulbs punctuated with metallic geometric designs as well as those shaped like ghots, “but it’s no good if I get one customer an hour,” sighs the lady from Biswas Enterprise. “Budgets of Diwali gift hampers are down to 30 or 40 per cent and the number of hampers being distributed has down to just as much. But diyas and candles are still being gifted as they are small and relatively inexpensive items,” says Ekta Agarwal of CB Block’s Namotsav. The doshokorma bhandar at GD Market is cocksure sales will be low and hasn’t invested in any fancy lights at all. “We are selling traditional diyas and that’s it,” says the vendor. Sree Guru stores usually sells fire crackers on a table outside BD Market this season, “but diyas and candles will never arouse equal excitement. So we’re displaying these outside the store itself,” says Swapan Saha. Babloo Mistri usually gets two pushcarts of Diwali items worth Rs 15 to 20,000 but this year even his single cart with Rs 5,000 worth products aren’t selling. “People are looking for the cheapest possible items but below a price I’ll suffer losses,” says the man who is keeping his cart near Eden Shop. Archies Gallery in City Centre usually has an enviable collection of candle stands this time of the year, “but the lockdown has hit supply and we only have one model now,” says salesgirl Shukla Biswas. The model in question looks like a dessert bowl and costs Rs 699. Legend, an art store at the mall, makes its own items. “But this time artisan are unable to commute to the workshop and it has hit supply. We don’t have as much variety as before,” says the salesgirl, Kakali Sarkar.  Many customers have been enquiring the origin of products this year before buying and vendors are on the defensive. "Yes, we are selling Chinese candles but these are leftovers from last year. We won’t buy them afresh,” says Pinky Sahoo of Ma Mahamaya Paan Bhandar in BJ Market. Shivam Saha of CA Market has diyas from Kumartuli but sky lanterns that are Chinese. “I would get made-in-India fanushes if I found any but there’s no such product in the market. I know the public is against Chinese products now so I haven’t kept the fanushes on display. If someone asks I’ll bring them out and if they don’t sell at all I’ll release them in the air myself,” says Saha, from behind the Chandrabani counter. At New Town Gift Gallery in Eden Shop, Nasirul Islam says customers are weighing sentiment against prices. “Indian rangoli colour, for instance, costs Rs 120 a pack whereas the Chinese one costs Rs 70. People are tempted and we have run out of the Chinese packets now,” he says. But Rishiraj of IA Market points at a new ploy. “Some Chinese products are now being labelled ‘Made in PRC’ and that shopkeepers are feigning ignorance when asked what that means (People’s Republic of China). Others are sending parts from China and getting the products assembled in India and so they no longer have ‘Made in China’ printed on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Film society to host open-air festival at EZCC||A film festival will be screened at Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre from November 19 to 22. Organised by the Bidhannagar Film Society (BFS), the festival will screen 85 short films at the two open air theatres at the venue — Ranga Mancha and Mukta Mancha — and the shows will be free of cost. The festival will be inaugurated by EZCC director, Gouri Basu, mayoral council member Devashis Jana and Biplab K. Ghosh, regional secretary of the Federation of Film Societies of India (FFSI) at 5.30pm on November 19. All the screenings will be held between 4.30pm and 8.30pm and the prize distribution ceremony will be held on November 22 at 5pm. The jury consists of directors Abhijit Guha and Subrata Sen, film critic Rwita Dutta, and actor Tapas Chakraborty. Both venues are open air and occupancy has been brought down from 300 to 125 people. Seats will be spaced out at a distance of 6ft from one other. No food will be allowed inside but a couple of tea stalls will be lined up outside the entry gates. “We hope this will provide a welcome break from the daily grind that people have been facing during pandemic,” said Ritesh Basak, assistant secretary, BFS, and regional treasurer, FFSI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Movie halls await viewers in Diwali weekend||Diwali has always meant big business for movie theatres, with film buffs looking forward to blockbusters with stellar star casts. However, this year theatre owners are looking for new ways to beat business blues. Ever since cinemas reopened post lockdown, occupancy across halls in Salt Lake and New Town has been extremely low. The person manning the ticket counter at Nazrul Tirtha said: “Footfall is abysmal. Our smallest theatre has 350 seats, of which only five were occupied last Saturday. Before the pandemic, we used to be houseful on weekends.” While the more tech-savvy film buffs have tuned into OTT platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney+Hotstar, big screen fans are waiting it out till the next big release hits the theatres. “The last film I saw was in February at a multiplex in Salt Lake. I really miss going to the theatres but I know it is not safe yet. A second wave of the coronavirus is on the way and I am not confident enough to go out,” said Paulami Sarkar, a resident of FD Block. New releases like Manoj Bajpayee’s Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari (Hindi), Switzerland (Bengali), Biskoth (Tamil) and Irandam Kuththu (Tamil) will see the light of day over the Diwali weekend. Inox (City Centre I & II) and Swabhumi will also hold a Yash Raj Film Festival over the weekend. “This year marks 50 years of Yash Raj Films so we’ve tied up with the production house to screen classics like Silsila, Kabhi Kabhie, Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jayenge, Dil To Pagal Hain, Veer Zara, Bunty Aur Babli and Ek Tha Tiger over the Diwali weekend. Tickets to the film festival will cost Rs 50,” said sources at Inox. As for safety measures, auditorium occupancies have been brought down to half, adjacent seats on either sides will be left vacant, floor markers will be placed at box office and food counters, PPE kit will be on sale, seats will be disinfected and sanitised after every show and guests will be encouraged to maintain a 6ft distance from other families and groups at all times. There are also contactless sanitiser dispensers at the entrance and in the lobbies along with enhanced air-filtration systems and designated bins for masks, gloves etc. “I went to Inox to watch a film last week and there were just two other people in the auditorium. It was eerie,” said Stuti Hasan, a resident of AE Block. “The food stalls were shut and just a handful of staff were present. But safety measures were in place so I may go back. I hope to see more releases in the coming weeks. Maybe then the crowd will slowly trickle back to the theatres.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Regulator slams RMO, nurse roles||An alert resident medical officer and nurse would have recognised deteriorating health signals, the state health regulatory commission said on Friday while hearing a complaint against CMRI where a woman died in February hours after her delivery. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked the hospital to deposit Rs 1 lakh in a fixed deposit account in the child’s name, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission chairperson, said. The matter came to the fore when TV news channels showed her husband slapping her gynaecologist when he told him of his wife’s death. “The woman gave birth to the child at 10am. The family left the hospital after checking on the woman at 6.30pm. The gynaecologist examined her around the same time and said she was doing fine,” Banerjee said. “At 3am the next day, the hospital called the family to say the woman’s condition had deteriorated rapidly. She passed away at 5.30am. Doctor members of the commission said this couldn’t have happened suddenly. The woman died from shock, the onset of which would have given signals. “The doctors felt either the nurse or the resident medical officer (RMO) did not notice the signals of her deteriorating health or they did not take the signals seriously.” Banerjee said the hospital’s response was “superficial and cryptic”. “We have asked the hospital to file an affidavit and give their version. We have asked the woman’s husband to file an affidavit, too,” he said. “Prima facie we felt there was some negligence and asked the hospital to deposit Rs 1 lakh in a fixed deposit account in the child’s name. The money will remain deposited till the final decision is taken.” The commission will go through the woman’s post-mortem report for further investigation into the matter, he said. On Friday, the woman’s husband apologised to the gynaecologist, Banerjee said. “He regretted his action and said he was not in the right frame of mind after his wife’s death. He will give in writing his apology. The gynaecologist, too, did not want to pursue the police complaint against the man.” The commission asked BM Birla Heart Research Centre to compensate a person with Rs 50,000. Aditya Apurba, the complainant, had alleged that the hospital gave him two estimates, a higher one the second time, when his father needed an angioplasty. “The first estimate for angioplasty was Rs 1,35,000 and the second Rs 1,75,000,” Banerjee said. The estimates were only for the angioplasty and the total cost was more. The hospital said the first estimate was an error. “The total bill came to Rs 3,65,000. The insurance company gave Rs 3,15,00. The patient had to pay Rs 50,000,” Banerjee said. “We have asked the hospital to return Rs 50,000 to the patient.” The commission asked Belle Vue Clinic to return Rs 23,142 to a patient as it found some irregularities in the bill. IQ City hospital Durgapur has been asked to offer a patient a discount of Rs 25,000. “The hospital kept the woman in a bed that costs Rs 6,000. Even after her Covid negative test, the hospital did not shift her to a general bed that would have cost her Rs 1,800 a day,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Villagers save Russell’s viper||A group of villagers in Rajarhat’s Matiagacha near Kamduni stood guard around a 5ft-long snake for a couple of hours against a group trying to kill it. The snake caught the attention of the villagers while it was trying to cross the road in front of Atiar Sapui’s house. A group of six to seven men, armed with sticks, wanted to kill the snake, which was later identified as a Russell’s viper. The species is notorious for causing the maximum number of deaths from snake bites. Hearing the commotion, Sapui came out of his house and started requesting the other villagers not to kill the snake. In the meantime, a few of Sapui’s neighbours joined and asked the other men not to kill the snake with sticks. Snakes are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Sapui said he first saw the snake dart out of his backyard and he thought it would disappear into the bushes nearby. “I stepped out of my home after hearing a commotion and found the snake headed towards the road that leads to the market,” he said. While most people in the neighbourhood and passers-by started gathering with sticks and stones in their hands, Sapui and some of his neighbours requested everyone not to kill the snake. Around the same time another group of villagers, led by Zabid Ali, 62, put a wicker basket on top of the snake. At one point, both Ali and Sapui told the others that they would call police if needed. The others then went back a few steps and stood at a distance. The Wildlife rescue centre in Salt Lake rescued the snake and brought it back to the centre in a vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s adds light to children’s Diwali||Diwali is brighter than usual for hundreds of children this year because of a campaign by former students of St Xavier’s College. Around 800 children from three NGOs and a primary school in a South 24-Parganas village got new clothes, chocolates and other gifts on the college campus on Park Street on Thursday. The children got dry ration and toiletries as well. Diwali is on November 14 this year, coinciding with Children’s Day. But such occasions mean little to the children who got the gifts on Thursday. The recipients included differently abled children and children with cognitive challenges. Most of them hail from underprivileged families struggling to earn two square meals a day. That festivities are a distant dream for the children was not lost on the organisers. “The feeling of love, care and share, especially to those who require them more, is the true spirit of any festival. This embodies true human values in oneself. We try to inculcate these Jesuit values among our present and past students,” said Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, who helmed the distribution of the gifts on Thursday. Around 200 children came from Paikhala village in South 24-Parganas where St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association runs a primary school. Paikhala Primary School started its journey in 1999 on a plot of land donated by a resident. Twenty-one years later, around 250 children — from Classes I to V — are enrolled in the school. Most of them are first-generation learners. Their parents are mostly daily wagers, construction and farm labourers. The pandemic has robbed many of their livelihoods. The distribution drive was the first leg of a special initiative called “Share to Care” that aims to stand by the marginalised children. The former students’ association has organised a series of relief distribution camps in the wake of the lockdown. “The children were very happy. Their faces were beaming after receiving the gifts,” said an official of Bodhana, an NGO that had brought its kids to the college on Thursday. The 28-year-old institute is home to close to 100 differently abled children. “We, in St Xavier’s, do not see any barrier of caste, creed and religion in celebration of a festival. We particularly come forward to bring a smile among the marginalised children, so that they feel good, at least during this festive time, and this makes the celebration more meaningful,” Father Savio said. “The association has been taking up only philanthropic activities regularly during the last eight months for the needy people troubled by the Covid-19 pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. The efforts included bringing back helpless labourers from Dubai and supporting cyclone victims in Kakdwip and helping in the construction of houses in the Raghabpur area of South 24-Parganas,” said Sanjib Koner, secretary of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Cops hit for trying to enforce cracker ban||Policemen who went to a highrise in Belur in response to a firecracker complaint on Thursday night were assaulted for trying to stop residents from bursting firecrackers, police said. Two of the cops in the Howrah police team were injured and had to be admitted to hospital. Five men of a family have been booked for attempt to murder and under sections of the disaster management act. The assault occurred in a five-storey building, Ashoka Vihar, in Belur in the jurisdiction of Bally police station. An officer said cops had gone to the building to implement the high court ban on all forms of firecrackers. Around 11pm, when a team reached Ashoka Vihar, cops found 20 people on the rooftop bursting crackers, the police alleged. Some of the women and children fled at the sight of cops. Some, though, stayed back and started justifying their act, an officer said. “There were old firecrackers from last year. Children wanted to burst them; so, we thought of finishing them,” the officer quoted one of the accused residents as saying. As cops started seizing the firecrackers and asked the men to accompany them to the police station, some other residents, possibly from the third floor, attacked the men in uniform, the officer said. The team had to seek reinforcement from the Howrah city police headquarters. A team of officers reached the spot to rescue their colleagues and arrest the accused, the officer said. The police have started a suo motu case on the assault on cops with bamboo and hockey sticks. At least 11 cops, including sub-inspectors, assistant sub-inspectors, constables and home guards, had been attacked, an officer said. Five people, identified as Binod Gonda, Pawan Gonda, Kisan Gonda, Shivam Gonda, and Rajkumar Gonda, were arrested on the spot. They have been booked for attempt to murder, rioting, deterring a public servant from performing his/her duty, defiance of promulgation by a government servant, unlawfully or negligent act which is likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life, and common intention. The charges carry a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. A Howrah court on Friday sent the five to police custody. An officer termed the attack “an alarming trend”. “On the one hand, we have strict directions from the court to implement the ban at any cost and on the other we are getting assaulted for trying to do our duty,” a Howrah police officer said. “This is very insensitive on behalf of citizens.” Over 200kg of fireworks were seized from Rajarhat and Hatiara on Friday. One person has been arrested in Rajarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Bhog ruled out across Kali temples||Kali Puja will be without the customary bhog for devotees visiting Dakshineswar, Kalighat and other temples across Calcutta and in the adjoining areas this year. Almost all temple committees have decided against distributing bhog to prevent devotees from coming in close proximity during the pandemic. “This will be a break from tradition…. I don’t recall when bhog was not distributed in the temple,” Kushal Chowdhury, secretary of the Dakshineswar Kali Temple Trust, said. “We have no option. The situation is such that all devotees will have to accept the new normal.” This year, the temple authorities have decided that devotees will have to leave immediately after offering puja. At Kalighat, the authorities have decided to scale down the volume of bhog that is usually prepared on the day of Kali Puja day because there will be no distribution. “If we used to arrange around 100kg of rice to prepare bhog on the day of Kali Puja, this year it will be one-fifth of that… we will not distribute bhog to our devotees visiting the temple on Saturday,” Bidyut Halder of the Kalighat Temple Committee said. “This will be an exceptional year for all of us at the temple.” Several Kali temples across Calcutta will not carry out the ritual of bhog distribution because of the pandemic and the high court order. The high court has said police have to ensure Covid protocol is maintained at all temples. “The local administration and the police will ensure there is no overcrowding within the temple precincts or outside,” the court has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
14-11-2020||Calcutta||Stay off crackers and enjoy Diwali||Possession, sale and bursting firecrackers of any kind have been banned by Calcutta High Court. The state should ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers at all during Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations, the court said in its order. “For this purpose, only wax or oil-based diyas would have to suffice for the greater good of the citizens and in the larger public interest. “This direction as to firecrackers will be effective all over the state and will cover not only Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations, but also Chhath Puja, Jagadhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday celebrations thereafter.” The Telegraph gives the low-down on how to go about this Diwali: Sparklers are not allowed. The court order clearly mentioned that no firecrackers would be allowed. “The compendious word ‘firecrackers’ is used in this order to include all types of sparklers and the like, whether or not the use or burning thereof involves any sound or light being generated,” the order read. The court has ordered the police to maintain strict vigil and ensure there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers of any kind in the state between now and the end of the month. The cold and dry winds from north India have been somewhat stalled by a slight rise in the moisture content in the atmosphere. The Met office has ruled out rain on Diwali. But the minimum temperature is likely to be above 21 degrees Celsius, a couple of notches above normal, a Met official said. Metro Railway will run 152 trains son Saturday instead of the scheduled 190. The first and last trains will start from Kavi Subhash and Dum Dum at 8am and 9pm. The first and last trains from Noapara will start at 8.09am and 8.55pm. Diwali is not a dry day. There is no restriction on bars, pubs, off shops, and clubs — they can serve liquor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-239
