15-11-2020||Calcutta||Visits to Lake Avenue, books on acting and Chhabi Biswas||Soumitra Chatterjee did as many as 14 films with Satyajit Ray, among the most celebrated of collaborations in the history of cinema. At 5 feet 11.5 inches, he turned out to be a bit too tall for Ray’s Aparajito, and hence his debut was with Apur Sansar, the third and concluding part of the Apu Trilogy based on two Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay novels. How did Ray end up choosing Soumitra? Was it the screen test? Was it the actor’s diction? And when did he finally tell him that he was to play Apu? Here’s Soumitra in his own words. Excerpts: Manik da used to live on Lake Avenue those days. He was sitting in the room with the familiar kurta-pyjama. The moment I entered, he said, 'Oh dear, you've turned out to be much too tall.' Restraining himself immediately, he said, 'Please come in, take a seat.' I was shaken. How engrossed he must have been in his work to be able to say something like this. It only meant that he was looking for Apu everywhere, all the time. He had already received international recognition, and even won several awards. I was touched by the fact that he spoke to a nondescript stranger like me for such a long time and on such a variety of subjects. I had noticed all his life that he spoke to everyone freely and with complete sincerity. His baritone and his towering figure inevitably projected the image of a unique personality, but he never tried to create a distance between himself and others. Still, no matter how many funny things he said or light subjects he touched upon, playing the fool with him was unthinkable. And yet, when the time was right, he used to laugh and joke with many of us - just as we do with our friends - including me. I didn't realise it then, but I learnt later that Manik da would size up new actors and actresses for certain specific abilities during the course of his first conversation with them. Qualities such as their manner of speaking, their voice and pronunciation, what their expressions were like, and if they could speak Bangla fluently. I had noticed from the beginning that he put particular emphasis on their ability to speak Bangla – the sort of words they used during their everyday conversation. I have worked with many other film directors afterwards, but none of them usually paid much attention to this aspect. Everyone who's worked with Satyajit Ray knows the importance of dialogue delivery in his films. He had asked me two specific questions in the course of our tête-à-tête that day – whether I really loved acting, whether I was ready to act in films, if necessary. In other words, he wanted to observe just how keen I was on acting. Given my immense fascination for Pather Panchali and the identity of the person asking the questions, my response was exactly as it ought to have been. 'Exactly how tall are you, Soumitra babu?' Manik da asked suddenly as I was about to leave. 'Five feet eleven and a half,' I said. Summoning his production manager Anil Chowdhury, he said, 'Would you please stand next to him for a minute, Anil Babu?' When I left, he repeated, ‘Do come again, keep in touch.’ After that first meeting, I didn't go back very often although he had asked me to. Why disturb such an important man while he was busy with his work? I did take two or three friends of mine to see him in case he found any of them suitable for Apu. He didn't, though. Eventually, he picked Smaran Ghoshal. There was a stir again after the release of Aparajito – all of us loved it; it was indeed an extraordinary film. We discussed the distinctiveness of many of the scenes over and over again- the ghats of the ganga in Kashi, Harihar's death, Apu plucking grey hair off the old man's head and then racing away as soon as he was paid, Apu screaming 'Africa!' dressed as an African child, Apu missing the train deliberately so that he could go home, Apu's first visit to Calcutta and many other scenes which are still preserved carefully in my memory. I used to recollect these scenes every now and then, and do so even more so now. Youth lorded over our lives those days, with endless adda at the Coffee House. Another of Manik da's assistants, Subir Hazra, used to join our Coffee House sessions. He would often tell me, 'He hasn't forgotten you, he's going to send for you soon...' and so on. And I would say, 'Forget it, why should he send for me...' Naturally, I assumed these were just empty promises. I joined All India Radio soon afterwards _ the office was in Garstin lace, the year, 1957. I spent some time in bed with chicken-pox that year. When I had recovered, I was home one day, running my hand over the mementos of my illness, when Subir arrived. 'Come with me, Satyajit Ray has sent for you.' I went a few days later. As soon as I entered he exclaimed, 'There you are, please come in. But everything seems fine, I don't see any marks on your face! Someone was saying you have developed pockmarks. This is nothing, it should be fine.' After a pause, he added with a smile, 'I hope you're still as keen on acting as you once were.' Lowering my eyes, I said, 'yes, of course, I am.’ Anyhow, after we had spoken about some other things, Manik da said that he had decided to make another film taking cue from the second part of Aparajito, and that he might need me for it. Although he was always straightforward in whatever he said, he was also very careful; so he added immediately, ‘I am not giving you my word at the moment, but I want you to be prepared.’ A natural reserve prevented me from telling him at once that I had been waiting impatiently for one opportunity to work with a film-director like Satyajit Ray. ‘I’ll take a screen test soon,’ he continued. ‘A very simple affair.’ Then we talked about other things for quite some time, after which he said, ‘Why don’t you come over to the studio when I’m shooting?’ He was shooting two films virtually simultaneously – Parashpathar (The Philosopher’s Stone) and Jalsaghar (The Music Room). Even today, after all these years, I’m astonished when I consider the energy and the genius needed to make two films of that quality at the same time. Parashpathar was the first to be completed, followed by Jalsaghar. He had somehow found out that I was in regular contact with Sisir Kumar Bhaduri. He had even come to know that I visited Sisir Kumar frequently, borrowing books from his collection and getting him books to read. He would ask after Sisir Kumar during our conversations – what kind of books he read, what kind of books he enjoyed reading, what kind of discussions we had about acting – and so on. When he learnt that I was a student of literature, Manik da would sometimes discuss books with me. Such discussions with a new actor – and that too about literature – were unthinkable in the environment of Bengali cinema. Besides two or three cultured, well-educated film-directors, I have never met another person like him ever again. On the appointed day I went to the studio to watch Parashpathar being shot. I was dazzled by Bansi Chandragupta’s sets. Was it humanly possible to create such sets? I couldn’t even imagine such a thing at the time. I should mention that we had become instant fans of Satyajit Ray’s cameraman Subrata Mitra and art director Bansi Chandragupta after watching his very first film. We used to discuss them intensely, for both of them were like demigods for us. They’re just the kind of people a great director’s unit should have, we’d say. The sets hadn’t been completed yet, with the finishing touches still being put. I went up close and began to watch, practically open-mouthed. Manik da was preparing for the shoot. He caught sight of me devouring the scene with my eyes. Later I realised that Manik da had arranged all this for my convenience, opening all the windows to the special world of cinema to me so that I could get familiar and comfortable with it. The famous party scene of Parashpathar was to be shot that day. Virtually every famous actor of Bengali cinema was present for the shoot. Manik da gave me the opportunity to watch how renowned actors perform in front of the camera, how natural their behaviour is. In short, he was preparing me not to get nervous when it was my turn. Manik da still used the formal ‘apni’ with me at the time and hadn’t yet told me that I was to act as Apu. I had expected to be asked to play a minor character. Or perhaps he had hinted at something that I had not grasped. The practical aspects of shooting a film gradually became clear to me during my visits to the studio. I worked at the radio station and went off to watch Manik da shoot whenever I could. One day, I was there to watch a scene from Jalsaghar being shot, with Manik da giving me a vantage point as usual. After the shooting had ended for the day, I had to go off for my radio job. So I went up to him and said, ‘I have to go now Manik babu.’ Even if it was without any awkwardness, the words ‘apni’ and ‘babu’ did exist between us till that time of 1957. But both words vanished forever soon afterwards. The ‘apni’ that I did use with him till recently was just like ‘tumi’ in nature and in terms of intimacy. As I was about to leave, he said, ‘Let me introduce you to Chhabi Biswas, you haven’t met him, have you?’ I shook my head. But why did he suddenly want to introduce me to the legendary actor Chhabi Biswas? I was astonished as I was pleased. Going up to Chhabi Biswas, he said in his customary baritone, ‘Chhabi da! This is Soumitra Chattopadhyay, he is playing Apu in my next film, Apur Sansar.’ The penny had dropped! The chandelier on the sets of Jalsaghar began to sway in front of my eyes; my feet left the ground – I was flying, holding hands with the stars. That was when I realised for the first time that he had always thought of me as Apu. On the bus to the office, I wandered why it wasn’t speeding like a meteor – it was a feeling of pure, irresistible joy. The days that followed went by in a blur, flying past like the pages of an open book put down by the window. The affectionate relationship that developed between us right then led Manik da to protect me all his life with the love of a father. Visiting him at his Lake Avenue house was no longer a special effort on my part. He had personally taken several photographs of me in his room – stills which he spread out in front of his wife, whom I addressed as Boudi, and other members of his unit for discussions. He discussed my photographs with me too. He advised me to read Aparajito carefully once more in order to transform myself into Apu, and discussed all the books about acting that I had read. He also told me to read certain books I hadn’t read. I had already read Stanislavsky’s My Life in Art and Building a Character. One day he asked me during a conversation, ‘Have you read Stanislavsky’s An Actor Prepares, Soumitra?’ ‘No, I couldn’t get my hands on it,’ I said. He immediately gave me his copy of the book to read. I never saw Manik da being pedantic in his life, although there was no scope for doubt that he could have given classroom lectures on a number of subjects if he had wanted to. He always said what he needed to succinctly. Handing the book to me, he said, ‘When you read this you will realise how useful it is for beginners.’ He lent me other books of the same kind afterwards. Someone who had read so much, possessed such a superb collection of books, and was so immensely intelligent still exercised extraordinary restraint when speaking, never saying anything more than the essential – this too was a real sign of greatness. Every experienced connoisseur of the arts knows just how many people in India were capable of speaking or writing both Bangla and English the way Satyajit Ray did – my endorsement is unnecessary. He hated displays of erudition and the pretence of punditry. Excerpted with permission from translator Arunava Sinha Book: The Master and I, Soumitra on Satyajit
Author: Soumitra Chatterjee (translated by Arunava Sinha)
Publisher: Supernova Publishers
Price: Rs 395||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
15-11-2020||Calcutta||A tree that never stopped growing||The craft of Soumitra Chatterjee, a screen actor of unmatched timbre, hinged on two distinct poles. At one end was his personality that radiated charm and gravitas, at the other was his magical ability to dissolve into a role so completely as to become one with the fictional character he played. That apart, he straddled the two streams of Bengali cinema – artistic and commercial – with equal ease. No wonder Soumitra Chatterjee had an extraordinarily varied film career. He was a thinking man’s screen performer who combined deep thought and awe-inspiring creative dexterity with deceptive ease to flesh out many a memorable character that will live on as long as cinema exists. His worldwide reputation — few Indian actors can match it because it isn’t mere movie stardom that we are talking here — is obviously intertwined with that of the trailblazing Satyajit Ray. If Ray was an imposing banyan, Soumitra was one of its sturdiest branches, which eventually spread out and grew its own roots to itself become a flowering tree that never stopped growing and blooming. In the late 1990s, French filmmaker Catherine Berge made a documentary in tribute to Soumitra and titled the work Gaach (Tree). We have lost the tree; the flowers and fruits it bore will stay with us forever. In India, outside of Bengal, Soumitra’s name might ring at best a faint bell except in informed circles. This has as much to do with the distance he kept from the pan-Indian Hindi cinema – into which his great contemporary Uttam Kumar forayed with a fair amount of success – as with the kind of films he generally championed. Soumitra had no peer in India. He worked with Ray until the very end of the latter’s life, from 1959’s epochal Apur Sansar (the actor’s screen debut) to the maestro’s second last film, Shakha Prosakha (1990), building a 14-title body of work that would have ensured him immortality even if he hadn’t done anything else in life. But as things panned out, he did an immense amount of work not only in the movies, but also in theatre, poetry, publishing and art. Soumitra was in his early 20s when Ray decided to cast him in Apur Sansar. He was a visitor to the set of Jalsaghar, Ray’s fourth film, when the director introduced the youngster to Chhabi Biswas as “the lead actor of my next film”. Soumitra was taken by surprise. In fact, even after filming of the last part of Ray’s fabled Apu Trilogy began, the actor wasn’t sure he had chosen the right calling. He spent the first ten years of his life in Krishnnagar. He was a diffident boy. The stage – to begin with, his mother’s bed was the arena around which he used her saris and bedcovers as wings and curtains – was his big refuge. It allowed him to hide behind assumed personas and express himself. For one, Krishnangar, poet, playwright and musician Dwijendra Lal Ray’s hometown, had a flourishing theatre culture. Two, his father, a practising advocate in Calcutta High Court, was an amateur actor. His grandfather, too, had links with the performing arts. The shift to Calcutta for a post-graduate degree in Bengali literature exposed the young man to the city’s professional theatre, then dominated by Sisir Kumar Bhaduri. Soumitra learnt acting under the tutelage of another doyen of Bengali stage, Ahindra Choudhury. Ray, on his part, was quick to recognise the actor’s potential. He gave Chatterjee the first draft of the Apur Sansar script well ahead of filming. Ray had already made four films but never had he given any actor the entire script to read and well before the shoot had begun at that. The director also gave the debutant two sheets of paper that spelled out the profile of the film’s titular character down to the minutest detail. Another first! Ray’s faith paid off in a way that quickly became the stuff of legend. The Ray-Soumitra partnership was, in terms of output and impact, on par with the iconic director-actor combinations that Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune, Ingmar Bergman and Max von Sydow, Federico Fellini and Marcello Mastroianni and Yasuziro Ozu and Chishu Ryu forged. The films that Ray and Soumitra made together put Bengali and Indian cinema on the world map like nothing else ever has before or since. But Ray was only one chapter of the eventful career of the Dadasaheb Phalke Award-winning actor who was in the business for well over six decades and died literally with his boots on. Only late last year, he had two new films, Barun Babur Bondhu and Sanjhbati, out in the multiplexes. It is easy to forgive those that believe that Soumitra’s reputation rests solely on the work he did with Ray. But nothing could be further from the truth. The iconic thespian held his own under many other directors and in several other strains of Bengali cinema. He also collaborated felicitously with Tarun Majumdar (Sansar Simantey, Ganadevata), Ajoy Kar (Saat Paanke Bandha, Parineeta) and Dinen Gupta (Basanta Bilap, Sangini), among many others. Soumitra’s association with Sharmila Tagore began in Apur Sansar, which was the latter’s debut too. Ray subsequently cast the two enduring Bengali stars together in two films made ten years apart – Devi (1960) and Aranyer Din Ratri (1970). The Soumitra-Sharmila screen pairing, thanks to the sheer collective critical acclaim the three Ray films garnered, remains unparalleled in the history of Indian cinema. Soumitra forged a hugely successful screen pairing with Aparna Sen, who debuted opposite him in the third segment of Ray’s Teen Kanya (1961) – Samapti. Soumitra and Aparna were also cast as a pair by Mrinal Sen in Akash Kusum (1965), by Dinen Gupta in the 1973 romantic comedy Basanta Bilap, and by Ray’s assistant Nityananda Dutta in Baksha Badal (1965). The last-named film had music by Satyajit Ray. With Tanuja, who had an active stint in Bengali cinema in the late 1960s and early 1970s, Soumitra featured in three major films – Protham Kadam Phool, Teen Bhubaner Paare (both 1969) and Aparna (1972). Teen Bhubaner Paare, in which he played a drifter who falls in love with a woman way out of his league, had him jiving to the timeless hit “Jibone ki paabona bhulechi shey bhabona”, sung by Manna Dey. The song led into the interlude “Ke tumi Nandini aage toh dekhini”, which quickly passed into film music folklore. The number ranks alongside Ei poth jodi na shesh hoye, the Uttam Kumar-Suchitra Sen duet from Saptapadi (1961), as the most unforgettable musical set piece ever mounted in a Bengali film. Rarely, if ever, was Soumitra not on song as an actor. The range of roles he played was nothing if not phenomenal. Two films come instantly to mind – Goutam Ghose’s Dekha (2000), in which a he played an ageing glaucoma-stricken poet who goes nearly blind, Suman Ghosh’s Podokkhep (2006), for which the veteran actor won a long overdue National Award for the best male lead performance of the year, and the more recent Mayurakshi, directed by Atanu Ghosh, who cast the seasoned actor as a dementia-afflicted retired professor of history. Soumitra’s early triumphs were primarily in films made outside of the Bengali cinema mainstream – besides Ray, he worked with Mrinal Sen (Akash Kusum, 1965) and Tapan Sinha (Kshudita Pashan, 1960). But he eventually established himself as a major commercial movie star, starting with the success of Sinha’s Jhinder Bondi (adapted from Anthony Hope’s The Prisoner of Zenda), in which he shared screen space for the first time with Bengal’s reigning matinee idol Uttam Kumar. Soumitra’s life did not begin and end with cinema. He remained active in theatre, co-edited a literary journal for 18 years (Ekkhon, 1961-1979, with Nirmalya Acharya), authored a dozen books of poetry and also produced paintings of no mean quality. Do we know any other film actor who can boast such a range of creative pursuits? Soumitra’s acting technique was a fine blend of minimalism and meticulousness. As a result, his histrionic sleights were often invisible to the naked eye. At their best, they could only be felt. It was the subtlety of his art that made it possible for the incredibly versatile Soumitra to internalise Apu, Amulya (Samapti) and Narsingh (Abhijan), three dissimilar characters he played for Ray in a span of four years, without the effort showing. For another Ray classic, Charulata, Soumitra changed his Bengali handwriting for good. He spent six months practising the letters and strokes of a pre-Tagore era and emerged, at age 27, with an all-new running hand. Didn’t we mention his ability to merge himself with a screen character? It bordered on the miraculous. Saibal Chatterjee is a cinephile who has been writing on films for over three decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee passes away after over a month in hospital||Thousands of people walked behind a flower-bedecked hearse carrying the body of actor Soumitra Chatterjee to Keoratala Mahasashan where his mortal remains were consigned to flames with full state honours on Sunday evening.
Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, along with her ministerial colleagues and a host of film personalities, walked in the procession with others singing Tagore's "Aguner parashmoni chhoao praane". Hundreds of people also stood along both sides of the road and crowded rooftops in nearby houses to have a last look at their favourite actor. As the last journey ended at the crematorium, Chatterjee was given a gun salute in presence of the chief minister and other dignitaries. Chatterjee, known for his career-spanning collaborations with celebrated director Satyajit Ray who cast him in 14 of his films, passed away at a city hospital on Sunday afternoon after a prolonged illness aggravated by a bout of Covid-19. He was 85. ​He is survived by his wife, Dipa Chatterjee, daughter Poulami Bose and son Sougata Chatterjee. ABP Ananda, quoting Belle Vue Clinic sources, said the end came at 12.25pm. "We declare with heavy heart that Shri Soumitra Chattopadhyay breathed his last at 12-15 pm at Belle Vue Clinic today (15 November 2020). We pay our homage to his soul," an official statement read, reported NDTV. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who reached the hospital after the news broke, declared that the actor would be accorded a state funeral. His mortal remains were taken to his house at Golf Green at 2pm and then to the Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge where he spent most of his five-decade-long career shooting. Chatterjee's body was kept at Rabindra Sadan in the afternoon to enable his fans and admirers to pay their last respects. The funeral cortege then left for the burning ghat in a procession. Chief minister Banerjee had said the procession would proceed amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety measures. The actor, who was admitted at Belle Vue here for over a month ago, remained in a “very, very critical” condition for the last 48 hours, a hospital update issued at on Saturday night said. His physiological system is not responding” despite all efforts, the hospital said. “He is still on different life supports and holding on. But it is almost a point of no return… from where he can come back and survive,” Arindam Kar, one of the doctors treating Chatterjee, said. Chatterjee, 85, was admitted to Belle Vue on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He recovered from Covid-19 but could not overcome Covid encephalopathy, a post-Covid complication that can trigger coma, drowsiness, disorientation and multiple other complications, and lead to multi-organ failure. “We have done everything possible in the past 40 days, but it is the encephalopathy that has undone every effort of ours,” said Kar, who is among a huge team of neurologists, nephrologists, cardiologists, critical care specialists, and infectious diseases specialists from both private and government hospitals that had been put together for Chatterjee’s treatment. Sharmila Tagore, who debuted in films along with Soumitra in 1958 in Apur Sansar, describes him as a treasured friend. In the foreword to The Master and I, the actor’s memoirs about his time with Ray, she talks of how like Ray, Soumitra wasn’t propelled by commerce. “Eternally childlike and hopelessly romantic at heart, like Ray, he is also a multifaceted talent,” she writes. Chatterjee and Ray enjoyed a partnership of over three decades, leaving the world of cinema with timeless gems _ Apur Sansar, Devi, Charulata, Aranyer Din Ratri and Ghare Baire have all been, and continue to be, admired and rediscovered by generations. “We were, to a great extent, Apus of our time,” Soumitra once said, about his joining the cast of Apur Sansar after Ray found him to be “too old” to play the role in Aparajito. Many critics rate his performance as Amal in Charulata as one of his best in the 14 films by Ray he appears in. The scene where he is lip-syncing to “Ogo Bideshini”, sung by Kishore Kumar, while playing the piano is one of cinema’s most cherished moments. Soumitra immortalized the role of Feluda, Ray’s famous detective, who like Sherlock Homes had a Watson too _ in the form of his young nephew Topshe, whom children growing up in the Calcutta of the ’60s and ’70s identified with. Ray started writing these Feluda novels circa 1965, and long before Sonar Kella was conceived of as a film, the look and demeanor of this tall, strapping handsome man was revealed to readers in the form of illustrations that many said were modelled on Soumitra. While discussing Gantokey Gondogol (Trouble in Gangtok) with Ray, the actor had pointed out how the illustrations in the book resembled the filmmaker. But a smiling Ray replied. “Really? Several people have told me that I’ve drawn him with you in mind.” Later, Soumitra talked about it with many others all of whom agreed that the line drawings looked more like him! Yet, personally, Soumitra writes in The Master and I, that he always felt the resemblance was closer to Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Munia Mania||Zitting Cisticola. Most people would find it difficult to put a face to that name. Frankly, so did I. The lockdown had got me hooked to social media and I joined various WhatsApp groups, mostly on wildlife and birding. In one such group, I, along with 563 others, happened to like a particular picture. I remember the picture well. Not because it was exceptionally good, but it got me hooked to what I call ‘munia mania’. One good picture posted and the city and its surroundings are abuzz with the typical questions: Where? When? How many? Munias are small birds, typically around 10cm long. There are several types like the Scaly-breasted, Chestnut, White-rumped, Black-headed and the Indian Silverbill. But the most sought-after has to be the male Red Munia. It’s a photographer’s delight and aptly considered strikingly pretty. Another term that is often used to describe these birds is gregarious. These little, sparrow-sized birds are fond of company, sociable and seen in flocks. They are typically found in areas with tall grass and shrubs in well-watered areas. Well, I must admit I’m technologically challenged. My kids, on the other hand, seem to be relatively comfortable handling gadgets. So, armed with a Canon EOS1300D and a 70-300mm lens, I gathered enough courage to set off on my own to try and find these elusive birds. But where? I asked a friend, a fellow birder, for directions. Bang opposite the Mishti Hub. Owl More. Go straight. You’ll reach a dead end. That’s it. Actually, when I think back to the first visit, the dead end proved to be the beginning. Over a period of time I’ve got hooked. And if I was to believe my son, it has turned into an obsession. I’ve also learnt that for birding, the 70-300mm is good but the 150-600mm Tamron magically takes you into a whole new world. Not only is the quality of the images much better, but you can comfortably sit at a distance and truly observe the birds. I almost forgot about the Zitting Cisticola. During my first visit to this hot spot, I was rather frustrated. The shorter lens could barely capture the images of the munias as they settled on the tall grass in the distance. The swampy nature of the place and the possibility of snakes meant I was restricted and had to observe the birds from a distance. The heat and humidity weren’t helping either. Suddenly a sharp, continuous zit-zit call got my attention. I found a tiny bird, smaller than a sparrow, soaring erratically in the air, falling and rising, in a short, jerky flight only to dive into the grass and disappear. I was intrigued, fascinated actually. And then from behind me the same zit-zit call. This time I managed to get a decent shot. A lovely rufous brown bird with prominent darker streaks, also referred to as the streaked fantail warbler. Don’t be fooled by the many wonderful pictures that you see online. It could be very misleading. Birding is a game of patience and persistence. And, of course, acquired knowledge. There are many books and sites to learn from, but nothing compares to a field trip. Which highlights the second question, that is ‘When?’. I’ve learnt the hard way that birding during midday in the summer months is not such a good idea. But then again the heat keeps the others indoors and allows you the freedom and solitude — something I’ve begun to enjoy. My visits to these reedy marshes and grasslands filled with tall, feathery grass has, over a period of time, surely helped me climb the learning curve and most certainly improved my patience levels. I’ve learnt not only to spot birds and distinguish the various species, but, more importantly, to observe them. Observation leads to better understanding and, eventually, better photographs. I’ve understood the value of a good cap, a bottle of water or two, and a packet of biscuits — invaluable while you wait almost endlessly for the birds. A friend also suggested observing insects in the surroundings — dragonflies, damselflies, Banded Blister Beetles, jewel beetles and, of course, butterflies. There has never been a dull moment since. A bird I found to be the most active in these grasslands is the Plain Prinia. I don’t find them plain in any way. In fact, I find them quite beautiful. They have been called skulkers, but if you sit still you’d find they are always up to something. I’ve grown fond of their rather insect-like, wheezy song and their distinctive call that includes various buzzing and clinking noises. The hot summer months transform certain grass and plant species to shades of brown and pale yellow. Most of the birds, unfortunately, are similarly coloured. Hence, I carried my specs on the next trip. Unfortunately, specs and a mask are not compatible in photography. You can’t see much through fogged glasses. Thank God I was alone and could get rid of the mask. Armed with better vision, thanks to my spectacles and the 150-600mm lens, I was better equipped to spot more birds. The Paddy Field Pipit is a common bird seen foraging in open scrub and grassland and will willingly pose for photographs. While following a pair I accidentally stumbled upon a flock of busy Ashy Crowned Sparrow Larks. Thank God the male is well-marked with a contrasting black-and-white pattern on its face. Their ability to freeze and blend into the surroundings makes it almost impossible to photograph. Almost. Remember, I had brought my specs! I even managed to spot and photograph an elusive Bengal Bushlark. On a particular visit, I decided to sit near a large waterbody. The sky was overcast with dark, ominous rain clouds accompanied with the occasional ear-splitting roll of thunder. The edge of the waterbody was covered in tall grass and reeds. Water hyacinth and lily spread over most of the remaining water surface. Without warning it started to pour. Luckily my car was parked very close to where I was standing and I quickly got in, ruing my luck. The downpour was brief. I had started the engine and was about to leave when I gave one last, wishful glance. Sometimes you get lucky. Period. The cool breeze following the rains had transformed everything. A pair of Bronzed-winged Jacanas chose to display their courtship ritual while a busy Little Grebe repeatedly dived to find food. Nearby, perched on a dead branch, a Cormorant suddenly became vocal. The happiness all around was very visible and apparent. I decided to try birding early in the morning and set off around 5.30am one day. The Swedes have a word for it, gokotta (pronounced zho-kot-tah) — the rejuvenating act of rising at dawn to listen to birds sing, to immerse oneself in nature. The early morning light created a magical glow all around. The birdsongs and calls filled the air. I made my way towards the tall grass. I could hear them. Somewhere close by. I froze. Almost immediately a flock of Tricoloured Munias descended and perched nearby. Slowly I raised the camera and tried to focus. There was a problem of plenty. I initially took a  picture of a group of six and then proceeded to take pictures of individuals. Four of them flew off to a small waterbody and proceeded to drink. I couldn’t believe my eyes. I kept clicking. Suddenly I felt something slithering over my shoe. I glanced down to see a huge snake had just crawled over my foot and was moving into the nearby bushes. Fear. Excitement. Opportunity. Click it fast said a tiny little voice from inside. I gathered my wits and got a few decent shots. Added to the list of essentials along with cap, water bottle, biscuits would now be adult diapers! I found out later that, thankfully, it was a non-poisonous rat snake. I got back to the car and thanked my lucky stars. I was overjoyed. Never had I seen so many munias from so close. Or had the opportunity to photograph them. But a part of me was still unhappy. I was yet to see the male Red Munia. The magnificence of the picture I had seen on social media still haunts me. Some day. I switched on the music and ironically the U2 song — Still Haven’t Found What I’m Looking For — started playing. I couldn’t help but laugh. I will find it, I promised myself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Early sign: Festival of prudence in Calcutta||Calcuttans made the Calcutta High Court ban on crackers successful in the early hours of the Diwali evening. The city had an unusually quiet Diwali — the occasional beat of the dhak and the flickering fairy lights on parapets the only reminders of a festival evening. Police said no significant violation had been reported till around 8pm in the usual problem areas. A Ballygunge resident said this had been the best Diwali not just for her but for her pet Alsatian too. New Delhi witnessed several violations, PTI reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s varsity offers campus exam option||St Xavier’s University will allow students who don’t have computers or sound Net connectivity in their homes to write their semester exams on the campus using the university’s computer facilities. The online second and fourth semester exams for undergraduate students and second semester for postgraduate students will be held from December 7 to 11. Since some students don’t have computers at home or access to proper Net connectivity because of financial constraints or any other reason, they will be allowed to take the online exams on the campus, Father Felix Raj, the university vice-chancellor, said. “We cannot expect all students to have computers at their homes. Somemay lack robust connectivity and that can come in the way of writing tests online. They will be allowed to write the test on the campus. In any university, students come first,” he said. “They are the primary stakeholders. The university should be at their service.” A notification signed by the acting controller of examination said those who wanted to take the exams on the campus needed to send a mail to students@sxuk.edu.in, mentioning their name, course, roll number and registration number. The subject will be “Request for giving examinations on the university campus”. The applications will be verified and approved with certain conditions by the competent authority, according to the notice. All provisions are applicable as a one-time measure and cannot be cited as a precedent in future. The university will send its buses to pick up students from their homes and bring them to the campus as they don’t want students to use public transport during the pandemic, the vice-chancellor said. A university official said the university had surveyed students and found some had Net connectivity problems. This prompted the university to allow students to take the exams on the campus. A similar survey at the India Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, had shown 15.5 per cent of 1,830 students could not attend online classes in the last semester and that 18.3 per cent faced Net connectivity problems at home, an institute official said. St Xavier’s has always thought about disadvantaged students whose condition have worsened during the pandemic and in July had decided to offer a 20 per cent concession on semester fees to all undergraduate and postgraduate students for the next six months, a university official said. Last month, some undergraduate students of Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose College in Calcutta had dropped the plan of uploading their final-year answer scripts from their homes because of Net connectivity problems and had opted for a pen-and-paper test on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||NGO to help rebuild homes lost to fire||An NGO has reached out to 100-odd families to help them rebuild their lives after their homes got gutted in a fire on Tuesday. Many of these families have children and pregnant women who had to rush out of their shanties leaving behind their belongings and documents, an official of the NGO, Ek Tara, said. The fire had broken out around 3.30pm on Tuesday and it had taken 22 fire engines to bring it under control by 6pm. Those in the locality said the fire had spread from one shanty to another. The NGO had earlier conducted mobile school projects in the slum for the children to teach them numbers and letters and held empowerment programmes for women. A team from the NGO visited the locality on Wednesday to speak to people and assess losses they have suffered. A woman in her third trimester had run out of her home with her younger brother when the fire broke out. “I thought of carrying some of our belongings with me… but it was not possible,” she said. “We found out more than 300 people had been affected… most had lost everything,” Manjusmita Bagchi, the associate director of Ek Tara, said. “They need clothes and utensils… most of their documents and identity proofs have been damaged. We are arranging clothes, blankets, mosquito nets, utensils, ration and solar lamps for these families. The area has poor families and our priority is to reach out to those who have lost everything.” The area is commonly referred to as Mazdoor para and most men in the area are involved in garbage segregation or are daily labourers, Bagchi said. The women work has domestic helps. The pandemic has hit their income and the fire has taken away whatever they had, she said. At least two other NGOs are working in the area to help these people rebuild their lives. Ek Tara has appealed on social media, too: “The massive fire has completely destroyed one of our slums in Topsia. Over 300 people have been displaced. Children are without food and clean water. We urge everyone to help us rebuild the lives of those affected by the fire.” “We have made a list of requirements… we are sending that to our connections. We could see the fire from the roof (the NGO office is nearby),” Vinita Saraf, founder and trustee of Ek Tara, said. The NGO mostly works in the Tiljala-Topsia area. “The pandemic had affected their lives and earnings. Now, with the fire they have to deal with a double blow,” Saraf said. In approximately two days, Ek Tara has been able to raise close to Rs 80,000. The NGO has received donations in kind as well — blankets, saris, clothes and milk for children. The team members who have conducted outreach programmes in the locality in the past have been moved by the sight of helpless men and women. “Some appeared completely blank and they did not know where to start from,” Anupriya Bhattacharya, the NGO’s executive programme manager who has worked in the locality for the past seven years, said. “As it is they have tiny houses and now even those are gone. But there are resilient… it perhaps comes from the fact they have seen so much hardship,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra ‘very, very critical’||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee is “very, very critical”; the situation is “grim”, a doctor at Belle Vue Clinic said on Saturday. “His physiological system is not responding” despite all efforts, the hospital said in an update issued at 9pm. “He is still on different life supports and holding on. But it is almost a point of no return… from where he can come back and survive,” Arindam Kar, one of the doctors treating Chatterjee, said. “It seems that even a miracle will be short of getting him out of the situation as of now. We have explained the situation to his family members. They are in grief. Everyone has seen the effort that has been put. We are trying our last effort,” Kar said. Chatterjee, 85, was admitted to Belle Vue on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He recovered from Covid-19 but could not overcome Covid encephalopathy. “We have done everything possible in the past 40 days, but it is the encephalopathy that has undone every effort of ours,” Kar said. Encephalopathy is a post-Covid complication that can trigger coma, drowsiness, disorientation and multiple other complications, and lead to multi-organ failure, a doctor treating Covid patients at another hospital said. The update from Belle Vue said a huge team of neurologists, nephrologists, cardiologists, critical care specialists, and infectious diseases specialists from both private and government hospitals came together for Chatterjee’s treatment. “At the end it is not working. We are very sorry to say that he has not been responding at all in the past 24 to 30 hours,” Kar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Good sense lights up Diwali||A large part of the city celebrated a noiseless Diwali, following in letter and spirit the Calcutta High Court ban on firecrackers. Till around 9pm, smaller pockets and fringe areas received more complaints of violations compared to the heart of the city and the traditional hotspots that are usually known for a noisy Diwali. Till 9.30pm, only 15 persons were arrested for violating the ban relating to firecrackers in the city. According to statistics shared by the pollution control board and Sabuj Mancha, they had received 25 and 33 complaints till around 9.15pm on Saturday. A few instances of bursting chocolate bombs were reported in the Cossipore neighbourhoods around 9pm. According to feedback from police, pollution control board and Calcuttans Metro spoke to, traditional noise-making pockets like Lake Town, VIP Road, Behala, Burrabazar and Bowbazar were more or less silent till on Saturday evening compared to previous years while complaints had poured in from fringe areas in the south like Sonarpur and Baruipur. What was different this Diwali: Court order:  Calcutta High Court had banned sale, possession and bursting of any form of firecrackers this year and instructed the state to execute a complete ban at any cost because of the pandemic. This means violators could be prosecuted and arrested under strict sections which could lead to an imprisonment of a few years. “Who will take the risk of being arrested? Last year one of my friends had to spend a night at Thakurpukur police station. This year none of us is taking any chance,” said Priyank Sinha, a resident of New Alipore. Amplified health concerns because of the changes brought about by Covid-19 could also have made people want to act responsibly by paying heed to the ban. Police vigil:  The police had posted personnel at high-rise buildings in Park Street, Shakespeare Sarani, Alipore and New Alipore area from where multiple cases are reported every year. Police patrol in auto rickshaws and radio flying squads apart from 5000-odd cops on the roads were a deterrent to bursting crackers, a section of the police felt. Diwali in Ballygunge and Gariahat were “peaceful” till 10pm, compared to last year. “I made three rounds of a highrise in my area which is famous for violating the cracker norms. This year there is complete silence,” said an officer of Ballygunge police station. Citizen activism: Many police stations, such as that in Behala and Thakurpukur, said they were receiving petty complaints that did not merit to be reported. “People are panicking. A young boy had fired a cap in his toy gun. Hearing that, one of his neighbours dialled the police station to report. On enquiry, it was found to be a trivial matter. Neighbours were a little overcautious,” said a police officer in the Parnasree area. In several cases, it was found that the actual incident of bursting crackers had happened in the adjoining police station area that falls under South 24-Parganas, but residents of Calcutta were reporting it. A Behala resident said as of 8.30pm, he could hear only a few firecrackers, compared to the incessant noise that buffets him every Diwali for hours. Cracker crunch: As there was almost negligible sale of firecrackers this year, even those who wanted could not get their hands on their share of firecrakers.  “We are retiring early tonight. My children are upset,” said a resident of Beleghata. The  police in Calcutta, Bidhannagar, Howrah and Barrackpore had been conducting raids and searches for illegal stockpiles of firecrakers. More than 270kg of firecrackers, including chocolate bombs and shells, had been seized by Bidhannagar police in the past few days. The squeeze on availability of firecrakers and awareness campaigns against their sale, possession or use helped the police to a large extent, till Saturday evening, several police officers said. Pet-friendly:  Calcuttans who have pets and dread the noisy Diwali nights said they had not had a more peaceful Diwali in the past few years. “I feel petrified for my pets (dogs) who literally stop eating during this period. They become so miserable that every year I have to keep on complaining against the bursting of firecrackers from the adjoining area. But this Diwali is so silent, till now. I am grateful that good sense has prevailed,” said Mandira Ghosh, a resident of a high-rise building off the Bypass at Kalikapur. More than 80 children who enjoyed a tram ride on three routes — Shyambazar, Nonapukur and Gariahat — at Esplanade, where the rides culminated, on Saturday morning. 
The tram ride on the occasion of Children’s Day marks the beginning of the observation of child rights week by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The underprivileged children are from NGO homes and Saturday’s ride ended with all of them getting goody bags from the commission. “Saturday marked the beginning of the child rights week to stand up for the rights of the child that the commission organises every year. The difference this year was handing over masks and hand sanitisers to the children and maintaining social distancing. Not just Calcutta, child rights awareness campaigns are organised in the districts, too,” said Mahuya Santra, consultant at the state child rights commission||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Lorry runs over woman||A 30-year-old woman was killed and a 45-year-old man was seriously injured in two accidents on Saturday. A lorry ran over Susmita Mallick who was crossing the road near the Judges Court Road-Diamond Harbour Road intersection around 9.30am, police said. Mallick was lying on the road for some time before cops arrived and took her to SSKM Hospital where she died. Eyewitnesses told the police she had been flung a distance away and that the rear wheels of the lorry ran over her head. Passers-by stopped the lorry before alerting the cops. The driver has been arrested. In the evening, a dumper hit Arindam Pandit who was on a bike near Sakherbazar on Diamond Harbour Road, leaving him with head and leg injuries. He is “in a critical state” in Vidyasagar State General Hospital. The driver of the dumper has been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Corporate Diwali gifts take a hit||The pandemic has forced corporate entities to abort or scale down on Diwali gifts this year. The gifts used to come in various forms: from the ubiquitous dry fruit boxes to elegant packs with fountain pens and card holders. Companies used to hire creative agencies to think of innovative gifts. But with the economy in a tailspin, corporate gifts have been going south for the past few years. This year, the segment has hit rock bottom, according to givers and takers. The dry fruits' market in Burrabazar has been busy for the past few days. But bulk orders from companies were missing, traders said. “Bulk orders are a fifth of last year,” Paresh Modi, a dry fruits’ trader, said. Many companies opt for personalised gifts during Diwali. A premium fountain pen and an accompanying notepad or card holder used to be a popular choice with many companies till this year. “Corporate gift orders are 15 to 20 per cent of previous years,” Gautam Jatia, the CEO of Starmark, said. “Premium pens are the most popular gifts. In previous years, there have been instances of a client ordering around 30-40 Kindles as Diwali gift. But things have come to a standstill this year,” Jatia said. An online trading firm spent “around Rs 5 lakh” on Diwali gifts last year for premium clients. This year, the budget is one-fifth. “Staying afloat is a challenge now. Gifts have taken a back seat,” a senior official of the firm said. Many companies used to hire advertising agencies to come up with innovative and insightful corporate gifts, both during Diwali and New Year. “Corporate gifts have seen a significant drop in the past few years. This year, there is nothing at all,” a Calcutta-based advertiser said. He usually starts working on New Year gifts from October. “But there are hardly any orders so far this year.” Till 2016, a private bank in BBD Bagh used to order “around 200” boxes of dry fruits during Diwali for premium depositors. The number has been going down for the past few years. But this year, the bank has ordered nothing. “We are just sending e-cards to customers,” an official said. An official of an FMCG company is flooded with gift hampers during Diwali every year. But this year, the number has been just “a couple of dry fruit boxes”. A Calcutta-headquartered FMCG company has bucked the trend and continued with personalised corporate gifts this Diwali as well. “We wanted to celebrate the spirit of Diwali... and not let our spirit be dampened by the muted environment,” a spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-238
