16-11-2020||Calcutta||Why we had to pay our last respects ||Thousands from across the city gathered to pay their last respects to Soumitra Chatterjee at his house in Golf Green, Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge and Rabindra Sadan on Sunday. Here’s what some of the fans told The Telegraph. Madhabi Bhattacharya, 72, Dover Lane (Spotted craning her neck to catch a glimpse of the hearse entering the actor’s house as well as Rabindra Sadan) I have always swooned over him. He had a charm and charisma that no other actor has. His death has come as a shock for me. Throughout all these years I would make it a point to watch his films as soon they were released. I also have a collection of his poems, which is one of my dearest possessions…. I did not go inside to see his body because I am yet to come to terms with the fact that he is no more. Joydip Sur, 37, private company employee I cancelled a Sunday lunch with my family to pay my last respects to this man. His passing has left an eternal void in the world of cinema. For me he was a doyen of Bengali films, who with his talent and charisma mesmerised several generations. I loved all his films and I strongly feel that whether essaying the role of Apu or Feluda, he excelled in his craft. I had to be here today. The hearse drove to Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge from Golf Green Debashis Chakraborty, 52, eye surgeon, with daughter Aishe Chakraborty, Class V student I make sure that my daughter Aishe watches Feluda films every time they are telecast on TV. I grew up watching Soumitra Chatterjee’s films. So today when we got news of his death, I skipped lunch and came here with my daughter. The feeling is yet to sink in that he is no more…. When I told my wife that I was stepping out, to my surprise my daughter said she would accompany me. Soumen Singha Ray, 62 I used to meet him almost every other day for adda and it always amazed me that he never had any airs around him. Standing here I remember accompanying him to Assam, where he was conferred with a DLitt by Silchar University. Chatterjee’s body was then taken to Rabindra Sadan Soumen Ghosh, 56, private company employee, came with wife Uma Ghosh, 48, and daughter Adrija Ghosh, 26 One of our favourite pastimes every Sunday is to watch Soumitra Chatterjee films. This is a ritual for nearly as long as we are married. When news reached us that he had passed away, we knew we had to come and pay our last respects to him. Adrija Ghosh Although most of my peers swear by younger actors, Soumitra Chatterjee has always been my go-to man whenever I am down. I adore him in all his films. I asked a shopkeeper to open his shop for flowers. When he heard why I needed the rajanigandhas, he did not charge me anything for it. That is the charisma of Soumitra Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Planned approach bears fruit||Intensive patrolling across hotspots, calls to families known to splurge on firecrackers, meetings with representatives of housing complexes and an overwhelming majority deciding to abide by the high court order — a combination of factors resulted in Calcutta witnessing one of the most silent Kali Pujas/Diwalis in several decades. There were a few complaints about bursting of firecrackers, in violation of the blanket ban on fireworks imposed by the high court, late on Saturday and on Sunday evening, but by and large it was a noiseless Kali Puja-Diwali this time. Till 9.30pm on Saturday, only 15 people were arrested for bursting firecrackers and lighting sparklers in Calcutta. By dawn, the figure shot up to 290. Last year, police had arrested 400 people on Kali Puja night for bursting banned firecrackers. There were pre-Puja drives across markets where firecrackers are usually sold in Calcutta. Fireworks on sale were seized. On Saturday night, the police seized 1,054kg of firecrackers from different parts of the city. But that alone didn't make the difference, the police said. “A sizeable number of people wanted to adhere to the high court directive and that made the difference. It would not have been possible for the police to visit houses and seize firecrackers,” said an officer at Lalbazar on Sunday. Ahead of the festival day, officers from respective police stations and the detective department had identified areas that required intense patrolling to enforce the ban on firecrackers. “Representatives of housing complexes were told that if there were any complaints about violation of the court order, the president or the secretary of the residents’ association concerned will be arrested,” said an officer of Kasba police station. Families known to splurge on firecrackers were called and asked to abide by the court’s order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Air pollution drops up to 60%||The maximum air pollution level this Diwali night dropped by 20 to 60 per cent in various parts of the city compared with the previous Diwali, shows an analysis by the Central Pollution Control Board of the data recorded by various pollution measuring stations. “I am happy with the development and would like to thank police and common people for this improvement,” state pollution control board chairman Kalyan Rudra told Metro on Sunday evening. According to the central board, the city’s air quality index (AQI) was moderate on Diwali. The AQI is an indicator of the overall air pollution level. The central board analysed the AQI data generated hourly by seven automatic air quality monitoring stations across the city on Diwali. The study shows the highest air quality index value from 7pm to midnight on Diwali was 398, recorded by the monitoring station on the Rabindra Bharati University campus on BT Road. It was followed by Fort William (326), Ballygunge (316), Jadavpur (283), Victoria Memorial (277), Rabindra Sarobar (236) and Bidhannagar (192). Last year, the highest hourly AQI had reached 500 – the highest value measurable under the National Air Quality Index and considered severe – at all stations on Diwali evening. However, the AQI index this Diwali, though much better compared with last Diwali, was still nearly 50 per cent worse compared with the evening before, vindicating the pollution-triggering role of fireworks, whatever little was burnt on November 14 evening and night. The average hourly AQI between 7pm and midnight on November 14 was 197, compared with the value during the same period on November 13 (133). The data also suggests that the average AQI was worst at midnight – 289 – increasing consistently from 7pm, when it was 120. No such trend could be seen November 13 evening, which negates the possible involvement of meteorological and other factors. On Diwali night, the state pollution control board received 33 complaints of bursting of firecrackers and Sabuj Mancha, an organisation that works for protection of the environment, received 52. “Thirty of those complaints were from Calcutta. The frequency of complaints increased as the night progressed,” said Naba Dutta, the secretary of Sabuj Mancha. According to the organisation, stray complaints came from areas like Kalighat, Dover Place, Entally, Beleghata, Rabindra Sarobar, Lake Town and Thakurpukur. More frequent complaints came from areas like Kasba, Behala, Rajpur-Sonarpur and Tangra. “However, most of the spots known for violations, like the area around BC Roy Children Hospital and Ramkrishna Mission Seva Pratisthan and major parts of north Calcutta, were quiet,” said a member of Sabuj Mancha. "The high court order pushed the administration into action and also people at large cooperated, perhaps because of the Covid pandemic,” said Biswajit Mukherjee, a retired chief law officer of the state board. According to a report of the state pollution control board, the level of the toxic PM2.5 pollutant, which can reach the deepest crevices of the lungs and trigger a range of respiratory diseases, dropped at least four times this Diwali compared with last year’s. The report says that while the maximum PM2.5 value recorded last year was 768.38 micrograms per cubic metre, it was 185.75 microgram this year. The national limit is 60 microgram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Producer recalls the perfectionist in Soumitra||A perfectionist at work. The first to come and last to leave at a celebration. Film producer Firdausul Hasan recollects his association with the multiple facets of Soumitra Chatterjee. Hasan, who has worked with Chattopadhyay in two films, is also the president of the Film Federation of India. Like millions of other film enthusiasts, I have also grown up admiring actor Soumitra Chatterjee. My first film, Roopkatha Noy, with the stalwart as the lead, was my tribute to the legend. It was my first film as a producer and I remember that initially, Soumitra-babu had said that no matter what, he would shoot only for four hours each day and we must strictly abide by his schedule. However, a few days into the shoot, the legend started staying back whenever he was not happy with his own shot or even when he realised that a few extra hours would help to wrap up a particular scene, despite me requesting him to return home for rest since the scheduled four hours were over. Such was the human and the film loving perfectionist in him! As a newcomer and a producer, my respect for him deepened. Working with him and watching him work later in my National Award winning production ‘Mayurakshi’ has taught me numerous things about cinema, about discipline and professionalism. I think he sensed my passion for films and that is when our relationship grew. I usually have an Id get together every year. I remember while discussing other work dates, Soumitra-babu used to take out his little diary where he noted important things and say: “Hasan, tomar Id er adda ta ebochor kobe? Likhe rakhi...” The legend was there to grace my get together every year, he used to be the first person to arrive and the last to leave. So many things small and big are now coming to my mind about him. I shall remain grateful to destiny that as a producer and as someone who does films only because he loves films, I got the opportunity to get to know the legend. Needless to say, films will never be the same again...it is a void which will never be filled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta|| ‘Fight, Koni, fight’ endures||Every day around 5.30am Khid-da would be at Rabindra Sarobar watching how young swimmers were being trained. Veteran coach Anil Dasgupta would stand on the banks and rotate his hands vigorously in the air to teach learners how to negotiate the waters and surge ahead. Khid-da would watch Dasgupta intently. Soumitra Chatterjee —Khid-da in Koni — started his morning rounds around the south Calcutta water body soon after he was approached to play the role of a swimming coach in the film. “We were amazed and awestruck by his dedication,” recounted Sriparna Banerjee, who played the title role in the 1984 film. Sriparna is now the teacher-in-charge of the nursery section of South Point School. Koni went on to win a national film award and Khid-da’s motivational chant — “Fight, Koni, fight” — became sort of a war cry for generations. Soumitra had said on several occasions how he would chant this phrase to lift his “ageing spirit”. Directed by Saroj Dey, Koni revolves around the story of a coach and his trainee, Koni, who fights all odds to make it to the victory stand. Khid-da, who teaches swimming to underprivileged kids, picks Koni from a slum and grooms her to be part of the state team to compete at the national championship. Sriparna recalled a scene at a swimming pool in Hedua, where Koni tries to run away from practice and Khid-da wants her to carry on for some more time. “Soumitra-babu ran down and jumped over a row of railings sporting a dhoti and threw a stick to stop Koni from leaving the waters. The entire unit was amazed at his level of fitness,” said Sriprana, by then a national record holder for swimming. The bonding between Koni and her Khid-da started with Soumitra turning up at Sriparna’s house for the screen test of the film. “Soumitra-babu drove down in his white Ambassador from Lake Temple Road to my house on Hindustan Road. It was my first introduction to him and I still can't get over that someone like him would drive down to my house,” Sriparna said. “I then practised at Indian Life Saving Society. We sat down for his interpretation of the storyline and the role of Khid-da.” Over the next few years, the film unit would travel to several locations in Calcutta and to Chennai and the bonding between the coach and the disciple would grow stronger. "At times when we would travel by car from one location to another and get caught in a traffic signal, he would suddenly start singing aloud or recite poems," reminisced Sriparna, who represented Bengal in several inter-state swimming competitions. “Over the years every time we would meet, Soumitra-babu would break into a warm smile. ‘Ki rey kemon aachsih (Hey how are you?),’ he would ask. He would enquire about my family,” Sriparna said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Didi and Left leaders at Soumitra’s cremation||The last journey of Soumitra Chatterjee to the Keoratola crematorium threw up some rare frames in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee was seen along with a clutch of Left leaders, including Left Front chairman Biman Bose. The presence of the bitter rivals at the funeral of the Bengal’s cultural icon shows that he transcended political divides. The fact that Soumitra’s stature and the significance of his legacy to Bengalis — despite his unwavering belief in Marxism — were more important became clear through Sunday as leaders from all hues mourned his death. The chief minister, who took charge of the proceedings shortly after Soumitra’s death was declared, was among the first to reach the south Calcutta hospital where the veteran actor breathed his last. “‘Feluda’ is no more. ‘Apu’ said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra (Da) Chatterjee. He has been a legend in his lifetime. International, Indian and Bengali cinema has lost a giant. We will miss him dearly. The film world in Bengal has been orphaned,” Mamata, who was the first to mourn his death, tweeted. “Best known for his films with Satyajit Ray, Soumitra Da was conferred with Legion of Honor, Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Banga Bibhushan, Padma Bhushan & several National Awards. A great loss. Saddened. Condolences to his family, the film fraternity & his admirers across the world,” she added. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said Mamata stayed firmly by the side of Soumitra’s family throughout his 40-day stay in the hospital and took command of the last rites with full state honours as soon as the death was announced. The chief minister, a source said, made it clear that she was not going to stay aloof on such an occasion simply because of differences in political ideology. She also instructed information and cultural affairs department officials to ensure the best possible farewell — albeit without compromising on the pandemic protocol — to the thespian. “The message was clear that all were  welcome to pay their last respects to Soumitrada,” said a source. A CPM central committee member said it was decided at Alimuddin Street that the party would be part of the final journey, as Chatterjee was a “ghawreyr chheley”. “It was decided that we won’t stoop to any tug-of-war over Soumitrada’s legacy and be civil with the ruling dispensation through it all,” he said. So, along with Mamata, Left Front chairman Bose, CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra and Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty took part in the 3.5km funeral procession from Rabindra Sadan to the Keoratala crematorium. The Left leaders stayed on till the cremation was over and were seen interacting with Poulami, the actor’s daughter. Throughout Sunday, Mamata was seen talking to Poulami several times and the danseuse publicly thanked the chief minister and her government for their gesture. “I must take this opportunity to express how grateful I am to Didi and the Bengal government. They have taken such great care of my father, with so much love and tremendous respect… our entire family will forever remember,” said the daughter. “He got more than his due… like his own family, they stood by us,” she added. The Trinamul chief, sources said, personally monitored Soumitra’s medical matters and was regularly in touch with Poulami and the doctors treating the actor. “With Soumitrada, we lost today a global icon, a giant of world cinema, a polymath… who also participated in people’s movements as a humanist,” said Mamata. “It is a day of immense sadness and pain…. But he will remain immortal in the heart of Bengal,” she added. Later in the day, former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee condoled the demise. “The death of Soumitra Chatterjee is a deep tragedy. Bengali cinema will forever be indebted to him. I extend my co­ndolences to his family,” wrote Bhattacharjee, known for his proximity to Chatterjee. The actor was among a handful in the civil society who did not switch sides in the post-Nandigram days and reaffirmed his commitment to the Bhattacharjee-led government then. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury expressed “deep grief” at the loss. “His creativity fleshed out the nuances of complex characters that he depicted on screen, giving them a sense of immortality. Deepest condolences to his family & millions of admirers,” he tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also condoled the death of Chatterjee. “Shri Soumitra Chatterjee’s death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” he tweeted in Bengali, Hindi and English.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Apu denied job, so was Pulu||When Apu of Apur Sansar applies for the job of a schoolteacher in his first hunt for employment in the city, he is rejected for being overqualified. Just about two years before the release of the film in 1959, a young Soumitra, fresh from the portals of Calcutta University, had applied for the job of a schoolteacher at Beniapukur Vidyapith. He met with rejection almost on identical grounds. The founder headmaster of the school, Manindra Kumar Ghosh, had realised that a school was not the stage that would match the applicant’s calibre. Soumitra Chatterjee needed a bigger stage. Tagore scholar and Manindra Kumar’s son Nityapriya Ghosh, who spent countless hours over endless cups of infusion on College Street with Soumitra, shared memories of his time with “dear Pulu”. “Pulu did not complete MA and had to look for a job. He had applied for the job of a teacher at a school whose founding headmaster was my father Manindra Kumar Ghosh.  Father realised during the interview that Soumitra, given his caliber and versatility, could hardly keep himself confined to a school. He deserved a bigger stage and exactly that is what happened,” Nityapriya told The Telegraph. The Tagore scholar, along with Soumitra, was part of a group at Indian Coffee House on College Street that called itself the “Last Matric”. They called themselves so because they were the last batch to write the Matric examination in 1951. It was replaced the next year by the school final examination. Soumitra was a regular at the adda on Sundays. What did they discuss? “Although we used to meet to pull a prank on each other, at times Soumitra and Nimalya Acharya would discuss about what was going on in the film fraternity, which had been split into two camps – one in awe of Satyajit Ray and the other Mrinal Sen,” recounted Nityapriya, younger brother of poet Sankha Ghosh. “Pulu was thin like me. I remember one day he advised me — take rice and catch a sleep in the afternoon if you want to become fat.” The group met regularly for two years from 1967, a period when Soumitra was at the peak of his career. He always puffed Gold Flake with the infusion. At the Coffee House, people would stare at the star but never did they descend on the table occupied by the “Last Matric” — something unconceivable now. Soumitra’s life did not begin and end with cinema. He remained active in theatre, co-edited a literary journal for 18 years (Ekkhon, 1961-1979, with Nirmalya Acharya), authored a dozen books of poetry and also produced paintings. “But contrary to popular perception, we never discussed literature, theatre, politics. We went there to relax. The lone aberration was discussions on what were churning in Ray’s camp and Sen’s camp. One day I heard Nirmalya telling him (Soumitra) about Bhuvan Shome, a 1969 film by Mrinal Sen,” said the former student of the erstwhile Presidency College. Did he ever discuss films with Soumitra? “Hardly. But I had written the story on Teen Bhubaner Pare in English, as told by director Asutosh Bandopadhyay, so Tanuja could understand it,” said Nityapriya, a former secretary of Autumn Annual, a yearly magazine published by the Presidency Alumni Association. The story of Teen Bhubaner Pare was inspired by a novel by Samaresh Basu. The film, starring Soumitra and Tanuja, was released in 1969. How would he remember his friend he had met at Calcutta University while pursuing MA in 1955? “I am going to remember him as one je khub jomiye adda dite parto,” said Nityapriya. Soumitra had enrolled for MA in Bengali and Nityapriya MA in English.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||At 85, Abol Tabol from memory||A recitation of Sukumar Ray’s Abol Tabol for a four-episode animation series was Soumitra Chatterjee’s last professional assignment. For the project, the thespian re-read the entire collection of 53 rhymes over and over again, till a point where he could recite every line without seeing the book, said his collaborators. Chattopadhyay would also insist on retakes even if he had the slightest hesitation about a line, or even a punctuation. “He used to come to the studio, have a cup of tea, take puffs from his inhaler and ready he was,” said Rajib Mukherjee, the owner of the studio in Golf Green where the series was shot over two days in the third week of September. Since the past four-five years, a bulk of Chattopadhyay’s audio-recordings were done at the studio, very close to his home. “We had a meeting with him on the project in the middle of September. He readily agreed to recite the poems,” said restaurateur and communications consultant Shiladitya Chaudhury, who has directed the series for his YouTube channel. The series has been divided into four episodes. The first episode was released on Saturday, to celebrate Children’s Day. By Sunday afternoon, it had been viewed close to 3,000 times. The first episode sees Chattopadhyay clad in a red kurta, seated on a chair and reading from the book. A table clock and some books on a table make up the props. “He must have read Abol Tabol at least 50 times for the project. By the time of the first recording, he could tell every line without looking at the book. His erudition and his grasp of language are there for everyone to see. But at 85, his detailed approach to and voracious appetite for work were unmatched,” said Chaudhury, who did the music of a Bengali film a few years ago before his new directorial venture. Mukherjee, the sound recordist, echoed Chaudhury. “He would shoot and then see it on the monitor. He would insist on a retake even if he had a niggle about a small pause in between two lines,” said Mukherjee. Chattopadhyay had started re-reading letters of Rabindranath Tagore and wanted to record the readings at his studio, said Mukherjee. Chaudhury, who had known Chattopadhyay for decades, recalled the many “adda sessions” in the run-up to the project. Different facets of Chattopadhyay — like the foodie and wildlife enthusiast in him — came out in the sessions, he said. One of the days, Chaudhuri had got some grilled fish packed for him. “He talked of his love for continental food, of times spent at Sky Room when Calcutta was famous for its nightlife and merriment,” said Chaudhury. Chaudhury and Chattopadhyay also bonded over a common passion — forests and wildlife. Chattopadhyay had written a letter in Bengali to Chaudhury after seeing some of the latter’s wildlife photography. “I have loved forests since I was a kid. But such is the demand of life that forest trips have stopped happening now…. Man is not the sole owner of this planet. If he does not respect the animal kingdom… man will one day be exiled from this world,” reads the letter, dated September 27, little over a week before he was hospitalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Bengal’s intellectual hero with Tagorean sensibilities||Apur Sansar (The World of Apu, 1959), the much-awaited last part of Satyajit Ray’s trilogy, opens with a non-graduate Apu (Soumitra Chatterjee) receiving a certificate from his City College professor. A close-up of the certificate cuts to their conversation on his inability to complete a formal education and the professor’s insistence on the continuation and honing of Apu’s literary skills as his paternalistic voice drowns in a cacophony of Left slogans making their way in from the turbulent Calcutta streets, situating the film in the present, marking it different from the other two in the trilogy as they existed in other times. This makes the professor visibly annoyed while Apu’s face betrays signs of a confused discomfort. The actor, throughout his life, will retain his faith in that politics. Soumitra Chatterjee, the newcomer, an amateur theatre actor of that time, himself did his literature degree from City College. It might well be the reason why the cinematic Apu migrates to that institution unlike his literary avatar in Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay’s novel who went to Ripon College as the Ripon College library, as a veritable gold mine full of Nietzsche, Emerson and Turgenev, played an important part in the development of Apu’s literary mindscape. On the other hand, Ray’s Künstlerroman, since its very beginning, follows the trajectory of its new-found hero, whom film historian Sharmistha Gooptu would later address as apparently “non-heroic” and “Tagorean”. Ray’s Apu does not offer much indication of his literary influences except for what the actor reveals through his Tagorean self. Perhaps, as Soumitra Chatterjee himself mentioned, the audience of his time wanted “other kinds of young men” and “other kinds of romances”; the ‘other’ as opposed to the image of Uttam Kumar, the biggest matinee idol. Bengali film industry, with its consistent engagement with Bengali literary traditions in order to construct its region-nation by dissociating itself from the Bombay popular that did not receive aesthetic approval from the Bengali bhadralok, welcomed Chatterjee as its intellectual hero with Tagorean sensibilities. In return, Chatterjee retained his intellectual traits throughout his prolonged career through his support for Left politics, co-editing (with Nirmalya Acharya) of such literary magazines as Ekkhon, recitation, publication of poems and continuation of a thespian life with translation-adaptation of several international dramatic texts. Despite his strong association with the Bengali popular for decades, Chatterjee was able to remain the quintessential Bengali intellectual associated with the Ray canon, with the latter making his entry into the transnational festival circuit. Thus Chatterjee contributed in the perpetuation of the problematic art/popular binary in the Bengali public sphere, with, like many other cine-industrial locations, the art being associated with cultural taste and privilege. With Apur Sansar as debut, Chatterjee went on to have an illustrious career that marked several breaks and turns. Especially in the long 1960s, he reshaped his Tagorean self as the unemployed youth and bhadralok loafer on screen in such remarkable pop-cultural dalliances as Teen Bhubaner Pare (Ashutosh Bandyopadhyay, 1969). The ethos demanded crossing of borders and binaries, the movement of the youth in crisis into other domains as in Aranyer Din Ratri (Days and Nights in the Forest, Satyajit Ray, 1970), where the cursed and forever-unfinished memory game will surely raise problematic names as Mao Tse-tung. Violence, street-politics, unbridled sexuality, the liberated new woman, the educated bekar and the loafer figure found ways of expression through Chatterjee and a few other actors of the time, with Uttam Kumar restructuring himself as the forever misunderstood elder brother of yesteryear who has now fallen from grace, the Turgenev-like father who is unable to understand his Nihilist sons but has all the compassion in the world for them. After Uttam Kumar’s untimely death, Chatterjee continued with the responsibilities of a declining industry and, most notably, a declining class who can no longer exert its privilege in the changing times. His unfaltering political beliefs remained with him till his final days while his state experienced several upheavals the consequences of which are yet to be decided. Notwithstanding the changes, Soumitra Chatterjee, understandably, remained what he was. His image most notably associated with the early films of Ray, the actor remained Ray’s most trusted lieutenants in the latter’s dealings with modernity and the novel form. From his tram-rides, nocturnal escapades and a subtle awakening of sexuality in Apur Sansar to the storming into the 19th century interiority in Charulata (The Lonely Wife, Satyajit Ray, 1964), Chatterjee remained immersed into the novelistic in Ray canon. Perhaps his own cinematic ideas were shaped through these experiences as his disapproving of Ritwik Ghatak and his apparent use of melodrama became well-known through his interviews. There is one image of this specific phase of his career that stays with me as remembered film. The rise and fall of Charulata (Madhabi Mukherjee) on the swing in a garden where Amal (Soumitra Chatterjee) rests and reminisces, as their exchange of ideas leads invariably to the literary. With a glimmering of light and shades on Charulata and the ephemeral experience of the unattainable, the hero decidedly migrates to the literary experience around which the cinematic revolves. This is what will gradually fade into oblivion, taking the actor along with it. Parichay Patra is a film critic who teaches at the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
16-11-2020||Calcutta||Disciplined marchers pay fitting tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee||Soumitra Chatterjee, Bengal’s beloved actor with a global reputation who straddled the worlds of art house and popular films, theatre, recitation and literature, died at the Belle Vue Clinic here at 12.15pm on Sunday. He was 85. The doyen of Bengali cinema, who had fought for life at the hospital for 40 days, received a king’s farewell with thousands joining his cortege, where artistes sang Rabindra Sangeet and sworn political enemies united in mourning. If the size of the funeral procession was unusual for pandemic-hit times, the discipline and solemnity displayed by the marchers was fitting homage for a man who had all his life chosen sobriety and humility over the trappings of celebrity. Tributes poured in from fellow actors, with Nandita Das remembering “an incredibly kind, funny and loving person” and Shabana Azmi highlighting Chatterjee’s serenity. Such acclaim owed mainly to Chatterjee’s being virtually the face of Satyajit Ray’s films — he acted in 14 of them — but he also delivered brilliant performances for other directors, from Mrinal Sen’s Akash Kusum to Tapan Sinha’s Jhinder Bondi to Ajoy Kar’s Saat Paake Bandha. Sharmila Tagore, who had debuted with Chatterjee in Ray’s Apur Sansar in 1959, said Chatterjee’s versatility made him unique. “He was not only an actor. He worked in the theatre, he used to paint and recite poems. He was such a wonderful person with a child’s curiosity and charm. He was so learned. There was so much to learn from him. I’m very sad today,” she said. Chatterjee, admitted to the hospital on October 6 after a positive Covid test, had later tested negative but “died of non-responsive Covid-related encephalopathy”, a doctor who had treated him said. The cortege began from Rabindra Sadan, where his body had lain for nearly two hours for public viewing, at 5.30pm and ended around 6.45pm at the Keoratala crematorium where Chatterjee received a gun salute. Theatre workers read out poems written by the actor. Many ordinary fans held up large portraits of Chatterjee; some carried lighted candles. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and CPM state secretary Biman Bose joined the procession, prompting many old-timers to wonder if any death had ever before brought Bengal politics’ two warring sides together. Thousands lined up along Harish Mukherjee Road, Kalidas Patitundi Lane, Kalighat Police Station Road, Sadananda Road and Rashbehari Avenue for a last glimpse. A mourner from the procession said there had been no jostling to get near the hearse among the marchers or bystanders who allowed the actor the dignity in death that he had exemplified in life. During the gun salute at the crematorium, everyone stood quietly at a respectful distance except for the actor’s daughter Poulami who stood close to the body, laid on a platform, and wiped her tears as the bugle played the Last Post. Poulami said she had lost not just her father but her best friend. “He will live among us forever. We will celebrate his life. I’m telling everyone not to feel sad. We shall consider his life an ideal one and celebrate it,” she had earlier told reporters, voice choking. Mamata listed some of the honours Chatterjee had won. “Best known for his films with Satyajit Ray, Soumitra Da was conferred with Legion of Honour, Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Banga Bibhushan, Padma Bhushan & several National Awards,” she tweeted. She then struck a more intimate note: “Feluda is no more. ‘Apu’ said goodbye. Farewell, Soumitra (Da) Chatterjee. He has been a legend in his lifetime. International, Indian and Bengali cinema has lost a giant. We will miss him dearly. The film world in Bengal has been orphaned.” “Orphaned” is how many in Bengal’s film industry described themselves in a testimony to Chatterjee’s image as a loving guardian to his juniors, many of whom addressed him as kaku, jethu or dadu. Chatterjee wrote and recited poems, painted, translated literary works, directed plays and acted in the theatre. For years, he also edited a little magazine, Ekkhon. After his body was released from the hospital at 2pm, it was first taken to his home at Golf Green, where neighbours, relatives and close friends had come to pay their respects. The hearse left around 3pm for Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge, Chatterjee’s workplace for decades, where industry members had turned out in numbers. Among them were filmmaker Aparna Sen and actors Abir Chatterjee, Roopa Ganguly and Ranjit Mullick. The crowd was the largest at the next stop, Rabindra Sadan, where Mamata laid a wreath at Chatterjee’s feet before the final journey to Keoratala. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Shri Soumitra Chatterjee’s death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-237
