17-11-2020||Calcutta||Shortage of nurses hits ICU bed plans||The ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at several private hospitals are all occupied but the authorities are unable to increase the number of such beds in the absence of enough nurses trained in critical care, officials of the hospitals have said. A nurse attending to patients in an intensive care unit (ICU) — also called intensive therapy unit — has to monitor many equipment like ventilator and bipap, both of which provide oxygen, and conduct arterial blood gas tests. Administrators of private hospitals, who have been repeatedly impacted by the exit of nurses to the government sector, said double the number of nurses were required to run an ICU for Covid patients compared with a general ward for patients suffering from the disease. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said “12 or 13” nurses were allotted every shift for 21 ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in his hospital. “In comparison, 25 nurses per shift manage the 129 general beds for Covid-19 patients,” he said. “The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Act says the patient-to-nurse ratio in ICU will be 1:1. But most hospitals are unable to maintain that because there is an acute shortage of nurses trained to manage ICU,” said an official of a private hospital. Officials of AMRI Hospitals and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals said their Covid ICU beds were all occupied. While Apollo has 16 ICU beds for Covid patients, AMRI has 92 at its hospitals in Salt Lake, Dhakuria and Mukundapur. An official of AMRI Hospitals said they had no immediate plan to increase the number of ICU beds for Covid patients. An official at Apollo said they had increased the number of ICU and high dependency unit beds for Covid patients ahead of Durga Puja. “We have no plan to immediately ramp up ICU beds,” the official said. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said they were ready with equipment and other infrastructure to ramp up the critical care bed count. “But there is a dearth of trained doctors and nurses who can manage ICU patients. That is why we are a little slow in increasing the number of critical care beds for Covid patients, though we feel there is a demand for such beds,” he said. Alok Roy, the chairperson of Medica, echoed Barua. Mitra of Peerless Hospital said they had started training a new batch of nurses in critical care. “Most of the nurses who left our hospital were doing ICU duties. The training of the new nurses will take a few months. There is no scope to increase the number of Covid ICU beds till then,” he said.  The chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has requested private hospitals to increase their ICU bed count through a WhatsApp message. The Telegraph had on October 20 reported that a fresh round of exodus of nurses from private hospitals had threatened their plans to ramp up beds ahead of Durga Puja. The state government had recruited more than 550 nurses in state-run hospitals around that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath ban at Sarobar intact so far||The Supreme Court on Monday deferred the hearing of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s (CMDA) plea to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar to a date by when this year’s event will be over, lawyers representing the agency said. “The court did not pass any order but listed the matter for hearing next Monday (November 23),” Rakesh Dwivedi, a lawyer appearing for the CMDA, said over the phone after the hearing. Chhath Puja will be held on November 20.  The apex court’s decision to schedule the hearing for November 23 means the National Green Tribunal’s 2017 order imposing a ban on all pujas in the Rabindra Sarobar complex will be in force when Chhath rituals will be performed this year. “The bench before which the matter came up for hearing on Monday did not hear the matter the last time (on November 2). The bench said that since the previous bench had issued notice to the respondent, it (the previous bench) should hear the plea,” said Dwivedi.  The CMDA, the custodian of the south Calcutta water body and the adjoining gardens, has approached the Supreme Court with an appeal to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. It had earlier approached the NGT with the plea but the tribunal rejected the petition without even hearing it. Firhad Hakim, the state urban development minister and chairperson of the CMDA, told Metro on Monday evening that the state would comply with the NGT’s order. “We will abide by the order of the NGT. We will not make any arrangements for Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar this year. The NGT’s order will be displayed outside Sarobar’s gates,” he said. “We have made alternative ghats across the city. We will run a campaign on the alternative locations in the places from where Chhath devotees used to come to Sarobar.”  Asked if the government would deploy police to prevent a recurrence of last year’s events, Hakim said: “That is for the police to decide. It does not come under my department.” Last year, devotees had broken the locks of Sarobar’s gates and entered the compound to perform the rituals on the banks of the water body, while the police allegedly looked the other way. Environment activists had said the administration acted like an ally of the violators. It remains to be seen whether the administration again allows violation of the tribunal’s order. “If the state government does not comply with the order of the NGT this year, too, it will be a very serious insult to the highest court of the country,” said environment activist Subhas Datta, the respondent in the CMDA’s petition. Datta was served a notice by the Supreme Court as respondent when the CMDA’s petition first came up before it on November 2. “The bench said on Monday that the NGT’s order will remain in force when my counsel asked if the court not issuing any interim order meant the tribunal’s order remains effective,” said Datta, whose petition against allowing football matches under floodlights at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium triggered a series of developments, after which the NGT ordered a ban on all pujas, social events and picnics at Rabindra Sarobar in 2017. “We are not against Chhath Puja, but we are against any puja being held at Sarobar,” said Sumita Banerjee, a regular at Rabindra Sarobar. Environmentalists opposing Chhath Puja at the Sarobar have said the puja rituals affect the ecology of the place. “Every year we notice migratory birds leave the Sarobar immediately after Chhath Puja. Most of them do not return,” said a birdwatcher. Birdwatchers this year recorded more than 100 bird species at the Sarobar. Another environmentalist said devotees float lamps on the water while performing the rituals. The oil and ghee of the lamps spill on the water and affect aquatic lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||How we treat our birds||A vast wetland near Calcutta has emerged as a popular drive destination over the past few months. The wetland is also a killing field for hundreds of birds every day, many of whom fly in from thousands of kilometres away, said birders and conservationists. A man was arrested from Bortir Bill in Nilgunj, North 24-Parganas, around 35km from the heart of Calcutta, on Sunday evening with a net and dead birds. The arrest has blown the lid off an alleged mass killing of birds at the wetland by a section of residents of the area, wildlife activists said. Over the past three days, scores of nylon nets — some of them 100-metres long — have been removed from the wetland. The nets, white and almost transparent, are as good as invisible. The only giveaway are the bamboo poles on which the nets are erected. The birds fly into the net and get trapped. They are allegedly sold at local markets the next day. The wetland, which spans over 60sq km, is home to a thriving population of local birds, including a variety of herons and snipes. During winter, when the water recedes, the wetland is the destination of many migratory birds, mainly from central Asia and Trans-Siberian region. Some of them are Glossy Ibis, Eurasian Coot, Pacific Golden Plover and Wood Sandpiper, said birdwatchers. The place has been known to birders for some time. It emerged as a popular destination for nature lovers during the lockdown, generating significant online traction and attracting flocks of photographers, amateur and professional. But the alleged killings did not come to the fore until recently. “The nets were set up after sundown and removed before sunset. We had received information from some residents about the killings,” said Sumanta Pramanick, a volunteer with Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL), the NGO that has visited the place several times over the past week, filming the nets, visiting local markets posing as possible customers of birds and talking to residents on the alleged killings. “Not all trapped birds are eaten. But they are also trapped in the nets and are injured. They are left to die,” said Pramanick. “This (the killings) have been going on for many years now. But the scale has gone up in the past five-six years. The local markets see hundreds of birds, dead and injured, every day. The birds sell for anywhere between Rs 150 and 400 apiece,” said a resident who requested anonymity for fear of reprisal, since a part of the local population is said to be involved in the alleged killings. The NGO, HEAL, collaborated with the state forest department in conducting raids at some of the local markets. Films shot by HEAL members and shared with this newspaper showed several birds trapped in the nets. Birdwatcher and conservationist Sujan Chatterjee identified some of the trapped birds as the Pacific Golden Plover and Wood Sandpiper. The former comes from the Pacific coasts off Russia and China, while the latter comes from Siberia, he said. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said the forest department had received complaints about migratory birds being killed at Bortir Bill. “Egrets (local birds) were found on the man who was arrested on Sunday. We have got some reports, on the basis of which we are conducting raids at nearby markets,” said Yadav. “There is nothing that suggests that the birds are being hunted for commercial use. Some people might hunt birds for personal consumption. We are looking into the issue and will do all that is needed,” he said. But conservationists said the recovery of so many nets from the area suggested otherwise. “People don’t spend so much for a personal meal. The scale of investment points to large-scale commercial incentives. I cannot recall a previous instance of such large-scale killing of migratory birds in the recent past,” said Chatterjee. The raids and the arrest are expected to act as a deterrent for people engaged in hunting the birds, said members of the NGO. “Awareness programmes explaining the ecological importance of the birds would not yield immediate results,” said Meghna Banerjee, a founder member of HEAL. “We are collating a comprehensive report to be submitted to the forest department. At least a few hundred birds were being killed every day,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||SC extends interim order on school fees||The Supreme Court on Monday extended its October 28 interim order by which it had declined to interfere with the Calcutta High Court directions to private schools in Bengal to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees and completely waive the fees for services that could not be offered because of the pandemic. The interim order had, however, stayed certain portions of the high court judgment that asked schools to consider individual applications from parents for further waiver and allowed parents to approach a committee if they did not get redress from the schools. The apex court bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R.Subhash Reddy passed Monday’s order while issuing notices to the Bengal government and the petitioner before the high court, on a batch of fresh petitions filed by some aggrieved private schools challenging the impugned high court order. The bench, while tagging the fresh petitions with the earlier ones, posted the matter for further hearing to the first week of January. Which means the private schools in Bengal, including those run by the Church, will have to offer the pandemic fee cut till further orders. “Permission to file special leave petitions is allowed. Issue notice. Tag with SLP(C) No… There shall be interim order to the same effect, as passed on 28.10.2020 in Special Leave Petition … List in the first week of January, 2021,” the bench said in a brief order. A consortium of schools under the Church of North India and various other schools have filed special leave petitions challenging the October 13 judgment of the high court. In the earlier hearing, the apex court had declined to stay the entire judgment of the high court but said it was staying only directions 8 to 16 contained in paragraph 61 of the judgment. Directions 8 to 16 allowed parents to write to schools seeking further relief in terms of waiver or exemption or delayed or instalment payments. It also allowed them to approach a three-member committee if schools failed to address their concern. The private schools had assailed the high court judgment on the ground that it was contrary to a number of rulings by the Supreme Court in the T.M.A. Pai, P.A. Inamdar and other cases, wherein it was ruled that private unaided schools were free to manage their affairs without any interference from the State. The high court had passed the order while dealing with a PIL by Vineet Ruia, who had alleged that private schools had been disallowing students from attending online classes or writing their exams on the ground that they had not paid their fees. Several parents could not afford the fees because the Covid pandemic had hit their earnings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Women vulnerable during festivals||A woman walking towards her home in Bijoygarh after seeing off her niece lost her gold chain to a snatcher on a scooter on Sunday evening. Her screams alerted a police patrol, which was nearby, and cops caught the person on the scooter before he could speed away, police said. The chain was found on him. He has been arrested on the charge of robbery. Sunita Pal, 48, was walking towards her home around 6.30pm without realising someone was stalking her, the police said. “As she neared her home, the person on the scooter pushed her and pulled at her chain so hard that it snapped,” an officer of Jadavpur police station said. She lost her balance and fell on the road and started screaming for help as the person rode away. A patrol vehicle that was nearby gave chase and caught up with the scooter, which did not have a number plate, a few hundred metres away, the officer said. Ranajit Patra, 30, a resident of Haridevpur, was arrested after the gold chain was found on him. The scooter has been seized. The patrol was part of the additional police arrangement for Diwali across the city on Saturday and Sunday. “Women are especially vulnerable during festivals because of the jewellery they wear. This year, the situation is more serious as there are fewer people on roads because of the pandemic… criminals can find it easier to target women and children,” an officer said. This was the reason why additional cops were posted in lanes across the city, the officer said. Cops were posted not just to look into to complaints related to firecrakers but also to act as a deterrent to crime on Diwali and Kali Puja, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge test in last lap||The load test of the Majerhat bridge started on Monday and will continue till Friday, marking the final stage for opening a vital link in south Calcutta a little over two years since a portion of it had collapsed. Once the weight-bearing capacity of the structure is found to match the specification in the original design, engineers will run the final check and complete some fine-tuning before declaring the bridge “ready for use”. “The load test is the last hurdle we will have to clear,” said a senior PWD official. As part of the test, empty and fully loaded vehicles are mounted on a bridge or flyover and the stability of the structure is monitored. Engineers calculate the load-bearing capacity of the structure and record how different elements — such as the concrete deck slab, bearings and cables (which will hold the part of the bridge that is over railway tracks) — are functioning. The stress-bearing capacity is monitored with the help of advanced machines and the readings are noted down. “We will begin by mounting trucks equal to 50 per cent of the load-bearing capacity of the bridge and then gradually scale it up to 75 per cent and finally 100 per cent,” said a senior PWD official. “Several instruments, including dial gauges, will be placed at the end of the piers of the bridge and all deflections induced by stress will be noted down.” The readings will be taken to the agency that has designed the bridge for an analysis. Structural engineers will find out whether the stress-bearing capacity of various components are in consonance with the design and whether any deviation has been noticed. Since 260m of the deck slab of the bridge stands over railway tracks, bridge experts in the railways, too, will take a look at the data, PWD officials said. The load test of the bridge follows a clearance from the railways. A team led by the chief bridge engineer of the railways and PWD representatives jointly inspected the bridge on November 9. As many as 84 cables, brought from Switzerland, hold the deck slab of the flyover, which has come up at the site where a span of the bridge had collapsed in September 2018. “Only 40 per cent of the load-bearing capacity of each of the cables will be utilised,” an official said. “So there is no threat even if there is a sudden rise in the static load on the bridge because of vehicles.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Social cause and contests||Eleven schools, a host of live and recorded events and a social cause — that was Morpheus 2020 in a nutshell. Hosted by South City International School, in association with the TTIS, the inter-school fest saw the students raising awareness through social media and innovative campaigns on menstrual hygiene. The event also raised funds to distribute sanitary kits for the underprivileged. A Model United Nation (MUN) was held over three days, raising awareness about the pandemic and related issues. The event, held in collaboration with Jadavpur University’s Model United Nations club, saw students dividing themselves into four committees — World Health Assembly, United Nations Security Council, National Security Council and International Press Corp. The team from Delhi Public School, Ruby Park, was adjudged the Best Delegation. “There were some offline pre-recorded events that we uploaded on YouTube during the fest. They included dance contest Pandemic! At the Disco, music competition Rockdown and a web comic contest Flat-toon The Curve among others. We tried to use puns related to Covid-19,” said Class XII student Roshni Banerjee, who was the president of this year’s event. “All the students have outdone themselves. My boys and girls managed everything themselves — from collecting funds to getting the sponsors. They conducted each event so seamlessly. Soft skills were enhanced for all participants. There was never a dull moment for the five days,” said principal John Bagul. Heritage Academy High School has been taking many initiatives to motivate the students with various events to heal their boredom. One such attempt named Estrella has been taken by the school in association with Telegraph Young Metro, where the students received a competitive platform to unveil their talents in various fields. The school held many contests for all the students from Playhouse to Class XII. The little angels of Playhouse, nursery and preparatory took part in rhymes telling and fancy dress competition. It was followed by storytelling competition and elocution contest performed by the students from classes I to IV. Students from classes V to X took part in quiz, extempore, talent hunt and debate competitions. Even students of classes XI and XII made video on the topic New Normal. Joy of Giving Week, also known as Daan Utsav, is no less than a festival for Indians. Given the prevailing circumstances, this year the students celebrated the occasion on a personal level. Students showed love and kindness to their helpers and drivers. They donated masks, sanitisers, clothes and dry food items to the needy. The children distributed essential products such as groceries to drivers, maid-servants, security guards and the like. Some also showed their concern for the underprivileged by making posters titled We Care. “Every year, this occasion is done on a large scale. But, we could not do so this year. However, it was encouraging to find that the students took motivation from the teachers and celebrated the occasion personally,” said headmistress Farida Singh. The BP Khaitan Memorial Discourse 2020, virtually organised by The BSS School in association with The Telegraph Young Metro and Calcutta Debating Circle, turned out to be a learning experience for all. The event saw 12 schools from United Kingdom, Middle East and different cities of India competing against each other through arguments and rebuttals. The Bishop’s School Pune won the trophy with Tarang Rathi of the school, speaking for the motion, clinching the Best Speaker prize. The motion — Truth is What the Masses Believe — had the proposition and opposition pitting the relative against the objective. Tarang was eloquent in his justifications in both the prelims and the finals. The moderator was entrepreneur-columnist Swati Gautam of Calcutta Debating Circle. “In a competitive space, where excellence is a cliché, we must prepare our students for the outer world. These days when kids are engrossed in technology they often forget to communicate in the real world. Hence the need for elocution and debates that builds the argumentative and communicative skills of students. Organising an international debate has been a great learning experience for all,” said The BSS School principal Sunita Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Ultadanga, Patuli homes burgled ||Two burglaries were reported in two parts of the city on Monday. One was in a housing complex at Ultadanga and the other at a Patuli home. In the Ultadanga housing complex, occupants of the targeted flat were away celebrating Bhai Phonta. In Patuli, a man returned home to find two people inside, fiddling with his wallet and money. They held the man at knifepoint and thrashed him with a rod but he managed to hold on to one of them trying to flee with a laptop from the house. The Ultadanga robbery occurred inside Pratiki Abashan — a housing complex on Ultadanga Main Road in Maniktala police station’s jurisdiction. The robbery was detected around 7pm when Swarnendu Das, the owner of the flat on the fourth floor in one of the blocks, returned with his family after celebrating Bhai Phonta at a relative’s place. Police said Das, an IT professional, found the latch on the main door broken and one of the cupboards ransacked. “The cupboard that had gold jewellery was targeted. The family has reported that valuables worth lakhs have been stolen,” an officer of Maniktala police station said. The housing complex does not have CCTV cameras on every floor. Cops are in the process of scanning the footage obtained from the cameras installed at the ground level, the police said. Several outside people, including vendors, maids, and delivery people, had entered the housing complex during the time the flat had been targeted. Cops suspect someone with insider’s information about the building’s security pattern — that guards takes a two-hour break every day between 1pm and 3pm — might be involved. “It is apparent that someone who had specific information no one would be in the flat between 10am and 7pm and that the building would be unmanned between 1pm and 3pm was involved,” an officer in Lalbazar said. “With such specific information, the role of an insider cannot be ruled out. The floor where the burglary took place has two more flats, one of which had residents throughout the day. The other robbery was reported at Patuli police station on Monday. Two men had broken inside a house in Baghajatin Colony while its occupant was away. Subhankar Mukherjee, 25, had returned to his rented apartment in Baghajatin Colony around 3.30pm. He has told cops that he found the collapsible gate in the front broken and two men inside holding his wallet and Rs10,000 in their hands. One of the men had Mukherjee’s laptop bag in his hand and was trying to flee through the door at the back on seeing Mukherjee. “One of them took out a knife and the other attacked him with a rod before slipping out of the rear door. Mukherjee started shouting and gave chase and managed to catch the man who had his laptop bag with the help of a youth,” an officer said. The captured man has identified himself as Deb Kumar Haldar, a resident of Narendrapur, the police said. Haldar will be produced in court on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Engineering student found hanging||A final-year student of computer science at a private engineering college in south Calcutta was found hanging in his rented apartment at Garfa on Monday afternoon, police said. Utkarsh Raj, 23, from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Police said his roommates had gone to their homes during Diwali and Raj was alone at the apartment in Krishna Kunj on North Purbachal Road. One of the roommates, who hails from Jamshedpur, returned on Monday. “When repeated knocks went unanswered he called some of their neighbours and used a hacksaw to cut the bolt on the main door,” an officer of Garfa police station said. “He was found hanging from the ceiling with a nylon rope and towel round his neck. They alerted the police.” He was found in a partial hanging condition; his knees were resting on the bed, the officer said. A wooden stool was found on the bed. The police have learnt from his friends and neighbours he was “worried about his future prospects”. His family has been alerted and the body sent for post-mortem. Preliminary examination has suggested “discontinuous ligature marks” round his neck. The body bore no external injury marks, the police said. The actual cause of death can be ascertained only after the post-mortem report is available, an officer said. His phone will undergo forensic examination to find any information that might help in the investigation, the police said. His call detail record will be scanned. There has been no complaint from the family till Monday evening and there are no signs of foul play, the police said. Officials of his college told The Telegraph on Monday evening that they got to know of his death from students. “The police have not contacted us,” one of the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
17-11-2020||Calcutta||Story behind the ‘quick’ cut-out||He was supposed to inaugurate the puja that had his debut film as its theme. Instead, the pandal décor ended up adding a visual touch to his last journey. An 18ft cut-out of Soumitra Chatterjee stood at the entry to the lane at the foot of Chetla bridge, leading to the gate of Keoratala crematorium. It was the bearded young Soumitra of Apur Sansar. Underneath, a printout carried a simple message  — Sansar-ey Apu ar nei. (Apu is not in the world any more). Next to it, the wall was lined with several more scenes featuring him from the film. Mourners who accompanied the actor on his last journey from Rabindra Sadan to the crematorium could not have imagined that less than a month ago the same cut-outs and pictures were part of a joyous occasion — Durga puja. Three pujas on a lane near the Rashbehari Avenue crossing had joined forces to offer a tribute to Satyajit Ray in his birth centenary year. With three pujas on board, Ray’s Apu trilogy became a natural choice, suggested by Mridul Pathak, the clubs’ New York-based mentor who has his roots in the locality. Thus Badamtala Ashar Sangha, the first puja on entering the lane, portrayed Pather Panchali, 66 Palli Sarbojanin did Aparajito while Apur Sansar, starring Chatterjee, fell in the share of Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club, the third club on the stretch. “We had preserved the pandal decor for our New Year get-together when we always do up the venue with items depicting the puja theme from the year before. When we heard the sad news, we were thinking of putting up pictures at the entry to our puja on the main road. But we got a call from Kalighat police station, quoting higher government authorities and instructing us to use the material from our pandal to decorate the path to the crematorium,” said Avijit Bose, secretary of the Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club puja, who had planned the look of the pandal environs himself. Bose had approached Chatterjee in January with a request to inaugurate the pandal. “We met him through a club member who was the manager of Star Theatre. He was attending a programme there that day. He was happy to hear about our theme and agreed to drop by. Even in August, our club member spoke to Soumitra babu over phone, inviting him on Panchami. He wanted to come on Chaturthi instead,” said Bose. Once the call came from the thana on Sunday afternoon, the club boys immediately got to work. The crematorium is barely a two-minute drive away from the locality. “When we were working, some passers-by could be overheard commenting on the speed at which they thought the prints had been readied after Soumitra babu’s death,” said Bholanath Chatterjee, joint secretary of the club. Both organisers admitted to harbouring mixed feelings at the turn of events. “While we are deeply honoured for the chance to pay tribute to the great man, we also feel heart-broken at the thought that something we thought would bring him joy ended up being a part of his last rites,” said Bholanath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-236
