18-11-2020||Calcutta||My tribute to Fr Roberge, an endless legend||Father Gaston Roberge, a French-Canadian Jesuit priest, had been asking himself since the 1980s why India did not have a new theory of popular films. It was only in 2010 he got an answer after studying the 2000-year old Indian treatise of dance and drama — Natya Sastra. The result was a 100-page book, The Indian Film Theory: Flames of Sholay, Notes and Beyond, which offered a new perspective on the theories underlying Indian commercial cinema. The book was released at St Xavier’s College Kolkata on June 15, 2010 by Goutam Ghose, a renowned Indian film director. It has been described as “easily readable” and “radical in its content”. Ghose said: “Father Roberge introduced the study of film in the context of our social matrix, which is very important. He analysed the phenomena in the sociopolitical context of this complex and heterogeneous country, writing about our society while studying two films — Sholay and Beder Meye Jyotsna. He had a kind of social observation on cinema. He would ask, ‘Why were people enjoying films? Which class of people? What about education?’ Father Roberge, a legend, a pioneer in the study of cinema and a close friend of Satyajit Ray, passed away in Calcutta on August 26 and was laid to rest at Dhyan Asharm, the Jesuit Novitiate at Konchowki, 20km from the city. He was a Master teacher of film theories and was known as the high priest of cinema. Father Roberge was born in May 1935 in Montreal, Quebec. He joined the Society of Jesus in 1956 and was sent to India on his request in1961. He graduated and did his Masters at UCLA. He graduated from the University of Montreal and did his Masters at the University of California in film studies. He then went to New York where he saw Satyajit Ray’s Pather Panchali and became a fan of Ray. He became a close friend of Ray, with whom he had many interactions and wrote about. They were mutual advisors to each other in the world of films. Ray was also one of the advisors of Chitrabani. Father Roberge developed great associations with Mrinal Sen and other filmmakers of India as well. I had known Father Roberge for more than 30 years. He was an exemplary Jesuit and in the 70s and 80s, an idol to many young Jesuits like me. I had interviewed him a couple of times for an Italian magazine, Popoli, and other publications. He was a large-hearted man with the spirit of the Magi in all that he did especially in spiritual and intellectual life. During his short break in Montreal, I paid a visit to him. He took me to the St Joseph’s Oratory of Mount Royal, a basilica and national shrine in Montreal. It is a national historic site of Canada and is Canada’s largest church, with one of the largest church domes in the world. In one of my interviews he told me: “I was reborn in India on October 15, 1961. For the last 50 years I have been mostly living in Calcutta. I teach communication media and write. My main interest is the cultural roots of the Indian movies. And I love it.” Father Roberge has authored more than 25 books on cinema, communications and spirituality. He won an Indian National Film Award for his best writing on cinema for the year 1998 from the then President K.R. Narayanan. His first book, Chitrabani, published in 1975, like the institute he started, is a book on film appreciation. Satyajit Ray, through his kind relationship with him and through his films, helped him in his journey to the “cave of the heart”. That is how he completed the “Pedagogy of the Media Oppressed — In Tune with the Indian Folk Movies: Seven Steps of a Self-Education for Liberation.” He was the founder-director of Chitrabani (1970), the first and the oldest media centre in eastern India at Prabhu Jisur Gurija campus, Calcutta. For some years, Chitrabani was an extension centre of SXCK and Father Roberge taught film appreciation at the college. Thousands of film-makers, scholars and film critics have been his students. National award winning director K.G. Das has made a documentary on “Father Roberge — Master Preacher of Film Theory”. He was the founder-director of the EMMRC of St Xavier’s College, Kolkata. He was solely responsible for the UGC granting the necessary affiliation and permission of EMMRC to SXCK. St Xavier’s is the only college which has an EMMRC under its management among the 19 EMMR centres in India. He was the executive secretary for social communication (1997 to 1999) at the Jesuit Curia in Rome. Ray’s Pather Panchali shook him and Indian cinema became his passion, his love and his commitment. Through Chitrabani Father Roberge pioneered film academia in India as well as cultivated and nurtured several generations of cineastes and filmmakers. That is why the Bimal Roy Memorial & Film Society, Mumbai, gave him the Lifetime Achievement Award in 2012. After his retirement he remained at the St Xavier’s infirmary till his eternal rest. He was 85. He had almost totally lost his hearing and had to be on hearing aid. This Jesuit priest and film guru has made a “significant contribution” to the film industry. He will continue to be a major player in the field of Indian cinema. Fr. J. Felix Raj is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Burglars still to be arrested||A day after two burglaries were reported at Ultadanga and Patuli on Bhai Phonta, police are still to arrest anyone in connection with the Ultadanga burglary and the second person involved in Patuli. In the burglary at Pratiki Abashan, a housing complex on Ultadanga Main Road, cops have found in the CCTV footage at least two outsiders entering the complex between 1pm and 3pm when the crime is suspected to have been committed, an officer said. The police are questioning two people working as domestic helps at Swarnendu Das’s flat, which had been targeted, and the elderly guard who was on duty but had taken a break around the time the burglars had struck, the officer said. “It is apparent that someone who knew the family would be away the entire day and that the guard would be on a lunch break between 1pm and 3pm was involved,” an investigating officer said. “It is surprising that the burglar targeted only the cupboard that had gold jewellery and left the others untouched.” Das was at a relative’s home with his family when his flat was burgled. Deb Kumar Haldar, who was caught trying to escape from Subhankar Mukherjee’s rented apartment in Patuli with his laptop bag, was produced in court on Tuesday. He has been remanded in police custody till November 23. The police have established the identity of the other Patuli burglary suspect based on Haldar’s statement. Cops raided his home in Narendrapur on Monday night but he was not there, the police said. Cops are trying to find out if the two have a criminal past. Mukherjee had returned to his rented apartment in Baghajatin Colony around 3.30pm on Monday to find the collapsible gate in the front broken and two men inside holding his wallet and Rs10,000 in their hands. One of the men, later identified as Haldar, had his laptop bag and he tried to flee through the door at the back on seeing Mukherjee but he was caught.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||High-pressure area over Jharkhand robs Calcutta of chill  ||The Celsius in Calcutta has not dipped as it should have after a bout of snowfall in Kashmir last weekend. The Met office blamed a high-pressure area over Jharkhand for denying Calcutta the chill that the cold and dry winds from north India were expected to bring. “A high-pressure area is brewing over Jharkhand. The system is stalling the free flow of northwesterly winds to Calcutta and the rest of south Bengal via Ranchi, Purulia and Asansol. The system is leading to a change in the direction of the winds, towards north Bengal via Kishanganj (Bihar) and Malda,” said a Met official. The system has also robbed Jharkhand of its chill and has led to a rise in temperature. In Calcutta, the minimum temperature has been hovering between 19 and 20 degrees for the past few days. The sky has been relatively clear and the sun is shining bright. “A high-pressure or an anti-cyclonic system usually results in fair weather and a rise in night temperatures,” said the Met official. The high-altitude areas of Kashmir and Uttarakhand received heavy snowfall on Monday. The Kashmir Valley had also received moderate snowfall on Saturday. Usually, after a bout of snowfall in the Valley, the cold winds take around 48 hours to reach south Bengal. The winds are flowing in via Delhi and Uttar Pradesh but are being blocked entry into Jharkhand — and, consequently, south Bengal — by the high-pressure area. “The winds are instead heading towards Kishanganj (Bihar), Malda and further north towards the hills,” said G.K. Das, the director of India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The temperature in places like Darjeeling is set to dip over the next few days. In Calcutta, the minimum temperature is tipped to be 21 degrees. On a day or two, it can rise to 22 degrees,” he added. The high-pressure system is tipped to move towards the Bay of Bengal in the coming days. The temperature in the city is expected to dip after the system dissipates, said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town speed cameras with a direct line to cops||Speed cameras will be installed at regular intervals on the six-lane Major Arterial Road that connects New Town with Salt Lake on one end and the airport on the other. The 10.5km-long road had been originally designed as a speed corridor to reduce the travel time of those headed to the airport. The speed cameras as well as the CCTV cameras on the stretch will be connected to an Artificial Intelligence (AI) module to monitor vehicles and alert police of “any abnormal driving” and help reduce accidents. Debashish Sen, the chairman of Hidco that is responsible for New Town’s infrastructure, said cameras had been installed on almost every important road in the township. Footage from the cameras have helped cops during accidents; but it is not enough to prevent accidents, he said. The new system will upgrade the existing surveillance network using the AI technology to alert cops whenever there is a possibility of an accident, Sen said. “Say, a car is moving at high speed and zig-zagging on the road. The new system will track the vehicle and alert the police. The irregular driving behaviour can be because the driver is drunk. One can understand and recognise human action using technology based on artificial intelligence. On being alerted, cops at the nearest location can stop the car.” Vehicle speed is tracked using portable speed trap cameras, which can be set up anywhere on the road, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Speed cameras are needed as people tend to speed, especially in the night and at dawn, another officer of the commissionerate’s traffic wing said. “We have recorded motorists driving down the Major Arterial Road at more than 100kmph. It is easy to speed on the road as it is wide and smooth… but it is an extremely risky proposition, too,” the officer said. The speed limit on the road has been fixed at 55kmph for light motor vehicles and 40kmph for bus, heavy goods vehicles, and two-wheelers, the officer said. Limiting the speed on a speed corridor like the Major Arterial Road defeats its purpose, several residents said. The road had been designed for faster travel, Akash Chakraborty, a resident of Action Area I, said. “The road has a wide divider and a driver gets an unhindered vision… it is quite smooth, too, and putting speed checks will slow down traffic considerably,” he said. Most accidents are a result of speeding and rash driving, an officer of the commissionerate said. “So, we decided to put crash barriers on roads in a zigzag manner to act as a deterrent to those speeding.” The barriers, though, get coated with dust over time and are difficult to spot in the dark, Tanisha Bhattacharya, a resident of the township, said. “It is dangerous at night… a barrier suddenly pops up in the line of vision, forcing a motorist to slam the brakes or swerve to avoid hitting it,” Bhattacharya said. Hidco plans to install close to 600 CCTV cameras across the township in phases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake roads ‘dangerously dark after dusk’||Roads and lanes in several Salt Lake blocks have been plunging into darkness after dusk over the past few months because of defunct street lights. Residents say they think twice before walking or driving down these stretches at night. On November 10 night, a man on a bicycle snatched the handbag of a woman walking back home with her sister after dinner at a restaurant in Salt Lake. The sisters chased the man but he fled inside a poorly lit lane nearby. The Telegraph drove through various blocks in all three sectors of Salt Lake on Wednesday night and found that most lanes and even some of the arteries had plunged into darkness. In FE Block, where Monday’s snatching took place, darkness had engulfed multiple lanes and roads because street lights were not working. In Sector I, large stretches of the road along the Kestopur canal were dark. “The entire area becomes dangerously dark after dusk. This has been happening for a few months. We have sent several letters to the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation but no action has yet been taken,” said Arindam Ganguly, a resident of AE Block. In HA Block, too, a resident said half the street lights had become defunct and the others were too dim to be of any use. Biswajit Paul, the resident, said the few lights that were functional only produced long shadows, instead of illuminating the streets. “The street lights and the lights in the block’s park that were damaged when Cyclone Amphan struck the city on May 20 have not yet been repaired or replaced,” another resident of HA Block said. An official of the civic body blamed the delay in repairing or replacing the defunct street lights on a staff shortage. “Most workers have gone home during Durga Puja and have not come back yet. We are hoping to start repairs after Diwali,” the official said. Krishna Chakraborty, the administrator of the Bidhannagar civic body, said they would start the repairs soon. Several sodium vapour lamps, she said, will be replaced by LED lights for better illumination. “We will speak to the ward coordinators and tell them to submit a list of unlit areas in their wards and take action accordingly,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Student alerts cops; bus ‘rogue’ arrested||A young woman who said a co-passenger harassed her throughout her journey on a government bus from Bolpur to Esplanade got the accused arrested moments after getting off the vehicle in the city on Tuesday afternoon.The accused have been identified as Mohammad Kafarul, 39, a resident of Bolpur, in Birbhum district. Police said the 22-year-old woman from Bolpur, who studies in a college in Calcutta, had boarded the South Bengal State Transport Corporation bus around 6am. She was travelling alone. “She was standing as all the seats were occupied. After some time, one of the passengers offered his seat. When the adjoining seat became vacant, the man occupied it,” said an officer of New Market police station. The woman said in her complaint lodged with the police station that the man had initially tried to touch her and then started disturbing her in various ways. The woman dozed off after some time. But she woke up with a start when the bus was travelling through Shaktigarh and found the man had placed his hand on her thigh. “At this point, she became sure the man was molesting her. She raised her voice and alerted the conductor. According to her, neither the conductor nor the driver did anything to help her,” the officer said. Apparently, no passenger on the bus came to her rescue. The woman said the accused was often pretending to doze off on her shoulder. Around four-and-a-half hours later, when the bus reached Esplanade, the woman got off in front of Bidhan Market and spotted a police sergeant. She rushed to him and narrated her plight before accompanying the sergeant to the man, who was then alighting from the bus. The man was taken to New Market police station, where he was arrested on charges of outrage of modesty. If convicted, he can be jailed for five years. The police said they would talk to the bus driver and conductor to verify the allegation of inaction levelled against them by the woman. Several officers said she could have alerted the police by calling 100 from her cellphone or raised an alarm through social media for prompt action during the journey itself. What women can do if molested in a moving vehicle ⚫ Dial 100 ⚫ Start making a video of the accused to scare him ⚫ Turn on Facebook Live and record the perpetrator’s activity to scare him ⚫ Call friends who can connect to the police and bring help||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Stick for ‘Covid posers’ in IISER||Two research scholars at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Kolkata have been suspended allegedly because they raised questions about the institute’s handling of Covid testing on the campus. The two students of the Kalyani institute — one pursuing PhD and the other MSc-PhD (integrated) — said they wanted to know from the authorities why the canteen staff were not being asked to undergo tests at a Covid-19 testing facility on the campus. The letter of suspension issued to the researchers by the dean, students’ affairs, on November 13 reads: “You are suspended for a period of two months with immediate effect. You are not allowed to enter the campus during the period of suspension. You must go for proper counselling by a proper counsellor and you need to submit the certificate by the counsellor to the students’ affairs office.” It adds: “Note that any case of future misbehaviour will result in harsher punishment.” One of the suspended researchers has resigned protesting the alleged highhandedness. The director of the institute, Sourav Pal, told Metro: “The decision on suspension was taken based on the recommendation of a committee. The resignation of the research scholar has not been accepted.” The two researchers told Metro on Tuesday that the authorities had told them that they would not receive their monthly scholarship of Rs 43,000 during the period of suspension. On October 19, all students of the institute had received a mail from the students’ affairs council (food, health and hygiene) about tests for Covid-19 to be conducted on the campus the next day. The students who wanted to get tested were asked to fill in an online form. On October 20, a canteen employee who had given samples for a Covid test at a centre outside the campus learnt that he had the disease. The same day, seven students, including the two who have been suspended, met the professor who was facilitating the on-campus testing drive and asked her why the canteen employees had not been approached for the test and why many of the students who had filled in the form the previous day had not been called for the test. The professor, who is also a member of the institute’s Covid Task Force, told the students that eight samples had been collected that day. “We requested her to clarify on what basis were the eight persons (whose samples were collected) prioritised?” said the MSC-PhD student. The two researchers were suspended within three weeks of that conversation. “Although the letter of suspension does not mention the grounds of suspension, we suspect the professor whom we had approached took offence as we dared to raise uncomfortable questions about Covid testing on the campus,” said the PhD student. The professor told this newspaper she had no idea what happened to the two students. “I just reported to the administration about the altercation I had with the students over the functioning of the Covid Task Force…. I don’t have any idea why they have been suspended. I just informed the chairman of the task force about what happened with them (the students) and the problems I was facing in running the facility,” said the professor, from the department of biological science. The dean of students’ affairs, Balaram Mukhopadhyay, said the committee was of the view that the behaviour of the suspended duo breached decorum. “Teachers are not willing to volunteer to hold any testing camp after what happened that day,” he said. Altercations between the IISER authorities and students are not new. In 2015, students got into an argument with then director R.N. Mukherjee during a protest on mess-related issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||State role baffles green activists||The Supreme Court has agreed to hear on Thursday a petition by the state-run Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) seeking permission to allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, changing Monday’s order that scheduled the hearing for next week, a lawyer appearing for the agency said. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, Vineet Saran and Shripathi Ravindra Bhat fixed the matter for hearing on Thursday after counsel for the CMDA, the custodian of the south Calcutta water body, mentioned the urgency of the matter before it. Chhath Puja will be celebrated over Friday and Saturday. “We mentioned the urgency of the matter before the bench on Tuesday. The bench then fixed the matter for hearing on Thursday,” said a lawyer for the CMDA. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had in 2017 banned all pujas, picnics and other social events on the Rabindra Sarobar premises to protect its environment. The CMDA’s keenness to allow Chhath Puja on the Sarobar premises has stoked suspicion and bewilderment in many Calcuttans. They said they failed to understand why the custodian was so determined to allow something that threatened to harm the place. “The role of the state government is really suspicious. The government has made so many alternative ghats for Chhath Puja devotees. There are ghats along the Hooghly where devotees can go. But the state government is so keen on allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar,” said Subhas Datta, a respondent in the CMDA’s petition before the Supreme Court. Author Amit Chaudhuri, who has been fighting to protect Calcutta’s heritage, said: “I am a bit bewildered why the government is pushing so much to have Chhath Puja inside the Sarobar, when the fallout was evident in previous years. Rabindra Sarobar is a public inheritance.” Chaudhuri said Sarobar was not the property of the government or a set of people. Every Calcuttan has the right to know why the government feels so strongly about allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, he said. Calls to state urban development minister Firhad Hakim, who is also the CMDA chairperson, went unanswered. Antara Acharya, the chief executive officer of the CMDA, refused to say why the CMDA was so keen on organising Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. Environmentalists have said Chhath rituals at the Sarobar affected the ecology of the place, drove away birds and harmed aquatic lives. Mani Prasad Singh, president of the Rashtriya Bihari Samaj, said about 10,000 people who live close to Rabindra Sarobar performed Chhath rituals there. “It has been an old practice. This year we are urging people to perform the rituals at home because of Covid-19. Those who want to visit ghats should go elsewhere if the Supreme Court does not allow Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar,” he said. In 2018, the state government or the CMDA made no efforts to stop devotees from entering the Sarobar complex to perform the rituals. Last year, the CMDA had locked the gates of Sarobar but devotees broke them and entered the compound, while police looked the other way. The CMDA had in September approached the NGT with a plea to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. The tribunal refused to hear the plea, after which the CMDA moved the apex court. Rakesh Dwivedi, a senior advocate appearing for the CMDA, had said on Monday that the bench before which the matter came up on Monday did not hear the matter on November 2. Monday’s bench said that since the previous bench had issued a notice to the respondent, it (the previous bench) should hear the plea, said Dwivedi. “The court had fixed next week for hearing since one of the judges of the previous bench is not available this week. On Tuesday, we told the court that other judges of the bench are available this week. The matter can be fixed for hearing this week. We said that this matter is urgent,” said another lawyer appearing for the CMDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||Cops to run campaign on alternative venues||Senior officers from Phoolbagan, Beleghata and Entally police stations have started reaching out to families and organisations across eastern Calcutta reminding them of the high court order banning Chhath rituals at Subhas Sarobar. In a repeat of what they had done ahead of Diwali — to prevent bursting of firecrackers — officers are visiting various pockets and telling residents that processions of devotees would not be allowed to head towards the Beleghata water body, off EM Bypass. Calcutta High Court has banned Chhath Puja rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. It has also banned processions on the occasion and stated that only two members from each family will be allowed to perform the rituals. Police teams on Tuesday started visiting parts of Convent Lane, AJC Bose Road and CIT Road in Entally, Nar-keldanga North Road and Narkeldanga Main Road in Phoolbagan and parts of Beleghata Main Road, spreading their message through loud hailers. Officers — from Phoolbagan, Beleghata and Entally police stations — requested residents to convince Chhath worshippers to look for alternative venues to perform their rituals. “Our teams have been visiting parts of Oriya Bagan on Suresh Chandra Banerjee Road and Barwaritala Road and explaining that this year rituals cannot be performed at Subhas Sarobar,” said an officer at Beleghata police station. “There are ponds in and around Beleghata. Worshippers can go there.” On Monday, a team of senior police officers visited Subhas Sarobar and also inspected the various lanes in the locality through which worshippers head for the water body. There are at least 16 such pathways off Narkeldanga Main Road, CIT Road, EM Bypass, Ram Mohan Mull-ick Lane, Suresh Sarkar Road and Beleghata Main Road. “We have decided to place guard rails along the pathways to stop devotees from proceeding towards Subhas Sarobar,” an officer said. “We are also trying to hold talks with our counterparts in the Bidhannagar police commissionerate.” People who live around Subhas Sarobar said the waterbody, whose custodian is the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, had remained neglected. At least 13 varieties of fish can be found in the lake, an official of the West Bengal Anglers’ Association said. “There are seven species of birds in the area.” The waterbody and its surroundings, beautified in 2017 in the run-up to the FIFA Under-17 World Cup, were found littered with styro-foam trays, plastic glasses, liquor bottles and used earthenware after last year’s Chhath Puja. The walking track was covered with garbage and polythene packets were floating on the water. Large swathes of the compound were stinking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
18-11-2020||Calcutta||200 ghats ready for Chhath rituals||Nearly 200 ghats across the city, some of them newly built, have been prepared for Chhath Puja rituals, officials of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have said. Three of the newly built ghats — all three are permanent structures made of concrete — are in Nonadanga, about 700 metres from Fortis Hospital in Anandapur, off EM Bypass. A temporary ghat has been built at 9 Panditya Road, another on the Rashbari ground on Tollygunge Road and a third on Remount Road in the port area. The CMC has readied more than 150 ghats and the CMDA 56 ghats for the rituals, to be performed over Friday and Saturday, engineers of the two organisations said. “We have embarked on a project to build 51 ghats at 16 locations in Kasba, Jadavpur, Anandapur and Patuli. Some of the ghats that are ready can be used by Chhath worshippers to perform rituals,” said a CMDA engineer. The ghats are being built mostly along waterbodies beside EM Bypass. The temporary ghats are of two kinds — some have wooden steps that go down into the waters and others are enclosed brick structures that the CMC will fill with water. Once the rituals are over, the wooden steps will be removed and the brick structures dismantled. The grounds where the structures have come up will be restored, said engineers of the two organisations. Jui Biswas, the coordinator of Ward 81 of the CMC, said a rectangular temporary pool with brick walls had been built on the Rashbari ground on Tollygunge Road. “We had built a temporary pool last year, too, for the devotees. But it was too small compared with the number of people who went there. This year we have built a bigger pool,” she said. A similar structure has come up on Panditiya Road, too. Biswas said many worshippers from the Tollygunge-New Alipore area would go to Rabindra Sarobar to perform the Chhath rituals. “If the rituals are not allowed at the Sarobar, devotees may visit the temporary structures,” she said. A CMDA official said they would campaign across the city, especially where Chhath worshippers live in large numbers, about the ghats. He said they would spread word about the ghats through loudspeakers mounted on autorickshaws. “We will not mention anything about Rabindra Sarobar, because the Supreme Court will hear the matter (the CMDA’s plea to allow the rituals there) on Thursday. We will only encourage devotees to go to the other ghats,” the engineer said. Worshippers from central and north Calcutta perform the rituals at ghats along the Hooghly. “There are numerous ghats along the river. We will illuminate them and clean the steps. There will be drinking water facilities for the devotees,” said a CMC engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-235
