19-11-2020||Calcutta||Prof. Alokeranjan Dasgupta dies at 87 in Germany ||The illustrious poet, academic and translator, Prof. Alokeranjan Dasgupta, died on November 17 in Heidelberg, Germany. He was 87. A tribute: He was not only my beloved, elder cousin, but also my intimate friend and revered mentor. I still recall with joy and gratitude his sterling advice, “Now that you are in Germany, do your PhD in Heidelberg before returning to Kolkata.” I responded positively to his advice and my academic attainment which followed changed the course of my life. He was not only a remarkable poet, but along with this distinction, he was a great scholar and prolific translator. Indeed, he acted as the cultural and creative bridge between the Orient and the Occident. His first book of poems Jouban Baul created a sensation and his translation of Goethe’s mini-epic West Easterly Divan was regarded as a masterpiece. This brilliant lyrical text has been choreographed by the well-known Kathak danseuse Surangama Dasgupta. Lovers of literature are immensely grateful to him for bringing home the brilliant translations of Friedrich Holderlin, Heinrich Heine, Bertolt Brecht and Peter Weiss. At the same time, he disseminated the creativity of Kabir, Rabindranath, Lalan and Jibanananda in Europe, Germany in particular. He was honoured with the prestigious Goethe Prize, Ananda Puraskar and Kabir Shamman. He was an enviable conversationalist and his ability to play with words was phenomenal. At Jadavpur University, where he taught comparative literature, and at Heidelberg, where he taught Indian literature and philosophy, students used to sit on the floor and stand outside the classroom to attend his lectures. This week is cruel because after Soumitra Chatterjee’s death, we have lost yet another cultural and creative icon. If I am asked to list his memorable books and writings, I shall certainly choose two books of poems, ‘Jouban Baul’ and ‘Nishiddho Kojagori’; two critical texts ‘Goethe and Tagore’ and ‘Jibanananda’; two translations ‘Goethe’s West Easterly Divan’ and ‘Preme Parobaashe’ (In Love and In Exile, poems by Heinrich Heine). His favourite poet was Rainer Maria Rilke, whose poems he translated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Rs 50 lakh contribution and a first for IIEST||A young man who could not study engineering because of financial constraints wanted to do something so that an engineering student did not have to quit studies for want of money. On his death, he left a considerable part of his savings to be donated to an engineering institution of repute. His wife will come to IIEST, Shibpur, on Tuesday on the occasion of the institution’s foundation day to hand over a cheque for Rs 50 lakh to fulfil the wishes of her late husband. The woman, a retired college teacher, would not be identified by her name, although she spoke to Metro at length. This is the first time a non-alumnus is making a contribution to the institute. The money could go a long way in addressing the financial constraints threatening the future of many students amid the Covid pandemic. The person in whose name an endowment fund will be created had passed away in 2006. He had been a general manager of a cotton mill. “My husband wanted this contribution to be used for a specific purpose. I expect his wishes will be honoured. Although the bulk of the contribution was from my husband, I, too, have contributed,” said the 81-year-old, who will not mind exposing herself to the risk of catching infection and visiting the campus to hand over the cheque. A devotee of Sri Ramakrishna and Sarada Devi, she said she wanted to stay away from the glare of the media. “I want to work silently,” she said when this newspaper sought her consent to name her in the news report. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said: “With the money we will create an endowment to give scholarships to the poor but meritorious students all through the undergraduate programme. This will help them pay the hostel and mess fees.” Registrar Biman Banerjee said that from the annual interest to be earned every year from the deposit, IIEST will give scholarship/assistantship to three first-year undergraduate students. Each student will get Rs 30,000 annually. “At least one of the students will preferably be a woman,” Banerjee said. Sunandan Narayan Basu, who had graduated from the erstwhile Bengal Engineering College (now IIEST) 64 years ago and donated Rs 50 lakh to his alma mater in August, will visit the campus on Tuesday to hand over another Rs 50 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath Puja toll on Rabindra Sarobar||The impact of Chhath Puja rituals on the birds, animals, trees and the overall environment at Rabindra Sarobar in previous years is evidence enough why the puja should not be allowed on the banks of the water body, Sarobar regulars said. Chhath Puja will be held over Friday and Saturday. Scientists explained that the noise and emission from firecrackers, blaring music, pouring of oil and ghee and throwing of flowers into the water affect the birds, aquatic animals and the many other species that inhabit the 192-acre Rabindra Sarobar complex. The place is home to three species of turtles, Common Toads, Bullfrogs, Cricket Frogs, Skittering Frogs, squirrels, about 60 species of butterflies, about 30 species of dragonflies and snakes. There is a high court bar on loud celebrations this year. Last year, too, there was a bar on loud firecrackers, but it was flouted with impunity. The National Green Tribunal has banned all pujas, picnics and other social events on the ecologically sensitive Sarobar premises. The Supreme Court will hear on Thursday a plea from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), a Bengal government agency, to allow Chhath rituals on the Sarobar premises. Metro lists what the devotees were found doing in previous years and why environmentalists are opposed to a rerun Worshippers burst firecrackers and play loud music during the rituals, which are performed at dusk and the next dawn. This is exactly when birds forage, said naturalist Arjan Basu Roy, founder of NGO Nature Mates. “More than 100 bird species have been recorded at the Sarobar this year. Several Painted Storks, a threatened Indian species not seen at the Sarobar for many years, have been spotted. Noise from firecrackers will drive them away,” Basu Roy said. “Chhath Puja is performed at a time when birds go out for food. So the disturbance will make them feel more threatened.” A birdwatcher said that in previous years birds would disappear from the Sarobar immediately after Chhath. “While some birds return, many migrants do not,” the birdwatcher said. Devotees place lamps on the water as part of the rituals. Oil spills on the water from the lamps. They also pour ghee into the water. “The oil and the ghee create a layer that prevents oxygen in the air from entering into the water. Aquatic animals die if there is not enough oxygen in the water,” said Parthib Basu, a professor of zoology at Calcutta University. Worshippers also throw flowers into the water. “Flowers need oxygen to decompose. They consume the oxygen dissolved in the water,” Basu said. On the one hand, the oil and the ghee prevent oxygen from mixing with the water and on the other, decomposing flowers consume dissolved oxygen. “The twin effects are very harmful for aquatic animals,” Basu said. A dead Indian Flapshell Turtle was found floating at the Sarobar on the morning after Chhath Puja last year, said Sudip Ghosh, a daily visitor to the Sarobar. Naturalists said turtles are known to breed around this time of the year and lay their eggs on the shallow edges of the water body. Basu Roy said Rabindra Sarobar had a good number of turtles, including Indian Roofed Turtles and Indian Tent Turtles. “Devotees enter the water to offer their prayers. This creates a natural conflict with the turtles breeding on the edges,” he said. Thousands of people gathering in the Sarobar compound at the same time results in the facilities inside getting overwhelmed for a while. Ghosh had seen worshippers relieving themselves behind bushes last year. “The number of publictoilets on the premises are far from enough compared with the turnout,” he said. A naturalist said that it was foolish to expect that a religious festival, which takes the shape of a carnival, would be a disciplined affair. Ghosh said he had seen worshippers breaking bamboo fencing surrounding some patches of gardens to go inside. Many newly planted trees get trampled in the process. People also feast in the lawns. The disposable cutlery is often thrown into the water. When firecrackers are burst, they emit smoke and chemicals. The toxic smoke can trigger respiratory distress in humans if they inhale it. “The chemicals released by firecrackers settle down on the land and the water in the immediate vicinity. These are harmful substances that enter the food chain of the organisms living there,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment. Chhath Puja should be allowed keeping in mind the Covid norms and the judgment of the court…. The government should observe the policy of justice for all and appeasement to none…. Law should be equal for all. Sayantan Basu, 
BJP (Basu made some other comments that are not relevant to the protection of open spaces and  hence, have not been included here.) We are concerned about the environment. Rabindra Sarobar was not protected this much before 2011-12. People used to observe Chhath rituals at the Sarobar. People used to wash clothes there. We came to power and set up grilles and gates, and beautified the place. People are saying it was better before, when they could enter Rabindra Sarobar whenever they wished. We will abide by the court’s order, but at the same time we have to respect religious sentiments. Firhad Hakim,
Trinamul Congress The government should comply with the order of the National Green Tribunal and make alternative arrangements for Chhath Puja. I do not believe that Chhath Puja devotees do not care about nature, about the environment. This is a ploy by Mamata Banerjee to give an impression that she loves Chhath Puja. This is being done to get votes. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, 
Congress We are saying that the government should implement the court’s order. We do not want Rabindra Sarobar to get polluted. But the government has gone to court, to the Supreme Court. Naturally they should abide by what the court says. Rabin Deb,
CPM leader Rituals that affect the biodiversity of any water body should not be allowed. I oppose the idea of performing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. Why do we need to tamper with a natural water body? We have done many wrongs in the past. Why can’t we rectify our mistakes and take a more scientific approach? Parthib Basu, professor of zoology,
Calcutta University I have seen dead birds and turtles at the Sarobar after Chhath Puja. I suspect they died because of pollution caused by the celebrations. In previous years, worshippers burst firecrackers, lit fire for yajnas and played loud music. After many years, a few Painted Storks have come to the Sarobar. What if they are forced to flee? Sumita Banerjee, 
activist who has been fighting for protection of the Sarobar Rabindra Sarobar is home to hundreds of birds. The Chhath rituals can scare them away. Thirty minutes of loud music and firecrackers are enough to do the damage. It is true the present state government has done a lot to improve the Sarobar, but I do not understand why they are so keen on allowing Chhath there. Partho Ghosh, 
resident of Lake Temple Road I had seen last year dead fish and a turtle floating in the water after Chhath Puja. The oil and the ghee poured into the water affect aquatic animals. Chhath Puja should not be allowed at the Sarobar keeping in mind the rich biodiversity of the place. Reema Das,
resident of the area, who recently finished her BSc in geography||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath circular silent on Calcutta High Court ban||The environment department had on November 11 issued a circular on Chhath Puja based on a high court order the day before, but did not refer to the blanket ban the court had imposed on Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. The circular was sent to the panchayat, urban development and municipal affairs, and transport departments, Bengal and Calcutta police, state pollution control board and the district magistrates. Environment activists said the omission of the ban in the circular was “intentional” and it amounted to “misrepresentation of the high court order”. “As far as Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar are concerned… these water bodies will be totally out of bounds for Chhath Puja celebrations,” ruled the division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee on November 10. The environment department’s circular, issued the next day, only referred to that part of the high court order which said repeated announcements would have to be made to let people know that no more than two persons from a family would be allowed to perform the rituals, long processions would not be allowed and Covid protocols would have to be followed. Sabuj Mancha, an organisation that works for protection of the environment, wrote to the chief minister on Wednesday, demanding that “misrepresentation of the High Court order” be “rectified at the earliest”. A senior official in the environment department asked Metro to talk to the CMDA (the custodian of the two water bodies) or the urban development department (under which the agency functions) when asked about the omission. However, when it was pointed out to him that the circular was issued by his department, he refused to make any further comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Murder whiff in Southern Avenue footpath death||A man attached with a real estate firm was found dead on a footpath along Southern Avenue on Monday. His family has alleged foul play and accused four of his acquaintances of murdering him. Police have started a murder case against Biswajit Chakraborty, Surajit Chakraborty, Bapi Halder, and Asish Gayen, all residents of Panchanantala Road, named by Prabir Das’s family in their FIR with Rabindra Sarobar police station. Das, 36, a resident of Rahim Ostagar Road, used to oversee the construction work in some of the real estate firm’s projects, the family has told cops. He was found on a footpath off Keyatala Road on Monday evening and declared dead at SSKM Hospital. A post-mortem was carried out on Tuesday, after which his mother Kajal Das lodged the FIR against the four. The Das family stays not far from the place where the body had been found. “She has alleged that the four thrashed her son causing grievous injuries that led to his death. She has said they had personal enmity,” an officer of Rabindra Sarobar police station said. Preliminary investigations suggested this was not the first time Das had been found lying unconscious on a footpath along Southern Avenue. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain if there are injury marks that suggest foul play. We will question the four men named in the FIR,” the officer said. No one has been arrested so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Son found with dead parents in Shibpur||The decomposed bodies of an elderly couple were found in their flat in Howrah’s Shibpur on Wednesday. Their son who was in the flat has been arrested in connection with the death of his parents. Pradyut Bose,75, and his wife Gopa, 70, used to live with their son Subhojit, 40, in their flat on the top floor of a four-storey building in Koi Pukur lane in Shibpur, police said. On Wednesday morning, neighbours of the Bose family became suspicious because of a stench from the flat. They knocked on the door and Subhojit answered, the police said. On entering the house, the neighbours found the bodies of his old parents and they alerted the police. Cops reached the house and removed the bodies and sent them for post-mortem. “Preliminary investigation and according to the statement of the son of the deceased, he has admitted to have smothered his parents to death with pillows,” an officer in Howrah said. He has been arrested and he will be produced in court on Thursday. The police have found from the neighbours that Pradyut Bose had been ill and bedridden for the past couple of years. His wife used to do all domestic chores, including going to the market. She was last seen returning home from the market on the morning of Kali Puja on Saturday. “The family used to keep to themselves. The neighbours have not been able to say much except what they saw. The couple’s son is possibly jobless. But we are still to verify this fact,” an investigating officer said. Cops will get the son checked up by medical practitioners to ascertain if he has any medical condition, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
19-11-2020||Calcutta||Paying guest in gold theft net in Sealdah||A man living as a paying guest at a Haridevpur house was arrested in Sealdah on Tuesday in connection with a gold jewellery theft at the house. Pradipta Kishore Sahoo, who had allowed Sudipta Das, 30, to stay in his house as a paying guest, found the jewellery and the keys to a cupboard and the main door missing after returning from Kalighat on Saturday. He had gone with his family to the Kali temple to offer prayers on the occasion of Kali Puja. Sahoo later realised that his credit cards and his phone’s SIM card were missing. Das had possibly removed the card from the phone on the pretext of making a call to ensure bank alerts regarding online transactions don’t land up at the phone, police said. After his arrest, cops have recovered the stolen credit cards, money and gold jewellery he had bought from a store in Gariahat using one of the credit cards. He has apparently told cops that he sold the jewellery he had stolen from the house to a goldsmith. The detective department’s anti-burglary section took over the case from Haridevpur police station. Cops located the store in Gariahat from details of the credit card used to buy jewellery and scanned the footage of CCTV cameras there and zeroed in on Das. Sahoo confirmed the identity of Das who had been living at his house for the past three months. “The moment he had inserted the SIM card in another phone to receive the OTP needed to validate an online transaction, cops traced the phone’s location to a hotel in Sealdah,” an officer said. Das has been booked for theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
