20-11-2020||Calcutta||School bus plea to CM||Representatives of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association marched from Kalighat Park to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s residence on Thursday and submitted a memorandum at her office demanding withdrawal of road tax for over 4,000 school bus operators. The association represents school and chartered bus operators. They also sought waiver of fines on lapsed fitness certificates and road permits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Rerun fear unless police uphold law||Worshippers want to perform Chhath Puja rituals at Rabindra Sarobar, a BJP leader said on Thursday evening, hours after the Supreme Court refused to allow Chhath Puja at the south Calcutta water body. The rituals will be performed at dusk on Friday and dawn on Saturday. Bir Bahadur Singh, the president of the BJP’s Rashbehari Mandal III, said: “People want to go to the Lake (Rabindra Sarobar) to perform rituals. Which place can accommodate so many people other than the Lake?... Let us see what decision the devotees take.” “Rabindra Sarobar can accommodate lakhs of people.... The Supreme Court’s order has to be followed, but it is also true people want to perform rituals inside Rabindra Sarobar,” Singh added. Community members said a lot of people would go to Rabindra Sarobar to perform the puja. They will turn back if police do not allow them to enter the compound. Last year, the police looked the other way while worshippers broke locks on Sarobar gates and entered the compound to perform Chhath rituals. Community members said devotees would not hesitate to do the same if the police behaved the same way. Randhir Singh, an official of the Rashtriya Bihari Samaj, felt many people would try to enter Rabindra Sarobar despite the ban. “If the government and police are lax in implementing the National Green Tribunal’s order (banning pujas, picnics and other social events in the Sarobar compound), some devotees would enter Rabindra Sarobar,” said Singh. Manoj Kumar Jha, a community member, echoed Singh. “Last year, too, there was a ban on rituals inside Rabindra Sarobar, yet devotees broke locks and went inside. They gathered courage to do so because the police did not stop them and there was political support,” said Jha, the convenor of Bharat Kshatriya Samaj. Singh and Jha both said devotees would not have the courage to violate the court’s order if the police guarded the gates of the Sarobar. An official of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, said the two compounds would be closed to visitors from Thursday midnight till 3pm on Saturday. Additional private security personnel have been deployed to guard the gates and the barricades put up where boundary walls are broken or are very low. Discontent was simmering among many devotees over the ban on the rituals at the two lakes. Residents of the Kurigram slum near the Kadapara-EM Bypass crossing, where Subhas Sarobar is located, vented their ire in an interview with news channel ABP Ananda. Several women said they saw no logic in not allowing Chhath Puja at Subhas Sarobar. The police fear that some vested interests could exploit this discontent to stoke violence on Friday or Saturday. “We will deploy an adequate number of personnel outside the two lakes. Some groups may try to incite trouble,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Community members in central and north Calcutta said they would not face any trouble as they performed the rituals at ghats along the Hooghly. “We never went to Rabindra Sarobar as the Hooghly is closer home. But what will happen to those who performed the rituals there? A lot of sentiment is associated with performing rituals at that place,” said S. Kapoor, a businessman in Burrabazar. There were some contrary voices, too. Randhir Singh of the Rashtriya Bihari Samaj said they had urged everyone to perform the rituals at home this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have put up banners urging everyone to do the rituals at home,” he said. Santosh Jaiswal, a resident of the Wellington Square area in central Calcutta, said he welcomed the NGT and the Supreme Court’s orders. “We need to protect Rabindra Sarobar. We, as a family, perform the Chhath rituals at home nowadays,” said Jaiswal, a businessman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Bus catches fire on Howrah bridge, passengers safe||A minibus on the Howrah-Harinavi route caught fire near pillar No. 17 of the Howrah bridge around 5.20pm, police said. The driver spotted thick fumes coming out of the engine and asked passengers to get off the bus. The bus was headed for Harinavi, South 24-Parganas, when the fire broke out.A police team reached the spot and helped in fighting the fire. But by then the entire bus was on fire. Two fire engines brought the fire under control in 20 minutes, the police said. No one was injured. The police had to divert city-bound traffic till the bus was towed away. Forensic experts will inspect the vehicle on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Contact tracing push to contain Covid in Salt Lake||Outgoing councillors and ward co-ordinators are now being asked to stress on contact tracing. This means finding out everyone a Covid patient came in touch with and getting them tested too. According to a health department official, this directive has been communicated to the civic body headquarters as irrespective of urban or rural pockets, the number of cases in North 24-Parganas has been rising steadily. More than 700 cases are being reported everyday. On Wednesday, North 24-Parganas recorded 805 cases, trailing only behind Calcutta that recorded 875 new Covid cases. Public health specialists have stressed on the three-pronged strategy to trace, test and isolate anyone who has come in contact with a Covid-positive person. More tests would help identify asymptomatic people who would otherwise be freely mingling with others and spreading the virus. However at least two health department officials said that the number of people undergoing tests at the two government Covid-19 testing centres in Salt Lake and Rajarhat was below their expectation. In Salt Lake, the centre is the swimming pool complex opposite Mayukh Bhavan and in Rajarhat, it is at Narayanpur. Initially the civic body would send teams to different blocks in Salt Lake on weekends to set up fever camps as well as advise people on where they can get tests done. But this was stopped due to a shortage of doctors and trained personnel to conduct the tests. Despite the grave pandemic, the civic body continues to run with a single medical officer (doctor). “Many of our employees also came down with Covid after conducting these block-level camps. This is why we started operating permanent testing centres,” said an official. Many residents, however, said that these were inadequate, given the corporation now has 41 wards. Indira Samanta, a resident of IC Block, had gone to the Central Park testing centre, “but I saw a huge queue there and hurried home. I got the test done from a private lab,” said Indira, who tested positive last week and is now in home isolation. A civic official confirmed that most Salt Lake residents were getting their tests done at private facilities, fearing the crowd at the government facilities. He added that many were calling the helplines from Salt Lake and adjoining areas asking what to do in case someone was down with Covid-19 or had come in contact with an infected person. “This points to a lacuna in the workings of the civic body’s health department,” said the official. “Ideally, each urban local body should be prepared to send in a doctor to check on patients who might call for assistance.” The New Town authorities had started a Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) centre three months ago which has examined more than 1,000 persons since then. RAT tests being quicker (but less accurate), the results are out in an hour and samples are taken everyday from 10.30am-1.30pm except on Sundays. New Town also has private facilities against payment for drive-in Covid tests near gate number 2 of the New Town Fairground near the Biswa Bangla Gate and swab collection kiosks inside the fairground. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said that all these centres were quite popular among the residents. “Many are turning up here as people are scared to go to hospitals for tests, fearing cross-infection,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Business back on track, almost||Local trains are back. It’s been about a week now that passengers from the districts have been hitching rides to reach their workplaces in Salt Lake, Sector V and New Town by alighting at Bidhannagar Road railway station in Ultadanga. But even though trains have always been a vital mode of connectivity, nothing is quite the same in this post-lockdown world. Many employees are working from home, others have purchased bikes and cycles… The Telegraph Salt Lake speaks to various stakeholders to explore what the return of the local trains means for the locality and how it has affected the situation. A year ago, the only thing visible on the footpaths of Ultadanga during rush hour was a sea of heads. Pedestrians would walk shoulder to shoulder on the footpath and eventually spill on to the road. Traffic policemen would constantly herd autos back into their designated lanes so the majority of the road would be free for buses. Buses on their part would come from all over the city and empty out at the station. While the place is no longer as crowded as before, Ultadanga is busier now than it was a fortnight ago. Rush hour trains are once again pouring out thick crowds, even though off-time trains are going emptier. The government offices under the Metro viaduct too are seeing lots of visitors. “I’m not sure if it the effect of trains, but hundreds more have come today compared to a week ago. Many are eating my rolls and chowmein,” said Ganesh Majumdar, who runs a food stall outside Purta Bhavan, on Wednesday. The Sourav’s restaurant outside the railway station had shut in March and opened last week. “Before that, this street was deserted like a containment zone. I got the confidence to open up only after learning that trains were resuming,” said the owner Sunil Daga. Even then, the footfall isn’t enough for him to resume his Chinese and south Indian offerings. Only sweets and savouries are on sale now. “Time was when passengers used to hang like bats from crowded buses and alight in front of my shop, hungry and thirsty. Now people are working from home, are commuting by cycles and bikes or have lost their jobs altogether. They cannot afford to eat out. Even on my menu only my cheapest sodas are selling. No one is buying costly lassis any more.” Rintu Mistri, who sells tea at the exit of the station, used to open up for just a couple of hours till last week. “But now that trains are back, I’m keeping open from 7am to 8.30pm. Thereafter there is no footfall but at least I can earn a buck or two during the day.” Bikas Mullick reopened his clothes stall outside the station a week before trains resumed and has noted that sales have risen by about 10 per cent since then. “I’m selling winter clothes now. Sales aren’t great but they would have been way worse without the railway crowd,” he said. Sukanta Nayban lives in Lakshmikantapur, and had work at Bikash Bhavan that he had been putting off for months due to the absence of trains. “A bus journey would have meant an almost three-hour-long break journey. The train is much easier, although I was quite alarmed seeing the crowd at the station,” he said, having made the trip on Tuesday. Rupa Sarkar of Santipur, Nadia, said her husband had to hire cars several times before trains resumed, to reach the government offices near Karunamoyee. “It meant a four-hour drive and Rs 1,500 fare,” said Rupa. “Even though our work did not get done today at least it will be easier returning by train.” Without trains, several members of the staff at Bikash Bhavan had been staying back at the office through the week and hitching bike rides home on weekends. “With the trains back on track now we go home daily ,” said the security guard posted outside the building. The supply chain of goods sold by shops and hawkers has got smoother with the trains plying. P.R. Choudhury, who sells flowers at EC Market, is relieved with resumption in service. “So long suppliers would send 10-15kg of flowers by bus from Howrah. It was cumbersome, especially on Puja days when our demand would soar to 50 or 60kg. It wasn’t possible to carry so much by bus so they would hire taxis. The cost escalated, of course,” he said. But flowers for Kali puja could be sent conveniently by train. Large scale fruit and vegetable vendors said they ferry their products by lorries but those like Kishan Kandar, who sells bananas outside the station, can now leave aside his cycle and use the train to get his fruits from Mechhua. Chhoton Biswas would have to cycle to Fancy Market to get mobile accessories for his stall. “It would take hours, I would feel dizzy and worst of all, I couldn’t return in time to open the stall. The train has eased the process again,” said the man who sells outside the station. Auto drivers were expecting to laugh all the way to the bank ferrying passengers to and from the railway station but that hasn’t quite played out as per plan. “If we were doing two trips before the trains we are now doing five or six, but it’s still a hand-to-mouth survival,” said Dulal Das, who plies his auto from Ultadanga to anywhere in Salt Lake. “The reasons are many. Firstly, everyone is trying to cut costs.” The reason passengers preferred autos over buses is because they would be guaranteed seats. “Now when buses are near-empty why would passengers pay more and ride autos?” Das reasons. Bapi Sarkar, driver of a bus on the 201 route, said he was prepared to see a fall in passengers once trains started. “A bus ride from Belghoria to Sector V takes an hour and half whereas a train ride takes 20 minutes. Why will anyone take our bus now?” he asked. Autos and even buses at Ultadanga and Karunamoyee claim that their top destination during office hours used to be Sector V. But now, instead of luring customers by shouting: “Sector V, Sector V!” they are shouting “Bikash, Bikash!” referring to  Bikash Bhavan, the government office near Karunamoyee. “Sector V is now a ghost town,” said Gobindo Singha, a driver on the Karunamoyee-Ultadanga route. Most are working from home and some have fixed carpools on a monthly basis to and from office. The trains started mid-month and it will not be possible for these passengers to discontinue the carpool arrangements before the end of the month or maybe the year. That’s what we are pinning our hopes on.” Another auto driver Kousik Bhattacharya admits passengers have increased after trains resumed. “But drivers are still not making more money. This is because more than passengers, it is autos that have increased on the road,” he laments. For months only 10 out of the 40 autos on the Ultadanga-Salt Lake stand were plying. The rest of the drivers sold fish, fruit or returned to their villages and started farming. “But now that trains have resumed everyone wants a share of the pie and 35 to 40 autos are now hitting the road since last week,” Bhattacharya explains. “There aren’t enough passengers to fill so many vehicles.” Many auto and bus drivers said passengers had in fact reduced after trains began but there is an explanation for that too. “It’s been vacation time since the trains resumed — Kali puja, Diwali, Bhai Phonta, Chhat puja…. Government offices,  which is the most popular destination of passengers now, have been shut. We will need a couple of more weeks to assess the effect of trains on our business,” said auto driver Prasanta Mondal. Bapi Sarkar, a driver of  a 201 route bus, agrees with this holiday theory but laughs at changing fortunes. “Back in the day the concept of even weekly holidays was alien to Sector V folk. Our buses would be just as full on Sundays,” he sighs. Bishu Mondal, the starter (time keeper) of 215A bus route from Sector V to Howrah recalls how their first buses would set off at 3am. “All the seats would get occupied by the time we reached College More, a few hundred meters away,” he recounts. “Back then, our buses would set off every six minutes but now they are not filling even after 15-minute intervals.” The Sovabazar Sutanuti Metro station on their route has no draw either. The East West Metro trains from Wipro to Phoolbagan are going next to empty. Mihir Ghosh, route secretary of Karunamoyee-Phoolbagan autos, is down but optimistic. “People are now less paranoid about Covid and are gradually stepping out. They will eventually take trains and come to work,” he said. The AS 3 bus route from New Town to Garia railway station has raised its fare from Rs 13 to 20 to compensate the lack of passengers in the past months. “But with the trains returning, we believe the crowds are not far behind. Then we can reduce the fare again,” said starter Bubai Karmakar. Auto driver Raj Kumar, in between shouting “Salt Lake and Bikash!” outside the Ultadanga station, once in a while still cries out “Eco Park!” “It’s winter and sooner or later, I’m sure the crowds will return to the park,” he said. “I can ferry them there for Rs 200.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||3 days on, Patuli burglar arrested||The second person involved in the burglary in Patuli’s Baghajatin Colony was arrested by officers of Patuli police station on Thursday evening. Dibas Dey, 36, a resident of Vivekananda Nagar in Narendrapur was arrested when he returned home on Thursday evening after hiding for two days, police said. His accomplice Deb Kumar Haldar, 26, had been caught trying to escape from Subhankar Mukherjee’s rented apartment in Baghajatin Colony in Patuli with his laptop bag. He is now in police custody. Mukherjee had returned home around 3.30pm on Monday to find the collapsible gate in the front broken and Dey and Haldar holding his wallet and Rs10,000 in their hands. Mukherjee, a graphic designer by profession, had been hit by the two with an iron rod. Haldar had his laptop bag and he tried to flee through the door at the back on seeing Mukherjee but he was caught by Mukherjee and another person from the neighbourhood. “We got to know of his (Dey’s) whereabouts from his associate’s statement. But he was hiding somewhere else,” an officer of Patuli police station said. “On specific information we raided his home on Thursday evening and found him there.” Of the Rs 10,000 stolen from Mukherjee’s home, the police said Rs3,000 had been found on Dey. Dey will  produced in court on Friday. Cops have seized the rod and the equipment used to break open the collapsible gate, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro e-pass relief||Starting Thursday, children below 15 and women can enter a Metro station without an e-pass from 11am to 5pm, officials said. An e-pass was so far mandatory for any passenger under 60 to enter a Metro station. Senior citizens can enter a station any time without an e-pass. “Children should carry an age-proof ID, like their school identity card,” said a Metro official. A smart card will remain mandatory for a train ride for all passengers. “We were having quite a few vacant slots during the non-peak hours. We wanted to give preference to women and children, like we did with senior citizens,” the official said. Metro’s passenger count was 1,00,589 on Wednesday. The count breached the 1,00,000 mark for the first time since the resumption of services on September 14 and a week into the resumption of suburban railway services on November 11. On Thursday, the count was 94,041. The Metro and suburban railway services had remained suspended since March to slow down the spread of the coronavirus. In the run-up to the resumption of suburban trains, Metro had increased the number of trains from Monday to Saturday from 152 to 190.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Woman’s body in cement bag on busy road||The body of a young woman was found wrapped inside a while plastic bag, meant to carry cement, on the busy MM Ali Road in Ekbalpore on Thursday. Morning walkers spotted the bag lying in front of a closed shop. Later, a team of officers from the nearby Ekbalpore police station reached the spot and opened the bag. A woman’s body, with the hands and legs folded, was found stuffed inside the bag. Injury marks were found on the neck and other parts of the body. The police later identified the victim as 20-year-old Saba Khatun, a resident of Watgunge. The bag was immediately removed from the spot and taken to SSKM Hospital. The body was then sent for a post-mortem. “Preliminary investigations have revealed that Saba used to live with her maternal grandmother in Watgunge till two months ago. Her mother had passed away. Relatives said she would occasionally visit her father,” a police officer said. Over the past two months, Saba had been staying as a “paying guest” with a friend in Warish Lane of Ekbalpore. Residents of the area said they had seen Saba buying biryani from a street-side shop late on Wednesday afternoon. “On Wednesday evening, she was seen leaving the house where she stayed as a paying guest while talking on his cellphone,” said a senior police officer. “Saba’s phone was switched off soon after. Relatives tried in vain to contact her throughout the night.” The phone has not yet been traced. “More than one person was involved in putting the body inside the bag. We are trying to gather her call details so that the frequent callers can be shortlisted,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta teen highlights child safety concerns||A 17-year-old girl who lives and has grown up in a red-light area became the chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights for an hour on Thursday and said every child should be safe “both inside and outside the house”. “If a child is feeling safe at 10 in the morning, she or he should feel safe at 10pm, too,” said the Class XI student at a government school, who has a purple belt in karate. She told Metro that children in neighbourhoods like hers were exposed to unsafe environments in the house as well as outside. “The houses are small and the same space is occupied by their mothers for work. The children have to wait outside, on the landing or the staircase. And with so many people visiting, the children are exposed to risks,” she said. The teenager talked about discrimination girls from red-light districts face in school, though she has not faced it herself. “Children are judged in school not on the basis of their abilities.... Those who come from a red-light area are discriminated against.” She lost her mother a few years back and lives with her grandparents. Her grandfather runs a small shop in their neighbourhood. She narrated facts that gave officials of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights a glimpse of what it meant to grow up in a neighbourhood like hers. Seldom do children in her locality get to enter home and sleep before 3 in the morning because their mothers remain busy entertaining clients. And going to school on an empty stomach is almost a routine. “Usually, there is only one room in the house and that is occupied till late. So, the children have no option but to while away their time outside till around 3am. There should be a mental health professional in every school to talk to them about their problems,” she said. “The mothers work till late and cannot make breakfast for the children, who are forced to go to school on an empty stomach.... They should be provided with tiffin at the beginning of a school day,” she said. Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the commission, said the demands raised by the teenager would be placed before Shashi Panja, Bengal’s minister of state (independent charge) for women and child development and social welfare. “They have specific problems, different from other children from marginalised backgrounds. It is important that their voices are heard. When we reach out to one child, we are reaching out to the entire community. The community feels confident that they are being heard,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. The teenager has been going to a centre run by the NGO South Kolkata Hamari Muskan, which looks after the mental health, education and livelihood of children in red-light areas and their mothers, since she was five. “She has attended multiple counselling sessions, which helped make her resilient and find a voice and make her strong enough to face the world,” said Sarbani Sarkar Neogi, the founder-director and secretary of the NGO. Commission sources said making the teenager chairperson for an hour was a first-of-its-kind move, which was part of the events lined up to mark the child rights week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Bike thief poses as good Samaritan in hospital||A man who was in a rush to meet his four-day-old nephew admitted to Calcutta Medical College and Hospital parked his two-wheeler outside the hospital and asked a stranger to look after it. An hour later he returned to find the vehicle and the stranger gone. On asking people in the area, the man learnt that the stranger had earlier cheated several people by posing as a member of the hospital staff who could get relatives of patients connected to doctors directly against a “nominal payment”. Police tracked the man down through a phone number obtained by speaking to various people. The theft occurred on Wednesday afternoon. Soon after finding his motorcycle gone, Abdul Moid, a resident of the Ripon Street area, lodged a complaint of theft with Bowbazar police station. During investigation police found a phone number from people at the hospital. Cops tracked the tower location of the phone to Chandernagore in Hooghly district. The subscriber details record of the SIM card helped the police get details of the person in whose name the SIM is registered. The person was identified as Tulsi Das Majhi, 20, a resident of Chandernagore. He was arrested on Wednesday night and produced in court on Thursday. The stolen motorcycle has been seized from him, the police said. It is advisable not to trust strangers in a government hospital, according to senior officers. There are frauds roaming around trying to cheat people taking advantage of their mental state because most have a family member or a relative or someone close admitted to the hospital, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Home fever scan to resume in Salt Lake||Health workers of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will resume door-to-door checks in all its 41 wards to find out if someone has fever. All the wards have been reporting fresh cases of the coronavirus almost daily. Close to 250 residents of Salt Lake and adjoining areas, including Baguiati, Kestopur, Atghara, Kaikhali and Rajarhat, have tested positive for dengue. Also, there have been instances of people contracting both the coronavirus and dengue, a civic official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had stopped running door-to-door checks as many health workers had gone home for Durga Puja and many had tested positive for the coronavirus. “Also, there are no containment zones except for Duttabad. Many of our workers who were part of these teams had contracted Covid-19 and many had gone on leave because of Durga Puja,” the civic official said. The decision to resume door-to-door checks was taken after a meeting of the board of administrators on Thursday, another official said. “We have received reports of people coming down with both Covid and dengue at the same time. This is a risky combination and we do not want to take chances,” an official of the civic body’s health department said. Last year, during this time close to 1,000 people were down with dengue. In the past three years, 30 people have died of dengue and hundreds have had the disease. Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said teams had been conducting sanitisation drives and spraying larvicide in all blocks of Salt Lake and other areas. “We have taken a two-pronged approach. While the vector control and sanitisation teams will move around the blocks the door-to-door teams will check if anyone in a house has fever. Apart from this they will enter the house to check for any accumulated freshwater,” Chakraborty said. A member of a vector control team who visited several homes on Thursday said they had found freshwater in old tyres dumped in backyards, under refrigerators and vases. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that causes dengue can breed even in a little volume of water. Civic teams have been distributing leaflets to residents to spread awareness about Covid-19 as well as dengue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||‘Feluda’ for faster Covid test results in Calcutta||A home-grown paper strip diagnostic test kit for Covid-19 that could cut the waiting time for results by several hours will be available in New Delhi by the first week of December and “shortly thereafter” in Calcutta. Two private entities that have commercialised the concept developed in a government laboratory made the announcement on Thursday. The paper strip-based test, developed by scientists at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi, is expected to scale up Covid-19 diagnosis as it eliminates an expensive sophisticated tool used in the standard quantitative RT-PCR test. The institute has named the testing technology Feluda after the iconic Bengali sleuth created by Satyajit Ray and brought to life by Soumitra Chattopadhyay. Tata Medical and Diagnostics (Tata MD), the health care venture of the Tata group, has collaborated with Apollo Hospitals for the commercial roll-out of the new mode of testing, called TataMD CHECK. The test results should be available to a suspected patient within two hours, an Apollo Hospitals spokesperson said. The result of a conventional RT-PCR test is available within six hours of testing at many hospitals in Calcutta. But a private laboratory usually takes 24 to 48 hours to deliver the result. The paper strip test will need nasal and throat swab samples like they are needed in RT-PCR tests. Both diagnostic strategies rely on looking for genetic signatures of the Covid-19 virus after an “amplification process” that multiplies traces of viral genetic material in the swabs of patients. While the standard RT-PCR test relies on a machine that costs around Rs 20 lakh, the Feluda technology combines an enzyme that works like a molecular scissor with a paper strip to detect the amplified genetic material without the need for that expensive machine, according to IGIB scientists. “It should take no more than 60 minutes from gene amplification to test read-out,” Debajyoti Chakraborty, an IGIB scientist who developed the test in collaboration with his colleague Souvik Maiti, said. Chakraborty said the paper strip test would expand the number of Covid-19 diagnostic facilities and reduce the turnaround time from submission of a sample to the release of the result. “The paper-strip technology is expected to help deliver results faster and higher throughput of testing volumes as there are no minimum batch size limitations,” an official of Tata MD said. The RT-PCR test involves batch processing, which means a fixed lot of samples has to be fed into a reader at one go. While the IGIB has already transferred the technology to the Tata group on a non-exclusive basis, the institute, a unit of India’s Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, has received enquiries from other potential manufacturers. “Apollo Hospitals, along with its subsidiary Apollo Diagnostics, will offer the Tata MD CHECK testing in the National Capital Region from the first week of December 2020 and shortly thereafter it will be rolled out across all major centres,” the group said in an official statement. “We are happy to further the cause of AatmaNirbhar Bharat in providing the launch pad for adoption of this indigenously developed testing,” Sangita Reddy, the joint managing director of Apollo Hospitals, said. The cost of the paper strip test in each state will be fixed according to the caps placed by the state governments. In Calcutta, the state government has capped the cost of RT-PCR tests at Rs 1,500 for private hospitals. Doctors said any reduction in the waiting time was welcome. “There are sophisticated testing techniques like GeneXpert (that uses imported kits to look for genetic signatures of the Covid-19 virus after an amplification process) which produce results faster than the RT-PCR technique. But an indigenous technology will come at a cheaper price and can be the ‘test of choice’,” a city-based pulmonologist and intensive care specialist said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-233
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta lakes to be shut for all till Saturday||Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar will remain closed to all visitors from Thursday midnight till 3pm on Saturday, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) said on Thursday. The CMDA, which is the custodian of both water bodies, will paste closure notice at the gates of the two premises. The move is the outcome of a high court order issued earlier this month, which reads: “As far as Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar are concerned, in view of the subsisting order of the National Green Tribunal, these water bodies will be totally out of bounds for Chhath Puja celebrations. However, as the State has indicated that there is a petition of CMDA before the Supreme Court in such regard, ultimately it is the order of the Supreme Court that will prevail. However, if no order is passed on CMDA’s petition by the Supreme Court, the National Green Tribunal’s order has to be implemented without exception.” The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to interfere with the high court order. Here are what government agencies have done in the run up to Chhath Puja, to be held over Friday and Saturday. Bamboo structures were set up to close the gaps in the boundary walls on the periphery of both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar on Thursday. The bamboo structures have been covered with tin and asbestos sheets to ensure no one could sneak into the lakes. The 15 entry points of Rabindra Sarobar, some of which witnessed gatecrashing during last year’s Chhath Puja, have got an additional layer of barricade each as reinforcement. Double the number of cops, compared with other days, will be deployed on the periphery of the two Sarobar compounds on Friday and Saturday. “We will have adequate forces on the ground to ensure no one violates the court order,” said an officer in south Calcutta. Last year, there were allegations that the cops deployed outside Rabindra Sarobar were outnumbered by Chhath worshippers, who had forced their way in after breaking locks on gates. Sources said women cops would be posted in large numbers. The high court has instructed the police to ensure its order related to Chhath Puja is enforced. “In the event the State finds any difficulty in controlling crowds or in the implementation of this order, the State is reminded of the authority at its disposal including the power under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, to restrict the number of persons in any particular area,” the court order reads. Officers said they would take stringent action to prevent violation of the court order. They are planning to stop devotees 200m from the lakes. The CMDA and the police on Thursday created several small pools in slum areas near Subhas Sarobar and urged worshippers through the public address system to perform Chhath rituals there. Police stations across the city have been campaigning over loudhailers that not more than two members of a family will be allowed to perform Chhath rituals and no big processions will be allowed because of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
20-11-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court upholds ban on Chhath at Sarobars||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to interfere with the directives passed by Calcutta High Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banning Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar and imposing restrictions on congregation of people for the festival. The three-judge bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, Vineet Saran and S. Ravindra Bhat declined to entertain appeals against the earlier directions and said they were well-reasoned and there was no need to modify the orders passed on those directions. The court was dealing with separate appeals filed by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which were represented by senior advocates Rakesh Dwivedi and Kalyan Banerjee. The NGT had in November 2017 imposed a ban on all pujas, picnics and other social events on the Rabindra Sarobar premises. The high court had on November 10, 2020, said the NGT’s order would stand unless the Supreme Court decided otherwise. The high court also included Subhas Sarobar among places where Chhath rituals would be barred and said no more than two persons from a family could join the celebrations in public. Bursting firecrackers and playing loud music are banned, too. On Thursday, the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the NGT and the high court’s directions. The apex court noted that the NGT had passed a reasoned order and no blanket relief could be given during the current festivities, particularly because of the Covid pandemic. “I am very happy with the Supreme Court’s decision. The NGT’s ban was flouted in 2018 and 2019 under the auspices of the state administration. If the administration does the same thing this year, it will be a very serious insult to the highest court of the country,” said environment activist Subhas Datta, whose petition against football matches under floodlights at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium had triggered a series of developments that led to the NGT’s order. “The Supreme Court on Thursday referred to an expert committee’s report that made recommendations against any puja at Rabindra Sarobar,” Datta said. Sumita Banerjee, a daily visitor to Rabindra Sarobar, said she “hoped the state government will protect both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar”. On November 11, the apex court had affirmed the high court order banning the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Diwali, Chhath Puja, Kali Puja and other occasions in the whole of Bengal. The vacation bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee dismissed the special leave petition filed against the November 5 order passed by a division bench of the high court. “High courts know the local situation better. Of course, festivals are an important part of our culture. But we are in the middle of a pandemic. There can be no greater value than preservation of life. We understand this may involve hardship. But, look at Covid-19-affected people in hospitals, elderly people etc. Can anyone step out of the house in Calcutta, Delhi or any other part of the city today?” the bench had observed. The high court division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee, which had ordered that no more than two persons from each family would be allowed to perform the rituals because of the Covid pandemic, directed the local bodies to ensure elaborate publicity to inform Chhath worshippers about the cap. It directed that persons intending to travel to a water body to perform the rituals in vehicles must follow all Covid protocols. The high court and the NGT had passed the impug-ned directions while dealing with PILs filed by environmental activists Ajay Kumar Das and Subhas Datta, who had sought a ban on congre-gation of people during Diwali, Chhath Puja and other festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-234
