21-11-2020||Calcutta||Career tips and skill show||St Augustine’s Day School Barrackpore and Shyamnagar recently organised a two-day e-career fair, in association with The Telegraph Young Metro. Around 25 guest speakers and 15 colleges came together to guide Augustinians in Augusto e-Career Fair 2020. “Our career fair is for Class VIII upwards to enhance awareness of the possibilities and opportunities out there and how to understand themselves better to choose the right subject combinations that lead to the career of their dreams,” said St Augustine’s Education Society president Janet Gasper Chowdhury. Stalwarts from various fields such as journalism, banking, entertainment, civil services and information technology spoke about their journey to the top. Journalist Monideepa Banerjie, career specialist Amrita Dass, Mrinal Desai from Silicon Valley, California, Malavika Banerjee of the sports management company, GamePlan, and ex-police commissioner of Mumbai D. Sivanandhan were among the guest speakers. “After the pandemic, we have seen that technology has become integral to our existence. So, students would know how to combine liberal arts and technology and have a high-yielding career,” said A.D. Gomes, the principal, St Augustine’s Day School Shyamnagar. Jhuma Biswas, principal, St Augustine’s Day School Barrackpore, said: “It is important to organise such career fairs, so that students can make informed choices about their careers instead of just opting for things which they are not much sure about.” Technology met empathy and released a whole lot of creativity at ExeBit 2020, the annual inter-school IT fest organised by Lakshmipat Singhania Academy recently. The fest went virtual this year with students from around 28 schools showcasing their tech skills, including film-making, mixing music and even designing games, apps and Gifs within a deadline. The students were divided into two categories — classes VI-VIII and classes IX-XII. The opening ceremony was streamed live on social media. Chief guest and a cyber security consultant Rakshit Tandon spoke about ethical hacking and the need to create good digital footprints. “Please protect your digital identity and practise information-distancing along with social distancing in times of coronavirus,” he told the audience. School director Meena Kak said: “The students need to build on their resilience quotient along with intelligence quotient and emotional quotient during these disturbing times.” Krishnagar Public School, Nadia, has tied up with the local cable operator to show subject enrichment content on television for students of classes X and XII since September. This enterprise would involve subject-related videos that would help underprivileged children from the rural areas get access to education. The teachers of the school are directly involved in this initiative. The institution was one of the first schools in Nadia to start online education, that is, from the end of March. They started it with the students of classes X and XII and eventually all the students of the school were brought under the ambit of virtual teaching. The school will also address the overall mental health and wellness issues in both students as well as parents. They have introduced co-scholastic activity sessions to help them use their time in a meaningful way. “Even a small contribution can go a long way in helping the community at large. We wanted to bridge the digital divide, which has cropped up as a major concern in these tough times, hence we are taking every measure to the best of our ability so that no child is deprived of either education or values. Efforts to serve the parents are also taken up, so that they too do not feel the heat of the pandemic much,” said principal Sankar Prasad Dutta. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, organised a host of online events to keep the students in high spirits during this pandemic. The school undertook the initiative to ensure the physical and mental well-being of the students. Apart from just concentrating on academics and following online classes, the school also focused on honing the creative skills of the students. The school held online events on music, cooking, magic, debate, elocution and fashion. Class XI student Sreejib Pal, who took part in the online debate competition, said: “Taking part in such an event gave me immense happiness and an escape from the panic created by the pandemic.” “It’s an initiative to take school home with online classes, workshops, and competitions. This has motivated the students to hone their talents and regain confidence in them,” said principal Bobby Baxter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta's landmark edifices illuminate in blue||Some of the city's landmark edifices were illuminated in blue on Friday to show support for child rights and to raise awareness about the impact of the Covid pandemic on children’s lives. The #Goblue campaign is an initiative of the Unicef, in association with governments across the globe, to mark World Children's Day on Friday as a global day “of action for children, by children”. The day marks the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child on November 20, 1989. The Howrah bridge, Nehru Children’s Museum, Birla Industrial & Technological Museum and the office of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights are some of the buildings that went blue on Friday. The illumination in blue will remain on Saturday, too. “This day holds significance as we reinforce our commitment to children’s rights and reimagine a world where children are heard and can lead. Today, in the midst of the pandemic, we need to collectively work around issues affecting children to ensure a sustainable future for every child,” said Mohammad Mohiuddin, the chief of the Unicef field office for Bengal. “We would like to extend acknowledgement to various government departments that came forward to support the #GoBlue campaign in which iconic structures, landmarks  and public buildings across Calcutta will join in the global campaign in solidarity for child rights and the impact of Covid-19 and climate change on their lives.” The Covid pandemic raging across the globe has made it necessary for everyone — adults and children alike — to wear masks. But being masked does not mean one should be muted. “Children will be masked but not muted. Children have a right to learn and go to school and they have a right to lead and participate in forums where their issues are being addressed and decisions taken. That is what we are working on in the state, India and globally,” said Suchorita Bardhan, communication specialist 1, Communication Advocacy Partnerships, at the Unicef office in Bengal. “Children’s voices need to be heard both in the school and the community,” she said. The pandemic has forced children to stay indoors and it has detached them from school as well. While students in urban areas have access to online education, many of those in remote areas are deprived of that as well because of circumstances and financial challenges. Bardhan said the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, signed by nations across the world, brought together all initiatives of child rights on one platform. “The blue colour came to be used successively and has come to become synonymous with child rights and  hence the #GoBlue campaign,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Schools shut, trains see low passenger count||Closed schools and colleges and the absence of casual travellers are the main reasons behind the low passenger count on local trains, rail officials said on Friday. Suburban train services resumed in the state on November 11. Also, government holidays for festivities have led to a lower count on trains and at stations, the officials said. The Sealdah division saw close to 632,000 passengers on Thursday and around 660,000 on Wednesday, roughly a fourth of its average daily passenger count before the pandemic, an official said. The Howrah division saw close to 460,000 passengers on Wednesday, less than half its usual daily count before the pandemic. The Telegraph has been doing the rounds of Sealdah and Howrah stations for the past few days. During rush hour, every now and then, a packed train arrives at one of the stations. Trains and stations are emptier otherwise than what they used to before the pandemic. In rail parlance, rush hour means 8am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm. “The seating capacity of a local train is 1,200. Even during rush hour, the average passenger count on a train is between 1,800 and 2,000,” an official in the Sealdah division said. “The average count throughout the day is around 1,150.” The number was 3,000-4,000 on a train before the pandemic, he said. Schools and colleges are shut; which means absence of students and their guardians on local trains. Thousands of students from the suburbs and many from rural areas used to get off trains at Sealdah and Howrah to go to their colleges. Streams of students walking down towards College Square from Sealdah were a recurrent sight every morning. Lake Gardens, Ballygunge, Dum Dum and some other stations used to see a sizeable student crowd. Guardians used to often accompany their schoolchildren on trains. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said towards the end of July that the government might reopen schools and colleges on alternate days in September “if the situation improved in August”. The plan had to be scrapped as the Covid situation continued to remain grim. In the first week of November, Mamata said that schools would remain closed at least till the first week of December and a decision on reopening them would be taken after that. Colleges are likely to resume from December, government officials have said. Casual travel has taken a back seat for fear of the virus. The trend suggests only those who have to go out are the ones travelling on local trains. October-November is the festive season and government offices are closed on several days. In this week, for example, only Wednesday was a working day. Most private offices are following the work-from-home model. The result — the number of office-goers on local trains is lower than usual. Rail officials expect the crowd to go up once the festive season is over. The additional load of students will have an impact once schools and colleges reopen, especially during the morning and evening rush hour. The Sealdah division has been running around 550 trains every day and Howrah around 360. But in both divisions, rush hour trains are nearing their pre-pandemic capacity. That will be tested once the crowd count goes up in the coming days, a rail official said. A festive special train from Howrah to Jammu Tawi, which was scheduled to leave Howrah on Saturday, has been cancelled because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Punjab, a railway official said on Friday. The train was supposed to depart at 11.55pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Assaulted over parking, says Xavier’s teacher||A St Xavier’s College teacher has alleged that acquaintances of his neighbour thrashed him, his wife and two children after an argument over parking of vehicles in their New Town cooperative housing society. Ankur Roy, the head of the chemistry department at St Xavier’s College, lodged a complaint with New Town police station on the night of November 17 against a teacher of a Barrackpore college. Roy alleged that relatives of the teacher were involved in the attack on him and his family earlier in the evening. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said police had started investigating the matter. “We are trying to get the CCTV footage… we will speak to the neighbours,” the officer said. Another officer said Roy and the other teacher had been embroiled in arguments over parking their vehicles for the past few years. “There is an ongoing case at the Barasat court over their parking dispute. We are investigating from every angle,” the officer said. In his complaint, Roy has said that he returned home with his wife, son and daughter after a medical check-up and parked his car at “the usual spot in the parking lot of his AL Block flat”. After parking the vehicle as his wife and children began walking towards the lift, at least five men attacked them with iron pipes, he has said in the complaint. “I heard my wife and children scream... as I went towards the lift lobby the men attacked me,” Roy said. “The blows left my wife with a broken arm; I, too, received multiple injuries.” The men fled as neighbours came to their rescue. Roy’s neighbours took him to the Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital where he was given first aid, after which he and his family went to a private hospital off the Bypass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Week-long course in Covid care||Bengal’s health department has sought a list of junior doctors and young nurses from the superintendents of hospitals in districts close to Calcutta who can be trained in handling Covid-19 patients in high dependency units (HDUs). Since most of these hospitals lack nurses and doctors trained in critical care, the government has decided to run a week's course so that a pool of trained personnel is ready by the time HDUs are opened in some of these hospitals. A team of senior doctors and nurses is conducting the crash course across medical colleges  and other hospitals in Calcutta, including MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge and SSKM Hospital. “Doctors and nurses are being trained. Soon after they complete training, they will be sent to hospitals where high dependency units will be opened,” a health department official said. “While there is a dip in the number of Covid patients with moderate symptoms opting for hospitalisation, an increasing number of patients with the coronavirus disease are turning up at hospitals in a critical state. It is of utmost importance that we have a pool of trained health-care workers for critical care and high dependency units, especially in suburbs,” said a member of the team of experts set up by the health department to suggest Covid management policies. Officials said nurses and junior doctors were being trained in hemodynamic monitoring, putting patients on mechanical and non-invasive ventilator, airway management and infection control. Hemodynamic monitoring, doctors said, refers to measurement of pressure, flow and oxygenation of blood in the cardiovascular system. There are different types of hemodynamic monitoring, including invasive and non-invasive. In case of Covid patients who are critically ill, hemodynamic monitoring is a vital exercise that requires adequate knowledge and training, experts said. “Sasthya Bhavan (the headquarters of the state health department) has sought a list of energetic nurses who need not be very experienced but are ready to take the challenge of attending to patients in HDUs,” said a senior official of the health department in North 24-Parganas. “A similar list of doctors has been sought, too.” With critical care beds filling up fast in all Covid hospitals, including medical colleges, the state government has decided to create more facilities closer home, especially in suburbs. The health department has drawn up a plan to open a 40-bed high dependency unit at Balaram Seva Mandir State General Hospital in Khardah, in North 24-Parganas and around 19km from the heart of Calcutta, by next week. This will be followed by a 40-bed high dependency unit at Naihati State General Hospital and a 30-bed unit at Ashoknagar State General Hospital, both in North 24-Parganas. Health department officials said each batch would comprise around eight-10 nurses and seven doctors. The number of training sessions are scheduled to go up with more participants being pooled in from other districts close to Calcutta. Officials said those who have undergone training would be regularly monitored for their performance at the HDU units. “Setting up an HDU involves capital investment. We would like to understand if the facility that has been created is being fully utilised,” an official said. "The participants are being told not to worry. In case they have any question while on duty, they can always contact a group of experts who will be ready to answer their questions," another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Sigh of relief – Sarobars saved||Calcuttans from all walks of life expressed happiness and relief that Chhath Puja rituals were not allowed at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar on Friday. Subhas Dutta, environmentalist whose petition led to the Sarobar ban The real devotees, who strictly follow the rules of Chhath Puja, never violate any government rules. The real trouble is caused by organised trouble-mongers. I am happy because today we have been able to save the city’s lungs…. Strong lights and firecrackers that burst on the occasion disturb the beautiful migratory birds that start arriving at the lake from October. Anuj Sharma, Calcutta police commissioner Calcutta police have taken all necessary steps to comply with the instructions issued by the government and the learned courts. It is good to see that the citizens are conscious of the need to be cautious during the Covid period and did not come out in large numbers during the festive season. I would again iterate the necessity of wearing a mask, sanitising hands and maintaining social distance. Stay safe. Stay healthy. Abin Chaudhuri, architect and morning walker at Rabindra Sarobar It is great that people have understood the value of the environment and obeyed the government's and the courts' orders. I would like to see the same level of compliance in the next 10 to 15 years and on other environmental issues as well. I think collective pressure, media’s role, government’s actions, super-active courts, which have been enforcing rules during the pandemic to make sure that what had happened last year did not recur, culminated in what we saw today. Parthib Basu, professor of zoology, Calcutta University I am happy that the government complied with the NGT’s order. But the government was goaded into action by courts. I would want the government to take actions to protect the environment on its own. Safeguarding the environment is as much the responsibility of the state as the judiciary. Article 48A of the Directive Principles of our Constitution says that it is the state’s responsibility to protect the environment. I also wish that a general consciousness to protect and preserve nature develops among the people. Sumita Banerjee, environment activist and Rabindra Sarobar regular I have been working for years for this cause. It was such a relief to see the police execute the order today. There was a court order in the last two years, too, but there was no political will to execute it. This year, I was shocked to see that the CMDA had filed a review petition to allow devotees celebrate Chhath Puja here. But much to my relief, the court rejected the plea. I always had faith in police - if they are given a free hand, they will be able to execute it just the way they organised Durga Puja and a noiseless Diwali this year. Naba Dutta, environmentalist What happened today is another proof of what we have been saying all these years. If the government and administration have the will, they can execute an NGT order just the way they did today. From my survey along the areas near the Lakes, I have always felt that the majority of the Bihari samaj has understood and accepted the court order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Call for fresh IISER probe||A couple of former and present students at IISER Kolkata have termed the investigation that led to the suspension of two research scholars “kangaroo court-like proceedings”. The scholars had questioned the institute’s handling of Covid tests on its campus in Kalyani. In their petition to institute director Sourav Pal, the students have said such proceedings raised concerns about the well-being of students and the atmosphere on the campus. They have said they want the matter reinvestigated because how can “asking pertinent questions about the institute’s handling of Covid-19 testing facilities on the campus lead to the suspension” of the two research scholars. The two scholars — one pursuing PhD and the other MSc-PhD (integrated) — were suspended on November 13 after they wanted to know from the authorities why members of the canteen staff were not asked to undergo Covid tests on the campus. The suspended scholars have been barred from entering the campus and denied fellowship for two months. “But their suspension notice or email communication that they have received does not mention the reason for suspension. Such kangaroo court-like proceedings within a premier academic institution raise certain concerns about the well-being of students and the atmosphere of the campus itself,” the students have said in their petition to director Pal. The petition has been signed by 106 students, former and present. A former student of IISER who is pursuing PhD in California Institute of Technology (Caltech) created an online forum urging students and research scholars to enlist themselves in the petition. The petition was submitted at director Pal’s office. Director Pal refused to say anything on the matter. One of the suspended scholars, a regular face in the protests against the new citizenship matrix within and outside the campus, said the “arbitrary punishment was an attempt to strike fear among students so that they don’t dare to question anything”. “The petitioners have correctly said that the shoddy investigation raised concern about the well-being of students and the atmosphere on the campus,” the scholar said. The events date back to October 19 when all students of the institute had received a mail from the students’ affairs council (food, health and hygiene) about Covid tests to be conducted on the campus the next day. On October 20, a canteen employee who had given samples for a Covid test at a facility outside the campus learnt that he had the disease. The same day, seven students, including the suspended two, met the professor supervising the on-campus tests and asked her why canteen employees had not been asked to undergo the tests and why many of the students who had volunteered for the tests had not been called for the tests. A committee was formed in the next few days and the committee pronounced the suspension of the two research scholars. The institute’s students have found support from IIT Kharagpur. The students’ association, Science Education Group (SEG), at the IIT issued a statement on Friday, condemning the punishment. “The suspended IISER-K students are facing harsh punishment for mere exertion of their right by asking legitimate questions. We feel that such kind of authoritarian action taken by the IISER-K administration will destroy the campus democracy and the possibility of healthy student-faculty relations on the campus,” the association statement read. “A COVID testing endeavour within the campus; that, too, at a time when infection had started spreading to campus staff, should have been utilised as a golden opportunity. While none of the canteen staff or the students who had volunteered… were asked to submit their samples, asking pertinent questions about the same led to the sudden suspension of two graduate students,” the students have said in the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||US consulate launches course for NE women||A woman from Assam counsels those in need of mental health support and provides them with a “non-judgemental platform” to share their stories and challenges. A woman from Arunachal Pradesh produces organic kiwi wine. She has set up a facility in the Ziro valley to produce 60,000 litres of the wine in a year and she employs more than 25 people in the Ziro valley. A woman from Manipur has returned to her state after travelling to several countries to start a business of making herbal and fruit infusions from indigenous plants. On Friday, women entrepreneurs from five Northeastern states — who have been selected for a entrepreneurship training programme by the US Consulate Kolkata in association with Asian Confluence, a non-profit think tank based in Shillong — shared their business ideas. Celebrating the global entrepreneurship week 2020, the US Consulate and Asian Confluence on Friday launched the White House-led “Academy for Women Entrepreneurs (AWE)” project through an online event “Unlocking the North East — building resilience and entrepreneurship capacity in the face of Covid-19”. “The US believes strongly in women’s empowerment through entrepreneurship and stands firmly for women’s equality and inclusion in all public endeavours.... This year the Covid-19 pandemic has unleashed a complex... global crisis with long-term implications for public health, economic security, political stability and international relations,” the US Consulate’s acting consul general Monica Shie said at the launch. Marie Royce, assistant secretary of state, bureau of educational and cultural affairs, US department of state, said in a video message: “Your AWE cohort represents the highest number of applications” for an entrepreneurship programme in the Calcutta consulate district in the past decade. “On the business front the pandemic has led to disruptions in commerce, supply chains, transportation, cross-border travel and international trade, all resulting from necessary measures taken to control the pandemic. These are challenging times indeed but an opportunity for us to show the strength and depth of our bilateral relationship,” Shie said. “Keeping in mind women, in particular, face increased challenges during these times… we have stepped up our effort to support and mentor women entrepreneurs.” The 150 women have been selected from 253 applicants from the Northeast. Given the present economic slowdown, it is important to find ways to bounce back with effective policies, projects and initiatives, K. Moses Chalai, the secretary of the North Eastern Council, said. The two-year project’s maiden launch in the country brought together 150 women entrepreneurs and early-stage business owners from Nagaland, Meghalaya, Assam, Manipur, and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||‘BJP worker’ at Rabindra Sarobar gate ||About 20 youths, mostly from Lake Gardens, tried to approach a gate of Rabindra Sarobar on Friday morning to find out whether Chhath Puja would be allowed inside, despite a ban that the Supreme Court had upheld on Thursday. One of the youths in the group, Niraj Singh, said he was a BJP worker. He was angry that a custom of several years — performing Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar — was stopped. Deepak Thakur, another person in the group who said he was not associated with any party, said they would approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT) with a submission that the rituals would not harm the water body and the surroundings if held in a restricted manner. The men, still hoping that the puja would be allowed at the lake, got involved in pushing and shoving with another group that was shouting slogans at the Sarobar. Police acted promptly and separated the two groups. “We were standing near gate number 4 of the Sarobar for a long time. We requested officers to allow us in but they declined. We had no intention to violate the court’s orders, we just wanted to check whether the puja could be performed inside the Sarobar,” said Singh. He admitted that what some devotees did last year -- enter the compound after breaking locks on gates -- was wrong. “We were not represented well before the NGT. The Bihari community is responsible for the ban on Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. We did not hire a good lawyer,” he said. Bir Bahadur Singh, the president of the BJP’s Rashbehari Mandal III who had said on Thursday that “people want to go to the Lake (Rabindra Sarobar) to perform rituals”, said heavy police presence forced the devotees to go elsewhere. “The police made it clear that no one would be allowed inside the Sarobar, which is why the devotees went to other ghats,” he said. Singh said he did not go close to the Sarobar on Friday, but was in touch with the people who went. “Those who went were all from our area,” he said. The refrain among the worshippers who turned up near the Sarobar’s gate number 4 was that they would have to prepare for a legal battle. “If Chhath Puja is not allowed at Rabindra Sarobar, we will ensure that the clubs and other structures along the lake do not discharge their waste into the waters of the Sarobar. We will move court and the NGT with this appeal. We should not suffer alone,” Thakur said. A man arrested with a gun and bullets near Eco Park on Thursday night has said he wanted to kill one of his neighbours in Baranagar for raping his wife. On seeing a police patrol, he started running. Cops gave chase and caught him near the Akanksha crossing in New Town. The gun and bullets were found on him but he couldn’t produce an arms licence, police said. He told cops that he had bought the gun and the bullets from a man near the park and was headed home when he was picked up. “He said one of his neighbours had raped his wife and that he wanted to kill him. He did not lodge a police complaint as it would taint his wife’s reputation in the locality. We are verifying the claim,” an officer said. A search is on for the seller.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Sarada Math nun breathes her last||Pravrajika Vedantaprana (Sumitra), a senior sannyasini at Sri Sarada Math, Dakshineswar, passed away on Friday. She was 77. She had been admitted to Ramakrishna Mission Sevapratishthan Hospital, where she breathed her last at 10.50am. A disciple of Swami Vishuddhananda Maharaj, she had joined the order in 1966. She served at Sister Nivedita School, Vivekananda Vidyabhavan and the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission centre in New Delhi. Pravrajika Vedantaprana received brahmacharya in 1971 from Bharatiprana Mataji and sannyasa from Mokshaprana Mataji in 1978. In 1987, she became the first editor of the “Nibodhata” — the Bengali journal of Sri Sarada Math. The word “Nibodhata” means “learning about the self” and comes from a well-known verse of “Katha Upanishad”, which Swami Vivekananda used to often quote. Pravrajika Vedantaprana remained editor till her last breath. A talented writer, speaker and an editor, she served the Sangha to her utmost capacity, not only in the literary field but also as an adept pujari and a tantradharak. With her deep knowledge of Sanskrit and the shastras, she used to teach novices and brahmacharinis. She also sang devotional songs, played the tabla and several other musical instruments and was an expert in the culinary art.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Steps that saved lakes from damage||Multiple layers of barricades and three times the number of cops, compared with other days, in the compounds of Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar as well as outside kept Chhath devotees from violating the ban on the rituals at the two water bodies. Thousands of citizens offered their prayers but there was not a single case of violation reported till Friday evening, police sources said. In the last two years, the city had witnessed scenes of people breaking locks and crashing into Rabindra Sarobar to perform Chhath Puja despite the court order prohibiting them from doing so. Police had been outnumbered and silent, too. This year, the scene was the reverse. The telegraph reports on what the police did this year to encourage people to follow the court order without defiling any of the two lakes. Anyone trying to enter Subhas Sarobar on Friday would have to jump over nearly 5ft-high iron and bamboo barricades along the periphery of the lake. All roads and lanes leading to the lake were sealed. Cops were deployed outside each of the barricades. At Rabindra Sarobar, the gates were not just locked but guarded by four to five uniformed men and women to ensure no one tampered with the locks. The gates were further guarded by a layer of barricade. Around 200 men and women were posted on Chhath duty at the two lakes round the clock in shifts. “It has been a peaceful day till now. But we will remain equally alert at night as well to prevent any kind of mischief,” said an officer of Rabindra Sarobar police station on Friday evening. Chhath devotees traditionally reach the lake compound by afternoon and start offering their prayers at sunset. Those who come from a distance camp inside the lake at night and start their day offering their prayers to the Sun God. On Friday, only policemen on cycles and motorcycles were seen inside the lake. The civic bodies and the police had ensured that those who would not be allowed to pray at the lakes had an alternative place to offer their prayers. Small cemented knee-deep water reservoirs – lined with polythene - have been built to accommodate those who would not be allowed inside the lakes. “We had to think of both sides. Stopping someone from offering their prayers at a particular location without offering an alternative was not a good idea. This (building the reservoirs) helped us convince people (to not visit the lakes),” said a senior officer of Phoolbagan police station. The government agencies had made arrangements for illumination and announcement systems to guide the devotees at the alternative venues. A section of cops feels repeated meetings with citizens with the help of local councillors helped them execute the court order in its true spirit. Both Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar are located close to neighbourhoods where a large number of Chhath worshippers live. Around 6,000 people live in the Kurigram, Ghore Bibi Lane, Motilal Basak Lane and Kadapara areas, near Subhas Sarobar, most of whom are Chhath worshippers. Near Rabindra Sarobar, too, a large number of worshippers live in the Panchanantala and railway colony areas. “Civic teams played a crucial role in persuading people to stay away from the two lakes and perform the rituals elsewhere,” said an officer in south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
21-11-2020||Calcutta||Chhath devotees rise to occasion||Calcuttans showed on Friday that Chhath Puja could be celebrated without defiling Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, as devotees who used to visit these two places performed the rituals at home or alternative sites this time. Barring a handful of people who had gone to the gates of Rabindra Sarobar on Friday morning, no Chhath Puja devotee turned up at either of the Sarobars. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Calcutta High Court had issued directives on Chhath Puja, which included a ban on the rituals at these two places. The state government took steps to ensure that the orders of the NGT and the high court were complied with. Police personnel were posted at most gates of the two lakes, especially the ones that are used more. A senior Calcutta police officer said 60 cops had been deployed around Subhas Sarobar and a little more than that around Rabindra Sarobar. The police had counselled Chhath worshippers at Kurigram slum, opposite Subhas Sarobar, to not visit the lake, said an officer of Phoolbagan police station. On Friday, none of them tried to come towards Subhas Sarobar. Subhas Datta, an environment activist whose petition against allowing football matches under floodlights at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium led to a series of developments and a ban on all pujas on the banks of the south Calcutta water body, said he was happy. “There are two major factors behind the success in implementing the NGT’s ban. The Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the ban imposed by NGT by not issuing an interim order to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar had a psychological impact on people. Worshippers realised that it would not be right to violate a ban upheld by the highest court of the country,” he said. “Secondly, the state administration showed its intent to implement the NGT’s ban, which was missing in previous years. This could be achieved after years of struggle. I am happy.” The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to interfere with the directives passed by Calcutta High Court and the NGT banning Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar and imposing restrictions on congregation of people for the festival. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, Vineet Saran and S. Ravindra Bhat declined to entertain appeals against the earlier directions and said they were well-reasoned and there was no need to modify the orders passed on those directions. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the custodian of the two Sarobars, had pleaded for an interim order to allow Chhath rituals at Rabindra Sarobar. The CMDA built bamboo barricades outside each of the gates of the two complexes. The bamboo barricades were not built last year. The narrow gap between two bamboo poles made it difficult for anyone to pass through and reach a gate. All the gates of both lakes were locked. Last year, a group of worshippers broke the locks on some gates of Rabindra Sarobar and entered the compound to perform the rituals, while the police looked the other way. Deepak Thakur, a devotee who went to Rabindra Sarobar in the morning to find out whether the rituals could be performed there, later took his family to a water body in Golf Green for the puja. Another devotee, a resident of Lake Gardens, said he had built a temporary pool on the terrace of their apartment for the rituals. Bir Bahadur Singh, a BJP leader in the Tollygunge-Rashbehari-Lake Gardens belt who claimed on Thursday that people wanted to perform the rituals at Rabindra Sarobar, said a large police presence was the reason why it did not happen. “The police made it clear that they would not allow anyone to go inside, which is why people went to other places. But they wanted to perform the rituals at the Sarobar,” he said on Friday. An official of the CMDA said the footfall at the temporary ghats they had built as alternative puja venues was more than double compared with last year. “Double the number of devotees visited ghats in Anandapur and at the Jodhpur Park lake than last year. There was a large turnout at the ghats built at a water body near Bengal Lamp in Jadavpur,” the official said. Metro visited the Jodhpur Park lake, where the CMDA had built five wooden platforms for devotees to perform the rituals. A life-saving boat was doing the rounds. Bio-toilets and changing rooms were set up. Sanja Jha, who performed the rituals at Rabindra Sarobar last year, was at the Jodhpur Park lake on Friday. He, however, complained that the water body was dirty. “It does not feel good to perform rituals in dirty water,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-232
