22-11-2020||Calcutta||CMDA cleans most alternative ghats||About 500 people have been engaged to clean the ghats in south and southeastern Calcutta that were built as alternatives to Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) officials said on Saturday. The CMDA, custodian of the two Sarobars, had built more than 55 ghats in Kasba, Jadavpur, Anandapur, Nonadanga, Golf Green, and Patuli. Most of these ghats were temporary ones with wooden steps and a platform. They were built for devotees to take a dip in the water or immerse the flowers and fruits in the water. A few permanent ghats with concrete steps going down into the water were built at Nonadanga, a CMDA official said. “We have cleaned most of the ghats. Waste materials floating on the water or dumped on the land have been cleaned. We took the solid waste to the nearest compactor station of the CMC,” the official said. “There were 10-odd people cleaning each of the ghats. In some places like Jodhpur Park, the CMC has cleaned the place.” More than 50,000 people had visited the ghats that had been built as alternatives to the two Sarobars. The turnout was more than double of last year, the official said. The CMDA had campaigned and urged Chhath Puja devotees to visit the alternative ghats instead of Rabindra Sarobar. “Most of these ghats were built to accommodate the crowd that used to visit Rabindra Sarobar. The ghats were built close to the places from where people went to Rabindra Sarobar,” the official said. Metro found two ghats along the Hooghly dirty on Saturday afternoon. Earthen pots, garlands, flowers and leaves were found floating in the water close to the banks. At Babughat, the sides of the steps leading to the Hooghly were filled with plastic bags. The water near the bank had waste materials floating, mostly banana leaves and earthen containers. At Baje Kadamtala ghat, too, plastic bags, plastic bottles, flowers and garlands were found floating in the water near the bank. People from Tollygunge, Kankulia, Lake Gardens and Rashbehari used to go to Rabindra Sarobar in large numbers, a devotee said. “In some of the water bodies built as alternatives to Rabindra Sarobar, we fitted nets surrounding the platform that was built for devotees. The nets did not allow anything left in the water to go out of the enclosed zone. This helped in the cleaning,” the official said. The nets served as a safety tool as no devotee could move beyond the nets, which marked the boundary of a zone that was 3.5-4ft deep. The CMDA could not give any quantity of the volume or weight of waste (paper cups, plates, flowers and ropes) that had been cleaned from the ghats. Metro visited two of the ghats at Jodhpur Park and close to Fortis Hospital in Anandapur on Saturday afternoon. Both the ghats looked reasonably clean. Some flowers were strewn near the gates of the Anandapur ghat. At Jodhpur Park, the wooden platforms and steps were still to be dismantled. “The wooden structures will be removed by Sunday or Monday,” a CMDA official said. On Friday, a CMDA official had said that the ghats at Jodhpur Park and near Fortis Hospital recorded the highest turnout. The picture was similar on Saturday morning, too. Chhath Puja rituals are performed at dusk and at dawn. “We started cleaning the ghats soon after all devotees had left. Our teams had been kept ready near the ghats,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Met spies mercury  dip from today||After a warm and cloudy spell that culminated in rain, the mercury is set to dip in Calcutta from Sunday, the Met office has said. The minimum temperature had been several notches above normal for the past few days. On Friday, the minimum temperature reached 23.8 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal. The moisture content in the air was above normal for this time of the year. The result: sweaty conditions had returned. A Met official attributed the rise in temperature to a cyclonic circulation over interior Odisha and a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal. Together, these two systems had led to cloud formation over the city and a rise in the moisture content, stalling the northwesterly winds that bring the chill, the official said. The clouds triggered a spell of sharp rain in the early hours of Saturday and a drizzle or two throughout the day. Till 8.30pm, the Met office had recorded around 25mm of rain in Alipore. Most of Saturday was cloudy. The sun hardly came out. The systems have lost strength and will dissipate by Sunday, paving the way for the fresh entry of cold and dry northwesterly winds from the upper reaches of India. “The temperature is expected to slide by four or five notches in the next two days,” a Met official said. The sky is expected to start clearing from Sunday. A clear sky will accelerate the dip in temperature, the official said. “By Monday, the minimum temperature is expected to reach 17-18 degrees Celsius. The bite of the northwesterly winds will be felt in the city,” he said. The cold spell is tipped to last till Thursday by when a depression will reach the Tamil Nadu coast, the official said. “The system is a low-pressure area over the Equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal now. It will intensify into a depression by the time it reaches the Tamil Nadu coast. The system will trigger the flow of moisture-laden easterly winds into south Bengal, which will again stall the northwesterly winds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Wings at ease at Rabindra Sarobar||Rabindra Sarobar looked fresh on Saturday; its waters without any solid waste or layer of oil and birds chirping and flying around the place. The state pollution control board will collect water samples from Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar on Monday for tests. The results will be available after a fortnight, an official said. A birdwatcher who visited Rabindra Sarobar on Saturday afternoon said he noticed 19 species of birds either flying or in their nests. “There were Cormorants, Paradise Flycatchers, Taiga Flycatchers — long-distance migratory birds — and Painted Storks,” Sudip Ghosh said. Another birdwatcher said Painted Storks were a threatened Indian species and that they were seen in Rabindra Sarobar after many years. Birdwatchers had earlier complained that birds used to leave the Sarobar after Chhath Puja celebrations every year and some of the species never returned. Taiga Flycatcher is a long-distance migratory bird, with its origin in Russia, Ghosh said. Rabindra Sarobar is home to three species of turtles, Common Toads, Bullfrogs, Cricket Frogs, Skittering Frogs, squirrels, about 60 species of butterflies, about 30 species of dragonflies, and snakes. “The noise of music and firecrackers used to scare away the birds. Last year, a dead turtle was found floating in the waters after Chhath Puja. It was suspected that it died because of the polluted water,” a daily visitor said. Thousands of Chhath Puja devotees used to enter both the complexes, which are home to multiple birds and other animals, to perform rituals every year. The rituals include taking a dip in the waters, pouring milk into the water, and floating lamps. Oil spills from the lamps and form a film above the water, which is difficult to remove. Besides, some people burst firecrackers and play loud music. “The oil impedes the mixing of atmospheric oxygen into the water, which is required by aquatic animals… it can severely affect aquatic animals,” an ecologist said. This year, Chhath Puja was not performed in Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar as the Supreme Court has upheld the high court’s ban on pujas at the two places. Rajesh Kumar, the member secretary of West Bengal Pollution Control Board, said on Saturday “water samples would be collected from both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar on Monday”. A board scientist said the analysis of the water samples would show the dissolved oxygen, the biological oxygen demand and the water’s coliform count, among other parameters. “The dissolved oxygen (DO) will show if there is adequate presence of oxygen in the water for aquatic organisms. The biological oxygen demand (BOD) will show whether there is too much material in the water that will consume the dissolved oxygen to get decomposed. More the BOD, more is the threat of aquatic organisms finding it difficult to get oxygen from water,” the scientist said. The coliform count suggests whether the water is fit to drink, the scientist said. “We had taken samples before Chhath Puja. The two samples can be compared to see if the water has been tampered with.” Both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, which were closed to visitors from Thursday midnight, reopened at 3pm on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Covid turns musician into guard||This time last year an octapad player had been playing in front of boisterous crowds in musical soirees that would roll late into the night four days a week. This year, he has been spending the nights as a guard manning an Alipore apartment. A 50-year-old percussionist shifted seamlessly between a djembe and a conga drum during musical shows, keeping up the tempo with fellow musicians. Two months ago, he had to sell both to sustain his family. The pandemic has brought to a halt the musical evenings synonymous with this season, posing a livelihood challenge to hundreds of musicians and singers. For musical troupes, the “season” used to start with Ganesh Puja in September and last till March. Post Kali Puja to New Year used to be the “peak time”. Troupes used to perform in and outside Calcutta, some travelling outside the state as well during the festive season. The budget of a modest open-air performance in Calcutta — with a singer and basic musicians playing the guitar, bass guitar, keyboard and drums — would start from around Rs 20,000, organisers said. With more established singers and specialised instruments, the budget would go up. A “mega event” with “singers from Bombay and reality shows” would cost more than Rs 1 lakh. Hundreds of musicians and singers who performed in such events are out of work now. Some of them have been forced to look for other ways of income. Some have been selling their instruments. Most have loaned money, some by mortgaging or selling jewellery. Biswajit Das — a Kishore-kanthi (the ubiquitous term for aspiring singers who have modelled themselves on Kishore Kumar) — used to get “12 to 15” monthly contracts on average between September and March. In November and December, he did the maximum number of shows, often back-to-back ones. In the first week of March, he had done two shows — in Uluberia and Diamond Harbour. Since then, there has been none. Das, a freelancer, used to earn more than Rs 30,000 a month during the peak season by performing with multiple troupes. “I used to spend the entire year with my income of six months. The income has so far been zero this year. I have had to borrow money to meet my expenses.” Das lives with his wife and seven-year-old daughter. Stanley Anthony, 50, has spent close to three decades as a percussionist, dabbling in a range of instruments from the Indian dhol to the African djembe. A freelancer, Anthony used to “work non-stop” from September to March and “practise non-stop” from March to September. “I am getting old and I have stiff competition from younger performers. This year, there is no show and no competition,” Anthony who has raised three daughters with the money he made from music said. When the shows dried up, he dug into his savings and took a loan against an insurance policy for the first few months. In August, he had to sell two instruments because he needed more money. “A djembe and a conga drum together fetched Rs 30,000, good enough for the next few months. I don’t know what will happen after that,” Anthony, who lives in Mominpore, said. In an order issued on November 1, the state government had said the assembly size in open areas maybe fixed “keeping the size of the ground/space in view and with strict observance of social distancing, mandatory wearing of face masks, provision of thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitiser”. Since then, a handful of places in Calcutta has seen resumption of musical programmes as part of Bijoya Sammilani. But the number is miniscule. Most organisers said they were still to get their first contract of the season. Sanjay Seal, founder of Swan Musical Tour, had travelled to Hyderabad with his troupe during Diwali last year. “We had enthralled the Hyderabad audience,” Seal, who plays the bass guitar, said. His last performance was on March 16, at a “musical night” in Sarisha, South 24-Parganas. “It is painful to look at the members of my troupe. Some of them are finding it hard to earn two square meals a day,” Seal, who in the past had to turn down many organisers because of his packed schedule, said. Some of the city-based groups have started getting their feet back on ground since the resumption of live performances — through a government order — in the run-up to Durga Puja. These groups were regular performers at prominent clubs in Calcutta. Live performances at clubs are still to take off but the groups have been getting contracts for private parties with a curtailed audience. The wedding season has boosted their prospects. But even then things are not what they used to be. “Performances have been reduced to half the usual number this year. Clubs are shut. Many corporate events that used to happen around this time of the year have stopped. But marriages, sangeet ceremonies and other private occasions have kept us afloat. Considering the situation from March to September, I cannot complain,” Imran Qaisar, a singer and leader of a musical troupe that used to play regularly at the Dalhousie Institute, said. But many others are still to find something they can hold on to. One of Seal’s troupe members, who used to play the octapad, took up the job of a guard at an Alipore apartment in August. “I was sitting at home without earning anything. I could not say no to Rs 6,000 a month,” the man in his late 40s, the sole earning member in a family of five, said. He requested not to be named. Another organiser, Prashanta Dey Sarkar, has been making ends meet by brokering on small-time real estate deals in the Behala and Tollygunge areas. “We can only pray that the situation improves,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Assault on Xavier’s teacher: 1 arrested||The brother of a resident of the cooperative housing society in New Town where a St Xavier’s College teacher stays has been arrested in connection with the assault on the teacher and his family. Ankur Roy, the head of the chemistry department at St Xavier’s College, had lodged a complaint with New Town police station on the night of November 17 against one of his neighbours, a teacher of a Malda college. He had alleged that the teacher’s relatives were involved in the attack on him and his family over parking of vehicles. Murshed Alam, in his late 20s, the brother of the Malda college teacher, was arrested on Saturday based on Roy’s complaint. Alam hails from Raghunathganj in Murshidabad and he had been staying at his brother’s fourth-floor flat in the housing society in AL Block, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Roy is the head of the chemistry department at St Xavier’s College. His wife is a teacher at another college. Roy knows Alam and he had named him in the complaint, police said. In his complaint, Roy had said that he returned home with his wife, son and daughter after a medical check-up and parked his car at “the usual spot in the parking lot of his AL Block flat”. After parking the vehicle as his wife and children began walking towards the lift, at least five men, led by Alam, attacked them with iron pipes, he had alleged in the complaint. The men fled as neighbours came to their rescue. They had taken Roy and his family to the Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital where he was given first aid. He later went to a private hospital off the Bypass with his family. On Saturday, Roy told Metro that he was happy as the police had arrested the man who had led the attack on him and his family. “The brutality of the attack still haunts me. They had hammers, iron pipes… they did not even spare my children. My wife has been left with a broken arm; both of us cannot walk properly as we were hit repeatedly on our legs. I hope the other men are arrested soon,” Roy said. Alam’s family members have filed a counter complaint alleging they were assaulted by Roy and his family at New Town police station, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Cops are questioning Alam and a search is on for the other men who were part of the attack, another officer said. Alam has been charged with various sections of the IPC, including 307 (attempt to murder), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 326 (causing grievous hurt using weapons). The charges carry a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Central Modern School head passes away||Central Modern School principal Nabarun De, who was an executive committee member of the ICSE council for close to a decade, died early on Saturday at his Salt Lake home. He was 55. De suffered a cardiac arrest. He is survived by his wife, daughter and son. He took over the reins of the Central Modern School, Baranagar, as principal in 2005 after the death of his father. The executive committee is the decision-making body of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). “He was one of the five members of the executive committee and the only representative from Bengal. He played a pivotal role in taking decisions with regard to the council,” said Sujoy Biswas, national president of the Association of Schools for the Indian School Certificate Examinations. De was the joint secretary of the  all-India chapter of the association and a former secretary of the Bengal chapter. On Saturday, teachers, staff, former students and parents went to the school to pay their tributes. “He had granted over 20 per cent fee waiver to some parents in the initial days of the pandemic. Many of them came today,” said vice principal Sangeeta Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Milind Soman to  join hill run today||The hills will be alive with the sound of running shoes. The Darjeeling Hill Marathon, the largest run in north Bengal will be held on Sunday. Celebrities like supermodel-actor and fitness promoter Milind Soman and singer Kailash Kher have reached the town, along with a host of runners from across the country. “Cold weather, warmest hospitality,” tweeted Soman on reaching Darjeeling. The event, now in its seventh year, has been classified into two categories — 21.1km and 10km. The run will be flagged off at 7am on Sunday. It will start and end at Chowrasta. Police in Darjeeling, the organiser of the event, have put up a number of traffic curbs in the hill town from 6am to 10am on Sunday for a smooth run. “We won’t issue any token for sightseeing to Tiger Hill on Sunday. All vehicles, including two-wheelers, except those on medical emergency duty will not be allowed to ply between Singamari and Jorebungalow for four hours from 6am on race day,” Dorjee Sherpa, office-in-charge, Darjeeling traffic, said. The 21.1km run will begin from Chowrasta and take the Mahakal Baba temple route to reach Singamari before turning to Darjeeling town to reach Jorebungalow and hitting the INA Bypass Road to reach Clubside, Robertson Road and Chowrasta. “For the 10km run, the route will be the same except that runners will take DB Giri Road for Kakjhora,” Sherpa said. Those who park their vehicles by the roadside along this route have been asked to remove their vehicles from Saturday evening. Around 1,500 runners have signed for the 10km run while 500 more participants will compete in the 21.1km run. Soman, who is the brand ambassador of the run, will participate in the 21.1km run. The police have promised to make the run a lively affair. The route of the run has been internationally certified and the run will feature in the international marathon calendar from this edition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||Two-year-old drowns in canal while playing||The body of a two-year-old boy was fished out of the Bagjola canal near Polenite on the outskirts of Sector V on Saturday, police said. Sujay Biswas was playing with his 10-year-old brother and two other boys from the locality when he went missing, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Unable to find him, his brother alerted their parents and neighbours. Together they launched a search for the toddler, the officer said. His parents alerted Sector V police station. Multiple police teams fanned out in various directions and cops on motorcycles went looking for the boy near Hatgachha in Rajarhat and in the Calcutta Leather Complex area, another officer said. A sniffer dog was taken to the spot. Cops started a door-to-door search of all houses in the area but they could not find the toddler. Polenite, a 15-minute drive from Sector V, comprises a cluster of tenements along the banks of the Bagjola canal. Most residents work as domestic helps, plumbers and electricians. When every search drew a blank, the police cast fishing nets in the canal and found the toddler’s body. Cops alerted the family and some members identified him, an officer said. “We are investigating the death from every angle. Preliminary investigations have shown the boy probably got detached from the group and wandered towards the canal. He might have slipped and fallen into the canal when nobody was looking,” an officer of the commissionerate said. The place from where the toddler’s body was fished out is around 200m from his house, the police said. The police have started a case of unnatural death though the family hasn’t lodged any complaint so far. The body has been sent for post-mortem, an officer said. A piece of concrete fell from the second floor of a five-storied building on NS Road around 2.15 pm on Saturday. The building from where the chunk fell is abandoned. Habibul Sattar Khan, a worker at a garment shop nearby, was injured on his left leg. Police admitted him to a hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
22-11-2020||Calcutta||The lessons we must learn from the pandemic||The coronavirus suddenly sprang into our daily consciousness with the beginning of 2020. It has become our agonising obsession, the killer of our joys of life, the single devastating destroyer of our liberty of movement, the ruthless demon to incarcerate us within the confinement of our homes, the mindlessly cruel snatcher of millions of jobs. It is nothing short of never-ending darkness, though a day dawns every morning with ill-concealed gloominess in our benighted globe. Every child is taught to wear masks and observe social distancing. Heaven does not get a chance to dance around him or her infancy, as the shadows of the prison house darken. The undying hope of an effective vaccine is still a faint light at the end of the long tunnel. The horror of the pestilence is still raging. We have perhaps unlearnt everything we have assiduously learnt from our childhood. We have been oblivious of the oft-taught virtues of good neighbourliness. We no longer care for remaining socially close and helpful, for repaying our debts to parents and ageing grandparents, to our society and mother earth. The coronavirus is perhaps wielding her furious lash to punish our self-centredness and foolish shortsightedness. Where coronavirus appeared as a swift moving, quick-killing demon and our fragile economy started falling like a house of cards, the heart-rending sight of helpless, famished men, women and children in thousands trying to trek back home after losing their jobs and shelter, facing the fury of the pitiless sun, walking with weary legs, was too deep for our tears. The all-knowing God and the governing authorities had been busy otherwise with little time for alleviation of this inhuman plight of man. Political bickerings on failure of administration to prevent this human tragedy on our roads, even rail tracks and national highways, brought no succour to the distressed walkers. The destination they reached at long last did not prove to be EL Dorado. The unfortunate migrant labourers deserved a warm welcome and more assistance, government and private, to meet their minimum human needs. Our GDP is fast falling. Government treasury is depleting menacingly. Private business is yet to pick up to regenerate employment. Those who are attacked with this virus are under a panic about getting hospital beds for effective, clean and caring treatment at affordable cost. The surge in the pandemic, again and again, had its toll on the lives of the frontline workers like medical and nursing staff and police personnel. Our failure to eradicate this pandemic should not provide an occasion for mudslinging among rival parties. If Covid-19 wins and people continue to fall victims, no political or electoral victory will be a real and lasting one. When will humanity, irrespective of caste, colour and creed, find glory in the eradication of this pandemic and in creating a mutually assisting war-free, hate-free economy when an arms race will not suck away funds, but generate funds for creation of jobs, supplying food and shelter for all and education for all children. A lasting, prosperous and peaceful time with benediction for all will be a real bastion against the invasion of Covid-19. The roar of cannon balls, the blast of bombs and persecution of people holding opposite and different political opinions should have been stopped by now to meet the challenge of the pandemic. Then this pandemic would have been a blessing in disguise and will peter out if united we stand determined to win over this global menace. The pandemic has placed us in the tragic situation of helplessly witnessing our near and dear ones become casualties. Death of a friend, relative or neighbour, because of Covid, worsened by preexisting comorbidity or not, is simply a number added to rising mortality. The so-called celebrity among them receives the eager attention of the otherwise complacent TV watchers with an insatiable hunger for sensational news. As the day of the availability of vaccine recedes, let us not sink in despair. Let us find glory not in personal agrandisement but in non-egoistic embracing of a simple, internally rich lifestyle shining with love and service to the poorest of the poor and the lowliest of the low. A vaccine-protected long life sans these human developments will be a tinsel glory only. It is said that coronavirus has changed the world and the worst hit are the students. The schools and colleges have perhaps shut their classrooms to old — fashioned traditional mode of learning and teaching. The catechetical method of teaching, the inspiring and edifying talks of the teachers, the lively queries of the inquisitive learners, made more expressive with their body language, are perhaps lamentably things of the past.  Eyes glued to the screens of computers or smartphones, ears turned to the torrents of words coming through the videos, devoid of warm human surroundings, are all that is needed to pursue scholarship in accordance with the syllabus. There is no chance for the wavering eyes to look askance through the window of the classroom at the dancing parrots in the neighbouring foliage or at the white pieces of clouds. The wonderful diversity of the world has been forced to reduce itself to a small instrument with a screen which relentlessly demands undivided attention of the young learners. Only the future will tell whether this system has begotten brilliant men who are eager to follow knowledge beyond the utmost bound of human thoughts. The office spaces are awfully empty as the employees are allowed to work from home. Though the empty spaces may pinch the purse of the companies, this has to be tolerated. The employers must have sustainable dividend or revenue to keep the system going without perpetual indebtedness. Our economy and business must respond quickly to this shock of lockdown so that no employee is cashiered or dismissed. Human ingenuity and will must overcome this global crisis with real success before which all military triumphs of the mighty warlords will fade. We are not yet sure why this deadly virus has appeared. We must be more ecologically, scientifically and morally concerned to adopt the best practices when utilising our natural resources of air, sunshine, water, energy, mines, fields, forests, hills and also obviously our flora and fauna, to avoid disaster. All our projects, government and private, must be transparently made with concern for permanent benefit with dignity for all men, especially the vulnerable and the marginalised in our community. The community spread of Covid-19 will surely stop; but the above noted virus of criminal unconcern about anybody but my own opulence seeking self may survive to spread venom. Just waiting and waiting for the vaccine with bated breath, keeping in abeyance all endeavours for socio-economic, morally sound humanitarian and altruistic improvements of our growing human families, above caste, colour, race and nation, will not bring an end to the all-devouring illness. The war to end coronavirus should demand the end of all military wars that divide and destroy human society. A global human society united in peace and brotherhood will be more than sufficient to rebuild our shattered economy for the good of all human beings. May our victory over Covid 19 usher in such a brave new world. Dilip Kumar Ghoshal is a retired IAS officer||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-231
