23-11-2020||Calcutta||Survey to find out whether information can boost virus fight||A survey to find out whether “active” information dissemination leads people to take better protective measures against Covid-19 will be rolled out in three wards of Calcutta in December, said an official of the civic body, one of the organisations involved in the study. In the first phase (baseline survey) of the three-phase survey, all respondents will be asked a set of questions that will test their knowledge of the disease and the protective measures one should take, said Abhijit Chowdhury, the mentor of Covid Care Network, a voluntary organisation comprising health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from Covid-19. The network’s volunteers will visit households during the survey. In the second phase, volunteers will visit the same households and inform residents about the disease, its nature, the protective measures one should take and how to get treatment. The last phase (endline survey) will again require the respondents to answer the same set of questions asked in the first phase. “After comparing the replies of the baseline and endline surveys, we will be able to form an idea whether the intervention (in the second phase) helped make people more aware and put them in a position to react better,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, a deputy chief municipal health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Apart from the CMC, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Liver Foundation, an organisation that focuses on liver diseases and other public health issues, are involved in the study. Chowdhury, a public health specialist and member of the Liver Foundation, told Metro that the interventions would vary in the three wards. “In one ward, we will give very detailed information. In another, we will provide limited information, and in the third, we will not intervene at all. This will help us observe if there are any significant changes in people’s behaviour when they are informed about the disease and the protective measures against it,” he said. The survey, to begin in the first or second week of December, will show whether better outcomes are achieved in a population fed with information about the disease and what steps to take if someone tests positive for Covid-19. Some of the multiple-choice questions to be asked are how the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19, spreads; how a Covid test is done; and what steps need to be taken by patients recuperating at home. A senior scientist of the ICMR said they had authorised the survey, the proposal for which came from the Liver Foundation. “Volunteers of the Covid Care Network will be involved in the survey and intervention. Information dissemination through social media, hoardings, posters, banners and advertisements have a limited effect. They tend to become passive information dissipation tools,” said the scientist. “If someone who has recovered from a disease goes to a household and shares information about a disease, its impact on people listening is likely to be more. The survey will show whether people become more aware when they are told face to face about the causes of the disease, the steps that can protect them and the facilities for treatment available,” said the scientist. The survey will be conducted among roughly 4,000 households in each of the three wards — 11 (Hatibagan area in north Calcutta), 82 (Chetla in south Calcutta) and 101 (Patuli in the southeast). “If it is found that people are giving better replies after the intervention, it can be expected that they will be more careful in their behaviour. This will in turn help prevent or slow down the spread of the virus,” said Roy Chowdhury of the CMC. “Someone with the knowledge that the virus spreads through droplets released during coughing, sneezing or talking is likely to ask people around him or her to wear a mask.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Converse with adolescents on sexuality: Psychiatrist||Adults need to have more conversations with adolescents about matters related to sexuality, a psychiatrist said at a webinar organised to mark the International Child Rights Week (November 14-20). He stressed that while it is natural to engage in “consensual sexual exploration”, it is imperative for them to understand that with sexual rights comes responsibility. “In many situations, sexual experimentation or exploration can lead to trauma or hurt. So, parents, schools have to talk to adolescents more openly about sexual maturity, decision making and consent for them to explore their sexuality safely. They have to understand that there is a responsibility attached with sexual rights,” Ram said at the webinar on Thursday, organised by Way to Sunshine, the youth group of Racsha (Rise Against Child Sexual Harm and Abuse), a network of organisations and individuals that works for prevention and recognition of child sexual abuse and healing of wounds in survivors. Ram, a member of Racsha, said sexuality education should be part of the life-skill education in school. He stressed the need for peer education, as part of which young people in their mid-20s speak to adolescents and help them understand what they need to be mindful about. Parents, the doctor said, must keep an eye on children’s behaviours. “The reality is that many children are not comfortable having such a discussion with parents. Parents should at least facilitate such conversations if they (the children) are hesitant about it,” said Ram. Sreemoyee  Roy Chowdhury, the founder member of Racsha, said they were hopeful that conversation would help increase awareness. “Conversations do make things clear and empower teenagers…. Parents also need to know more because earlier, teenagers and adolescents never spoke about it (sexual intimacy or even abuse),” she said. Citing an example of ill effects of lack of communication, Roy Chowdhury said often genital organs were left undefined in textbooks, thereby creating “more secrecy”. “Not talking about it leads to a whole lot of secrecy and children feel they should not talk about it. And if the child is abused by a relative or a neighbour or is fondled in a private part, he or she feels the matter should not be talked about,” Roy Chowdhury said. Filmmaker Aniruddha Roychowdhury said children should be taught to speak about abuse more openly. “If there is any violation, there has to be a protest. Be it an uncle or anyone else known to the family, they (perpetrators of abuse) should be punished and shamed so that they are not able to step out. They should be exposed on social media and newspapers and the parents, elder brother or sister have to listen to the child,” said Roychowdhury. The chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, said the family should listen to the child if she was reporting abuse. “There is a trauma of the child being abused, and if the child is not receiving any support from the family, he or she feels further traumatised,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. A slogan of Racsha is built on the idea that the first time might be the only time a child is talking about the abuse she or he has been subjected to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
23-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town road plastic waste rule||The asphalt to be used in repair or construction of roads in New Town has to be mixed with plastic waste, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has decided in an attempt to reduce the volume of such waste. Plastic waste collected from the township’s houses, offices and eateries has to be shredded and added to the bitumen/asphalt that will be used to repair or lay roads, said an engineer of the NKDA, the agency that looks after the civic amenities of the township. “Plastic has good water-resistant properties. The lifespan of a road increases if the mix used to build it contains plastic that has been melted down partially. Also, plastic has binding properties and hold on to stone chips, so it minimises the chances of development of potholes,” the engineer said. A stretch of the road from the Akankha crossing near Eco Park till the bus stop in front of the housing complexes in Action Area II will be relaid using this technique. “The stretch is nearly 2km long and the entire surface will be relaid,” the engineer said. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had made it mandatory to use plastic in road building to reduce plastic in the landfill sites. Reduction of plastic in landfill sites will prevent leaching and deposit of microplastics in the soil. “Plastic waste poses a challenge in terms of disposal, yet it is the most commonly found item when it comes to waste management. We have decided to use shreds of plastic in road laying. Even if a small percentage (of plastic waste) can be disposed of, it will be a great boon for us,” said Sen. The Indian Roads Congress guidelines state plastic waste weighing about six per cent of the weight of the bitumen can be used in the mix for surfacing roads. The plastic has to be cleaned and shredded before use. The Telegraph has reported how NKDA had laid a 400m-long stretch near City Centre II in 2019 with a mix of bitumen and plastic as a pilot project. The road was monitored by a team of engineers and after results were found satisfactory, one more stretch, in Action Area II, was relaid using that technique. Delhi has several roads that have been paved with plastic, along with other materials. Plastic waste was used for the first time to pave roads in the national capital in 2008.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Covid dims Jagaddhatri Puja lights in Chandernagore||Every Jagaddhatri Puja, Manoj Saha would take his family out to pandals across Chandernagore on Ashtami — which was on Sunday this year — and Navami. Among the pujas would be the ones Manoj and his team had worked for, doing up the lights — peacocks, swans and birds, in “3-D lights”. In other months of the year, he would do odd jobs to earn a living. This Jagaddhatri Puja, Manoj is more busy managing his grocery shop in Chandernagore. As the Covid pandemic has robbed him of orders for illumination, the man who would create patterns and life-like figures with lights has switched professions. Jagaddhatri Puja is being held in Chandernagore like every year. But this time, the 177 organisers have done away with the signature lights, dealing a blow to the nearly 8,000 artists and labourers who would join hands to weave magic with LED lamps and 3-D creations. Some of the artists and workers have taken to selling vegetables and fish, others like Manoj have opened shops to fend for their families. “I have never witnessed a Jagaddhatri Puja without lights in Chandernagore, except once when Indira Gandhi was assassinated (1984). All lights were switched off that day,” said Sridhar Das, a 77-year-old artist whose creations with lights have seen him travel across the globe, several times to the UK and Russia. “But I admit that it (the scale down) is the best thing that could have happened to Chandernagore this Jagaddhatri Puja because of the pandemic.” Between Bhadreswar and Bandel in Hooghly district, the stretch that includes Chandernagore, there are over 125 artists who create designs on lights year after year. Often, important events of the year dominate the designs — such as Amartya Sen winning the Nobel prize and the Gaisal train tragedy. Each artist has a team with members specialising in drawing circuits and fixing lights. Every Jagaddhatri Puja in Chandernagore, the organisers would award illumination contracts worth lakhs of rupees. As many as 177 Jagaddhatri pujas are held in Chandernagore every year. The festivity is overseen by Chandernagore Central Jagaddhatri Puja Committee. This year, with Calcutta High Court declaring pandals no-entry zones, 14 puja committees are worshipping the ghot, instead of idols. With budgets trimmed and organisers in no position to play big as usual, those who used to be involved in illuminating pandals and immersion processions are hit hard. “Usually, a big puja would spend between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh for lights and spend anything between Rs 6 and 9 lakh for the tableaus for the immersion. Lights play a big part in immersion processions, too,” said Surjit Chowdhury of Tantir Bagan Char Thakurtala Jagaddhatri Puja committee. “This year, the immersion carnival has been called off and the budget for lights has been almost reduced to zero.” “Usually, we would spend around Rs 3-4 lakh on lights. This year the total puja budget is less than a lakh,” said Saroj Dutta, of Ganj Sitalatala Jagaddhatri Puja Committee. “There are persons who have sponsored each day’s puja like previous years. But we have scaled down our arrangements for bhog. Earlier, the bhog would be distributed across the locality. Not this year.” Illuminations involve engaging contractual labourers and part-time workers who earn a decent amount at the end of the festival. “A labourer gets Rs 350 for fixing 1,000 lights on a board. Thousands of such boards are usually required for one puja,” said Ashim Dey, a light artist. The sweat and toil invested in lights during Jagadhhatri Puja would often fetch contracts from outside Bengal. Clubs, associations and committees from cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad would end up signing contracts with artists for occasions such as Janmashatmi and Ganesh Chaturthi. “All such contracts from outside Bengal got cancelled this time. Labourers and their employers have been hoping for a turnaround soon but that seems unlikely,” said Babu Pal, a noted light-artist who has worked for a number of celebrities. “The lights during Jagadhhatri Puja in Chandernagore has been a part of a grand tradition which was missed this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||'Rumoured' Calcutta chartered accountant in custody||A Calcuttan who offers accounting services has been arrested by the city police in connection with a corruption case against an income-tax officer, soon after which governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted about “alarming worrisome inputs from CA fraternity” and a “politically inspired operation”. Govind Agarwal, who was arrested early Sunday morning from his south Calcutta home, is not a certified chartered accountant, police sources said. But in the circles he moved around, Agarwal is “rumoured” to be a chartered accountant, they added. The governor's tweets, which were posted around 8am on Sunday, made no mention of Agarwal who is now in judicial custody. The income-tax department reports to the Centre, which has faced charges of unleashing central agencies on state governments helmed by Opposition parties. Calcutta police report to the Bengal government, now run by the Trinamul Congress. In the run-up to elections — Bengal is heading to Assembly polls in a few months — some parties in power had been accused of using state agencies to squeeze the funding sources of rivals. In his fifties, Agarwal, whose office is in Mangoe Lane in central Calcutta, had been named as a co-conspirator in a two-year-old corruption case against Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Neeraj Singh, who was additional director of the income-tax department in Calcutta a few years ago. Singh is under suspension now. The sources said the police were trying to establish if he had any links with a suspected racket in which a section of income tax officials intimidated businesspersons and directed them to handpicked individuals to “sort out” matters by arranging bribes. These individuals could also have been used to “legalise” the proceeds of the corruption, the sources said. More professionals in the accounting business are under the scanner, police sources said. “There have been several instances of city businessmen who had been raided or summoned by the income-tax department receiving phone calls from an individual offering accounting solutions,” a source with business contacts told this newspaper after Agarwal was arrested. To illustrate the alleged style of functioning, a businessman said he was told by a particular fixer: “Humko section mat samjhaiye; sirf kya karna hai bataiye (Please don’t explain the section of the tax law to me; just tell me what needs to be done).” Curiously, on the same day Agarwal was arrested, governor Dhankhar posted three tweets expressing concern at Calcutta police “targeting” the “CA fraternity”. Without mentioning Agarwal, the tweets appeared to suggest that a tit-for-tat crackdown was under way for the CBI raids on Bengal’s coal and cattle mafia. “Alarming worrisome inputs from CA fraternity-politically inspired operation overzealously afoot@KolkataPolice headed by #DD targets CAs-strategy-fishing for material to handicap team members that raided mafia #coal #cattle. Why forget ‘Be ye never so high, the law is above you’,” Dhankhar tweeted. In another tweet, the governor said: “Beneficiaries in ‘uniform’ and power in pre-emptive mode to compromise team members #coal #cattle mafia raids to neutralise or impede actions against them. Those spearheading this extra legal antidotal operation are oblivious that these misadventures are often counterproductive.” An alleged coal mafia leader had been summoned by the income-tax department earlier this month while a suspected cattle smuggler had been arrested by the CBI recently. Agarwal had come under the police’s scanner in December 2016, shortly after the demonetisation, when three people were arrested for allegedly having on them Rs 1.04 crore in unaccounted old currency, officers said. The trio had allegedly told the police they were carrying the money to Agarwal’s Mangoe Lane office to be exchanged for new currency. Files, documents and data seized from Agarwal’s office at the time suggested a nexus between him, Neeraj Singh (the income tax officer) and the then director of the Rose Valley group of industries, Gautam Kundu, the police sources said. Kundu had been in jail since March 2015 in connection with a deposit default scam. Based on their preliminary findings, officers of Hare Street police station — in whose area Mangoe Lane falls — started a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act against Singh, the income-tax officer, in 2018, naming Agarwal as a co-accused. On the basis of the same FIR, the Enforcement Directorate — the central agency that was probing the Rose Valley default scam — started a parallel case against Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta: Get set for motorsport season||The season for motorsports is fast approaching and eastern India has its fair share of four-wheel and two-wheel rallies, treasure hunts, drag races and Time-Speed-Distance rallies. A number of such events have been cancelled since March because of the Covid pandemic and the lockdown. Now, motorsports clubs and organisers are gearing up to restart their engines and press the pedal to the metal between December and January. Unlock guidelines have allowed motorsports, a largely non-contact sports. The Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI) has spelt out the standard operating procedures — which include following distancing rules, downloading the Aarogya Setu app, using masks and sanitisers, and maintaining minimal contact — that need to be followed for such events. Calcutta and eastern India have a fairly busy motor sport calendar throughout the year. But many big-ticket and regular events, including the Calcutta-Santiniketan Kabiguru Rally, the Jangalmahal Rally in the forests of Belpahari and Kankrajhor in West Midnapore and the Himalayan Drive in north Bengal, Sikkim, Bhutan and Nepal, had to be cancelled. Clubs are now all set to hold the first of their events, starting December. “It’s an uphill task to organise motorsports again. It is impossible to have physical meetings because of lockdowns and unless you can meet you cannot organise such events,” Souvik Ghosh of Kolkata-on-Wheels, which organises drives, rallies, drag races in the city, said. Besides the organisational obstacles, clubs have been hit by the economic downturn that has affected corporate sponsorships. “The main sponsors are lubricant companies, battery-makers and car manufacturers. They had a publicity budget that allowed them to sponsor such events, which fetched them good branding. That budget has taken a hit because of the pandemic,” Ghosh said. The rally season will kick off with Just Sportz organising their Monsoon Drive, a Time-Speed-Distance rally between Panchla, in Howrah, and Haldia, in East Midnapore, on December 19. According to the club calendar, Monsoon Drive is generally held in September or October. This time it has been pushed to December, Suchandan Das of the club said. Speaking about sponsorships, Das said: “We are digging into our own pockets to organise these events for motorsports lovers. We are itching to get behind the wheels.” The Monsoon Drive will be followed by autocross and motocross events on December 20 at the Haldia mela grounds by Motorsports Association of Eastern India (MAEI). “We will follow the FMSCI protocols and ensure the ground is sealed off with no spectators,” Sourav Chatterjee of MAEI said. Kolkata-on-Wheels will do a non-competitive drive tour to Odisha between January 23 and 26. But its flagship event, a treasure hunt that used to be held in December-January, will probably not take place. “We had close to 150 vehicles participating in the treasure hunt… it seems doubtful this year,” Ghosh of Kolkata-on-Wheels said. The Bengal Motor Sports Club had planned to organise a drive to commemorate Netaji’s birth anniversary. It will start from Elgin Road. The club, which organises the Kaviguru Rally and the Indo-Bhutan rally, has had to call off these events because of the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to call 50 scholars back to campus||IIT Kharagpur, which had closed down the campus in September because of the Covid pandemic, will ask 50 of its research scholars to return, officials of the institute said. The institute has 3,000 research scholars. “Only a small percentage of the scholars are being brought back because sporadic Covid cases are still being reported on the campus and in the immediate surroundings,” an official said. The research scholars had vacated the campus along with BTech and MTech students in September. Asked on what basis the 50 scholars have been chosen, Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affairs at the IIT, said: “Those who are seniors are being recalled. We are also considering the research they are associated with.’’ An IIT official said the Centre had in its Unlock-V directive said higher education institutions can reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental work. IIT registrar Tamal Nath said the scholars would have to follow safety protocols upon arrival. They have to abide by the protocol prepared by the BC Roy Technology Hospital, on the campus, during their journey to the campus from the Calcutta airport or Kharagpur railway station. On reaching the campus, they will have to immediately report to the hospital and follow the standard operating procedure. “Based on the health condition, he/she will undergo self-isolation for 14 days or as required in the designated facility,” an official said. Another official said the authorities were selecting the hostels where the scholars would be put up following the directive on physical distancing. The institute has 23 hostels. The scholars also have to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 as close to the date of journey as possible and send the report to the institute. A scholar accused the institute of acting slow in asking researchers to return to the campus. “IIT Kanpur has completed the third phase of recalling. Our institute will undertake the first phase in December,’’ she said. An official justified the alleged delay saying no other IIT had to be closed down following an outbreak. Starting August, around 250 Covid cases have been detected on the campus. “BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus is not equipped to handle Covid patients. So, we have to exercise utmost caution,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Ekbalpore body-in-bag case: Couple arrested||A couple have been arrested for the murder of 20-year-old Sabah Khatun, whose body was found inside a plastic bag in Ekbalpore last Thursday. Sheikh Sajid, 30, and Anjum Begum, 26, residents of Ekbalpore, have been booked for murder, causing disappearance of evidence and common intention. Sajid has apparently told the police that he had an affair with Sabah and strangled her when she threatened to expose him if he did not pay her Rs 70,000. On Thursday morning, Sajid was the first to call the police and inform them that a woman’s body was found dumped in front of a closed shop near his home. The police said that although Sajid had tried his best to keep himself off the radar, call records of Sabah’s mobile phone gave him away. “Based on Sajid’s statement, we interrogated Anjum and found that she was directly involved in the disposal of the body,” an officer said. The couple have been remanded in police custody till December 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
23-11-2020||Calcutta||Fleet-footed in the hills: The Telegraph captures some standout moments||Milind Soman ran. Kailash Kher and his band Kailasa pulled the crowds. But the cynosure at Sunday’s annual Darjeeling Hill Marathon was an 81-year-old. Usha Soman, Milind’s mother, wowed everyone by easily completing the 10km event on a route that professional athletes termed “difficult”. “I do 10km runs pretty frequently. This run was very pleasant,” she told The Telegraph. Usha was the oldest among the 2,000 participants at the marathon, organised by Darjeeling police in six categories. All the six — including the 21.1km event — began and ended at Chowrasta after circling Darjeeling town. Tejasvi Rana, an IAS officer currently posted as the Kalimpong SDO, accompanied Usha in the run, but competing in the under-45 age category for women. Usha has been a social media sensation since posting a video of her doing the plank, an exercise that involves holding a position similar to that for a push-up as long as one can, a couple of years ago. Asked on Sunday about her plank skills, she smiled and said: “More than running, I do plank. He (Milind) pushes me at it. I can do a two-minute plank.” The event’s theme was “Time to R-UNLOCK”. While emphasising the importance of fitness to immunity, Milind asked people to “run to unlock”. He later tweeted a picture of himself against the backdrop of the crowd with the hastag #newnormal and wrote: “Darjeeling today :) ran my first 21km since February with 2,000 runners.” Like Usha, two little champs stood out. Nine-year-old Ryan Gelek, a student of the Darjeeling Montessori House of Children, and eight-year-old Prativa Pradhan from the Child Academy in Lodhama, 90km from Darjeeling town, both completed the 10km run. Both put their success down to the lockdown which, while closing down normal activities like school and games, had left them with a lot of time to try something different. “I started running, with my uncle Dorjee W. Bhutia,” Gelek said. Prativa said the lockdown had prompted her to take up running too — with her father at their village from “6am to 8am every day”. The organisers arranged a “special felicitation” for the duo. Milind told this newspaper that the “run was lovely, the weather was great with a lot of people to cheer, and it was beautifully organised”. Many professional runners were equally appreciative. “This is only my second run since the lockdown. The first was at my hometown Meerut. It feels great,” said Jyoti, a national-level runner who won the 10km in the under-45 category for women. Ranjana Tamang, a 17-year-old from Gangtok who was the first-runner up in Jyoti’s category, said it was a “different” experience running a “real marathon” after months of doing virtual marathons during the lockdown. Kailasa and Shrikant’s Surfira enthralled audiences at Chowrasta, starting from 8am — an hour after the runs started — and winding up around 12.30pm, about two hours after the last runner had returned. Entire families turned out to participate — or just to watch and enjoy the concert — glad for the chance to have a day out at a time when pandemic-induced restrictions have stifled social life for most. Milind’s family was out in force — with his wife Ankita Konwar too participating. Narayan Goenka, 45, who said he weighed 112kg, ran with his son Namish, 9, daughter Devanshi, 14, and niece Alivia Singhal, 11. “This is the first time they are running,” Narayan said. Dentists Rinchey Norbu and Sandy Tshering Rai were at Chowrasta, all masked up to cheer their husbands. Masks were handed out to all the runners at the start but few wore them for any length of time during the event, perhaps fearing they could cause breathlessness while running. The plastic water bottles of the previous six editions had been replaced with paper cups in a nod to the environment. Some 100 volunteers carrying dokos (traditional bamboo baskets) ensured that the marathon did not leave the route littered. Swapna Chatterjee, a visitor from Bangalore, was among the volunteers with the waste baskets. “I’m visiting Darjeeling for the first time and volunteered for this initiative with my friends,” she said. Utsow Pradhan, founder of Take It Easy, Easy Does It, which runs an eco-tourism project in Darjeeling, said no waste generated from the run would be sent to the landfill – it will all be recycled. “We will also conduct a waste audit so that the findings can be of help in future events,” he said. Romonus Guria, 52, from the Kolkata Runners club who came third in his category -- 10km for above-45 men -- said the event was tough. “Although I managed a podium finish, the sudden climbs uphill and downhill made it a very tough run,” he said. Army jawan Tirtha Pun, who won the 21.1km event and had participated three times earlier in the Darjeeling Hill Marathon, agreed. “This year I found the route really tough. Nevertheless, I’m happy that I won,” said Pun, who hails from Nepal but is posted with the Indian Army’s Gorkha Regiment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-230
