24-11-2020||Calcutta||NGT seeks Covid waste report from Bengal govt||The National Green Tribunal on Monday directed the Bengal government to submit a status report on Covid medical waste management, said environment activist Subhas Datta, the petitioner in the case. The bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Saibal Dasgupta also directed the state pollution control board to submit the report of an expert committee set up by the board to suggest ways to manage Covid waste. “We have asked the department concerned to prepare the report,” said a lawyer representing the state. An official of the pollution control board said they would hand over the report of the expert committee to the tribunal, as told. Covid waste, which can contain traces of the coronavirus, is at times disposed of indiscriminately by patients quarantined at home or their families, posing a risk to public health, warned public health experts. “Pavement dwellers often come in contact with such waste,” said Arunava Majumder, a scientist who has retired from the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Headmaster raises awareness against child trafficking in South 24-Parganas||A school headmaster has been visiting homes in 30 villages in South 24-Parganas during the pandemic to raise awareness about child trafficking. Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, has been speaking to teenagers, many of who might have dropped out of school. He tells them about the consequences of eloping with someone in exchange for a smartphone or a few thousand rupees and the promise of an elusive bright future. The teacher has helped rescue girls in the area from 2003. The numbers have gone down over the years, he said. “But there’s been a rise in child trafficking during the pandemic. In the past three weeks (with the help of police and the local administration), we have rescued 12 girls.” Most of these girls are aged between 14 and 16, he said. At times parents are unaware, and on some occasions they turn a blind eye because the pandemic has taken away their source of income and they have little to feed all members. Most of the men are fishermen or those who collect honey in the Sunderbans. The women work as maids in the city. But the suspension of suburban train services for months has left them without any livelihood. Maity said the challenges had gone up during the pandemic. “Before the pandemic many families would marry off their daughters because of poverty. But when I came to know of it I would bring these girls to the hostel, arrange sponsorship for them and let them complete their studies. But this is not possible during the pandemic as I cannot let them stay in the hostels.” He said he visited families and spoke to them about their problems and told them how dangerous trafficking or child marriage could be. “There are some instances where the damage has already been done. But if I visit homes of others and spread awareness in the neighbourhood it alerts people and sensitises them to prevent more such instances.” Since Maity heads a school, he knows the pandemic has forced many to forego studies and that it has been affecting young minds. “Earlier, they would be in school for five to six hours; now, they are completely detached from studies. Many do not have a smartphone to attend classes online or access videos sent by teachers.” Traffickers use smartphones to trap girls, he said. “Traffickers befriend them, gift them cheap smartphones and maintain contact with them. Since some girls have bank accounts for the government’s Kanyashree scheme or for scholarships, traffickers transfer one or two thousand rupees to their accounts. They don’t even get Rs 50 from their parents now; so, they get fall in the trap easily.” Maity tells mothers of girls to keep tabs on the phones their daughters use. “We tell them they should enquire where their daughters have got phones from and track their conversations or movements.” Saji Philip, the director of operations of NGO International Justice Mission, said interviewing survivors in Calcutta in 2016, the NGO had found that the false promise of marriage or job had been used to traffick children in 35 per cent of the cases. “In my visit to some of these villages (where the headmaster has been taking the lead) I found students could not attend online classes for want of smartphones. That has left them frustrated,” Philip said. “Families are so vulnerable… when there is promise of a job or the prospect of sending back money home every month they get lured. They are unable to see beyond a point… so, an awareness campaign gives them knowledge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Pipe leak floods RG Kar campus, nearby areas||Parts of the RG Kar hospital campus were waterlogged from Monday morning till afternoon and its immediate surroundings have been inundated since Sunday morning following a breach in a water pipe of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The repair of the pipe has been scheduled for Saturday. “Water supply from the Tallah tank to the entire north and central Calcutta and portions of south Calcutta and southern suburbs will be stopped at 9.30am on Saturday to facilitate the repair. The supply will resume on Sunday,” a civic engineer said. Patients and doctors at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, and residents in the surrounding areas, had to wade through ankle-deep water. “The low-lying areas on the campus went under water. These include the stretches in front of the gynaecology ward and the administrative block,” said an official of the hospital. A doctor said the stretches near the canteen and the anatomy building were waterlogged, too. Pumps operated by the civic body could drain out water from the RG Kar campus in the afternoon, but the surrounding areas were still flooded. Tarun Saha, the coordinator of borough I of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), which includes the area where RG Kar hospital is located, said the breach was noticed around 4am on Sunday. “We received information about the breach by 4.30am. Our team started work around 7am,” he said. “Water is gushing out through the leak. We have deployed pumps to drain out the water, but the pumps cannot be operated round the clock. Whenever we are switching off the pumps to give them some respite, water is again accumulating,” said Saha. A resident of Nilmoni Mitra Row, behind RG Kar hospital, said Sarkar Bagan and the area near Tallah railway station had been under ankle-deep water since Sunday. An official of the civic body said a breach in a 60-inch-diameter pipe under Nilmoni Mitra Row had resulted in the waterlogging. The pipe, known as the Tallah-Auckland Square transmission main, supplies water from the Tallah reservoir to various booster pumping stations in the city, via the Auckland Square booster pumping station near Park Street. Repairs could not be undertaken immediately because CMC engineers suspect the leak had developed about 25ft below the road. “There is a pit, where the breach happened. The pit has to be cleared of all accumulated water before repairs can begin,” said an engineer. “We have to stop supply from the reservoir and empty the transmission line on both sides of the point of the leak. Otherwise, water from both sides will rush towards the point, which is at a lower altitude. Creating various points through which the line will be emptied will take some time. So, we have scheduled the repair for Saturday,” the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Beleghata man arrested for online fraud involving Covid gear||A man from Beleghata has been arrested for allegedly running a racket that would take pre-paid orders for gloves, sanitisers and face shields on a website and never deliver them, police said. The website would allegedly lure customers by promising them home delivery of the products at huge discounts. Pratik Bag was arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged with Bidhannagar North police station several days back, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “Two other members of the racket had been arrested earlier. Their statements led us to Bag,” the officer said. The police said more than 100 people had been duped. “The men had opened a website that promised to sell a variety of products considered essential amid the Covid pandemic such as gloves, masks and hand sanitisers. The site claimed that these items were on sale at a huge discount,” the officer said. “The customers were asked to pay online through various modules, including e-wallet and Netbanking.” To make the website seem genuine, the men had put up a cellphone number where people could call after placing orders. “As soon as one paid for the order, the men would block the number of the customer and never get in touch with him or her, let alone delivering the goods,” the officer said. Another officer said the men had been running the racket for at least three months. Bag has been charged under various IPC sections including 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust), among others. If convicted, he can be jailed for seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Mahadevi Birla World Academy students read out to juniors||A student in Class I at a city school reads out to those in Nursery and Kindergarten, while another in Class V reads out to the children in Classes III and IV. Teachers keep telling children to read but when they see “one among them” doing so, it generates an interest in them to read and makes the one who is reading feel “empowered”. Mahadevi Birla World Academy has started the system for the children in the pre-primary and primary sections, which is also giving the children a platform — online — to engage at a time when the Covid pandemic has put paid to all stage activities. On Monday, a Class I student read out a story to the children in nursery. The girl, Iyana Biswas, also used props to tell her story. The school every December devotes a day to a “reading partnership programme”, as part of which parents are invited to the campus to read with their children. “This year we had to do something online but we wanted to do something that would generate and sustain the interest of the children. If they see one of their friends reading out to them, instead of an adult or a teacher, it will create an interest in them to read,” said Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. The school is calling the new activity “By the children, for the children”. “The child who is facing the class also feels more empowered and confident,” said Ghosh. The absence of physical classes have forced schools to alter the ways in which they would operate. The library classes, where children would be forced to flip through books, are no longer there. “It is not that students are not reading at all, but the idea of reading books is becoming rare,” said Ghosh. “If we tell them to find out about something, for example how to make a video, they are reading about it. But reading books have been replaced by reading online or reading PDFs. On some occasions, the library teacher finds it difficult to arrest the attention of the students online,” said Ghosh. “Now all the activities are online…. The environment a student is exposed to during the library period cannot be replicated when they are attending the same class from home,” said Ghosh. Problems with internet connectivity and background noise often disturb the ambience, she said. On-stage activities that help children shed their inhibitions are off because of the pandemic, a teacher of the school said. “CBSE wants us to engage all children in activities, which was easier in the physical mode. Now we have to come up with activities that would involve more and more students,” the teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Coldest day but not for long||Monday was the coldest day so far this season, with the mercury dipping to 15.5 degrees, three notches below normal. On Saturday, the minimum temperature was 22 degrees, three notches above normal. The Met office attributed the sharp plunge to free flow of the cold and dry north-westerly winds into the city. Early risers and morning walkers felt the bite of the winds. Many of them were wrapped in an added layer of protection. A cover of fog made way for a clear sky and sunshine greeted Calcuttans throughout the day but the wind was persistent. Out came the hoodies and shrugs at many places in the city. “My alarm went off at 5.30am. But I did not feel like leaving the bed, it was so cold,” said Supratik Sarkar, 29, a Southern Avenue resident and a regular runner at Vivekananda Park. Met officials said the chance of the mercury dipping below 15 degrees was unlikely over the next few days. In fact, the temperature may start rising again from Thursday, they said. A depression on the Bay of Bengal is tipped to intensify into a cyclone (it will be called Nivar, named by Iran), and hit Tamil Nadu coast on Wednesday. On Monday afternoon, the system was over 600km south-southeast of Chennai, said the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Chennai and other coastal areas in Tamil Nadu are on high alert. Calcutta is too far from the system to feel its fury, but it will rob the city of its chill for a couple of days, said a Met official. “The minimum temperature in Calcutta is likely to remain between 15 and 16 degrees for the next two days. But from Thursday, moisture-laden easterly winds will enter the city and lead to some cloud formation. As a result, the temperature is expected to go up,” said G.K. Das, the director, IMD, Calcutta. Moisture-laden winds stall the free flow of the cold and dry winds from north India and trigger a rise in temperature. But the rise in temperature will not be long lasting. Once the moisture is gone and the sky is clear, the mercury will slide again, said Das. The Celsius is in free fall in the upper reaches of India. The temperature plummeted to minus 3 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on Sunday night, making it the coldest night of the season so far. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.3 degrees on Monday, also the coldest this season. The cold winds are making their presence felt in Calcutta as well and Calcuttans are making the most of their favourite time of the year even amid the Covid pandemic. The Alipore zoo was reasonably busy for a Monday amid a raging pandemic. Many people soaked the winter sun on the Maidan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||IIEST head appeals to Centre for hostel funds||The IIEST director has appealed to the Union education ministry for immediate sanction of funds for building hostels on the Shibpur campus, where the authorities struggle to accommodate students. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director, said he had made the appeal at a meeting of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology’s (IIEST) board of governors on November 18. Members of the board include representatives of the education ministry. The statute of the 164-year-old institute states that all students would have to be provided with accommodation. But the hostels on the campus now have space for only half the students. Lack of space forces many students to look for private accommodation outside the campus. An official of the IIEST said they missed out on a good number of bright students, because the absence of adequate hostel space forced them to opt for other institutes. “Everybody will not be willing to pay through his or her nose for a PG accommodation arranged through brokers. Besides, many want to stay on the campus because they need to visit the library and labs frequently,” he said. Another official said that once the campus reopened after the Covid-induced shutdown, they would not be able to put up more than one student in a room. “That situation will land us in trouble. The accommodation may drop to 30 per cent from the existing 50 per cent,” he said. The intake capacity of the institute for BTech, MTech and PhD courses together stands at 4,000. The board of governors, the highest decision-making body of the institute, had in a meeting in 2018 resolved that a lecture theatre complex and a hostel that could accommodate 1,000 students would be constructed on the campus at a cost of Rs 283.6 crore. In June 2019, IIEST director Chakrabarti had met HRD minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal and asked for funds to build the hostel and the academic complex. But there has not been much progress since, and that prompted the director to make an appeal for immediate sanction of funds at the last meeting of the board on November 18. “The issue (of sanction of funds) was raised specifically. Our students are facing inconvenience because of the absence of an adequate number of hostels. Funds should be provided immediately, be it through grant or loan,” Chakrabarti told The Telegraph. The absence of adequate number of hostels and the burgeoning number of students have forced the institute to accommodate a number of students at the staff quarters. An official in the engineering section of the institute said there were at least 10 buildings on the campus, all constructed during the Raj, that were in need of renovation. Of the 17 hostels on the campus, at least 15 need an overhaul. Many of the hostels were built before Independence. Established in 1856 as Calcutta Civil Engineering College, the Shibpur institute is the fourth oldest engineering institute of the country – after the College of Engineering, Guindy (Tamil Nadu), IIT Roorkee and the College of Engineering, Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||CISCE nudge on screen time||The ICSE council has reminded all affiliated schools about the class-wise screen time to be followed during online sessions, in response to complaints from several states that schools were not following the Centre’s guideline on the matter. There has been no complaint from Bengal, the council said. “We thought we would send a general SOP (standard operating procedure) to all schools right across the country as a caution and to guide them in online classes. We have received complaints from a few states where some schools are not keeping to the guidelines. There has been no such complaint from Bengal,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) told The Telegraph. The Centre had in July called for limited screen time for students and teachers in the guidelines it had issued for digital learning. The subject of the CISCE circular “Pragyata guidelines for digital education” recommends not more than 30 minutes of online class for pre-primary (where teachers interact with parents), not more than two sessions of 30-45 minutes each for Classes I to VIII or the duration specified in guidelines issued by the respective states/Union Territories, and not more than four sessions of 30-45 minutes each for Classes IX to XII the duration specified in guidelines issued by the respective states/UTs. The CISCE has also recommended that if there are multiple sessions in a day, there should be a gap of 10 to 15 minutes between two sessions. “During this time (the break between two sessions), students should be instructed not to use any electronic gadgets nor view the screen of their laptop/mobile phone for any purpose,” Arathoon said in the circular. The students should “freely” move about or do “some physical exercise” during the break. The circular says “no student should be compelled to keep the webcam on or smart phone in online mode except during online class hours or for instruction/s at a particular time, having duly been informed beforehand.” Schools have been requested to provide guidelines or counselling to students to make them aware about cyber safety and security. “Due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the schools have been closed since March 2020 severely disrupting the normal teaching-learning process. It is heartening to note that despite the problems posed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, most of our affiliated schools have been conducting online classes with the active contribution and participation of teachers,” the circular says. “In order to address the issues arising out of online teaching, the Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development (now called Ministry of Education), Government of India has issued ‘Pragyata Guidelines for Digital Education’. The said guidelines that have prescribed the class-wise screen time to be followed by schools keeping in view the overall development of students...” the circular says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
24-11-2020||Calcutta||Events stirring out of long slumber||The state government’s November 1 notification, increasing the limit on gatherings in a closed venue to 200, has breathed some life into the events sector, choked for months because of the Covid pandemic. With the current wedding season playing the catalyst, the giant of social gatherings is slowly waking up from the slumber induced by the pandemic. The 200-people limit has given event managers some scale to work with. Rishabh Bapna, a popular event manager in Calcutta, said his business was a third of what it used to be during this season. “But things are looking slightly brighter than they did between March and September,” he said. An Indian wedding is not a one-day affair. Earlier, allied events like sangeet and mehndi had a core group of guests and the wedding and reception were main events for a larger audience. Now, associated events are being leveraged to suit the needs of the hosts. Wedding planner Prairna Khuller has had clients with a wish list of 1,000 guests. “The wedding is being split into events — mehndi, sangeet, Bollywood night and so on. Around 200 people are being invited to each event, without repetition,” she said. There are around 15 “wedding dates” between November and December. Many weddings, originally scheduled between April and August but postponed because of the pandemic, have also been re-scheduled for these two months. The logbooks of venues, from hotels to standalone properties, have bookings after a long lull. Many of the bookings were done before the November 1 notification. But the guest list has gone up since, giving organisers some benefits of scale. A host of vendors — caterers, decorator, florists, musicians and alike — depend heavily on the weddings segment. The budget of an event with 50 guests and the budget of an event with 150 guests are different. Many families who had earlier planned to settle for a “only family members gathering at home” are now opting for an outdoor venue, said event managers. The manager of an online aggregator of banquets, with a “pool of around 30 banquets in and around the city”, said most venues had bookings for the wedding dates till at least December end. Sanjay Karmar, operations manager of Princeton Club, which has five banquets, said he had “around 20 bookings” for November. But almost everyone this newspaper spoke to said things were far from what they used to be till a year ago. Pramode Bhandari, area general manager, The Park Kolkata, said he had “some bookings” for November-December but there was “still a long, long way to go”. The hotel has five banquets on offer. The events are being held but the limited number of guests mean a dip in the business volume. The dip in corporate events is also hurting the segment badly. Winter is the season for a host of corporate events and parties. That segment is yet to take off this year, said organisers. Sudipto Hore, the general manager of Regenta Orko’s hotel in Kasba, would host product launches, doctors’ conferences, cocktails and rewards and recognition programmes regularly this season. “They have almost disappeared this year,” he said. A popular party crooner echoed him. Imran Qaisar, a singer and leader of a musical troupe, has not been able to play at his cradle, the Dalhousie Institute, since the club is still shut. “Also missing are corporate events, which used to happen one after another this time of the year,” said Qaisar. But after a long lull, Qaisar is busy again. “Social gatherings are back and my winter calendar is full. Not hectic like it used to be around this time of the year earlier but achchha hai,” said Qaisar. Birthdays and anniversaries are being celebrated again with close groups of friends and family. Among events that are still very few are children’s birthday celebrations. Senior citizens are also avoiding gatherings. This year, December 11 would have marked the 50th marriage anniversary of the parents of a businessman in New Alipore. He had planned a gala celebration at a hotel off EM Bypass. The plan was initially changed to an open-air venue near Science City but was shelved altogether after his father had a bout of viral fever recently. “My parents are close to 80. I decided not to risk it this year. If things improve, we will celebrate next year,” he said. Many people, still wary of ventilation and air-conditioning in the context of Covid-19, are avoiding indoor venues, said banquet owners and caterers and decorators. S. Ramani of Savourites that runs 6 Ballygunge Place, which, apart from the chain of eateries, is also one of the premier catering companies in the city, said the situation was still gloomy. “This time last year, I did not have time to sit down. There were days when I had to handle 10 weddings simultaneously. But this year, there are hardly any orders,” he said. “People are still avoiding banquets because they are scared of the possible transmission of the virus through air-conditioning,” he told Metro. One of his clients organised his son’s wedding with “only 20 guests who were served dinner” on Sunday. Around 50 other guests were given food packets, said Ramani. But considering how the sector had been crippled from March-end to October, any positive movement was welcome. Many people lost their jobs, many were sent on furloughs and many had to take pay cuts. The renewed business offers a glimpse of hope for these people. Avijit Mukherjee, in charge of club banquet sales of a well-known hospitality group, summed up the mood of the sector. “This is such a year that reaching break-even would be a great achievement. For months, we have reported to work. Full days were spent sitting idle at the venues. Many of my colleagues have had a pay-cut. Back to being busy after such a long lull is a great feeling.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-229
