25-11-2020||Calcutta||Scent of socialising in perfume sale uptick||The scent is back, wafting in slowly. Sale of perfumes, which had plummeted in the immediate aftermath of the Covid-19-induced lockdown, is gradually picking up, said marketers and consumers. The plunge and gradual uptick mirrors how socialising, which had become a forbidden word a few months ago, is crawling back to life. Fragrance is a niche segment and the favourite perfume is reserved for befitting occasions. The occasion to use one had gone drastically down in the initial months of the pandemic. But the situation is changing. Marriages and other social gatherings are happening again and people are stepping out of their homes. For many others, the drawing room has replaced a night club as the new party zone. Gaurav Karnani, who owns The Grid, a popular microbrewery in Topsia, used to go out and socialise three to four times a week before the pandemic, the time when he put on his favourite fragrance — 1 Million by Paco Rabanne. Over the past month or two, the socialising is limited. But Karnani believed the personal care segment would keep growing in the coming weeks. “Self-pampering is becoming and will increasingly become the thing to do to fight the depression caused by this pandemic,” he said. The store of a premium perfume retail chain at a south Calcutta mall has not had the usual Diwali footfall this year. But things were not as gloomy as they looked from June to September, said a store executive. “The footfall is down from last year by almost 60 per cent. But overall business is down by around 30 per cent,” he said. The store has been reaching out to patrons over the phone. “We have delivered some of our products to the doorstep of our patrons. People are spending on fragrance again. But many of them are sceptical to visit a mall,” said the executive. Pooja Basu, who handles communications for a multiplex chain, was getting used to “only deodorants” from June to September. Department stores were the only place she would go to after stepping out of home. Post-October, she has started stepping out of home for work and “very few” after-work events. She bought her favourite fragrance — L’Eau d’Issey by Issey Miyake — at the start of last month. “A friend had got this for me from a duty-free store last time. It lasted way beyond it should have, because of scarce use,” said Basu. An official of the south Calcutta store of another French multinational retailer of personal care and beauty products said June to August-end saw very little sale. “But things started improving from mid-September. We are back at 60-65 per cent of the usual volume, a part of it through online sales,” he added. The offerings from big stables — YSL, Cartier, Davidoff, DKNY, Gucci,  Calvin Klein and Georgio Armani, to name a few — are all imported. The lockdown — in the past as well as the current curbs in force in Europe — has disrupted harvests of key ingredients used to make perfumes. Alcohol, a key ingredient, is becoming harder and harder to get because of its huge demand as a disinfectant. The logistics chain has been disturbed and supply is being affected, said marketers. “But the demand for fragrance is still robust and only expected to grow,” said an ad maker in Mumbai, who has handled campaigns for perfume brands. Marketers said that a section of people — tired of sitting at home — was keen on self-indulgence. The “end-of-seasons” sale of online fashion brands saw brisk movement in the fragrance segment, they pointed out. “People are also using perfumes at home. A young couple are having a dinner date at home. They will do up the dining table and they will want to smell their best,” the advertiser said. “More and more people are now going to house parties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Bail for Govind Agarwal; police call IRS officer ||A city court on Tuesday granted accounting firm owner Govind Agarwal interim bail, considering his multiple health complications with a condition that he cannot leave his south Calcutta home till the next hearing. Agarwal was arrested early on Sunday in connection with a corruption case against an income-tax officer. Agarwal’s lawyer said his client was suffering from “critical, life-threatening” kidney and liver diseases, along with oral cancer, and was in need of daily medical care. The court, while granting interim bail, directed Agarwal to “cooperate” with the police and make himself available every time the investigating officer of the case wanted to examine him at his home. Agarwal appeared in the Bankshal court on Tuesday afternoon as his case was being heard. “The magistrate asked my client to sit on the bench after hearing my submission about his health. My client has been granted interim bail against a bond of Rs 20,000. He will comply with all the conditions mentioned by the court,” said Agarwal’s lawyer Biplab Goswami. Calcutta police on Tuesday issued summons to a senior IRS officer based in Calcutta in connection with the case in which IRS officer Neeraj Singh is the prime accused and Agarwal a co-accused. “The IRS officer (who was issued summons during the day) has been asked to be present at the Calcutta police headquarters on November 27. A notice under Section 160 of the CrPC was served at his office,” a senior officer said. The officer, when contacted, said he was unwilling to comment on the matter. “I am not giving you any reaction. I am neither confirming nor denying (having received the notice). It may sound rude, but I am disconnecting the line,” he said. Earlier this month, Calcutta police had summoned Singh, now suspended, in connection with this case, but he expressed inability  to turn up citing medical grounds, sources said. An investigator said some documents seized from a suspect’s office resembled original files of the income tax department and bore purported signatures of senior tax department officials. The police are yet to ascertain how the purported IT papers reached the office. Sources in the business fraternity said one suspect was a well-known face in the income tax department, who would broker deals, especially with those whose houses had been raided by tax officials or had been summoned by the tax department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Message to Covid patients at home||The health department has started sending WhatsApp messages to those who have tested positive for Covid and have opted for home isolation, telling them, family members and caregivers what to look out for to decide whether one needs hospitalisation. The message tells a patient the health conditions one should keep a watchful eye on, the first among them being breathlessness and a fall in the blood oxygen saturation level. Doctors said if a patient felt out of breath while doing regular activities like going to the washroom or even while lying in bed, he or she should be immediately admitted to hospital. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients said they had noticed that by the time a patient complained of breathlessness, the oxygen saturation level had dropped below the critical mark. “A Covid patient must repeatedly check the blood oxygen saturation level with a pulse oximeter at home. If the saturation level is less than 94 per cent, the patient should be admitted to hospital even if he or she is not having any breathing problem,” said Himadri Chakrabarty, one of the senior doctors leading a team treating Covid patients across government hospitals in North 24-Parganas. “If the difference between two counts of saturation levels measured by a pulse oximeter, say before and after visiting the washroom, is three per cent, the patient is surely developing hypoxia and needs hospitalisation.” The WhatsApp message next speaks of a feeling of tightness in the chest — a condition that calls for immediate attention. Doctors said a patient would feel tightness in the chest if the outer covering of the lungs got inflamed. “The patient needs to be hospitalised immediately so the spread of infection can be arrested,” a doctor said. The message warns patients and others about a condition when one fails to remain alert and recognise the people around. “In such a situation, the patient needs to be hospitalised immediately,” a health department official said. Among the other warning signals the message talks about are loss of smell, which happens when the virus hits the olfactory nerve ends, and exhaustion even after the fever has subsided. “We don’t want patients to land in hospitals in a critical state,” a health department official said. “The message that is being sent is nothing new. The idea is to warn patients over and over again so they visit hospital in time and the mortality rate is lowered.” The practice of sending the WhatsApp message started in Salt Lake, Dum Dum, Baranagar and Barasat, all of which are in North 24-Parganas, which has been witnessing a spurt in Covid cases. Between November 21 and 23, the district has registered over 800 positive cases on an average every day, second to Calcutta. “Steps have been taken to ensure there is no delay in arranging for ambulances and a team of doctors has been kept ready round-the-clock in the district’s Covid control room,” an official said. “The WhatsApp message that is being sent has five numbers of the control room. A patient’s family can call up the control room any time.” The message also lays down Dos and Don’ts for caregivers. A caregiver must wear a three-layer mask and disposable gloves and not come in direct contact with any fluid coming out of the patient’s body. He or she must wash hands with soap immediately after taking off the gloves. ⚫Oxygen saturation level dipping to 94 per cent or below ⚫ Difference between oxygen levels before and after a simple activity is 3 per cent or more ⚫Tightness in chest ⚫Disorientation ⚫Loss of smell ⚫Exhaustion a few days after fever subsides ⚫Covid control room numbers for North 24-Parganas: 7605057325, 7605057326, 7605057327, 7605057328, 7605057329 ⚫ WhatsApp numbers for sending emergency reports: 7439334624, 7605057324||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Businessman held with ‘fake ED papers’ ||A businessman was arrested from his house off the Bypass for using “fake Enforcement Directorate papers” for personal gain, police said. Officers of the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s detective department arrested Sudipta Roy Choudhury on Tuesday morning based on a complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate on September 9, an officer of the commissionerate said. Roy Choudhury had earlier been arrested in connection with the same case. He had managed to secure bail from court, the officer said. Lawyers Rajdeep Banerjee and Soumyajit Raha who represented Roy Choudhury in court said all documents the Enforcement Directorate and the police had submitted in court and termed “fraudulent papers” were available in public domain and could be accessed by anyone. A Salt Lake court has sent Roy Choudhury to police custody for seven days, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||JU dean ‘quits’ after admission ‘pressure’||The acting dean of science at Jadavpur University has resigned following what sources close to him said was “pressure” from the students’ union to accommodate all undergraduate students in postgraduate courses. Subir Mukhopadhyay sent his resignation to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das’s office on November 23, hours after students met him and other heads of departments to press for their demand. “I have not accepted his resignation and have asked him to reconsider,” the VC told Metro on Tuesday evening. “We will hold another meeting with the students to resolve the situation. The university will do its best to cater to the interest of the students. But I will also want students to take a look at the university’s infrastructure and help the university maintain its excellence.” Mukhopadhyay said he had mentioned in “my resignation letter... that from now I will not participate at any meeting of the faculty of science as dean,” At JU, the physics, chemistry and mathematics departments have 81, 76 and 110 undergraduate seats, respectively. At the masters’ level, the seat counts are 41, 41 and 70 in the day programme. There are as many seats in the evening programme, too, but JU students are usually reluctant to join the evening courses, which drag on for three years, compared with the two-year day courses. JU, following a government order, has reserved 20 per cent of the PG seats for students from other universities this year. Till last year, 40 per cent of the seats used to be set aside for students from other universities. This reduction has been brought about by a realisation that graduating students from any state university including JU would prefer to stay back for master’s, instead of moving to other states, because of the Covid pandemic. A JU official said there were more MSc aspirants this year because a section of students who graduated this year had decided to stay back. “Another reason for the rise in the number of aspirants is lenient evaluation,” the official said. “The situation has been made more complicated following the refusal of some internal students to be accommodated in the evening programme…. Caught between the demand to accommodate all internal students and the education department’s order, the dean resigned.” Sources said the dean had mentioned in his letter to the VC that he had been subjected to sustained pressure by office-bearers of the science faculty students’ union. When contacted by this newspaper, the general secretary of the science faculty students’ union, Krishnendu Kundu, declined to speak on the allegations. Repeated calls to the union’s chairperson, Jyotirmoy Biswas, went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Pent-up pressure on non-Covid beds||The resumption of local trains has led to a manifold increase in the number of people coming to Calcutta from districts for treatment and hospitals are realising they would soon run out of non-Covid beds. Several private hospitals in Calcutta said the footfall at the outpatient departments had gone up by several hundreds since November 11, when suburban train services resumed. The services had been suspended in March to slow down the spread of Covid-19. Haripada Bhowmik, 66, a small-time farmer from Mahishadal in East Midnapore, suffers from a chronic cardiac ailment. “I used to go to Calcutta regularly for check-up. But since the lockdown, I could not visit Calcutta as buses and trains were not running,” Bhowmik said on Tuesday. “I tried hiring a car but operators were demanding Rs 4,000 for a one-way trip, which I could not afford.” Last week, Bhowmik took a train to Calcutta and went to the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences for a check-up. The hospital at Mukundapur, off EM Bypass, was having around 600 patients at its OPD every day on an average before November 11. Over the past couple of weeks, the number has gone up to 800 daily, said officials of the hospital. Admission of non-Covid patients has also gone up by 20 to 25 per cent. “Owing to resumption of train services, we have seen a sudden jump in the number of patients from districts. Patients from as far as South Dinajpur, apart from East and West Midnapore and Burdwan, have started coming in larger numbers compared with pre-Puja days. We are glad these patients are now able to travel to Calcutta for treatment,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. The CEO of a private hospital said patients suffering from chronic ailments had been staying away from hospitals in the initial months of the pandemic for fear of contracting Covid. “They have been coming for some time, but the resumption of train services has led to a manifold jump in the number of such patients,” the CEO said. At Peerless Hospital, the number of daily patients at the OPD has jumped from around 250 to 400 in the last two weeks, officials said. Around 60 per cent of the patients at the hospital are from districts, including the two 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Burdwan and Murshidabad. “Patients with chronic disease such as diabetes, kidney ailments and cardiac diseases, who could not come for several months, are now coming to the OPD in large numbers,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “Also, those patients who had their surgeries scheduled for April or May and got deferred because of the pandemic are coming to the hospital for fresh dates and routine pre-surgery check-ups,” said Mitra. “With the demand for non-Covid beds rising, we are already facing a shortage. The resumption of suburban train services may lead to more and more non-Covid patients visiting our hospital from districts. If that happens, we may have to request the state government to allow us to reduce the number of Covid beds,” said Mitra. At AMRI Hospitals too, officials said the number of OPD patients at its Dhakuria and Mukundapur units had gone up from around 250 daily to more than 350. “We saw a sharp rise in the number of OPD patients, especially in the cardiology, gastroenterology and neuro departments, immediately after the resumption of local trains,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. Surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay said the patient count at his clinic had increased by 20 per cent over the past couple of weeks. “Earlier, these patients were having video consultations with me. But it is extremely important to clinically examine a cancer patient,” Mukhopa-dhyay said. One of his patients, Manik Bera, 66, who suffers from colon cancer, was unable to come to the clinic in Calcutta from his home at Sankrail in Howrah. “I work at a school and can’t afford a private vehicle. Now that trains are running, I will visit the doctor within a few days,” said Bera, 59. Railway officials said the number of passengers had been increasing since November 11. Eastern Railway ran about 800 trains on November 11, ferrying about 11 lakh passengers. The spokesperson for Eastern Railway said 956 suburban trains ran on Monday, ferrying nearly 13 lakh passengers. South Eastern Railway ran 81 trains with 1.77 lakh passengers on the first day. On Monday, it ran 95 trains and ferried 2.5 lakh passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||IIEST gets Rs 1 crore from octogenarians||Two octogenarians did not think about their health and stepped out of their homes amidst the pandemic to reach IIEST Shibpur on Tuesday evening and hand over cheques of Rs 50 lakh each to the institute. Reba Mukherjee, 81, was seated next to Sunandan Narayan Basu, 86, on the campus of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) on the institute’s 165th foundation day. Mukherjee wanted to turn the dream of her late husband Ganesh Chandra Mukherjee into a reality. As a student he could not study engineering because of financial constraints, but he wanted to do something so that an aspiring engineering student need not quit studies for want of money. Sunandan Narayan Basu, who had graduated from Bengal Engineering College 64 years ago, donated Rs 50 lakh to his alma mater. He had contributed an equal amount in August and he wanted the institute to buy students devices and help bridge the digital divide at a time when online education is the only option. An endowment fund will be created in the name of Late Ganesh Chandra Mukherjee to help needy and meritorious students to achieve their goal of studying engineering, an institute official said. “I will be happy if the institute fulfils the dreams of my late husband,” Reba Mukherjee, a retired college teacher, said in her speech. Basu’s contribution will be used to buy students who have been facing Net connectivity problems smartphones and laptops so that they can start attending online classes, IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said. “The amount will be spent on strengthening the digital education hub that we have started with his previous contribution,” director Chakrabarti said. Basu, who lives in Jodhpur Park, told The Telegraph that he was glad that someone with no connection to the institute had contributed to add to the institute’s coffers. “I believe the precedent set by her will encourage others to step forward,” Basu said. The institute will give scholarship/assistantship to three first-year undergraduate students with the annual interest earned from Mukherjee’s contribution, registrar Biman Banerjee said. Each student will get Rs 30,000 annually. “At least one of the students has to be a woman according to the condition laid out by Mukherjee,” Banerjee said. The institute will set up a committee to screen prospective recipients and the panel will have a nominee of Reba Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Elderly couple found dead at home||The decomposed bodies of an elderly couple were found in their closed house in the Girish Park area on Monday. Police have identified them as Biswajit Mitra, 71, and his wife Shipra, 68. No suicide note has been found, the police said. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Forensic officials are still to come up with their observations, the police said. The Mitras used to live on the second floor of a five-storey building on Ram Dulal Sarkar Street in Girish Park for several years. Neighbours have told cops they hadn’t noticed the couple for the past few days. Some of their neighbours felt a stench emanating from the house on Monday afternoon. After repeated knocks went unanswered, someone from among them alerted the police around 7pm. “We had to break open the door and enter the house. The bodies had started to decompose… they had turned black,” an officer of Girish Park police station said. “The bodies were taken to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.” Preliminary investigations have shown the couple did not have any children. “We are still to confirm it with their relatives, though,” the officer said. Some of the residents have told cops that had spotted Mitra stepping out of their home a few weeks ago on his way to the market, the police said. Cops have been trying to get in touch with relatives of the Mitras to find out if he and his wife were in any kind of economic distress or if they were suffering from any ailments, the officer said. Cops did not find any sign of the house being ransacked. Also, there were no blood stains around the bodies, the officer said. “We have started a case of unnatural death. If the post-mortem report says otherwise, we will make necessary changes in the case,” the officer said. “So far, it seems unlikely that they have been murdered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Tributes pour in for Soumitra at virtual session||One character that Soumitra Chatterjee refused to play on screen. His love for cricket and ability to reel off statistics at will. Asides and anecdotes abounded in a virtual session organised in memory of Soumitra Chatterjee, attended by a group of actors and directors who knew him from close quarters. “All of us here are proud and possessive about him. Everybody has his or her own Soumitra story to share. He was the rajputra (prince) of Bengali films, the last of the Mohicans,” said actor-director Arindam Sil, who moderated the event — Soumitra Chatterjee, Glowing Memories — organised by the St Xavier’s College Calcutta Alumni Association in collaboration with the Film Federation of India on Monday evening. The participants were Sandip Ray, Atanu Ghosh, Suman Ghosh, Goutam Ghosh, Koushik Sen and Gargi Roy Chowdhury. “He will live forever amongst us… for representing the complete life cycle of a deeply sensitive person with a unique perception of life,” Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, said in the keynote address. Director Sandip Ray described Chatterjee as a family member, because of the actor’s three-decade association and 14 films with his father, Satayjit Ray. “With him (Chatterjee), we have lost an extremely important character actor,” said Sandip Ray. But for all his prowess as a character actor, there was one character that Chatterjee refused to play on screen. When Sandip Ray was making Feluda films, Chatterjee was too old to play the sleuth. Sandip Ray had offered him the role of Sidhu jyatha (Siddheswar Bose, Feluda’s uncle with an encyclopaedic knowledge and a photographic memory). “He refused to play Sidhu jyatha’s role on the big screen. He said: ‘I cannot share the big screen with (another) Feluda,’” Sandip Ray recounted at the Zoom session. Gargi Roy Chowdhury, actor, spoke of the dry humour that never left Chatterjee. When his turn came, director Atanu Ghosh, who has worked with Chatterjee in films like Rupkatha Noy (2013) and Mayurakshi (2017), reaffirmed that. Ghosh remembered the first time he saw Chatterjee as a kid — at a pharmacy in the area Deshapriya Park, his mamabari’s para. He had gone to the store to buy some medicine for his maternal grandfather. Chatterjee walked into the same store and bought some pills. Ghosh was awestruck and kept watching till Chatterjee walked out of the store and drove away in an Ambassador. Years later, when the two were working together, Ghosh had reminded Chatterjee of the incident. “Do you remember what medicine did I buy? Must have been something for a headache, which is inevitable in this profession,” Ghosh remembered a poker-faced Chatterjee telling him. Ghosh also talked about Chatterjee’s passion for cricket. “He was like an encyclopaedia on cricket. With eyes closed, he could reel off statistics like how many times Sunil Gavaskar opened the bowling for India,” he said. Koushik Sen, actor who helms Swapnasandhani theatre group, remembered how Chatterjee offered him a chance to follow his passion at a critical phase of his life. The year was 1986 when Sen’s father had been bedridden following a cerebral stroke. Sen, whose passion was acting and the stage, was forced to work at a private firm to help sustain his family. He had “resigned to the fate that I would not be able to become an actor” when a letter from Chatterjee reached his father. Chatterjee was gearing up to stage a play at Star theatre. “I want your son for a role. Can I get him?” Chatterjee had asked. “The letter allowed me to quit my job, earn something every month in a professional theatre group and follow my passion. It was a huge opening for me,” said Sen. The two have had a long association on the stage, with Tiktiki being one of their most successful collaborations. The edge-of-the-seat thriller was based on Antony Shaffer’s play, Sleuth, adapted for the big screen with Sir Lawrence Olivier and Michael Caine. Chatterjee had scripted the successful stage adaptation for the Bengali audience. “The two of you outshone Olivier and Caine,” Sandip Ray told Sen on Monday. Suman Ghosh, a Miami-based economics professor and filmmaker, said Chatterjee would be happiest in the company of books. His directorial debut, Podokkhep (2008), in which Chatterjee had acted, was “loosely based on” F. Scott Fitzgerald’s story, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, where an ageing man starts behaving like a kid. “He needs an intellectual stimulus… I gave him the book to read… He would be very happy to get things to read,” he remembered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||State pollution board imposes Rs 20 lakh fine on CMC||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has to pay Rs 20 lakh a month as environmental compensation for failing to scientifically manage waste at a dumpsite in Garden Reach and segregate waste, the state pollution control board has said. The fine amount will keep on adding till the time the CMC takes corrective measures, a board official said on Tuesday. The board has fined the civic body Rs 10 lakh each for unsegregated waste and for not biomining waste, a CMC official said. Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the state pollution control board, said the CMC hadn’t treated the waste at dumpsites according to the National Green Tribunal order. “The NGT has said legacy dumpsites must be biomined. The CMC did not do that. So, we, as the regulatory authority, have imposed the fine on them.” Rudra said the CMC was among several municipalities that had been fined for the same reason. “There are 107 legacy dumpsites in our state and about 127 municipalities or municipal corporations. Almost all of them have been found to be non-compliant. The fine amount will keep on adding till they take corrective measures.” The civic body had started biomining, also called bioremediation, at the Dhapa dumpsite but not at the Garden Reach site, a CMC official said. “We have been fined for not starting biomining at the Garden Reach dumpsite. It is an 8-acre plot.” Bioremediation is a process in which various types of waste — plastic, paper, metals, construction and demolition waste — are separated and each is sent to its recycling plant. Only the waste that is inert and cannot be recycled is left at the dumpsite. This way, the volume of waste gets reduced and free space is created at a site, which is almost saturated. Bioremediation will create free space at an old dumpsite, according to those specialising in waste management. The civic body must simultaneously begin waste segregation at source, one such specialist said. The fresh waste collected from houses and the mined waste at dumpsites will go to recycling plants. Only the non-recyclable waste collected from houses will go to the dumpsite. The life of a dumpsite will be extended by many years if the bulk of the waste goes to recycling plants. “Waste segregation means segregating the waste at dumpsites and at the source… while collecting waste from houses,” Rudra said. A CMC official said the civic body had started waste segregation in 27 wards in the city. Even in these wards, the segregation is done only in some houses. Other households and commercial establishments in these wards and everyone in the other 117 wards of the CMC mix all kinds of waste and dump the mixed waste into waste collection carts, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
25-11-2020||Calcutta||Strand Road, Garden Reach… waste burnt at will ||Burning of waste, which releases toxic gases in the air and can cause a range of critical diseases, is continuing unabated in Calcutta, The Telegraph has found. Heaps of dry leaves, paper cups and other waste were put on fire on the stretch opposite Judges Ghat on Strand Road on Tuesday morning. In the afternoon, a pile of wires was being burnt on Garden Reach Road, near Karbala Tank. The spiralling smoke rising up could be seen from some distance. The state government has filed an affidavit before the National Green Tribunal stating that it has banned waste burning to maintain healthy air in the city. But this newspaper could not spot anyone from the authorities to stop waste burning on Strand Road or Garden Reach Road on Tuesday. Environment activist Subhas Datta, who had moved the NGT about the deteriorating air quality of Calcutta, said it was the government’s responsibility to stop waste burning. “The government has given an affidavit to the tribunal that it has stopped waste burning. Merely issuing a circular is not enough. If the government says it has stopped waste burning, it becomes the government’s responsibility to see that no one is burning waste,” said Datta. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and police both were responsible for preventing open burning of waste, said Debabrata Majumdar, a member of the civic body’s board of administrators who is in charge of the solid waste management department. A senior officer of Calcutta police said they would look into the matter. Air quality management specialists said burning waste released tiny particulate matter like PM2.5, which can enter the lungs and cause respiratory problems. “Waste accumulating on open grounds releases PM2.5, PM10, oxides of nitrogen and carbon monoxide when burnt. These make the air toxic,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, an air quality management specialist and executive director of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment. “During winter, this becomes more problematic as the air close to the ground becomes colder and heavier, hangs around for a longer duration than other seasons and more people end up breathing in the toxic air.” A scientist with the state environment department said the wires were put on fire to burn the insulating material and recover the metal from inside, which is then sold. “The insulating material is made of plastic. It releases gases like sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide. Some of the elements released are carcinogenic. Exposure to these gases can be harmful,” said the scientist. The civic solid waste management system would need to be more robust if waste burning has to be stopped, said waste management specialists. Burning is an easy way of disposing of the waste, especially the one that accumulates on public land and is not cleaned or transported for many days. During winter, burning of dry leaves is common as most trees shed leaves during the season. Dry leaves are gathered on the corner of a road or a ground and burnt. The CMC is empowered to fine those found burning waste in the open. The minimum fine amount is Rs 5,000 and the maximum Rs 25,000 according to the Solid Waste Management Bye-Laws, 2020. “If we do not get to know about an instance of open burning of waste, we cannot do anything. I would urge people to inform our control room (22861212/1313/1414) if they come across any instance of open burning of waste,” said Majumdar. The problem is plaguing New Town, too. Metro reported earlier that several New Town residents had got in touch with the New Town Kolkata Development Authority about the issue Avishek Chakraborty, a resident of a cooperative housing society near Eco Park, said he had spotted a fire on a field opposite Eco Park on Tuesday. The field is a popular destination for birders. “I went and checked but could not spot anyone who could have started the fire,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-228
