26-11-2020||Calcutta||Fresh app for New Town connects residents with servicemen ||An application called NTRWF was launched last Friday. It promises to act as a bridge between New Town residents and various services available in the township. The android app, to be downloaded from Google Playstore, is an initiative of New Town Residents Welfare Forum. “We thought of compiling a directory during the lockdown when services were difficult to access but later decided to make an app,” said forum joint convenor Samir Gupta. The app, developed by Joy Das, a resident of Sankalpa, has a section on local services where residents can advertise services like tuition, boutique, home delivery and bridal make-up. Other sections allow members to connect and get updates on events. The app was launched virtually by filmmaker Kamaleshwar Mukherjee, Air Chief Marshal (Retd) Arup Raha and scientist Debojyoti Chakravarthy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Light and colour show at new Town ensure cracker-free Diwali||If New Town registered a cracker-free Diwali, the authorities would like to give a part of the credit for that to the success of the New Town Diya Festival and Rangoli Competition, which involved the participation of several housing societies and some block residents, and spread the message on Diwali-eve of the need to reduce air pollution for the sake of Covid patients with breathing difficulties. “The event worked to prevent fire crackers and also brought in a sense of conjunction of Kali puja and Diwali,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of Hidco which organised the event. Mangaldeep Island, off the Major Arterial Road in New Town, had turned into a colourful hub of activity last Friday. The installation, as mentioned by Sen in his inaugural speech, was an appropriate venue for the festival. The installation called Mangaldeep, created by architect Prabir Mitra, Sen pointed out, represents panchapradeep or five lamps being held in a welcome to visitors entering Calcutta through New Town. The boundary wall was lit up as was the grassy patch at a side. Inside the fenced off island, 15 squares had been created, 4ft by 4ft in size. This was the space in which each team of four would have to create their rangoli. From 4am, women from 15 residential complexes across New Town put their heads together, using colours provided by the organisers. And after an hour and half, Sen and his wife Urmila took a round of the courtyard to decide on the winners. NKDA chief executive officer Animesh Bhattacharya appealed to all those present to shun crackers on Diwali before announcing the results. The appeal “Say no to fire crackers” was part of the design of the rangoli created by Sunrise Point, which was named the first runner-up. “It was one of the deciding factors that got them the rank. They had truly understood the meaning of the festival,” Sen told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Shital Shekhar, a key member of the Sunrise Point team, said notices had been put up in every tower in their complex, announcing a fine for flouting the cracker ban. “We wanted to include the message in our rangoli too,” said Shekhar, a Maharashtrian who grew up watching rangoli being drawn at the doorstep every morning. “It is a ritual back home to ward off negative thoughts.” The winner was the team from Mallika Malancha. Their rangoli featured a peacock painted diagonally in the allotted square and with intricate designs that used the third dimension of height also to good effect. Since their serial number was one, many quipped, tongue in cheek, on the slot being lucky. Team member Saheli Dey Burman, however, emphasised that she had come to win. “When others spoke of giving it a try, I said we should aim to win or not go at all.” Dey Burman, who loves to paint, shared two designs with others. “Since Hidco was providing the colours, we could not anticipate whether to plan for a very colourful rangoli or one with limited colours. So we kept both ready.” She also took upon herself the tough job of drawing the design. “I practised in the morning so I could draw from memory in case they did not allow consulting any external source. Thankfully, no such restrictions were there. Each of my teammates excelled in the part she was assigned.” Restrictions did exist in another field. A rangoli that had caught the judges’ eyes was disregarded after the judges were tipped off that they had used a lot of props to get the shapes right. “We have to give credit for freehand sketching,” said a judge. The team from Bhel Housing Cooperative Society came third. “We got 18 registrations and were in a quandary as there were only 15 slots. But Uniworld City, Sukhobrishti and Millennium Tower backed out so we could accommodate the rest,” said Chaitali Srivastava, who co-ordinated with the participants on behalf of New Town Forum and News, which helped Hidco organise the event. “We bought the rangoli colours from Bhowanipore.” Chance to dance After the rangoli contest, four girls presented a dance item to the stotra Aigiri Nandini. All were students of Mahuya Adhikari, a CA-Block based teacher who danced solo later. After a long mangalarati, led by two priests, the evening was livened up with a ghoomar performance by women in red ghaghra choli. “But it wasn’t ghaghra choli,” laughed Rachita Pati, one of the five dancers. “We wore the sari in the Gujarati style and placed a red dupatta over our head like a pallu and tucked the two ends at our back.” A pallu, used as ghunghat, would have impeded hand movement during dancing. And unless one was very short, the length of the pallu would not have been long enough to have allowed a ghunghat, she explained. The high point of the cultural performance was a dandiya dance to Bollywood hits.” We could not find enough male participants — there were just four — so finally two all-women couples had to be formed,” said Chaitali. Asutosh Anurag thus was in a much-wanted league. “I used to dance regularly in school and college. Three years ago, I danced again for a puja event in my complex. So though I have never danced dandiya before, I wanted to give it a try,” said the resident of Sukhobristi who also created the floral pattern on which the lampstand for the inauguration was placed. If Asutosh had at least some experience in dancing, Mitali Das had none. “My friend Banashree insisted that I join. We could not even hit each other’s sticks initially and kept missing. Every day, some steps had to be changed as someone or the other found it too difficult. On the morning of the show, we had three hours of rehearsal. Yet, such was our state that some were going left while others were going right. Sumit, our choreographer, had his hands on his head in despair and refused to come and see us perform in the evening. We sent him a video clip afterwards and had to assure him that we had done well,” laughed Mitali, a resident of Highland Willows. Indeed, the audience thoroughly enjoyed the energetic moves to foot-tapping numbers like Chogada tara (Loveyatri), Nagada sang dhol (Ramleela) and Kamariya (Mitron). Some of them, like Shital and Mitali, were participating in both rangoli and dandiya. “We rushed home after the contest to change into our dance costumes,” Mitali exclaims. The organisers are so happy with the success of the show that they are thinking of making it an annual event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||1,000 lamps lit by elderly at Swapno Bhor, New Town||With Children’s Day coinciding with Diwali this year, a five-year-old was invited to light the first lamp along with Hidco chief Debashis Sen at Swapno Bhor Citizen’s Park in New Town. Little Ahamstuta Basu could not quite fathom what was going on. Being so young, he could neither recall how he had celebrated Diwali last year nor Children’s Day. “But I like chocolates and I’m very happy I was gifted one (by Sen),” smiled the resident of Uniworld City who had come along with grandmother Chaitali Mazumder, who is a member of Swapno Bhor. Members of Swapno Bhor and Snehodiya, the senior citizens’ home across the street had come over and together the elderly residents lit 1,000 lamps, part of which outlined letters forming the words Swapno Bhor in Bengali. “Despite the pandemic the Diwali ambience is better this year,” said Kakoli Bose of Eastern High, lighting a diya. “Last year I stayed cooped up at home in fear of the crackers but this time I could at least come here.” Shyamapada Gupta of BF Block said they had an active block but the Pujas and all other festivals this year were subdued. “Thanks to Swapno Bhor, we at least have some activity going on.” “Never before have we witnessed such a peaceful Diwali without pollution. It is truly a festival of lights now and we hope to celebrate with the elderly and children, Hindus and Muslims, able bodied and differently-abled,” said Sen. The evening also had some Shyamasangeet, courtesy Debasree Mukhopadhyay, a radio artiste who lives opposite Misti Hub. “After months of singing before Facebook audiences, I thoroughly enjoyed performing on a real stage today. Being a student of Ramkumar Chattopadhyay, I specialise in Puratani and Shyamasangeet and spend every Kali puja performing somewhere or the other. So I’m delighted to have been able to continue the tradition despite the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra Chatterjee remembered||Had they given us bok phool and kumro phool in place of these flowers, they could be fried and eaten.” These words, spoken in an undertone, came from Soumitra Chatterjee during a felicitation with bouquets of flowers in course of the curtain call for the play Phera. “Such was his sense of humour,” smiled Debsankar Halder, who acted in the play with him. Such intimate memories and impressions from his colleagues formed the core of the four-day homage at Nazrul Tirtha titled ‘Remembering Soumitra’, paid by the Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), to the thespian who passed away on November 15. Debsankar, who spoke on the inaugural day of the event, took Soumitra’s last on-camera interview over two hours along with fellow theatre personality Koushik Sen before he contracted Covid-19. “Even till the end, he was so full of life force! He told us he wanted a play to be conceived in today’s language which would shake up everything around yet whose epicentre could not be pinpointed. He wished he could be part of such a phenomenon in theatre. Imagine an 85-year-old having such zest!” In Phera, Debsankar used to play a character that Soumitra himself used to play decades ago. “He had shifted to a smaller role. I used to wonder if he ever compared my acting to how he used to do it 30 years ago. But he never uttered a word that could hurt me. If I ever asked him for suggestions, he would smilingly point out that even to show something to be done the way he used to, he would have to travel back those many years. ‘Tomar boyeshe giye toh ami dekhate parbo na,’ he used to smilingly say. Rather, he used to support me on stage with so much fondness,” he recalled, delivering an exchange between the two from the play to demonstrate the understanding they shared as actors. Of course, he would still be analytical. “If he praised any particular scene after a performance, I would realise that there was scope for improvement there.” As part of the homage, four of Soumitra’s films were exhibited at Nazrul Tirtha — Apur Sansar, Joy Baba Felunath, Atanka and Paromitar Ek Din. “But you cannot show his plays. Yes, you can show recordings of the plays, but those would be documentations, not the real thing. Theatre is like good food. It is meant to be consumed and then it is over. He loved this ephemeral quality of theatre.” Debsankar, who is known much more for his body of work on stage than in films, stressed on Soumitra’s commitment to commercial theatre. “He would take leave even from Satyajit Ray every Thursday, Saturday and Sunday to go and act on stage. He had translated a German play by Friedrich Durrenmatt as Phera, in which till before the lockdown we acted together. His other productions too were awe-inspiring — Namjibon, Neelkantha, Rajkumar... He was very sensitive to the fact that the poor, who did not have access to more expensive forms of art, came to watch theatre, especially in venues like the Academy (of Fine Arts). Someone who, despite being at the height of stardom, found time for commercial theatre deserved more support. But he was not given his place by the theatre world which saw him more as a film hero.” Asked to differentiate between acting in films and on stage, Soumitra had told him that the latter was like the situation of a lover, who is unsure if his love is requited, mustering courage over days and finally declaring his feelings. “That is the one shot you get. It’s out of your hands after that. Much like a rocket cracker. You set its fuse alight and off it goes defying gravity, leaving no trace. In films, you can keep polishing and changing and rejecting till you are satisfied. His response had given me goose bumps.” During performances, Debsankar recalled seeing Soumitra sit in the wings, hidden from audience gaze, long before his own entry was due, instead of relaxing in the make-up room. “It was a play written by him, which once he had directed but now had passed on the reins. His character was yet to enter but mentally he was already there.” Age could not wither him. “Once he was unwell, and I asked him if he would turn up for a performance the next day, he said if he did not, he might not bring himself to come even the day after. It was his pride as an actor to stand and deliver in front of the audience.” His response was similar even when Debsankar silently held out his hand for support, seeing the 84-year-old about to climb down stairs. “He instinctively withdrew his hand, By way of explanation, he added: ‘Debu, if I take your hand today, I will need it tomorrow as well when you might not be there.’” Pride was evident even in the process he adopted in his acting. For the play Bidehi, an adaptation he had done of the play Ghosts by Henrik Ibsen long back which he reworked recently, he would put in a wooden block as a platform under his shoe to portray a limp. “He had vertigo and the block made him dizzy. So he would take it off between scenes. I often wondered why he did that because a limp could be feigned. He used to smile and say ‘Besh lage’. Later I understood the block was what the floating log was to Bilbamangal, who was trying to cross the river to reach his beloved Chintamani by clutching on to a floating log which actually was a carcass. If the beloved was Bilbamangal’s life, in Soumitra’s case it was acting. They tried to reach their destination by dint of their passion. Incidentally, he had acted in the Girish Ghosh play Bilbamangal himself.” Soumitra, Debsankar felt, refused to be categorised. “If you did not like him as actor, he would present himself as elocutionist. If you did not like his poetry, he would ask you to look at his writings. If even those you considered below par, he would ask you to look at his theatre. If nothing worked, he would happily sit face to face with you and indulge in a conversation, and see if his words only floated about like bubbles before popping into thin air or some made their way into your mindspace and stayed there.” Soumitra’s fondness for adda was brought up by several speakers. Debsankar mentioned how he would meet with friends at a common acquaintance’s place after lockdown was eased at an interval of every 20 days. “He spent the lockdown very actively. He wrote three plays and did some translations. He also used to compose two poems daily.” A bonus for the audience at the open air auditorium was the actor breaking into some lines from Ajitesh Bandyopadhyay’s Soudagorer Nouka, on the lips of a rejected actor who imagines the courtyard of his house to be a theatre and delivers his lines in solitude. “Ajitesh was a favourite of his and he enjoyed listening to these lines from me. We used to celebrate his birthday with a programme every January 19. Once he had asked me to recite these lines for everyone present. Next year, too, we will celebrate the day with him just as we are doing so with him amidst us today,” Debsankar concluded. Filmmaker Sekhar Das, a resident of Moonbeam Housing in New Town, has made two films with Soumitra. He started with comparing the two pillars of the Bengali film industry — Uttam Kumar and Soumitra. “I had seen Uttam Kumar at a Bengal Film Journalists Association event where my girlfriend shrieked on spotting the angelic figure. He did not believe in mingling with people to protect his aura. By then, Soumitra had danced to Jibone ki pabona (Teen Bhuboner Pare, 1969). Yet one day, there he was walking into Coffee House in his pyjamas to join the likes of Sunil Ganguly. He did not believe in star worship,” Das said. Years later, Das recalled seeing him walk out of the green room for a cup of tea at the streetside with alacrity before taking the stage for Naamjibon. He touched upon some milestones in Soumitra’s career, mentioning how as a young actor, he acted shoulder to shoulder opposite Suchitra Sen, senior to him in years, in Saatpake Badha, sought director Tapan Sinha’s permission to change his 50-year-old appearance slightly to enact the 70-year-old teacher witnessing his student stabbing someone to death in Atonko, played a thief in Tarun Majumdar’s Sansar Simante or the priest Gangacharan in Satyajit Ray’s Asani Sanket. “He had started acting under the tutelage of doyens Sisir Bhaduri and Ahindra Chowdhury who were both great teachers.” Of the time spent together on the sets of his film Krantikaal, he recalled being woken up at dawn — hours before the 10am call time - by a knock on the hotel door. “There he was greeting the bleary-eyed me. He said he was up all night rehearsing a song I had asked him to give lip to and then composed a poem which he wanted to read out to me.” When Krantikaal got the National Award, he was invited to the film festival in Goa where they wanted to felicitate him. “But he said he had committed four dates to Swapan Saha (a maker of potboilers). He believed in commitments and never distinguished between big and small names.” Satarupa Sanyal spoke of her unfulfilled desire of making a film with Soumitra. “I wanted to direct Shankar’s story Kakolir Dadu with him in the lead. I got the rights from the author, went over to Soumitrababu’s Golf Green house and gave him a script narration, he agreed to do the film and received the advance… But I failed to raise funds. The film never got made.” She did shoot Soumitra later for two documentaries — one on Manna Dey and the other on Mohun Bagan — but the disappointment remained. Sudeshna Roy, the journalist turned actor and filmmaker, first saw Soumitra at a wedding in her childhood. “I had taken his autograph then.” Later, as a journalist with Sananda, she interviewed him many times. “My editor was Aparna Sen who had an easy rapport with Soumitra. We worked together for the first time for a telefilm in 2001. It was a Tagore short story for ETV Bangla and Gargee Roychowdhury was to play his daughter. Fifteen years later, when he did Sraboner Dhara, Gargee was playing his wife. When I mentioned the rest of the cast, he smiled and said: ‘Gargeer podonnoti hoyechhe — meye theke stree.’ Such was his memory!” She shared anecdotes heard from him over the years. “He never objected when I called him a Ray product. Rather he told us when Ritwik Ghatak had badmouthed Ray on stage at an event, he had lost his cool and confronted him. Such was his loyalty to his mentor.” One role he had admitted wanting to do was Goopi Gyne. “He had asked Ray to give him the role. But Ray said he looked more like a prince than a village bumpkin. He told us that he went to the first show of Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne, hoping to have his I-told-you-so moment with Ray. ‘Kintu Tapen ta eto bhalo obhinoy korechhe je ami kichhu bolte parlam na,’ he confessed to us. Uttam Kumar, he said, used to object to his sauntering on the streets in his pyjamas, smoking. “But he said that he could not be Soumitra all his life. He needed to be on the streets to study characters and hone his acting skills.” His wit shone through in his response to Roy’s query on the Uttam-Soumitra feud, much discussed in the press and in public debates. ‘He (Uttam) was a lot bigger than me,’ he said, adding mischievously after a pause, ‘in age’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||On World Television Day, we find out that the TV has come to mean different things to different generations||Onkar Banerjee remembers the 1986 Fifa World Cup final like it was yesterday. “Back then there would be, at most, one TV in the entire neighbourhood. I was barely a teenager but stayed up all night at my friend’s house watching Maradona lift the trophy. Why, I even remember running home thereafter with street dogs at my heels,” laughs the CK Block resident. And then there’s Amrapali Jana, a 20-something IT sector employee who has two TVs at home, both showpieces. “My parents, sister and I watch Netflix and the like on our phones and laptops. My grandparents would watch TV but after they passed away we didn’t renew the set top box subscriptions and the TV sets now gather dust. I haven’t touched the TV in five or six years,” says the CD Block resident but she watches Netflix every day. November 21 was World Television Day but clearly, the TV has come to mean different things for different people. An extension of the television is over the top (OTT) platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video. These are paid phone apps, which allow users to watch a massive amount of films, documentaries, web series (original serials created for that platform). Besides international content, platforms like SonyLIV and Zee5 stream serials that are shown on their regular TV channels but with the benefit of watching them as and when they like without having to tune in at a particular hour. Users can watch it in the balcony or car if they like and they are not interrupted by commercial breaks either. If users find the phone screen too small, they can watch it on laptops or buy and install a ‘firestick’ device and watch the OTT content on a TV set. OTTs may be the new kid on the block but the time-tested idiot box still has ardent followers. “Some of my friends hang up the phone if it’s nearing 7pm. They have to go watch their serials,” smiles Purabi Basu of New Town’s AB Block. Basu, a senior citizen, watches local as well as international news on TV as her son stays in the UK, daughter in the US and she wants the latest updates from there. “I don’t care much for serials but watch Didi No. 1 come rain, come shine. They get strong women as participants who I feel inspired by,” she says. Rina Chandra of BD Block wouldn’t say she is addicted but likes her Karunamoyee Rani Rashmoni, Krishnakali, Ki kore bolbo tomay and at times Dadagiri and Mirakkel. Sa Re Ga Ma Pa music reality show, Prothoma Kadambini, Alo Chhaya and Firki are other crowd-pullers. Ashis Hazra sticks to Discovery, National Geographic and news channels, “but my wife watches shows on Sarada Ma and Rani Rashmoni and I passively watch them sometimes,” says the AL Block resident. Serials, that form a chunk of television content, have critics galore. “Despite the wealth of Bengali literature our serials are of such poor quality! Why are they stretched till eternity,” asks Basu, who doesn’t like any serial. Sudeshna Maiti had started watching Kheerer Putul, “but after a point I found it so appalling that I decided to read the Abanindranath Tagore fantasy it is based on. The serial had deviated so much from the book that I quit watching it,” says the FC Block resident. “And can someone tell me why every character in serials is dressed in wedding finery all the time?” This is exactly what drove the youth away from television. “When I was in high school, Indian television completely ignored my demography. And if the saas-bahu stupidity wasn’t enough they had just stumbled upon a naagin phase. Everyone in every show was an ichchhadhari naagin!” Amrapali wrinkles her nose. “Star World and Zee Cafe would fill the void somewhat but starved of decent content, every youngster was illegally downloading Game of Thrones then.” The turning point came when this generation left town for college. Their PGs would not have TVs and they began relying on their laptops for entertainment. “That’s when we discovered the plethora of content on OTTs,” says the girl who loves watching crime and mystery. Amrapali has watched international webseries like Mindhunter, Unbelievable, Broadchurch and Indian ones like Sacred Games, Mirzapur and the recently released Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta Story, that she feels may be the best show produced in the country. Her mother is busy watching The Crown, based on the life of Queen Elizabeth II, and her father caught some IPL action on his phone. After the demise of Sushant Singh Rajput, his last movie Dil Bechara was streamed on an OTT and like all his faithful fans, Eastern Grove’s Debolina Roy tuned in the very minute it was released. “Many faced problems that day as the platform was unable to handle the deluge of visitors but I saw it in one breath smoothly,” she says. Her domestic help, by the way, has started watching re-runs of Rajput’s TV serial Pavitra Rishta. Channels are also showing films of Soumitra Chatterjee after his demise and residents aren’t far away. “Last weekend I saw his Sanjhbati, that was shot in Salt Lake. The streets looked familiar and I recognised BD Market,” smiles Chandra, who lives a few lanes away from the market in question. Manjusri Dutta has a domestic help who loves watching cinema on the telly. “So much so that she has borrowed booklets on Soumitra from me after his demise,” says the CB Block resident. “This girl dropped out of school after Class VIII and I wonder how much she’ll relate to the intellectual content of most Soumitra movies, but I was happy nonetheless to see her love for films drive her reading habit.” Maiti and her mother revisited classics aired on Doordarshan during the lockdown. “We enjoyed Mahabharat and Byomkesh Bakshi and were waiting for Vikram Aur Betaal but they didn’t screen it,” she says. When Debasmita Dutta realised how bored her parents were getting during the lockdown, she installed Jio Fiber on their telly and now her parents can watch several OTTs easily. “For the first time in my life, I had time to watch my favourite show, Crime Patrol,” says her father Rahul Dutta of CA Block. “No one in my generation watches TV anymore,” says Debasmita. “I myself have had OTTs for long but it’s only when offices were shut during the lockdown did I get hooked on to them. I’ve watched Bandish Bandits, Lalbazaar, Tansener Tanpura…” Jayita Choudhury has always kept a check on the amount of screentime her twins get but the charts went for a toss when the lockdown was announced. “I had no other way to engage the four-year-olds,” says the hapless resident of BH Block. Their TV, however, does not have cable connection and the family only watches OTTs. “We subscribed to the kids-friendly Disney+ and now they watch films like Cars, The Incredibles and Frozen on it all the time. My husband and I have different tastes — he likes sports and war films while I’m watching The Crown and we watch our own shows on our own devices at bed time. The only thing we both enjoy together is the Trump drama, which is more entertaining than any piece of fiction!” Even Onkar, the one who got chased home by dogs the night Maradona took home the World Cup, switched to OTTs during the lockdown. “I was so bored with nowhere to go but OTTs opened a whole new world. I saw Sushmita Sen’s Aarya, Inside Edge, a fictional account of betting in the IPL, Eken Babu and Tansener Tanpura. Production values are much higher than on TV,” he says. Arushi Pant, a Class XI student, says neither she nor her parents have any time for the telly now. “The work-from-home format has everyone working round the clock and if I get some time free I go for a run or sing. At most, we sit for a movie as a family once a month and we pick whatever is trending on Netflix,” says the resident of Rosedale Garden. Neelanjana Dutta of DLF New Town Heights says they spent the initial weeks of the lockdown watching nothing but the news. “I used to watch a serial called Sreemoyee before that but I lost interest with all the tension around. We did watch Mahabharat on Star Plus, though.” Most elderly respondents were reluctant to try OTTs as it meant tackling a new technology. “I don’t even click on the links my children send me by WhatsApp so I’m unlikely to try these out,” confesses Basu. Debolina points at the content itself. “The content served on OTTs is for the youth. My granny watches shows on Sarada Ma on TV. How can I ask her to tune into Hoichoi, a platform that serves shows with titles like Charitraheen? The elderly are quite happy with their religious and family dramas.” Maiti is tired of serials on the telly but but won’t bite the OTT bait. “I have high power in my eyes and after a day of working on the computer cannot afford to stare at a tiny phone screen in the name of recreation,” she reasons. In many young families, the effect of OTTs is quite blunt and some parents are concerned. “A TV in the living room used to unite a family or even the neighbourhood. Kids of today are missing out on that fun,” says Onkar. Anikesh Banerjee of NBCC Vibgyor Towers feels the plethora of options — be it in content or devices — is not good for kids in the long run. “Now if a child doesn’t like the news the father is watching he can walk away to his room and watch cartoons on his phone. If he doesn’t like a show he can change it without batting an eyelid. Where is the chance to learn tolerance and compromise? Watching a show may be a piece of cake now but life is not this easy,” Anikesh says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||All Fools’ Day party: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday tried to calm the nerves of her supporters by asserting there was “zero chance” of the “outsiders” coming to power and accused the sabre-rattling saffron camp of subjecting the people to April Fools’ Day round the year. Addressing the first big political public meeting since the pandemic struck, the Trinamul Congress chief concentrated her firepower on the BJP although she described the CPM as a party of the lobhee (greedy), the BJP as bhogee (intemperate) and her own party as tyagee (self-abnegating). “Some seem to think there is a chance for them, by chance, to come to power. Take it from me; there is zero chance….,” Mamata said. “That is not happening…. Very soon in the future, you will have to lament that you won everywhere else in India, but Bengal denied you, shut you out. Not one corner of Bengal will reward you,” said the chief minister, jeering at the BJP over its bovine politics and condemning it over the controversies affecting Dalits, tribal people and minorities. Mamata’s message to the party’s rank and file came in the wake of increasing chest-thumping by the BJP, including a claim by Amit Shah that his party would win more than 200 of the 294 seats in the Bengal Assembly. “They believe in making fools of the people round the year. For them, every day is April Fools’ Day,” she said. Calling the BJP a “curse” on the entire nation, the chief minister said Bengal in 2021 would show the way to a turnaround. She criticised the BJP of trying to engineer defections with money. “They are inviting people from Trinamul with huge offers of money… Rs 2 crore for just joining them. MLAs are receiving calls: Rs 15 lakh as advance and then another Rs 15 lakh after the defection…. Such horse-trading is utterly shameful,” Mamata said. The Trinamul chief, for the first time, reacted publicly to the Bihar Assembly elections and sought to de-legitimise the results. “Was it a victory (for the NDA) in Bihar? No. It was a victory by manipulation,” she said, echoing allegations from several quarters of the non-NDA space. A Trinamul Rajya Sabha member said Mamata had spoken to Tejashwi Yadav, who spearheaded the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar, the day after the results and lauded him for the valiant fight. “You have kept (RJD chief) Lalu Prasad in jail for so long. Could you stop his influence? You could do nothing,” said Mamata. “If you have the power, arrest me. I will be in prison. I will remain jailed, yet I will ensure the victory of Trinamul in Bengal. This is my challenge,” she added to thunderous applause from an audience of thousands. The Trinamul chief revisited the bohiragawto (outsider) theme. “Outsiders are being sent to attack Bengal…. Be warned, if you trust them, they will snatch and loot everything you have, everything you hold dear,” said Mamata. The chief minister brought up several past instances of alleged cruelty during CPM rule and said she was “ashamed” to see the state of the Left party in Bengal now, accusing it of collusion with the BJP to oust Trinamul. “They (the CPM) think it will be saffron in 2021 and red again in 2026…. But they (the CPM) will be wiped out. The worst of the CPM are now in the BJP. Only the colours have changed, the hearts remain the same,” she said. Mamata criticised the BJP-led Centre for its “anti-people” policies such as the farm laws and labour rules. That party is garbage… a dustbin of lies. Nothing else,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge clears road test, ‘use-ready’||The newly-built Majerhat bridge, which has replaced the one that collapsed in September 2018, has cleared a “load test” and design consultants have certified that the structure is “ready to use”. Once the railway’s nod comes, the PWD, which is executing the project, will approach the state government to fix a date for the bridge's inauguration. Since the 260m-long deck slab of the bridge stands over train tracks, the structure cannot be opened for traffic without the railway’s clearance. Senior PWD officials said they were planning to send the “final report” on the bridge to Nabanna early next month, after which the government will schedule the inauguration. The load test began on November 16, and over the next four days the structure was subjected to 534 tonnes of weight. The deck slab of the bridge is held by 84 cables, imported from Switzerland. “Only 40 per cent of the load-bearing capacity of each of the cables will be utilised,” an engineer involved in the construction of the bridge said. Two days into the load test, a team of engineers from the railway, led by Anant M. Chowdhary, the commissioner of railway safety (eastern circle), visited the bridge to inspect the procedure. The engineers who ran the test measured how different components of the bridge - such as the deck slab, bearings, piers and the cables - were responding to both static and mobile load. “The deflection because of the weight of the structure was perfect and well within the calculated limits. There was no deviation even in the stress-bearing capacity of the cables,” said a senior official of the PWD. “Everything was according to the design and the prescribed calculations.” The results of the load tests were compiled and sent to the Taiwan-based design consultant for assessment. Sources said experts at the firm were satisfied with the degree of deflection. The design consultant has approved the results and certified that the bridge is “ready to use” — a clearance that is mandatory for any structure before it is opened to traffic. "Since the commissioner of railway safety observed how the load test was carried out, we hope the railway wouldn't sit on the report for long," said an official at Nabanna. While the state government awaits the nod, the new bridge has started getting its final coat of paint. All the loose ends are being tied up, including the lights and the road-markings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Former help, son arrested for harassing Hasin Jahan||Hasin Jahan, the estranged wife of cricketer Mohammad Shami, had been receiving calls threatening to post her photographs and mobile number on obscene websites if she did not pay up, she complained to police on Sunday. Based on her complaint, a former help at Hasin’s house and her son were arrested on Tuesday night. Shila Sarkar and Devraj Sarkar, residents of Canning in South 24-Parganas, have been charged with extortion, outrage of modesty of a woman through words and gestures and criminal intimidation. “I started receiving calls from unknown numbers in September. A man who had introduced himself as my former maid’s son said he wanted money. When I asked him why I should pay him, he started abusing me and threatened to post my photographs and mobile number on obscene websites,” Hasin told The Telegraph. She said she had hired Shila for a few days. She had apparently found Shila “rude and always on the phone” and so discontinued her services after “eight or nine” days. “I had paid all her dues and then dismissed her. Soon after a man introducing himself as her son started calling me up saying I owed them money,” Hasin said. She said initially she had tried to ignore the calls and messages and blocked the number. But when the accused kept bothering her, she decided to approach the police. “Maybe he thought I was an easy target as I live alone with my children. So, I decided to lodge a complaint to set an example that they cannot get away with anything,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to two private city hospitals||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Wednesday asked two private hospitals to refund money to two patients and the family of a third following complaints that the hospitals had overcharged them. R Flemming Hospital in Topsia was asked to return Rs 3 lakh and Rs 1.2 lakh to two men who had been treated for Covid-19, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, Desun Hospital in Anandapur was asked to return Rs 50,000 to the family of a patient who was admitted there with various illnesses. The commission asked R Flemming Hospital to return Rs 1,20,000 to Barun Bhadra, 50, who was treated there from July 31 to August 9. “The patient was billed Rs 3,20,000 for 10 days’ treatment at the hospital. The patient party complained that he did not require any critical care. They said the patient was in the isolation ward for three-four days before being shifted to the Covid general bed,” Banerjee said. “The hospital said the patient was in the isolation ward all through. But that should not be. A patient should be shifted to a bed meant for Covid patients after he or she tests positive for the disease,” Banerjee said. According to him, the hospital said the patient was admitted under a package of Rs 35,000 per day. “Covid general bed treatment cannot cost Rs 35,000 a day. It cannot exceed Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 in a general ward. We have asked the hospital to charge Rs 20,000 a day,” the chairman said. At that rate, 10 days’ treatment will cost Rs 2 lakh. “We have asked the hospital to return Rs 1,20,000 to the patient,” said Banerjee. The hospital was also asked to return Rs 3 lakh to 63-year-old Gouranga Sarkar, who was treated there from July 22 to August 10. “The patient was billed Rs 7 lakh for 20 days. They charged Rs 35,000 a day. We again asked them to bill him Rs 20,000 for a day. That way it would cost Rs 4 lakh. We asked the hospital to refund Rs 3 lakh,” said Banerjee. He added the hospital had said they had asked the patient’s family to take him home as he had recuperated but the family insisted on taking him back only after he tested negative. “We will not comment on the commission’s order, but the families of the patients were clearly told of the charges. They got the patients admitted only after agreeing to the charges,” said Sahid Khan, the manager of R Flemming Hospital. The commission also asked Desun Hospital to return Rs 50,000 to a patient who was admitted to the hospital on August 12 and passed away two days later. “The woman’s condition was very critical. She was at the hospital for 35 hours and the family was billed Rs 1,80,000. The cost was very high. We have asked the hospital to return Rs 50,000,” said Banerjee. “We felt that such a huge amount for 35 hours is not possible,” said Banerjee. “We will not comment till we receive a copy of the order,” said Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Molest cry against bike taxi driver||A young woman who hired a motorcycle taxi service to return home from Alipore on Sunday night was allegedly molested by the driver, who asked her questions about her body and her relationship with her boyfriend, she has alleged. The woman, who was dropped one stop after her destination at Garfa and had to walk back home through a deserted stretch, was allegedly stalked by the biker, she has mentioned in her complaint. Based on her complaint with the police on their Facebook page, the accused biker has been arrested. The woman has mentioned in her complaint that she booked the bike ride around 9pm on Sunday from Desi Lane in Alipore. “According to the complainant, the driver started a casual conversation with her and then asked questions about her personal life and her relationship with her boyfriend,” said an officer at Garfa police station. The driver also allegedly asked her questions about her body, which made her uncomfortable. When she refused to reply, the driver allegedly refused to drop her at the assigned destination, the police said. “It was only when she protested and threatened to scream and alert the people around that the driver dropped her at Ganguly Pukur, one stop after where she was supposed to alight,” the officer said. The woman has told the police that the biker had stalked her and made indecent gestures at her while she was walking back home from Ganguly Pukur. After reaching home, the woman lodged a complaint with the customer care of the taxi bike service and the Facebook page of the Calcutta police. The cyber cell at Lalbazar took note of the complaint and forwarded it to Garfa police station. Officers from the police station contacted the woman and took all details related to the two-wheeler and the driver. The accused — identified as Aslam Hossain, 39, a resident of Haridevpur — was arrested early on Wednesday from a hideout not far from his home. Hossain has been booked under IPC sections related to outrage of modesty of women, outrage of modesty of women by means of words and gestures and stalking. If convicted, he could be jailed for up to five years. The police said they would question officials of the taxi bike company and seek background details of the driver. “Drivers in app cabs and taxi bikes should be employed only after a thorough background check. In this case we are yet to ascertain whether the person has any criminal history or not,” said a senior officer. ⚫ Carry pepper spray for safety ⚫ Send picture of the hired cab/bike and its number to a family member or friend ⚫ Assign mobile numbers of some family members / friends on the speed dial of your phone ⚫ Dial 100 in case of an emergency||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University teachers speak out against harassment||Teachers at Jadavpur University have said they are noting with “dismay and concern” the harassment and humiliation a section of teachers has faced at the hands of some students. The Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta) has issued a statement, blaming the students for the resignation of two deans of science over the past couple of months. The statement, issued two days after acting dean of science Subir Mukhopadhyay resigned, says: “Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (Juta) notes with dismay and concern the tendency in recent times for a section of students to harass, humiliate, and insult teachers of the university, on issues having to do with academic matters. This has already led to two officiating Deans of the science faculty tendering their resignations in the last couple of months. In both cases, the unwarranted interference of the students, and their insistence that their demands be met, irrespective of academic merit of their demands, and the language that the students leaders have used is nothing short of shocking.” Mukhopadhyay took over as acting dean after Kalyan Kumar Das had resigned in early October after an allegedly “derogatory” letter about him was sent to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das by office-bearers of the science faculty students’ union. Union leaders allegedly misbehaved with him over why only the final-year undergraduate end- semester students were being tested and not the ones in the intermediate semesters. The Telegraph had Wednesday reported that Mukhopadhyay resigned following what sources close to him said was “pressure” from the students’ union to accommodate all undergraduate students in the postgraduate courses. In both cases, the deans were allegedly verbally abused. Mukhopadhyay, in his resignation letter to the VC, has mentioned the dates when he had been allegedly humiliated by office-bearers of the students’ union. Parthapratim Roy, the general secretary of the teachers’ association, said: “The students are demanding that the decisions taken at the meeting of the admission committee or that of the faculty council would have to be reversed. Only the executive council, the highest decision making body of JU, has the authority to ask the statutory bodies to revisit their decisions. They (the students) don’t know where to draw a line.” The latest confrontation between the students’ union and the dean started after the union apparently demanded that all students graduating in science from JU be offered seats in MSc courses, disregarding the fact that 20 per cent of the seats have been reserved for candidates from other universities by a government order. A teacher said the union was insisting that all internal students be accommodated in the day courses at the master’s level. There are the same number of seats in the evening programmes as the day courses, but JU students are reluctant to join the evening courses, which drag on for three years, compared with the two-year day courses. “If we are forced to accommodate all of them, we would have to create additional seats and ask students from other universities to opt for evening courses. How can this be allowed?” the teacher said. A JU official said there were more MSc aspirants this year because students were reluctant to move to other states for a master’s course because of the Covid pandemic. “Another reason for the spike in the number of aspirants is lenient evaluation,” the official said. The Juta statement reads: “It is likely if such actions by the students are allowed to go unchecked by the university administration, then no teacher of the university will be willing to take administrative duties (which they have been discharging despite considerable personal difficulties in this unprecedented pandemic situation) in future. None but the students will be responsible if this comes to pass….” Vice-chancellor Das could not be contacted as he was busy attending a webinar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Centre’s advice to states on medical class restart 'on or before 1st Dec'||The Union health secretary has written to all states advising that medical colleges resume their classes “on or before 1st December, 2020”, senior officials of the Bengal government have said. “The letter has been sent to the chief secretary. We are awaiting a directive from Nabanna,” said a health department official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee holds the health portfolio. If Nabanna concurs, the health department will issue an order asking all medical colleges in the state to resume classes. The letter from Delhi mentions that the National Medical Commission (NMC), the regulatory body for medical education, has recommended reopening of medical colleges on or before December 1. MBBS students across the state have been attending online classes since the colleges were closed in March because of the Covid pandemic. Students said they had missed out on learning by watching senior doctors examine patients. “We received the letter (from the Union health secretary) on Wednesday. We are examining the recommendations and speaking to our medical college faculties and the administration,” Bengal’s health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam told Metro. Another health department official said the final decision would rest with Nabanna. “If Nabanna concurs with the letter sent by the Union health secretary, we will issue a similar order and ask medical colleges of our states to reopen. The letter will mention the dates from when the colleges can reopen,” the official said. Nigam said the medical colleges were closed under the National Disaster Management Act when the Covid-19 pandemic hit India. The state government had issued orders directing suspension of on-campus colleges, he said. “The state government will take the final call on when medical colleges in our state will reopen,” said Rajendra Pandey, the vice-chancellor of the West Bengal University of Health Sciences, to which all medical colleges in the state are affiliated. The Centre had earlier issued guidelines allowing students of Classes IX to XII to go to school to consult teachers from September 21 with written consent from parents. But the state government has not yet allowed students to visit schools. The Union education ministry had on September 22 decided that first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes in colleges could start on November 1. But the state government has not yet declared when colleges and universities in the state will resume on-campus classes. “The question is not only about medical colleges but all colleges, universities and schools. The question is whether to allow assembly of students and teachers,” said a senior government official. Bengal recorded 3,528 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and Calcutta accounted for 880 of them. Fifty-one people died of the disease in the state on Wednesday, 15 of them in Calcutta. Referring to the NMC’s recommendations, the letter from the Union health secretary mentioned that “sufficient number of non-Covid beds may be made available in the medical college hospitals to facilitate undergraduate medical training”. An MBBS student said this was required to ensure that future doctors got to learn about treatment of all diseases. The Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati are the two teaching hospitals in and around the city that have been designated as Covid hospitals. “The medical colleges that have been turned into Covid treatment centres are admitting non-Covid patients, too. So students will get the opportunity to examine non-Covid patients,” said Debashis Bhattacharya, Bengal’s director of medical education. Sutirtha Bhattacharyya, a final-year MBBS student at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said they had been attending online classes since the onset of the pandemic in India. “The main problem is we are not being able to see our professors or seniors examine a patient and learn from them,” Bhattacharyya said. The letter from Delhi mentions that all guidelines to prevent Covid-19 have to be followed while reopening the colleges. “All the SOPs/guidelines with respect to social distancing and prevention of spread of epidemic” have to be followed “scrupulously” by all the colleges, the letter says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Strike: what’s on, what’s off on Thursday||A 24-hour nationwide strike has been called from Wednesday midnight to Thursday midnight by central trade unions to protest the policies of the Narendra Modi government, including the new labour and farm laws. Normal life might be affected because the Trinamul Congress — which has a stated no-bandh policy — has so far refrained from a concerted effort to oppose the strike. But a state government order issued on Wednesday asked the police and civil administration to firmly deal with “attempts at forcible closure of government offices… markets… and industrial establishments”. “Normal life and vocation of the people in general should not be allowed to be disturbed,” and “it should be ensured that there is no interruption in normal flow of road traffic or stoppage in movement of trains,” the order said. Another order on Wednesday evening made attendance of government employees — according to the roster — compulsory. Some areas in the city witnessed Trinamul rallies, urging people to foil the bandh, in the evening.  Emergency services like ambulance, fire brigade, hospital, pharmacy and milk supply are exempt from the strike. A CPM leader said home delivery of food would be exempt, too. “We have excluded essential items from the purview of the strike. Food is of course essential. Home delivery of food will be exempt. We have requested people to observe a general strike in their own capacities,” said CPM leader Mohammed Salim. The National Eligibility Test (NET) on November 26 is on course. Citu leader Anadi Sahu has issued a written appeal to fellow strike supporters to allow NET aspirants with admit cards to reach their exam venues. But till Wednesday night, there was no official confirmation of the exam being excluded from the strike. A CPM rally is scheduled to start from Entally on Thursday morning. CPM cadres will set up pickets in Jadavpur, Garia, Behala and some other areas of the city, said a CPM leader. Banking service is expected to see a disruption with a section of trade unions directly participating in the strike and others offering support. As a result, activities at branches such as cash deposit and withdrawal, issuing of demand drafts, cheque clearances and locker services, among others, can be affected. Bank officials said ATMs would remain open and the cash refill has been done according to schedule, but sporadic instances of shutter-downs cannot be discounted. “Most banks unions have joined the strike protesting increasing privatisation in the sector with others offering their support,” said Rajen Nagar, general secretary, BPBEA. Markets run by the civic body will open in the morning as usual, said an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “All our stores will remain open as usual,” said an official at Spencer’s. The deployment will start early in the morning. There will be 71 police pickets across the city to ensure people on the roads do not face any harassment, said an officer in Lalbazar. Metro will run its usual daily fleet of 190 trains, an official said. “All flight operations will be on schedule,” said an airport official. Transport department officials said an additional fleet of government buses will be on roads on Thursday. “We have also requested private bus and minibus operators to run their vehicles,” said an official. Sources in the taxi operators’ association said yellow cabs would be out from the morning. “If things turn disruptive, we will go off the roads,” said one of them. App cabs are expected to run, but a fare surge is on the cards. Suburban trains will also run according to schedule, said a railway official. Liquor store owners said they would open stores on Thursday as usual, but may consider closing down with permission from local excise officials in case of any untoward instances. Dial for help ⚫ Emergency helpline: 100 ⚫ Lalbazar control room: 22143230 ⚫ Traffic control room: 22143644 ⚫ Fire brigade control room: 22521165 ⚫ Ambulance: 102||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||HS and Madhyamik syllabi slashed||The state government has pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will write their board exams next year as on-campus classes could not be held because of the Covid pandemic. Education minister Partha Chatterjee said the syllabuses would be slashed by 30 to 35 per cent, something that was recommended by an expert committee on school education. “It is true that we have not been able to conduct regular classes because of the Covid situation…. We have decided to accept the proposal of the expert committee on reducing the syllabuses by 30 to 35 per cent for the students of Classes X and XII, who will take their board exams next year,” said Chatterjee. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education will post the revised syllabuses on their websites. “They (the board and the council) will announce the details through notifications,” Chatteree said. An official of the school education department said the modes of instruction tried out during the pandemic — through portals designed by the government, over the phone and on TV— were not adequate to complete the syllabuses. The state has around 14,000 secondary schools and close to 7,000 higher secondary schools. “A large number of students at these schools don’t have access to laptops or smartphones. Many of them stay in places that lack robust connectivity. So, it was not possible to hold classes on digital platforms. Hence, reduction of the syllabuses was inevitable,” he said. The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has twice curtailed the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will take their board exams next year, after taking into account the findings of a survey on online teaching. Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had announced in July that the CBSE would reduce the syllabuses of Classes IX to XII by up to 30 per cent for the 2020-21 session. Sougata Basu, a teacher of Uttarpara Government School and the secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association, wondered why it took the government so long to decide that the syllabuses needed to be curtailed. “The department should have acted sooner. The students would have got more time to prepare for the board exams had the announcements come earlier,” Basu said. The government is yet to announce next year’s Madhyamik and HS schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
26-11-2020||Calcutta||Vaccine ‘capacity mapping’ in city hospitals||Two agencies, the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) and the business chamber Ficci, are “capacity mapping for vaccination facilities in the private sector” on behalf of the Centre. On Wednesday, the two agencies jointly sent a mail to some private hospitals in Calcutta asking a series of questions and stating that they “are collecting this information only to supplement the efforts of the government for Covid-19 Vaccine admini-stration”. “This information will help the government to understand the capacities of the private sector,” the mail reads. There is no clarity yet when Covid-19 vaccines would be available but the Centre and the state governments have already started preparations for inoculation. The mail from the two agencies has triggered questions about “interference” by the Centre. A Bengal government official said the agencies should not have sent such queries to private hospitals in the state. “We will look into the matter. The state government is making all arrangements for vaccinations,” a senior official of the state government said. Some of the questions in the mail sent by Ficci and NABH to private hospitals: ⚫Do you have the physical capacity (eg. earmarked vaccination area) to inoculate people in your facility? ⚫How many trained inoculators do you have in your facility that you can utilise for Covid vaccination? ⚫Are you prepared to take up one community around/nearby your hospital/unit (within 5km radius) to inoculate? ⚫Do you have cold storage facilities in your hospital to store vaccines? ⚫How many trained inoculators can you provide to support the government in semi-urban and rural areas? ⚫If we provide you with the training module, will you be able to impart training for inoculation to: registered nurses, ANMs, resident doctors, phlebotomists, AYUSH doctors, pharmacists, technicians? ⚫How many inoculations can you accomplish per inoculator on an 8-hour and 16-hour basis? ⚫What support will you need to effectively partner with the government to provide vaccination in semi-urban and rural areas in your state? The Mamata Banerjee government has sent a different set of vaccine queries to private hospitals, which are related to the number of healthcare workers at their disposal. On Wednesday, state health department officials met representatives of private hospitals and asked them to send details of all their employees for vaccination. Healthcare providers will be given priority for vaccination and hence, the list is being prepared, said an official. “We recently held a meeting with health ministry officials and have been told to prepare a strategy for Covid vaccination,” said Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital group and national chairman of Ficci’s health service. “We are preparing a strategy paper to cooperate with the Centre for the vaccination drive.” Sources said the set of questions sent to the hospitals by NABH and Ficci was part of the survey that would help the government prepare a strategy paper on vacci-nation. State government officials, however, said they were making their own surveys and preparations for vaccinations for Covid-19. “We are upgrading the cold chains across the state for storage of vaccines. A database of private and government healthcare workers has already been prepared,” said a state government official. “At Wednesday’s meeting, private hospitals were asked to provide some more details of their employees.” A three-level task force has been set up by the state for the vaccination, said the official. “We have also prepared a list of inoculators,” the official said. An official of a private hospital said separate communications from the Centre and the state government could create confusion. Some of the hospitals have told Metro that right now they might not be able to take part in large-scale vaccination drives. “Manpower would be a big issue for private hospitals,” said the CEO of a hospital. “Already, doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers are struggling with a large number of Covid patients. On top of that the number of non-Covid patients has started increasing sharply.” This newspaper reported on Wednesday that the number of patients turning up at the OPDs of private hospitals from districts has been rising rapidly since the resumption of suburban train services on November 11. “All our doctors and other clinical staff are grappling with so many patients and the number will keep increasing in the coming months. So, it will be difficult to set aside staff for large-scale vaccination drives. It will be difficult to be involved in a vaccination drive within a 5km-radius around the hospital, as suggested by NABH and Ficci,” said an official of a private hospital in Calcutta. Some hospitals said providing space on the premises for vaccination would be a challenge. “Already, we have earmarked a big area for a fever clinic. It will be difficult to provide another big area for vaccination,” he said. Hospitals expect huge crowds for Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-227
