27-11-2020||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||2019: Two new police stations were inaugurated in New Town on November 27. One is near the Eiffel Tower replica at Eco Park and the second, called Technocity, is at a rented space near the Sukhobrishti complex of Action Area III. The older thana opposite Tata Medical Center remains. 1962: Social reformer Maharshi Karve dies on November 9, at the age of 104. This math professor of Maharashtra is best known for his efforts to promote women’s welfare, particularly widow remarriage. He married a widow himself. In 1958, in his centenary year, Karve was awarded the Bharat Ratna. 1996: The world’s deadliest mid-air collision occurs when Saudi Arabian Airlines Flight 763 (en route from Delhi to Dhahran, Saudi Arabia) and Kazakhstan Airlines Flight 1907 (en route from Chimkent, Kazakhstan, to Delhi) collide. The November 12 accident occurs west of Delhi and kills all 349 people on board both the planes. 2000: A long-standing demand of residents is fulfiled when Chhattisgarh is carved out of Madhya Pradesh to form the 26th state of India. The resource-rich state decides on Raipur as its capital and Ajit Jogi becomes the first chief minister. The state comes into being on November 1. 1970: About 5 lakh people die due to a tropical cyclone that hits East Pakistan and West Bengal on November 11. Named Bhola, the cyclone wind speed reaches 185km/hr and is the deadliest tropical cyclone ever recorded and one of the world’s deadliest natural disasters. The Pakistani government delays relief work and the opposition, Awami League led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, wins a landslide victory in the affected province in the election that takes place a month later. This leads to unrest with the central government and eventually leads to the Bangladesh Liberation War.2005: Donald Watson, who coined the term ‘vegan’ and was one of the founders of the The Vegan Society in 1944, dies on November 16, aged 95. As a child, Watson was horrified to see the slaughtering of a pig on his uncle’s farm and became a vegetarian at the age of 14. Believing dairy products to also be unethical, he gave them up four years later and dedicated his life to stop the exploitation of animals. 1859: The first ever trapeze routine (representative picture above) is performed at Cirque Napoleon winter circus, Paris, by Jules Leotard on 12 November. Leotard was the son of a gymnastics instructor who ran a swimming pool and the man would practise his routines over the pool. He also introduced a one-piece knitted garment suitable for the trapeze that came to be known as the ‘leotard’, after himself. 2019: Fifteen-year-old Shafali Verma breaks Sachin Tendulkar’s 30-year record of becoming youngest Indian to score a 50 in international cricket. Tendulkar was 16 when he scored his half-century against Pakistan; Verma was 15 years and 285 days when she smashed 73 off 49 balls in her first T20 International against West Indies on November 13. The Haryana-born teenager’s innings included six fours and four sixes and helped India win the match by 84 runs.  2001: After a string of successful books, the first film under the Harry Potter banner, Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone releases on November 4. Directed by Chris Columbus, it is based on the first book of the series by author J.K. Rowling. The film becomes the highest-grosser of the year and makes stars of the actors playing the leads like Daniel Radcliffe as Harry and Emma Watson as Hermione etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Online show after ghot puja low ||If residents of New Town’s CD Block were feeling low about having to worship a simple ghot in place of an idol this Durga puja, because of Covid-induced restrictions, their online Vijaya Sammelani tried to revive their spirit. Ruma Baul began with a Brahmosangeet and Somsuddha Palit recited a self-composed poem titled Muktir Khoje. “This was the first time I saw a ghot puja being performed. But since the camaraderie among neighbours is strong, I never felt the absence of the idol and didn’t feel the urge to go pandal-hopping either,” said the IT professional. Rita Basu recited Suvo Dasgupta’s poem Ekdin while Patralekha Mukherjee sang Ami Banglay gaan gai, the Pratul Mukhopadhyay composition, and recited a portion of Tagore’s Pujarini. Sukla Dasgupta sang two songs — Mon cheyechhe ami hariye jabo  and Aj jibon khuje pabi — and that too over microphone at home. “This is the first time that I used a mic for an online show. Actually I wanted to feel like I was on stage. Nothing can equal that satisfaction,” said the lady who was a graded artiste on All India Radio, Jhargram. Kabita Sarkar sang two folk numbers and Purba Kar read out an excerpt from Meghnad Badh Kavya, related to the slaying of Ravana and its connection with Dussehra. After a period of wait because of technical hitches, the organisers could bring in their guest artiste, Aparajita Saha, a disciple of Sipra Basu, who started off her presentation with a bhajan. “Such shows boost our spirit at a time when we are getting bored and depressed staying home,” she said. The event concluded with a Lata Mangeshkar cover by Swati Bairagi. The event was co-ordinated and compered by Sithi Kana Ghatak, cultural convenor of the puja. “Despite going minimal with our puja, we encouraged residents, especially the elderly and the children, to perform cultural activities. Later, we compiled and uploaded performances by both age groups separately on YouTube for all to watch. We wasn’t everyone to feel involved,” said the lady who herself recited a section of Michael Madhusudan Dutt’s poem Atmabilap and her own work Debir Kailashgamon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||New York to next door||CJ Block streamed cultural programmes on Saptami and Ashtami evenings on its Facebook page to keep residents entertained in the absence of on-stage cultural programmes this year. The virtual platform allowed an NRI Nandini Kundu Guha to participate. The lady, who danced to the Tagore song Anandaloke Mangaloke, lives in New York now but her parents Ashis and Malabika Kundu are residents of CJ Block. "Trained by Ranjabati Sircar, she would perform in block programmes when she lived in Salt Lake,” they said. While most virtual cultural programmes had to do away with plays this year, CJ Block managed to pull off one for Durga puja. The participants here had no problem gathering as they belonged to the same family. Unlock was staged by a four-member family of parents, son and daughter. An apt subject to explore in the present times, Unlock told the story of  how parents, visiting their son and daughter-in-law, behave when stuck at home due to lockdown. Uneasiness of both the generations comes to the fore when they have to share space for a longer duration. Susmita Mukherjee, who plays the mother, wrote the script. “I felt the need to highlight this topic as many parents were stuck with their children settled outside the state, or vice versa. I tried to show how the generation gap plays its part in relationships. But I chose to give it a happy ending,” said Susmita. The family got just a day to rehearse together but for the Mumbai-based son, Sourya, and Bangalore-based daughter, Sayanti (who played the daughter-in-law), the short preparation was not a hiccup as they had performed as a family before. “Sourya had arrived early on leave and Sayanti landed just before Puja. I had shared the script with all in advance, including my doctor-husband Sandip, so we could prepare on our own,” said Susmita, who has been writing short stories since school. The lockdown also gave retired engineer K.L. Sanyal time to complete a book on outer space, titled Onno Prithibir Khoje, and he went online to share his thoughts with his neighbours. “It took me almost four months to finish the book, including the research on it,” he said, while being interviewed by the block’s cultural secretary Debabrata Das. The conversation was streamed online as part of the cultural programme. The 1964 Bengal Engineering College graduate is a fan of Arthur C. Clarke and his science fiction novel 2001: A Space Odyssey. He is now writing as a full-time hobby and has completed another novel, Pretinir Prem. “In school, my poems and stories would regularly get published in the annual magazine,” he said. Twin sisters, Srinika and Srihitha Mukherjee of Class III, put up a dance recital on Saptami. “Both learn Odissi and were very disappointed as cultural programmes were not being held this Puja. But when they learnt that they could still perform, albeit in front of the camera, they were very excited. I choreographed the dance with tips picked up from YouTube. The pandemic taught me this skill,” said Moumita, their mother. Law professional Srijani Bhattacharya Mukherjee presented an agomoni song on Ashtami. Singing against the backdrop of the Durga idol at home, Srijani said she initially had planned to dance but could not manage due to paucity of time. “Cultural shows are an intrinsic part of the Pujas but since we couldn’t organise them on stage this year we decided to hold them virtually. After all, Zoom meetings are the new normal. So we had some pre-recorded and some interactive virtual events. The end result has been good,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Stink of garbage vat promise not kept||lMy house was built 30 years ago and later on, a housing complex got built on the opposite side. The trouble is that their garbage vat faces the road and in effect, my house. The offensive vat is not cleared regularly or even twice a week. Last time, it was cleared after a span of 10 days! I am 89 years of age, my wife is 80, and we are unable to contact the ward boys or the councillor every time it needs to be emptied out. Why are we made to suffer for someone else’s refuse? The Left-run civic board went on promising for seven or eight years that they would dismantle this vat, but nothing happened. Now the Trinamul-run board is repeating history. The chairperson, board of administrators (formerly mayor), said at a meeting with residents at CK-CL community hall that it had decided to seal the vat, but now she has changed her mind. The logical solution is for vats of housing quarters to be cleared from inside their boundary walls. Even in foreign countries, I have seen this to be the norms. Sankar Prasad Ghosal,  CL Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Life certificates to be received at Snehodiya||The New Town Kolkata Development Authority(NKDA) has planned to start a camp at Snehodiya from December 1 where pensioners can deposit their life certificates. Pensioners have to deposit the certificate every November to their pension disbursing agency (bank or post office) in person as proof of their survival to continue to receive their pensions from the government. This year, in view of the pandemic, senior citizens are wary of queuing up at banks or post offices. NKDA has tied up with the State Bank of India to offer the service. The facility will be offered to senior citizens irrespective of which bank they hold their pension account with at the Snehodiya Activity Centre every day from noon to 2pm, except Sundays. According to NKDA sources, pensioners will be let in one at a time into the activity centre of Snehodiya while others can wait outdoor in the lawn in chairs. “The pensioner has to bring his or her pension payment order, Aadhaar card, pension account number and the mobile phone, which is linked to the account,” said an official. India Post has launched a doorstep delivery service, through its India Post Payments Bank, to generate digital life certificates (Jeevan Pramaan) by having postmen visit pensioners at home. While the Action Area III post office is offering the service in New Town, in Salt Lake it is being done by CC Block and Sech Bhavan post offices for a fee of Rs 70. The central government has extended the last date for submitting life certificates to February 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra’s visit to BB-BC block for shoot inspires puja theme||The Jagaddhatri puja at BB-BC Park this year was themed around Soumitra Chatterjee. Not only did the decor use pictures of the late actor but they also screened three of his best-known movies outside the pandal. “Initially we were mulling whether to hold the puja at all this year, given the pandemic. Once we decided to go ahead, we searched for a theme as we use one every year. With the demise of the great actor, we thought this would be the right theme,” said Sushanta Saha, treasurer of Bidhannagar (Salt Lake) Kishore Sangha, that holds the puja in an empty plot next to BB-BC Park. There was another reason for the organisers to choose the theme they did. “Soumitra had come to this very park for the shooting of Sanjhbati last year. The house the film was shot at is right behind the puja pandal. There was a huge crowd to see Dev, Paoli Dam, Lily Chakravarty and, of course, Soumitra. However, we were never allowed to go up close and interact with them. But we are happy to have built the pandal on the ground that Soumitra must have walked on,” said secretary Surajit Pal. Outside the pandal, the organisers installed a giant screen with pictures of the actor as border. “On Sunday evening, we played his songs, dialogues and recitation and on Monday, we screened Sonar Kella,” says Saha. On Tuesday, they screened Jhinder Bondi and Basanta Bilap and visitors were free to occupy the chairs placed at safe distances and enjoy the shows. Sonar Kella drew the highest crowd, of about 40 people. “Many kids had come and even the elderly who wanted to revisit their childhood,” Saha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Kali puja vignettes from across the twin townships||The coronavirus may have turned all pandals into containment zones this year, because of the high court ruling to that effect, but it also gave Nayapatty Aditya Smriti Sangha in Sector V its theme for Kali puja. The club, in its 28th year, chose the theme ‘Deepabolir aloy hok mohamarir binas’ (May the pandemic be destroyed by the light of Diwali). The walls of the passage to the pandal were lined with tiny spiked spheres representing the virus. A giant virus, about six feet in diameter and looking even more sinister being bathed in a red light, was visible above the arch of the pandal. A trident pierced it from below. The choppers in each of the goddess’s eight hands had chopped a virus each. The two remaining hands in front held a mask and a sanitiser in each.  “The club traditionally worships a 10-handed Kali, instead of the traditional four. And such was the theme that the goddess, I thought, would look even more powerful against the virus if she had 10 hands,” said Nayan Metya, the theme-maker who has been in charge of the club’s pandal for eight years now. Over 700 masks have been used in the pandal. “They were new masks. When we were dismantling the pandal, some locals took away a few for their use,” he smiled. In any other year, a catchy theme like this would have found takers during Jagaddhatri puja but there was no scope to recycle this time. “Budgets are so low everywhere that few could afford a theme.” The virus, along with the rest of the decor, therefore, are back in his Tamluk workshop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Mop-up drive for pulse polio on Sunday||Children who have missed out on the oral polio vaccination dose last Sunday can avail of the facility free of cost next Sunday when a mop-up drive will be conducted across New Town. Health workers will conduct camps from 11am to 2pm at specified sites (see box). Children from any locality can avail of the facility. As part of the sub-national immunisation day drive, children under the age of five are being administered polio doses across the twin townships. In New Town, the drive is being conducted by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) in association with the primary health centre of Rekjuani block in Rajarhat. The entire NKDA jurisdiction is being covered along with the commando hub in Jothbhim in Action Area III and the Border Security Force camp in Sector V. “We have 1,090 children in this age group registered with NKDA and another 43 in the additional areas we are covering. Vaccination took place last Sunday both at the booth level and door to door. About 600 children are expected to be covered next Sunday,” an official said. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), too, undertook a five-day polio drive from Sunday. But because of the pandemic situation,  there was no booth day to avoid public gathering.  Health workers did the rounds from door to door. There are over 39,600 children aged under five in the BMC area, of which by Tuesday 25,447 were covered, according to civic body sources. Children in India have to be administered two drops of oral polio vaccine six times — at birth, at six weeks, at 10 weeks, at 14 weeks, between 18 and 24 months and by the age of five years. ⚫ AD Park  ⚫AI Park ⚫ Sonar Kella Park in BA Block ⚫ CB Park ⚫ Unlock park at Biswa Bangla Gate ⚫ Bisarjan Ghat ⚫Tarulia Refugee Rehabilitation site ⚫ NBCC and CE Park ⚫ Balaka Abasan ⚫ Aloka Abasan ⚫ Eco Urban Village ⚫ Greenwood Sonata ⚫ City Centre 2 ⚫Uniworld City ⚫ Sukhobrishti||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Trafficking survivor helps others||A woman in her late twenties has counselled scores of teenage trafficking survivors rescued from brothels and hotels. Before the pandemic, she had been taking them to schools and stitching classes from government homes. Occasionally, she also accompanied them to courts to testify against their tormentors. Maya (name changed) has been earning her living for the past several years, first as a nanny and then as a freelance beautician. She is also one of the several mentors for young survivors at an anti-trafficking NGO. But there are few like her. In February 2009, she was rescued from an East Midnapore hotel — owned by a notorious trafficker who used it as a front for running a brothel — along with some other women. A resident of a village in South 24 Parganas, she was trafficked by a neighbour and landed at the hotel off NH41. In March 2013, the man and four other traffickers were sentenced to 10 years in jail in a landmark judgment by a court in Haldia. Before the verdict, Maya had looked her tormentor in the eye while testifying against her. The legal fight was tedious but Maya was firm. She also provided the police and prosecutors with information that strengthened the case. Metro called her around 11am on Wednesday. She was busy at work. Around 10pm the same day, she was busy on a call with a young survivor. She was finally able to speak around 12.30pm on Thursday. “I wanted to have him (the hotel owner) punished so badly that after the verdict, I started feeling a void,” Maya told Metro over the phone. But seven years have changed a lot in her. A few minutes into the conversation, Maya said she did not like going back to her past. “I want to live in the present. That is what I tell young survivors to do,” she said. “Counselling one young survivor, so that she is ready to forget her past and start life afresh is as gratifying as having my tormentor punished,” she added. Maya said earning the trust of a survivor was the most difficult job. Persuading them to study, take up a computer course or explaining the need to believe in the legal system becomes much easier once their trust is earned, she said. Many of them are lured with false promises by loved ones or close relatives. “The trust is shattered and it takes them a while to come to terms with that. Then, they are tortured every day. Even after they are rescued, they find it impossible to trust another person,” she said. Maya can relate with survivors — even those in deep trauma. She was 16 then. She had spent a few months at the hotel and was pregnant when rescued. Today, she is raising her child independently. The number of rescues has gone down in the wake of the pandemic. She had a far busier schedule with IJM a year ago than she has now. Earning a living and charting her own course take up the bulk of her time now. “The owner of the hotel where she was kept is one of the most dreaded traffickers we have ever come across. He ran the brothel with impunity and thrived on the terror he invoked in the women,” said an official of International Justice Mission’s Calcutta arm that has been working alongside government agencies to rescue and rehabilitate victims of sex trafficking and prosecute offenders since 2006. Before being caught in 2011, the hotel owner had survived six previous police raids. He would be tipped of in the nick of time before every raid, said the IJM official. Maya was herself traumatised when rescued. It took her months to regain her composure but once she did, she did not look back. On Wednesday, IJM officials retold Maya’s story to a fresh group of survivors to mark the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. “Each survivor is unique. But Maya is rare. The abuse she had been subjected to was not common, even in the business of trafficking. Her mental strength is also hard to match,” said Anju Sherpa, a social worker with the IJM who had counselled Maya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Botanic to open on December 1||The Indian Botanic Garden in Shibpur will be open again for morning walkers from December 1. The garden has been closed since March 15 because of the Covid pandemic. According to instructions from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, the premises will remain open only for morning walkers from 5.30am to 7.30am, an official of the garden said. Walkers will be encouraged to buy e-tickets and pay the entry fee through the Bharat Kosh portal (https://bharatkosh.gov.in). Visitors will be allowed entry on production of a downloaded or printed version of the e-receipt, along with a valid identity card of the morning walker. Sale of tickets from counters will continue, too. People above the age of 65 and those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 have been advised not to enter the garden for now. No visitor will be allowed after 7.30am and those who have entered the garden before that time will be asked to leave by 7.30am. All visitors have to wear masks and their body temperature will be checked by thermal scanners at the gate. Those found running a temperature will not be allowed entry. Markings have been made at the entrance, in front of the ticket counter and washrooms and on benches in the garden for visitors to maintain a safe distance among themselves. Covered bins have been placed all over the garden for disposal of used masks. “Touching of barricades and other surfaces will be actively discouraged,” a garden official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Parents thanked for paying full fees||A school on the northern fringes of the city has sent out letters of appreciation to the parents who have not availed themselves of the fee waiver scheme. As many as 400 of the 1,600-odd parents of the students of Julien Day School Ganganagar have not opted for the waiver and the school has thanked them for “their support and cooperation” in such “trying times” by sending them an e-certificate. “Thank you so much Sir/Madam for your timely support & cooperation to the JDS (Julien Day School) family during these trying times for not availing of the fee waiver. It means a lot,” said the certificate of appreciation addressed to the parents individually. The letters are being sent online to the parents. Hard copies will be handed over to them later. “These are hard times for the school as well as for the parents. There are some parents who did not lose out on their salaries and are not taking advantage of the waiver. At this time there are parents who stand by the school and so we appreciate them,” said Julian Glynn Broughton, the chairman of the Julien Day Group of Schools. The idea came from the principal of the Ganganagar branch, but it will be implemented by the other three schools of the group (in Calcutta, Howrah and Kalyani), Broughton said. Calcutta High Court had said in an order: “Parents and guardians of students are requested not to avail of the reduction in schools fees if their financial situation does not merit the reduction. However, if any set of guardians or parents obtains the benefit, no questions in such regard can be asked.” “The school needs to give a token of appreciation to parents if they support the school in such a crisis,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School, Ganganagar. “Some of the parents said their small contributions will help teachers get their full salary.” The school has also been receiving applications for further waivers from parents who are finding it difficult to pay the revised fees because of their financial constraints. Julien Day School, Calcutta, will soon be giving certificates of appreciation to the parents. “Not all parents are opting for waivers…. We plan to appreciate the effort of such parents,” said Colleen Smith, the principal of Julien Day School, Calcutta, which has over 1,000 students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||8 macaws rescued||Eight macaws were rescued on Thursday while they were allegedly being smuggled from Bangladesh, a BSF officer said. BSF officers posted along the India-Bangladesh border near Tentulberia, in North 24-Parganas, rescued the birds, which were crammed into wooden boxes. The birds have been sent to Alipore zoo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Memories of date with Diego||Class XII student Aritra Sarkar played for his school for four years but it is a pass received in December 2017 that remains his biggest moment. That tap came from Diego Maradona, who was there to inaugurate a stadium at his school. Gourabdeep Bhattacharjee touched his left shoulder on waking up on Thursday, recalling it was there that Maradona’s head had rested when the latter had given him a hug in December 2008. Calcuttans, bewitched by Maradona magic since the 1986 Mexico World Cup, are mourning the passing of the prince of football who had visited the city twice in the recent past. And for those lucky enough to have crossed his path on those visits and those who have only marvelled at his left foot from afar, the pain is almost personal. “The news is as hard to accept as it was to believe that he was coming to our school. In fact, I did not till I saw him take the field with us,” said Aritra, a student of Aditya Academy Senior Secondary School. At the stadium near Barasat, which on Thursday was renamed after the legend who had inaugurated it, Maradona had held a workshop with the students. “He gestured at us to take shots at the goal as he passed the ball to each. The first time the goalie blocked my shot. When I succeeded in scoring the second time, he shook my hand. It was like a dream,” Aritra recalled. Though Maradona could not play the match against Sourav Ganguly’s team afterwards due to injury, he took the field on and off for either side, he added. But it was not easy to get him on the field. “He would not let go of the mic. He simply kept singing one song after another with Charles Anthony, a musician we had flown over from Kerala who was belting out Spanish numbers,” recalled Satadru Dutta, the tour organiser. Music cooled down the temperamental soccer star. “I knew that Maradona loved music. So every time we needed him to do something, we got Charles to sing and then tell him the needful. That man saved us!” So unpredictable was Maradona that the 2017 trip almost did not happen. “The day he signed the contract my son was born and I named him Diego.  Maradona was delighted to know that. Yet he changed his mind about the visit later and had to be persuaded again,” said Dutta, who had met the Argentine in Buenos Aires and again in Dubai to seal the tour deal. Not one to take a chance, Dutta picked him up from his Dubai home to bring him to Calcutta. “But he went missing at Al Majlis, the VIP lounge of the airport.  When we found him shopping, he argued that the flight would not depart without him. Another 10 minutes’ delay, and it would have! At Dum Dum, he refused to give his fingerprint at the immigration counter, offering his footprint instead, which he said people usually take. His girlfriend made him see reason after I told her he could be jailed.” The trip to the Barasat stadium was difficult. “I had told him it would take 20 minutes from his New Town hotel but it took 45. Towards the latter part of the ride, he kept banging the back of my seat, yelling ‘20 minutes’.” He could be pleased just as easily. “He was so happy with the stadium event that he hugged me later. In fact, seeing the hotel suite named Maradona had also delighted him and I got a kiss on the cheek. Even earlier, in Dubai, he had gifted me a wristband,” said Dutta, adding that the Pele trip he had organised in 2015 had been a cakewalk for him in comparison to managing Maradona. In 2008, when Maradona came on invitation from the sports department, Gourabdeep was at the airport to receive him at night along with thousands. “The next day, (former goalkeeper) Sibaji Banerjee and I handed him a golden boot on behalf of Salt Lake Club Samannay Committee during his felicitation. He had hugged me then,” he said, recalling seeing the wizard juggle a ball in front of a packed stadium soon afterwards. The next day, he went to meet Jyoti Basu. “He said Fidel Castro, whom he considered a second father, had told him that Basu was his friend. He was supposed to spend 10 minutes but got so engrossed seeing an album with pictures of Castro’s Calcutta visit that he spent two hours there. Our 2009 club calendar was printed with the pictures I took of his.” Sculptor Sushanta Ray’s moment of glory was when Maradona embraced the wax statue of the legend that he had created. “It was with the ball I had placed at the foot of the statue that he juggled that day. Many had offered me money for it but I have not parted with the ball,” the Asansol artiste said emotionally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||CMC uploads data from comorbidity survey||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Thursday completed uploading on its server the data from the comorbidity undertaken two months ago. The survey, aimed at further fine tuning the state government’s Covid response, was held from September 7 to 30. An official of the civic body said the data of 7.36 lakh households had been uploaded on the server. The data collected from about 34,500 households could not be uploaded as the forms were incomplete. The surveyors had visited 7.69 lakh households, as part of the study undertaken by the Covid Care Network (an organisation of medical professionals, volunteers and people who recovered from Covid-19), state health department and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). “Since the forms of 7.69 lakh households had been submitted by the surveyors, we thought all households gave information about comorbidities. But while uploading data, we found about 4.5 per cent of those forms were incomplete,” said the official of the CMC. The CMC had first decided to upload the entire set of data by Durga Puja. The deadline was later extended to October 31, but even that was missed. The next part will be analysis of the data. “We will meet Covid Care Network officials to decide on the analysis,” said a CMC official. A doctor said comorbidities were diseases that impacted the workings of vital organs. A person with one or more comorbid conditions can develop complications if he or she contracts a new disease. The data will show how many Calcuttans or what percentage of the total population of the city had comorbidities when the survey was done. Health workers in each of the 144 wards carried forms to record whether a respondent had kidney disease, heart disease, liver disease or tuberculosis. The respondents were also asked whether they had diabetes, COPD or hypertension. This was the first time a survey was conducted among Calcuttans on comorbidities. Doctors said people with comorbidities had been found to be more vulnerable to Covid-19. “Whenever someone tests positive for Covid-19, we can check from the server whether the person has comorbidities. Someone with comorbidities may need more attention and we will tailor our response accordingly,” said the CMC official. The data will also help in preparing a list of people who should be given priority for Covid-19 vaccination, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Strike  fails to  have  impact||⚫ Central Avenue at 11am: A shutter of Central Metro station was downed by strike supporters ⚫ Garia and Barasat between 9am and 9.30am: Two buses were stopped and the passengers were asked to alight. A tyre of one of the buses was deflated. ⚫ Jadavpur at 9am and mid-afternoon: Local trains were disrupted. Some students played football outside Jadavpur University, disrupting traffic on the main road. The majority of Calcuttans stepped out of their homes like on other work days despite disruptions in pockets of the city. Shops and markets were open, pubs and restaurants welcomed customers and government and private offices bore little impact of the strike. A few banks were closed, but some remained operational. All ATM kiosks were open. People could avail themselves of public transport like on other days to reach their workplaces and return home. There were only a handful of exceptional cases where protestors had disrupted movement. For Aditi Agarwal, 32, a Salt Lake resident, it was a normal day which she spent shopping clothes and groceries. Agarwal first drove down to Axis Mall in New Town, where she shopped for groceries. Then she drove to City Centre in Salt Lake, around 7.5km away. “Although I spent most of the afternoon driving around, I was not stopped anywhere. It felt pretty much like a normal day,” said Aditi. Prakash Maity, who works in a store at New Market, said he had no problem reaching his workplace from Garia in a government bus he had boarded from Garia. Rahul Mehra, a resident of Patuli, drove to his office on Russell Street like on other days without being stopped, he said. Hundreds of people travelled by Metro without the fear of being stranded or stopped. Sourav Das, who runs a resto pub in New Town, near City Centre II, said his place followed the normal schedule, opening at 10.30am and closing at 11:30pm. He said he had families and groups of friends walking in for lunch and the footfall went up after 6pm. “We cannot afford to keep the establishment closed given that Covid-19 has left an impact and have hit sales. Things are picking up and people are stepping out for lunch and dinner,”said Das. He said he had heard that bandh supporters had forced some shops to shut down in the nearby Chinar Park, but he did not face any problems. Nor did anyone ask him to close his establishment for the day. There were a few instances of disruptions in the city, but life went back to normal in those pockets once the protestors left. Raja SC Mullick Road was blocked for some time as Jadavpur University students started playing football blocking the thoroughfare. However, there were no reports of violence or forcible implementation of the strike in Jadavpur. Earlier in the day, a few protestors had forced passengers to alight from a bus near Garia, triggering protests from a group of men and women who were getting late for office. “This is no way to register protest. They deflated a tyre. What can anyone gain by stopping people like us from going to office? Offices have just started opening and we cannot afford to be late,” said an angry passenger, who took an autorickshaw after he was forced to get off the bus. The city police arrested 140 men and women from across the city for trying to disrupt life. They were taken to the central lock-up at Lalbazar, from where they were released on personal bond, police said. A senior officer at Lalbazar said police arrangements had been made across the city from 7am but the disruption was negligible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Nurse shortage hits homecare||An increased demand for homecare and nursing assistance has left many Covid patients in Calcutta who are getting discharged from hospital without help even as family members are desperately calling up homecare service providers. Several such agencies who provide trained nurses and attendants for patients said the demand had gone up by more than 20 per cent in the past couple of weeks. Most of them are attributing it to a rise in the number of non-Covid cases. A 70-year-old woman in Kasba was treated at a private hospital off EM Bypass with Covid for 10 days. On Wednesday, she was discharged after doctors found her condition stable. However, she is extremely weak and is unable to even go to the washroom and needs assistance for eating. “For two days we have been calling up homecare and local centres which provide untrained assistants. The centres said they could not provide one for a Covid patient who has not tested negative, while professional homecare centres said they would not be able to provide an assistant before a couple of days,” said a relative of the woman. The problem is mostly with elderly people who were admitted to hospital with moderate to severe symptoms of Covid and need professional assistance at home. “We are getting many calls from family members of both Covid and non-Covid patients, but the demand has gone up so much in the last few weeks that in most cases we are needing one to two days to provide a caregiver,” said Kalpataru Banerjee, a general physician with Buurtzorg India, a Netherlands-based agency providing nursing care at home. The agency has about 40 nurses and attendants in Calcutta. On Thursday evening, there was just one male attendant available, said Banerjee. He said the demand had gone up because many non-Covid patients are now undergoing surgeries and procedures and are requiring assistance and nursing care at home. Covid patients, he said, mostly need assistance, rather than clinical care, because of extreme weakness. However, some with comorbidities need clinical care, too. Apollo Home Healthcare has about 120 nurses at its Calcutta unit. On Thursday, all were engaged. “We had to refuse several people who called us to hire a nurse,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, the unit head of Apollo Home Healthcare, Calcutta. Bhattacharya said one main reason for the shortage was that trained nurses usually did not want to join such agencies where career options are limited. “Most nurses who have the ANM (Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery) and GNM (General Nursing and Midwifery) degrees prefer to join hospitals because the career prospects there are better. Only a few join homecare agencies because they are offered more money,” said Bhattacharya. So, there is always a shortage of nurses for homecare and the high demand during the Covid pandemic has only aggravated the crisis. Nabarun Saha of Portea Home and Healthcare Service said in the last 15 days the demand had gone up significantly for nurses and attendants. Till last month, the agency would get new demand for nurses and attendants every alternate day. Now, every day they get two or three new requests. Also, before the pandemic, private hospitals would provide nurses to take care of critical patients at home after discharge. That has stopped now because of a shortage of nurses. “We are facing an acute shortage of nurses because many have recently joined government hospitals, while some have been assigned to Covid wards,” said the CEO of a private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-225
27-11-2020||Calcutta||JU dept head asks for rooms  for classes||The head of Jadavpur University’s physics department has written to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das to provide additional rooms for theory and laboratory classes for MSc students “on an urgent basis”. Sukhen Das wrote in the letter, sent to the VC on Wednesday, that in the absence of additional space, “it will be almost impossible to continue theory and laboratory classes for PG students, especially in this pandemic situation” once on-campus classes resume. “We earnestly request you to provide us at least two classrooms and two rooms for laboratories for PG students on an urgent basis so that it can accommodate 45 students. Otherwise it will be almost impossible to continue theory and laboratory classes for PG students — especially in this pandemic situation,” he has written. The VC said: “I have forwarded the letter to the university’s space committee. Let the committee send its report.” Sukhen Das sent the letter at a time the science faculty students’ union has been insisting on accommodating all students who have passed BSc from the university in the master’s programmes, even if it meant creating additional seats. “We cannot do without in-person classes in science for long, as visiting a lab is a must for pursuing science. But we cannot ask students to attend classes in cramped rooms or labs, as that will invite health hazards,” the head of the department told Metro. “I am amazed to learn that the students’ union is demanding creation of additional seats to absorb all internal students even as we are struggling with the existing infrastructure.” For the 45 students studying each in MSc first year and MSc second year, there are two classrooms and three rooms which serve as labs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
27-11-2020||Calcutta||CM blames railway for bridge delay||The Majerhat bridge could have been inaugurated nine months ago had the railway not delayed providing the necessary permission, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. “We have been meeting (the railway) every day for nine months seeking clearance for the project. Paye dhoreychhi je clearance dao (Have held their feet seeking clearance),” Mamata said at Nabanna. “This could have been done nine months back. The railway didn’t give permission at the right time. For over two years people of Behala and south Calcutta have suffered so much.” The chief minister made the statement on a day some BJP supporters held a rally at Majerhat demanding the opening of the bridge. The Majerhat bridge, which has replaced the one that collapsed in September 2018, has cleared a “load test”. The state government can fix a date for inauguration after the railway gives its nod. The BJP supporters gathered around the bridge and started pulling down guardrails that have been put up to prevent any movement along the service roads around the bridge for safety reasons. Some allegedly attacked the police and damaged two-wheelers parked along the road. “We tried telling the protesters that the guardrails had been put up to restrict movement around the bridge and prevent any mishap,” a police officer said. “But they refused to listen and kept pulling them down.” With the peak-hour traffic hit by the agitation — on a day when the Left-backed unions were observing a state-wise bandh — a strong contingent of police arrived and shoved away the protesters, led by Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s national general secretary. The police removed him but the leader claimed he was arrested. “For nine months the railway didn’t give permission (for the project), were the BJP party workers sleeping then?” Mamata asked. “The PWD has completed its task. But it is still not ready. There are some technical points that the railway has to clear because of the railway tracks below.” The chief minister made it clear that the delay was not because of the state but for the Centre. “The delay is because of the BJP’s politics. Residents of Behala and other areas have been harassed… There are some clearances (from the railways) that are still required and it will take around seven days. Since railway tracks are below we have to take clearance (from the railway). So it is (the inauguration of the bridge) is not in our hands.” PWD officials said they were hoping for a quick response from the railway since a team of engineers had visited the bridge when the load test was on. State PWD minister Aroop Biswas said the railways should not delay the clearance as the central utility had supervised the construction of the bridge over the railway tracks. “We have given a total of Rs 33.29 crore to the railways…. Of which, Rs 7.30 crore was given for supervising construction of the bridge. Now, they should not delay the approval to inaugurate the bridge as they themselves have supervised the construction,” said Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
27-11-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake: LED lights to boost winter blooms ||If you are travelling by the Biswa Bangla Gate crossing towards Sector V in the evening, on looking leftward your eye would catch a luminous glow over the median of the road that goes towards Balaka Abasan. Come January and this is where chrysanthemums would bloom in a riot of colours. The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) is harvesting a two-acre stretch of the median divider with chrysanthemum and tuberose plants. The chrysanthemum bed has been lit up with LED lamps at a height of 2.5ft. “The lights will be turned on for the next 25 days from 6pm to 10pm. According to experts from the Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwavidyalaya (BCKV), this will boost their growth,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, as he switched on the lights on Saturday evening, on the occasion of Diwali. Explaining the grow-light technology, BCKV associate professor Tapas Kumar Chowdhuri said: “Chrysanthemum needs 14 hours of light for its growth. With daylight hours reduced in winter, photosynthesis is happening inadequately. This will mean less branches and less flowers. But if the hours can be increased with artificial lights, more photosynthesis will occur and the plant can produce enough nutrients. Chrysanthemum is a short-day plant, blossoming in winter. However, the ideal harvesting time is April-May when days are long. If planted at this time, a chrysanthemum cutting can produce more than 1,000 flowers in course of its life cycle. But if the harvest is done after September, this is a way to ensure proper growth.” After 25 days, the lights need to be switched off for the next 40 days to ensure reproductive growth, he added. During this illuminated period, the stretch presents a great view, especially from atop the Biswa Bangla Gate. “This technology has been put to use by flower growers in Panskura. Tourists actually travel there during this period like they go to Japan in April to see cherry blossom,” said Sen. In Panskura, pollution and smog compel farmers to cover the plants for some hours during the day during their growth period and make up for the lost daylight hours by switching on lights at night. NKDA has planted 12 varieties of chrysanthemum, numbering 50,000 cuttings, over one acre to produce a multi-colour bed. Once the season is over, summer varieties of flowers that are in demand commercially will be planted. In the adjoining one acre, about 30,000 tuberose bulbs have been planted. “We will use a special strain of tuberose developed by BCKV that grows round the year,” Sen said. The NKDA is looking to augment livelihood of villagers from adjoining areas. “We will provide the commercial linkage — where to get cuttings from, where to get cheap fertilisers from, how to protect the plants, how to take the crop to the wholesale markets… We will speak to nurseries and set up the forward and backward channels.” The project will finally be handed over to local self-help groups. “We are speaking to the panchayat samiti to make the selection. We will provide the training,” Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-226
