28-11-2020||Calcutta||Online 'practice tests’ at state board schools||Several state board schools will have self-evaluation tests for students of Classes X and XII, who will take the Madhyamik and Higher Secondary exams next year, to assess themselves in the absence of selection tests. Some schools have decided to hold online “practice tests” of three hours, while some will have tests of shorter duration. A few schools, including those where students have limited access to the internet, have planned to distribute sealed question papers to students through their parents. Parents are being counselled to keep a watch on their children while they write the answers. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had recently announced that Class X and XII students would be allowed to write the Madhyamik and HS exams next year without appearing in selection tests. It is important to have some sort of an evaluation for students even if their selection for board exams is not dependent on that, several school heads The Telegraph spoke to said. Schools have planned to hold these practice tests in the first week of December. “It is not a question of allowing or not allowing students… if they write a three-hour paper even at home, they won’t be scared of exams and it will build their confidence, too,” Parimal Bhattacharyya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith, said. The school will post questions on WhatsApp groups and students will be asked to write answers and scan the sheets and upload them. Those who cannot scan can send their answer scripts to the school. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, has decided to conduct “pre-tests” online for Class X students. “We have been conducting classes online since May and it is important for students to know where they stand,” Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya, the headmaster, said. “The reason for evaluation is not to grade them but to tell them their weaknesses and the areas they need to work on,” Sunita Sen, the principal of the BSS School, said. At Shyambazar AV School, parents will be asked to collect sealed sets of question papers and answer scripts will have to be returned to the school. “We are counselling parents to monitor the exams at home,” said Manoranjan Raptan, the headmaster of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Ex-SC judge calls out judiciary for ‘insensitivity’||Former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur has called out the judiciary for allowing 20 days to an investigative agency to respond to an 83-year-old ailing inmate’s plea for a straw and a sipper to drink water in jail. “You will recall very recently the case of one super senior citizen, an 83-year-old person who has been arrested. All that he wanted was — he suffers from Parkinson’s disease — a straw and a sipper because his hand movement is such that he is unable to hold a glass of water. All that he wanted was a straw and a sipper so that he could drink water,” Justice Madan B. Lokur said at a virtual programme on Friday. “And what does the investigating agency say? They say that ‘we need 20 days’ time to file a reply to this request’. What does the judiciary do? The judiciary says ‘all right, we will give you 20 days’ time to file the reply’. Now that is insensitivity,” said Justice Lokur. He was delivering the keynote address to mark the release of a report on the condition of transgender persons in Indian prisons, prepared by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative. Justice Lokur did not take any name. Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, 83, who was arrested last month for his alleged involvement in the Elgar Parishad case, had on November 6 applied to a special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court in Mumbai seeking a straw and a sipper cup in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where he is lodged. “I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s,” his plea said, referring to a debilitating disorder of the central nervous system. The court, whose permission is required for materials to be sent in from outside jail premises, set the next hearing for November 26. When the date came (on Thursday), the NIA told the Mumbai court that it had not taken the straw and the sipper from the activist during his arrest, as claimed by Swamy. The special court then rejected his application, following which Swamy moved a fresh application. He sought permission to use a straw and sipper as well as winter clothes inside the prison. Adjourning the matter till December 4, the court demanded reply from the jail authorities. On Friday, Justice Lokur was stressing the need to sensitise lawyers assisting the district and state legal services authorities when he broached Swamy’s case, without naming the activist. “A minister in the state cabinet said ‘give him the straw, give him the sipper’. But does something like this have to go to a minister of a cabinet? For a straw or for a sipper? These are issues where legal aid lawyers can make a difference. “I would request all the secretaries and members of the district legal services authorities and the state legal services authorities that you have to sensitise your lawyers as well. That this is something which could have been taken care of in the case of the super senior citizen on day one, rather than 20 days or for a national investigating agency to file a reply and investigate this,” said Justice Lokur. Satej D. Patil, minister of state for home in Maharashtra, had tweeted on November 7 that “necessary care has been taken regarding providing of straw and proper medical attention has also been provided as per prison rules”. At a webinar on Freedom of Speech and Judiciary in September, Justice Lokur had said free speech, including by youngsters and students, is being met with an “iron hand” by the State and thousands are being jailed for voicing their opinion against the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Biker dies, runaway bus erupts in flames near Kestopur||A bus rammed into a motorcycle and caught fire on the Ultadanga-bound flank of VIP Road, near Kestopur, on Friday morning, leaving the two-wheeler rider fatally injured. Ashok Sarkar, 38, who was headed to Ultadanga, was flung off the two-wheeler under the impact of the crash. The resident of Kestopur was taken to a nursing home, where he died in the evening, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “The victim suffered head injuries and lost a lot of blood,” said a doctor who treated Sarkar. The private bus on the Dankuni-Garia route was headed towards Ultadanga at a high speed when it rammed into Sarkar’s Bajaj Pulsar 150. “The impact was such that Sarkar was flung into the air before he landed on the road head first. He was wearing a helmet. The bike got stuck in the bus’s undercarriage,” the officer said. “The driver of the bus tried to speed off and the bike was dragged for at least 50 feet.” The driver allegedly refused to stop despite pleas from passengers, who got scared seeing sparks emanating from underneath the bus. The bus, along with the two-wheeler, caught fire as soon as it reached the base of the Kestopur flyover. “It was only when the smoke started entering the driver’s cabin that he pressed the brakes. We all ran for our lives,” said Ranjan Samanta, who was headed to Patuli. The bus had more than a dozen passengers and everyone got off safely. The driver ran away. A couple of passing motorists alerted traffic policemen at a nearby signal outpost about the accident. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate's traffic wing said they had formed a cordon around the bus and tried in vain to douse the fire by pouring bucketfuls of water on it. “By the time we reached the spot, the flames had engulfed the bus and there was dense black smoke everywhere,” said the officer. The officer said the bus had stopped at Kestopur to pick up passengers when the driver spotted another bus on a similar route behind it. “It seems the buses were racing. We are trying to get CCTV footage of the incident. A case has been started against the driver,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Art gallery on a tram from December||An art gallery on a tram will be available to artists — budding and professionals — to display their works from December. The tram will be parked at Shyambazar, Esplanade and Gariahat for a few hours for visitors, who will have to pay Rs 6 to enter. “The idea is to make art exhibitions accessible, especially to students who will be offered concessions,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). “Instead of people visiting an art gallery in one corner of the city, the tram will take art exhibitions to all parts of the city.” Officials said a tram car had been readied for this purpose by the in-house team of engineers at the Nonapukur workshop. One can book the tram for Rs 3,600 a day or Rs 6,000 for two days. Artists from schools, colleges or charitable organisations will be offered concessions — up to 50 per cent — if they hold exhibitions for a social cause. Officials said the gallery-on-wheels was a tribute to the city that has always celebrated art. “We want to present trams in different forms to the people of Calcutta,” said an WBTC official. Members of the Calcutta Tram Users Association have often held that while many cities were busy developing their heritage and culture by preserving and restoring the transport system, Calcutta seemed to be walking away from it. “Popular routes are being done away with. Why?” asked Debasish Bhattacharyya, of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Partha to meet VCs over December campus unlock||Education minister Partha Chatterjee will hold a videoconference with vice-chancellors on Saturday to discuss the prospect of reopening colleges and universities in December, a higher education department official said on Friday. Chatterjee had said on September 27 that undergraduate classes in Bengal’s government-run colleges and government-aided universities were unlikely to start before the first week of December. An official said the minister would consult the heads of state universities to find out about the possibility of reopening the campuses in December, considering that the pandemic is still raging and several states are taking a relook at the decision to reopen schools and colleges. “The Union education ministry had wanted colleges and universities to reopen in November. We pushed back the reopening to December and informed the UGC about this. Now we have to take a call on whether classes can resume in December,’’ said the official. The Tamil Nadu government had earlier announced that colleges and universities would reopen from December 2 only for research scholars and final-year postgraduate students of science and technology, revising its earlier schedule to start the reopening from November 16. The Mizoram government has decided to shut down the schools that reopened for students of Classes X and XII following a rise in the number of locally transmitted Covid-19 cases and a number of pupils testing positive for the disease. A senior official in the Bengal education department said: “We will keep all these developments in mind before taking a decision. There is a strong demand for resumption of in-person classes because classes on digital platforms are not very successful for want of access to devices or connectivity among a section of students. We have to strike a balance.” After education minister Chatterjee had said in September that classes would be held on digital platforms for some more time because of the pandemic, Raiganj University in North Dinajpur sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who could not afford them so they could attend online classes and access study materials digitally. Jadavpur University had to raise Rs 25 lakh to buy 200 students smartphones and recharge the smartphones of a substantial number of students for three months to enable them to attend the classes on digital platforms. The vice-chancellor of a state university said they were receiving petitions from students in the science streams for reopening campuses at the earliest as their studies were getting seriously affected in the absence of access to laboratories. “Students of both BSc and MSc courses want on-campus sessions to resume at the earliest,” the VC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Fishing cat beaten to death in Howrah village||A fishing cat, Bengal’s state animal, was allegedly beaten to death by some residents of a village in Howrah’s Shyampur block on Thursday. A snare was laid at Aima village, around 70km from the heart of Calcutta, apparently after some chickens reared by villagers went missing. “A fishing cat was trapped in the snare late on Thursday. Some villagers beat the animal to death on Thursday and threw the carcass into a pond,” said Subhradip Ghosh, an animal rights activist in Howrah who is associated with multiple wildlife NGOs. Ghosh said he was alerted by some residents who sent him pictures of the dead animal. “The carcass had been disposed of by the time I reached the spot,” Ghosh said. Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah, said a team was sent to the village on Thursday afternoon. “We got information from reliable sources about the killing. But we did not find the carcass or it’s remains at the village. We have started an inquiry and lodged a complaint with Shyampur police station,” he told Metro. With the latest casualty, at least eight fishing cats have been allegedly killed in different parts of the state since May. Only one arrest has been made so far, according to the forest department. Conservationists have raised the alarm over the spike in deaths. Fishing cat, baghrol in Bengali and Bengal’s state animal, is included in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It is supposed to get the highest conservation priority — akin to tigers and elephants, said animal rights activists. Killing a fishing cat can invite a jail term of three to seven years and/or a fine up to Rs 30,000. The nocturnal animal thrives in wetlands and feeds mostly on fish. Their numbers have dwindled as wetlands have shrunk and they are forced to enter human settlements and prey on fish farmed in ponds and livestock. Activists and foresters cited the Covid-19 curbs for the rise in the number of deaths and lack of arrests. “We used to conduct regular awareness campaigns on fishing cats in several areas. But the pandemic has halted everything. The lack of awareness is the primary reason behind the human-animal conflict,” said a member of the Human Environment and Alliance League (HEAL), an NGO. The size — a full-grown fishing cat is twice the size of a house cat, weighing over 15kg — and blotches and stripes on its body make many people mistake it for a leopard or a tiger cub. The fear gets stronger if livestock is lifted and people try to kill the animal. Fishing cat’s meat was sold in some parts of the state — including pockets of Howrah — till a decade ago. “A sustained campaign by foresters and wildlife enthusiasts stopped that. However, with the pandemic and an absence of strict vigilance, fishing cats are again being killed and their meat eaten,” said Tiasa Adhya, the founder of the Fishing Cat Project, a campaign for research on and conservation of the animal. On the basis of information compiled from local volunteers and residents, Adhya and her colleagues have traced alleged killings of seven fishing cats since May this year. The deaths were reported from West Midnapore, Howrah, Nadia, Murshidabad and North 24-Parganas. A wildlife official said FIRs had been lodged in most cases. “The pandemic has not only affected our work. It has also posed a problem for other agencies we coordinate with,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of the state. “With things gradually opening up, we will scale up awareness campaigns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Airport power outage affects 40 outgoing flights||The city airport’s terminal remained without regular power supply for more than 24 hours since Thursday evening and at least 40 outgoing flights were delayed, 30 of those on Friday morning. A 33kV power supply line of CESC got snapped during construction work for Metro Rail. Diesel generators were used as back up, but those were tripping frequently, which led to conveyor belts stopping, said officials. Airlines said many baggage could not be sent because of malfunctioning of conveyor belts. Water supply was affected, too, and large parts of the building were dimly lit. Airport officials said this was the longest period the terminal did not have regular power supply. The problem had started around 6pm on Thursday, when the 33kV line got damaged, and continued till late on Friday. Airport and CESC officials said it would take till Saturday morning to repair the cable and restore power supply. The airport, CESC sources said, has two points of supply from the utility, both 33kV. One of them powers the air traffic control, runways and allied infrastructure. The other powers the terminal lights, passenger facilities, escalators, elevators, conveyor belts, etc. The first point was unaffected. The second point — comprising a main feeder, an alternate feeder, a communication cable — was damaged on Thursday night. “The alert came immediately. A Metro project is underway there…. Work began on a war-footing… and has been on all night, even through the day,” said a source in CESC. He said the condition of the site was such that a drain had been overflowing and inundating the lines with water, which had been delaying work. “The cables have been lifted at the site and they have been damaged. There are marks left by an earth-mover. The second point of supply, considering its importance, has to be restored flawlessly as soon as possible,” he said. According to him, the terminal has been running on a series of generators since last night. “It is a very meticulous and delicate operation, which takes six-seven hours,” he said. A Metro official said a CESC team had temporarily shifted the underground cables from the area to facilitate Metro work had not removed all the cables. “Prima facie, it seems some cables that had not been shifted were damaged by heavy machinery during Metro work,” the official said. The Telegraph lists some of the major inconveniences faced by passengers: Airport officials said 10 diesel generator sets were being used to provide power supply to the terminal, of which six were used at a time. “Till Friday morning, the diesel generator sets were getting stalled several times, causing the conveyor belts to stop. Each time the generator sets were stopping for five minutes on an average and power supply was getting snapped, it was taking 15 minutes for the conveyor belts to start again,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the airport director. This led to slow movement of baggage and flights were delayed. “Also, the inline baggage scanning system was not functioning when the generator sets were getting stalled. Baggage cannot be scanned manually now and so we had to wait for the system to restart, causing delays in departure,” said Bhattacharya. On Friday morning, 30-odd flights were delayed between 8am and 9.30am for 30 minutes on an average, said officials. However, officials of some airlines said their flights were delayed by more than an hour. Airport sources said Air-Asia flights to Delhi and Bangalore were delayed by an hour each. Frequent malfunctioning of the conveyor belts led to mishandling of baggage, said airport and airline sources. Many flights took off leaving behind baggage to avoid further delays. One flight took off without 38 pieces of baggage, said sources. “Baggage of passengers of several arriving flights had to be manually brought from the aircraft to the carousels on trolleys. Passengers had to wait for even more than an hour to get their baggage,” said an official. “Passengers at times complained that they were not getting water. This was because the generator sets were malfunctioning and so the pumps were not functioning,” said an official. The AC system was also not working because the power supply was provided by generator sets. “Only the air circulation system is working,” said airport director Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
28-11-2020||Calcutta||New Town survey to encourage walking||The New Town authorities have started a survey to find out whether residents feel safe to walk on the township’s roads and what their concerns are while they take a walk. The survey is being carried out because Hidco, which builds infrastructure in New Town, wants real-time feedback from pedestrians and wants to encourage walking as well as cycling among residents, a Hidco official said. At least two roads have been earmarked in New Town that will be converted into pedestrian zones. One of the zones will be set up in front of Eco Urban Village and the other in front of the New Town clock tower, the official said. The residents will be sent forms that will have a variety of questions on the challenges they face while walking down a road in New Town, as well as other parts of the city. The questions range from broken pavements to the fear of teasing and snatching. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said they wanted to know from the residents what needed to be done — such as building sidewalks and setting up road infrastructure — to encourage them to walk more frequently to run errands or to their workplaces and back home. “New Town has wide sidewalks along every road in all three action areas. We want to encourage people to walk or cycle to their destinations if it is within a reasonable distance. This means a lot less pollution and a fitter populace as well,” said Sen. According to him, Hidco will also hold a design contest where residents will be asked to submit their designs of pavements as well as roads that are pedestrian friendly. The designs will then be reviewed by a committee before the best or a combination of factors from the various entries are incorporated into the planning of new sidewalks and roads. New Town has barrier-free, wheelchair-friendly sidewalks that have ramps at regular intervals. There are also bicycle-friendly pavements that have clearly demarcated tracks for cyclists. The township has 11km of cycle tracks and another 20km are being planned. In addition, another 20km stretch has been identified that will be converted into bicycle tracks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Elderly couples opting for 24-hour domestic help deals||A number of elderly couples who hire domestic help from help centres are opting for 24-hour deals to minimise the employees’ exposure to other people, a precautionary measure against Covid-19. Most of these couples, whose lives revolve around domestic help, would earlier hire help for 12 hours to manage household chores and get odd jobs done. With a rise in the number of Covid cases in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas after Diwali, most are opting for a monthly contract. While an 11-hour package costs around Rs 360 a day, a 24-hour deal costs around Rs 13,000 a month. A 24-hour contract will ensure that the help does not have to leave at the end of the day’s work and expose herself to Covid carriers. “We used to hire help for half a day. She (the help) would come around 8am, do all the household work and leave by 8pm,” said Tridib Narayan Bose of Bhowanipore. “The woman stays in Joynagar, South 24-Parganas. She has been visiting us again since the resumption of suburban trains. We have asked the agency through which we hired her for a full-time engagement and have got her tested for Covid-19.” Domestic help comprise a considerable chunk of the people who arrive in the city daily by suburban trains. Over the last few weeks, more than 800 people have been testing positive for Covid-19 daily in Calcutta, the highest among all districts in the state. North 24-Parganas follows close behind. While the arrival of domestic help from districts following the resumption of suburban trains has made life easier for elderly couples and others who depend on them, it has brought fresh challenges. A few days back, a couple in Lake Town tested positive for the coronavirus within four days of hiring a help. “All my clients are now opting for the 24-hour package,” said Narayan Maity of Bijoli Seba Centre. “They do not want to risk their lives by allowing the staff to return home at night.” Several “centres” have started screening their staff before sending them to clients. “We check the body temperature and oxygen saturation levels every day of those who are pre-booked,” said Ranjit Naskar of Sova Aya Centre of Ballygunge. A few others, however, said it was up to the clients to screen the help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
28-11-2020||Calcutta||Online training for ICSE teachers||Teachers of Classes I to VIII in ICSE schools will have to undergo online training to foster “critical thinking in students” and build their “competencies”, the ICSE council has said in a circular addressed to the heads of all affiliated schools. Some of the courses include inclusive education, art integration, health and wellbeing in schools and pre-school education. The training is part of the National Initiative for School Heads’ and Teachers’ Holistic Advancement (Nishtha), an integrated teacher training programme under a centrally sponsored scheme. “It aims to build competencies among all the teachers and school principals at the elementary stage. The basic objective of this massive training programme is to motivate and equip teachers to encourage and foster critical thinking in students,” the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had said in an earlier circular. The training comprising 18 courses started on November 23 and will continue till the end of February. A batch of three courses will be launched every 15 days. Each set of courses will be available for 15 days. On Friday, the CISCE shared the details of three courses that will start on December 1. They are on integrating gender in the teaching-learning process, integration of information and communications technology in teaching-learning and assessment, and art integrated learning. Each course requires a minimum of three to four hours’ engagement and the teachers will have the flexibility to complete the course in a “self paced manner,” according to the CISCE. The CISCE in an earlier circular had said the programme was launched in August 2019. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, Nishtha has now been customised to be conducted in an online mode… for providing training to all elementary school teachers (Classes I to VIII)...” the earlier circular by the council to the school heads had said. The school heads said the programme would benefit the teachers. “It is a good proposition because it will train teachers to transact the curriculum better and give individualised attention to the students,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. Referring to courses such as the one on art integrated learning, Sapru said “interdisciplinary learning is important and it is a progressive thought”. Another school head said: “Not all schools have the option or the facility to train teachers, who are more used to traditional forms of education. Training by the council would help teachers ‘open their minds’ to new things.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
28-11-2020||Calcutta||ICSE schools consider deferring pre-board exams||Several ICSE schools in the city are planning to defer their pre-board exams for Classes X and XII following a hint from the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) that the board exams could be deferred to end-May or June. The ICSE (Class X) and ISC exams (Class XII) usually begin in February. In many schools, the pre-boards are held over December and January, and in most they are over by the third week of January. The ICSE and ISC board exams are not likely to take place “before the end of May or in June”, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE, Gerry Arathoon, said. St James’ School will have its pre-board exams after January 15. Usually, they start in December and are over by the third week of January. “There is a possibility of the board exams being postponed and hence we have also decided to defer the pre-boards. We are yet to announce the dates,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Calcutta Girls’ High School is “contemplating” to push the pre-boards to February. They are usually held in January. St Xavier’s Collegiate School is planning to hold its pre-board exams towards the end of January or in the first week of February. “We are contemplating pushing the pre-board exams to February if the board exam is postponed,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School “It will give students more time. This is an unusual year because of online classes. Also, teachers will have more time to gauge and understand how much the children have followed. If the situation improves and the students are allowed to come to school, they will be able to perform the practicals before the exam,” said Biswas. The practicals, she said, are important not just for the board exams but also for gaining knowledge even after Class XII. Arathoon had said that the council as well as the schools would want students to go to the campuses for the practical classes and exams. “Students need time to prepare for the exams and the pre-boards are important exams for the students to prepare themselves for the finals. Teachers will have time to discuss with the students their weak areas,” said Father M. Thamacin Arulappan, the principal at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Usually, there is a gap of four to six weeks between the pre-boards and the board exams. Modern High School for Girls have not yet decided on the dates but said they would give “adequate preparation time” to the students between the pre-boards and the board exams. The school normally announces the dates of the pre-board exams after the timetable for the board exams is published. “We will give adequate preparation time to the students between the pre-boards and the boards like every year. We will also protect the dates of some of the competitive exams, like that of engineering, in the interest of the students who would want to appear for those,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of the school. Some of the schools like Loreto House and Sri Sri Academy, who have their pre-boards scheduled for January, said they would wait for an official communication from the council. “We scheduled the exams for January hoping the students might be able to come back to the campus. Now, with the recent development of the possibility of the board exams being deferred, we might defer the pre-boards, too. We are waiting to hear from the council and would also have a meeting with the teacher coordinators,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Ram Mohan Mission High School, too, is waiting for a communication from the council. “We plan to hold the pre-boards in the end of January or the beginning of February, instead of finishing off all the papers by the second week of January that we do in other years,” principal Sujoy Biswas said. The postponement might help schools conduct on-campus exams, instead of online ones, if the situation improves, a school head said. “We would prefer them to come to school if the situation permits. Students then can sit through a three-hour paper and be prepared for a board exam,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-224
