29-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta airport power restored ||Regular power supply was restored to the city’s airport terminal around 3am on Saturday. The terminal remained without regular power for 33 hours after a 33kV power supply line of CESC got snapped during construction work for Metro Rail around 6pm on Thursday. At least 40 outgoing flights were delayed because of the snag. “The repair work was completed around 2.30am on Saturday. Regular power supply was restored around 3am,” said an airport official. “We had a meeting with CESC and Metro Railway to discuss ways to secure the supply line. A team of engineers is working out the modalities to prevent a similar incident in future,” said Kaushik Bhattacharya, the airport director. After Friday morning, there were no delays in flights, the official said. Passengers said conveyor belts moved slowly for most of Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
29-11-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat bridge likely to open on December 3||The Majerhat bridge will be thrown open to traffic within the first few days of December, senior officials in Nabanna said. Though a formal announcement is awaited, several state government officials and police said the inauguration was likely to take place at 4pm on December 3. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will inaugurate the bridge. The railways and the PWD, the implementing agency for the Rs 200-crore project, have submitted a joint “safety certificate” on the bridge’s structure to the state government. A copy of the certificate was also sent to the commissioner of railway safety in keeping with the protocol. In the next few days, final touches will be given to the paint and the layer of mastic asphalt on the deck along with the lights. A final round of inspection will be carried out by senior engineers and police will be asked to draw up a traffic plan for the bridge and the four service roads around it. “The remaining work would be wrapped up within the next few days so that once the bridge is inaugurated, there are no loose ends,” a senior PWD official said. The state government’s decision to inaugurate the Majerhat bridge comes within eight days of the engineers from the PWD completing the crucial “load test” of the bridge and the Taiwanese design consultant clearing the “deflection” that were recorded because of the stress. The chief minister had on Thursday said the bridge, a portion of which had collapsed on September 4, 2018, would have been completed nine months earlier had the railways not delayed clearances. The railways submitted its clearance the next day and within the next 24-hours the government took the decision on opening the bridge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
29-11-2020||Calcutta||December classes in medical colleges||Physical classes will resume in Bengal’s medical colleges in December. The colleges will have to decide how to space out the classes and take other protective measures. “The government has informed the colleges about the National Health Commission’s recommendation that they may open from December 1. But all college authorities have to take all protective measures necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” said Bengal health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam. “We do not want the education of medical students to suffer. At the same time the colleges have to be careful about the health and safety of students, teachers and others involved.” “I think colleges will open gradually and by December 15 most places will begin classes,” he said. Metro had reported on Thursday that the Union health secretary had written to states advising that medical colleges resume classes “on or before 1st December, 2020”. Rajendra Pandey, the vice-chancellor of West Bengal University of Health Sciences, to which all medical colleges in the state are affiliated, said on Saturday that the colleges may open on different dates. “The hostels have to be sanitised. Students who live in faraway places cannot travel every day. They have to stay in hostels. Besides, the college authorities will decide which class will be held on which day. The classes have to be scheduled in a way that there is no crowding,” he said. Pandey, also a member of the National Medical Commission, said that the commission would issue guidelines or standard operating procedures that medical colleges could follow. “The SOPs are expected by December 1 or December 2,” he said. A Calcutta Medical College and Hospital student said that they had been informed by their college administration that “clinical postings” will begin from December 1. “Clinical postings are visits to wards in the presence of senior doctors and professors. As they examine patients in the wards, they also teach us. We learn while seeing them in work,” said Sutirtha Bhattacharyya, a final-year student at the college. “We will be going to the college only for clinical postings. The theory part of the syllabus  has been completed through online classes,” he said. Indranil Biswas, the vice principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said the authorities will meet next week to decide how to ask students to come to the college. Bengal recorded 3,489 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and Calcutta accounted for 893 of them. Forty-six people died of the disease in the state on Wednesday, 16 of them in Calcutta. Rajendra Pandey, the vice-chancellor of West Bengal University of Health Sciences, to which all medical colleges in the state are affiliated, said on Saturday that the colleges may open on different dates. “The hostels have to be sanitised. Students who live in faraway places cannot travel every day. They have to stay in hostels. Besides, the college authorities will decide which class will be held on which day. The classes have to be scheduled in a way that there is no crowding,” he said. Pandey, also a member of the National Medical Commission, said that the commission would issue guidelines or standard operating procedures that medical colleges could follow. “The SOPs are expected by December 1 or December 2,” Pandey said. A Calcutta Medical College and Hospital student said that they had been informed by their college administration that “clinical postings” will begin from December 1. “Clinical postings are visits to wards in the presence of senior doctors and professors. As they examine patients in the wards, they also teach us. We learn while seeing them in work,” said Sutirtha Bhattacharyya, a final-year student at the college. “We will be going to the college only for clinical postings. The theory part of the syllabus  has been completed through online classes,” he said. Indranil Biswas, the vice principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said the authorities will meet next week to decide how to ask students to come to the college. Bengal recorded 3,489 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and Calcutta accounted for 893 of them. Forty-six people died of the disease in the state on Wednesday, 16 of them in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
29-11-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur arms itself with clean chit||A research scholar at IIT Kharagpur prior to his/her return to the campus has to sign an undertaking that says among other things: “That in case of emergency, the non–availability/inadequacy of medical facilities may lead to serious consequences for which Institute and/or its authorities will not be responsible in any form”. The institute has prepared a list of 50 research scholars who will be recalled from December 1 if they sign the undertaking. The clauses in the undertaking state that the research scholar has to be mindful of the fact that the BC Roy Technology Hospital, IIT Kharagpur, provides only primary healthcare and there is no advanced medical treatment facility on the campus or in Kharagpur township. The scholars will also have to agree that they are aware of the “difficulties in availing advanced medical facility at Calcutta hospitals”. The research scholars who had vacated the campus in September following a spike in Covid-19 cases are being recalled. Out of the 4,000-odd research scholars, 50 “senior most research scholars” from the 2011-13 batches are being recalled in the first phase from December 1 to 5. An IIT official said the clauses were included to make the research scholars aware of the risks involved in rejoining the institute. One of the clauses makes a research scholar say that: “I am consciously using my discretion to travel to the IIT Kharagpur campus to urgently complete my research at my own risk”. A research scholar said the institute was seeking to wash its hands of in case of any medical emergency amid the pandemic. “We are on our own…. But as completing the research that I had to abandon is a must, I had to sign the undertaking,” he said. Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affairs, is overseeing the recall process. Contacted by this newspaper, he declined comment. Another official said: “The Kharagpur Sub-divisional Hospital near the campus and Midnapore Medical College and Hospital, about 17km away, have reached a saturation point, dealing with a rising number of Covid cases. Those who study at IIT also rely on hospitals in Calcutta for critical treatment. But distance is a matter of concern.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
29-11-2020||Calcutta||CMC halts water supply to fix leak||Several hospitals in the city had requisitioned water tanks and residents of apartments and standalone buildings ensured there was adequate water for a day in their reservoirs as the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) stopped water supply on Saturday morning to fix a breach in a pipe from the Tallah tank to Auckland Square booster pumping station. Civic engineers said the water supply had to be stopped to empty an underground pit where engineers and technicians had to enter to repair the leak, which occurred in a portion of the pipe located 25 ft below the surface. By late on Saturday, the leak in the transmission line had been fixed. Engineers of the CMC said water supply would resume from Sunday. “The breach occurred in a water pipe from the Tallah tank to Auckland Square booster pumping station near Park Street. We had to empty the line between the two places to ensure that water did not flow back into the pit from either ends,” said a civic engineer. He said the pipe was located 25 ft below surface at the point of the breach, while the same pipe had moved upwards and ran about 5 ft below the ground on its two sides. “If we did not empty the line, water would have flown back into the pit and repairs would not have been possible,” said one engineer. Civic sources said they had received multiple requests to supply water tankers to hospitals and residential apartments. Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic, said they had sent requisitions for 50 water tankers, each with a capacity of 3,000 litre. “We have requested for 50 tankers to meet our requirements,” Tondon said. A resident of a housing complex in Paikpara with 174 families said they had booked for six tankers for Sunday morning. “...This was done to pre-empt any delay in the repairs,” said the resident. A CMC engineer said, “We had to ensure there was no water in the line for a 5km stretch between Tallah and Auckland Square booster pumping station. The location of the breach is a road next to the railway tracks near Tallah railway station.” Water supply to the entire north and central Calcutta, portions of south Calcutta and Salt Lake had been cut off for the rest of Saturday after 9.30am to repair the leak. CMC engineers said it took about one-and-a-half hours to empty the line between Tallah and Auckland Square after water supply water stopped, before engineers could go down into the pit and inspect the breach. A senior engineer said the leak had been observed many months before but they could not spot the exact location of the leak. “We noticed wet roads. We could assume there was leak but was not sure of its location till the time water gushed out on the road from below,” said an engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
29-11-2020||Calcutta||Airlines again seek daily Calcutta flights from six cities||Airlines have again prodded the state government to allow daily Calcutta flights from six cities. At a meeting on Thursday, the airline operators’ committee requested the director of Calcutta airport to take up the issue with the state government once again. Flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur Chennai and Ahmedabad — the cities that have high Covid prevalence — have remained suspended since July 6 following a request from the state government. From September 1, the state government allowed flights to arrive from these cities thrice a week. Now, the flights are arriving from these cities on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. “The airlines requested me to take up the issue with the state government. I had earlier raised it with the state officials and will do it once again now,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said on Saturday. However, a senior state government official said there was no plan to resume daily flights from these cities now. “There are fresh spikes in number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat. So, we have to be careful,” said the official. Civil aviation ministry officials said some airports had restrictions like Chennai was not allowing more than a particular number of flights to operate and Mumbai had asked all passengers arriving from some cities to get RT-PCR tests for Covid done before boarding the flight. “But there are no restrictions on flights from any particular city,” said officials. An official of a private airline said they were continuing to lose revenue because of the state government decision and also facing operational problems. Airport officials said they were also facing problems because on the days when flights arrive from the six cities there was huge overcrowding causing chaos. “If the traffic was spread through the week, this chaos would not happen,” said an airport official. Now, many airlines are bringing passenger flights from these six cities with cargo on the seats and returning with passengers. “But that is not profitable. Also, these are not regular operations. When there is enough cargo we can operate a flight,” said an official of a private airline. Travel agents said the state government should find a way to allow daily flights from the six cities. “The Bengal government can make a norm that all domestic passengers arriving should have a Covid-19 negative report before boarding the flight or there should be a system of getting the test on arrival,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. The association had earlier written to the state government requesting to lift the ban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
29-11-2020||Calcutta||Joynagar Moa earns branding mojo  ||Joynagar Moa has managed to get for itself a logo that signifies its unique local identity and a recipe that defines what moa is supposed to be all about. Six years back, in November 2014, the delicate sweet made of khoi (popped rice) had bagged a geographical indication tag for its uniqueness that would be only found across two blocks of Joynagar in South 24-Parganas. Over the last few years a section of moa manufacturers have managed to do what rasogolla manufacturers are still struggling with the “Banglar Rasogolla” GI tag — create a product adhering to the original recipe that would offer a distinctive aroma and mouthfeel. With these manufacturers finally ready with their produce, a unique brand of Joy-nagar’s Moa would sell this winter. Over 20 such manufacturers from different parts of Joynagar — who have bagged the “authorised user certificate” — have come together and tied up with almost all the best selling mishti shops across Calcutta to sell Joynagar Moa, the authentic one. “Anyone can challenge the manufacturer for the authenticity of the moa that will be sold in packs of six, 10 and 12 pieces,” said Ashok Kumar Kayal of Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society, the one that had pitched for the GI tag with the Union ministry of commerce and industry. “It’s not easy producing this moa abiding by all the norms that have been laid down by the GI council. It’s a strict mix of human skill and hygiene while following the prescribed flow-chart.” A moa to be truly of Joynagar has to be between 50 and 75 gram in dry weight and must be made from Kanakchur khoi and should have at least seven ingredients including nolen gur , ghee, cardamom, khoya kheer, sugar, dry grape and cashew nut. “Anything else that sells as Joynagar Moa is not the one that has been certified by the GI council,” said Dhiman Das, director of KC Das Private Limited. “Some sweet-shop owners have come together to save this product in its original form and hence, this initiative to sell original moa.” Dhiman was among the many who had fought for the “Banglar Rasogolla” GI tag certification that came in 2017 and has now created a platform of sweet sellers known as Mishti Udyog, who would sell the branded moa from their outlets in Calcutta and beyond. Just like the uniqueness of “Banglar Rasogolla” lies in being spongy, fluffy and its smooth texture “with less chewiness”, the speciality of Joynagar Moa is the Kanakchur khoi. Kanakchur variety has a slender grain and is scented, short and bold, everything that makes it particularly suited for the uniqueness of Joynagar Moa. The origin of Joynagar Moa dates back more than a century. The year 2004 was the centennial year of ‘Moa of Joynagar’. Ashutosh Das, a resident of Das Para of Sreepur village in Joynagar had first started the moa industry in the Bengali in 1904. His son, Jawaharlal Das, used to visit the house of Rani Rashmoni at Janbazar carrying moa. Over the years, moa found acceptance as a delicate sweet and gained popularity across the globe. But the moa that would be sold across Calcutta or Bengal would not rarely meet the standards that were set down some six years back. Why? Primarily because of the detailed process that would be involved in preparing an original moa was missing. Here is how the process goes. Ten litres of nolen gur, for instance, would have to be boiled to get a litre of pure gur. Then comes preparing the khoi. There are male and female khoi. Female khoi, which are bigger in size, is not preferred for moa. They are separated out. Good male khoi are only mixed with hot nolen gur in a big iron pan. Next the khoi has to be immersed in nolen gur. The stirring has to be done with a wooden ladle. It’s a long and tedious process. Artisans would allow the mix to cool before using their cleaned hands to give the shape after smearing their palms with pure ghee. Finally, flavouring agents are added. That would in-clude sugar, cashew nuts, cardamom, ghee and dry grapes. Average weight of each moa would be between 50 and 75 gram. Area: The area of production of Joynagar Moa lies between Joynagar Block I and Joynagar Block II of the Joynagar-Mazilpur municipal area, which is around 53km south of Calcutta in South 24-Parganas Raw materials required: Khoi of Kanakchur paddy, nolen gur, ghee, cardamom, khoya kheer, sugar, dry grapes and cashew nuts. Colour: Light yellowish. Weight: Average weight of each Moa is between 50 and 75 gram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-223
