30-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcuttans march in solidarity with farmers||About 500 Calcuttans with roots in Punjab joined a rally on Sunday morning to protest the treatment meted out by the Centre and the Haryana government to farmers on their way to Delhi to voice grievances against the recently passed farm laws. The protesters, who walked from Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road to Colootolla, also demanded the Centre pass a law to prevent any attempt at abolishing the system of having minimum support prices for agricultural produce. The organisers said the march was aimed at showing solidarity with the agitating farmers who had to brave jets from water cannons, tear gas and road blocks put up by the Haryana government and Delhi police on their way to the national capital. The marchers in Calcutta wondered why farmers could not move freely in their own country to raise their voice against a law that hurt them. Some of those who walked in Sunday’s rally said they had families back in Punjab who were still into farming. Some others left their land in the custody of other farmers and have settled in the city. “There is a fear among farmers that the minimum support price (MSP) system will be done away with. It guarantees the farmers a minimum price for their produce. If a farmer does not get a good price in the market, he can sell it to the government at the MSP,” said Ajit Singh, one of those who joined the rally on Sunday. “But the farm laws passed earlier this year do not talk about MSP. So there is a fear that the government does not want MSP any longer. This will ruin farmers, who will be at the mercy of private corporations that will directly buy from farmers,” said Singh, whose family has a 14-acre farmland in Ludhiana. “We want the government to pass a law and guarantee farmers that the MSPs will stay,” said the Bhowanipore resident, who is also vice-president of the MG Road gurdwara. Members of some other communities, too, joined the march, Singh said. The demonstrators were angry at the way the BJP government in Haryana tried to prevent the agitating farmers from Punjab from reaching Delhi. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced on Tuesday that the state’s borders with Punjab would remain sealed on November 26 and 27. “The Haryana government did not do the right thing. Why cannot farmers go to Delhi to voice their demands? If political parties can protest in Delhi, why not farmers?” asked Devinder Singh Benipal, a resident of Dunlop. Benipal, who is also president of the Dunlop gurdwara, said his family had a 20-acre farmland in Ludhiana. “The farmers were peaceful but the government and police used water cannons on them, fired tear gas shells at them. Is it proper to treat farmers like that?” asked Benipal. The rally started at 11.45am. The protesters wanted to march till the BJP state headquarters but police stopped them on CR Avenue, outside the gate of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, around 1.45pm. The marchers shouted slogans such as “Modi hai hai”, “Kala kanoon wapas lo” and “Kisan union zindabad” and also burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister on CR Avenue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-221
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta: College in-person classes not now||In-person classes at colleges and universities will not resume for now as the Covid pandemic is still raging, an official in the higher education department said. Classes will continue to be held on digital platforms, the official said. The decision was taken at a virtual meeting on Sunday between education minister Partha Chatterjee and the vice-chancellors of state-aided universities. The official said they feared that gatherings on campuses might lead to students, teachers and others contracting Covid-19. On-campus classes have been suspended since the third week of March, when the nation-wide lockdown was imposed to try and slow down the spread of the disease. At an earlier interaction with the VCs in late September, Chatterjee had not said anything about when in-person classes would resume, but asked the institutions to start sanitising their campuses. “Back then we were exploring the option of reopening campuses and so asked the institutions to start the sanitisation drive. But as the conditions are still far from normal, the reopening has been put on hold,” an official said. At Sunday’s meeting, a VC said, Chatterjee pointed out how states facing a surge in Covid cases had to revoke their decision on reopening the institutions. The minister did not name the states. The Karnataka government had on Monday decided against reopening schools and colleges in December because of the still raging pandemic. The Tamil Nadu government had revoked its order of reopening schools from November 16 for Classes IX to XII. “The condition is not conducive to physical reopening of colleges and universities now,” a source quoted the minister as saying at the meeting. Bengal’s Covid mortality rate is 1.74 per cent, compared with the national average of 1.45. A VC expressed the fear that it would be difficult to monitor whether the students are maintaining physical distancing if on-campus classes resumed. “Physical reopening of institutions will entail reopening of hostels as well. It will be equally difficult to monitor whether safety protocols are being adhered to at the hostels. All these could worsen the Covid situation. So we decided against physical reopening,” said another official of the higher education department. “They (VCs) are not keen on opening the hostels now. They have sought time to start in-person classes. I will apprise chief minister Mamata Banerjee about the development,” minister Chatterjee said at a programme in Behala. It was also decided at the meeting that the first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes at state-aided colleges and universities would start on digital platforms without further delay. So far only the classes of those who are in the intermediate semesters were being held on digital platforms. To avoid any gatherings on campuses, it was decided that examinations of the students in the intermediate semesters will be held on online platforms. “As of now, it seems holding exams online is the only option,” the minister said. Several VCs asked during the meeting whether the students could be tested on truncated syllabuses, given that all chapters have not been covered in the absence of on-campus classes. “It has been left to the universities to take a call on whether they want to reduce the load of the syllabus or not,” said an official of the department. The state government has pruned the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII who will write their board exams next year as on-campus classes could not be held because of the pandemic. Holding classes on digital platforms is not emerging as a successful model for want of access to devices or connectivity among a section of students. After minister Chatterjee had advised in September that classes be held on digital platforms for now, Raiganj University in North Dinajpur had sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the state education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who can’t afford them so they could attend online classes and access study materials digitally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Deceptive Covid condition emerges ||An increasing number of Covid-19 patients are suffering from what is being called “happy hypoxia” — a condition in which a patient feels no shortness of breath even when the oxygen saturation level is sinking steadily. Usually, a Covid-19 patient suffers from breathlessness, along with fever, dry cough and exhaustion, doctors treating such patients said. Breathlessness follows infection of the lungs. “If the coronavirus causes pneumonia, the lungs struggle to send enough oxygen into the bloodstream,” said Sumit Sengupta, a pulmonologist at AMRI Hospitals. “The Covid patient at first struggles doing simple day-to-day activities and then pants even when sitting on a chair.” Patients with happy hypoxia will not have any such symptoms. But doctors said by the time they feet tightness in the chest, followed by shortness of breath, the oxygen saturation level may have dropped below 93, considered the threshold for complications. Such patients, once admitted to hospital, are immediately put on high-flow oxygen, which continues for days on end, to avert further deterioration. To avoid such complications doctors are suggesting that a Covid-19 patient repeatedly check his or her oxygen saturation level using a pulse oximeter even if there is no apparent shortness of breath. Why does this happen? Experts in respiratory illness say hypoxia usually happens when there is an inflammation in the parenchyma of the lungs. As a result of this inflammation, caused by some infections, the exchange of gases inside the lungs gets severely hampered, resulting in a feeling of breathlessness. A man from Kasba who was hospitalised with Covid-19, and is now back home recovering from the aftermath of the infection, suddenly felt shortness of breath after walking to the washroom of his cabin on the first day at the hospital. He struggled to return to the bed even though there were no apparent symptoms of breathlessness minutes before. “When I got admitted in the afternoon, I had no breathing problems. I only had a fever and an upset stomach. In the evening I suddenly developed a severe shortness of breath. I had to step out of my cabin, though that is prohibited in a Covid ward, and alert doctors and nurses,” said the man in his late 40s. Over the next few days, he had to be put on a high flow nasal cannula so that oxygen would reach his lungs fast. In case of the coronavirus infection, the blood capillaries around the alveoli (tiny air sacs in the lungs) get clogged. “The clogging of blood capillaries results in hypoxia. In case of happy hypoxia, patients don't feel any shortness of breath even though the oxygen saturation level may be going down gradually,” said Ajoy Sarkar, a critical care expert at Peerless Hospital. “Once the inflammation spreads to the alveoli, the patient slips into a critical stage. By that time the blood saturation level drops dangerously.” A large number of Covid patients in Barasat, Belghoria, Naihati and Ashoknagar, in North 24-Parganas, reported happy hypoxia. Many of these patients opted for home isolation, only to get admitted to hospital later in a critical state. “That is why we are asking patients in home isolation that if the oxygen saturation level goes below 94 per cent, he or she should immediately get admitted to hospital, irrespective of whether there is any shortness of breath or not,” said Himadri Chakrabarty, a doctor who is leading a team treating Covid patients  across hospitals in North 24-Parganas. “A pulse oximeter can really help. Say, if the difference in counts between before visiting washroom and after is more than three per cent, it’s a tell-tale sign that the patient needs to be rushed to hospital.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Steel plaques to mark houses of famous Calcuttans||The city will get its own edition of London’s blue plaque that commemorates eminent residents by installing an inscription on their houses. The only difference is that in Calcutta it will be a stainless steel plaque, while the ones in London are blue and made of ceramic. Intach, Calcutta along with Rotary 3291 installed the first of such plaques on singer-composer Pankaj Mallick’s house at 2/2 Sebak Baidya Street, off Hazra Road, on Sunday, in the presence of Trinamul councillor Debasish Kumar. The plaque, which has Mullick’s date of birth and death, reads: “The first man of Rabindrasangeet — he was the first to popularise Tagore’s songs among the masses. A renowned music composer for Indian films, he was a revered singer as well. As a radio and recording artist and as a film personality, he was extremely popular across India and internationally, his repertoire comprised songs in Bengali, Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu and other Indian languages. He also set the parameters for the Indian National Anthem.” Intach had earlier started the scheme for heritage eateries. Bhim Chandra Nag, KC Das, Mocambo, Eau Chew, Shiraz and others have an enameled blue plaque at their addresses. But for identifying the houses of eminent personalities in the city, Intach decided to go for stainless steel plaques because they are a lot easier and quicker to make. “The blue plaques for eateries are enameled plaques made at a factory that has remained shut since the Covid lockdown,” said G.M. Kapur, convenor of Intach, Calcutta. “We have been wanting something like this for the building where my grandfather lived. In the West, it is an established practice to have plaques on the houses of eminent people. So when Intach and Rotary approached me with the idea I readily agreed,” said Rajib Gupta, grandson of Mallick. Intach and Rotary will install plaques at the houses of Satyen Bose, Meghnad Saha, Tarashankar Bandopadhyay, Mrinal Sen, Uttam Kumar, V. Balsara, Jamini Roy, Ali Akbar Khan and Chuni Goswami. This will be done over three months. Intach also proposes to publish a book on 100 eminent personalities of Calcutta and hopes to set up plaques at each of their houses. London’s blue plaques are ceramic plates that are embedded on the wall of the houses of eminent people. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had unveiled a blue plaque at the house of Sister Nivedita in Wimbledon in 2017. The blue plaque scheme in London had started in 1866.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Township drive to kill engine at signal in Salt Lake||Motorists as well as two-wheeler riders who pull over at certain traffic signals in New Town and Sector V will be urged to switch off the engines in an attempt to reduce air pollution. The Bidhannagar commissionerate and Hidco, which looks after the civic amenities in New Town, will launch a fortnight-long campaign on December 1, as part of which volunteers with placards will stand at several traffic signals. The placards will bear messages asking motorists and bikers to kill their engines as soon as they stop. A Hidco official said Indian Oil, industry body Nasscom and the Sector V Stakeholders’ Association had agreed to join the awareness drive to reduce air pollution. At least five traffic signals have been chosen for the drive. They include the ones at College More and in front of Technopolis in Sector V. The other three are located on the Major Arterial Road in New Town — at Kolkata Gate and the City Centre II crossing and in front of Eco Park. “Many signals across the city have timers that display the time left for the signal to turn green. Still, a number of drivers and two-wheeler riders choose to keep their engines running while waiting at the signals,” an official said. “We have observed that drivers of cars, especially those that have their ACs on, refuse to switch off their engines when they stop at a red signal. This leads to a substantial rise in the air pollution.” The volunteers who will join the campaign are from residents’ groups and civic police. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said they wanted to reduce air pollution in both New Town and Sector V. “There are signals in New Town and Sector V that remain red for up to four minutes during rush hours. If every vehicle’s engine is turned off during the period, the air pollution level at the spot will come down drastically,” said Sen. Apart from this, several cyclothons will be organised in December and app-enabled bicycles will be showcased to encourage people to leave their cars and bikes at home and cycle to their destinations in the township and back home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Molest cuffs on bike taxi driver in Calcutta||The driver of an app-based bike taxi was arrested late on Saturday for allegedly molesting and abusing a woman passenger. Police said Dhiraj Kumar Ram was picked up from his Tiljala house based on a complaint lodged by the woman. The woman mentioned in her complaint that she had booked the bike taxi from Beleghata on Friday afternoon. She boarded the two-wheeler on Beleghata Road around 1pm. Soon after, the driver asked her to pass on directions to her destination. The woman apparently told him that she could not check the directions on the app map since she was holding two mobile phones. “The woman alleged the biker started misbehaving with her soon after she expressed her inability to guide him,” said an officer of Garfa police station, where the woman had lodged her complaint. Dhiraj rode down EM Bypass and asked the woman to get off near a petrol pump in Kalikapur, which was not her destination. The next round of trouble began when the woman offered him a Rs-100 note to pay the fare of Rs 73. The driver allegedly refused to accept the money, saying he wanted the exact amount. An altercation broke out, during which the biker allegedly abused the woman. He then returned Rs 30 to the woman and while doing so, he allegedly molested her. Before the woman could react, the biker sped off. After gathering herself, the woman went to Garfa police station and lodged a complaint. “The biker’s mobile phone was switched off throughout Friday,” a police officer said. “We could only track down his location on Saturday.” Dhiraj, 22, has been booked under the IPC sections related to outrage of modesty of women, outrage of modesty of women by means of words and gestures and stalking. If convicted, he can be jailed for up to five years. A similar incident had occurred on November 22, when the driver of an app-based bike taxi had allegedly molested a woman passenger. The woman had booked the bike to return home home from Alipore. The biker allegedly molested her and asked her indecent questions about her body and her relationship with her boyfriend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
30-11-2020||Calcutta||Free ration to 1,000 Sonagachhi women||One thousand sex workers at Sonagachhi got free ration from an NGO on Sunday. The Covid pandemic has posed a huge livelihood challenge for these women. Since March, the pandemic-induced lockdown had put most of the women out of work. The business is making a comeback but slowly and many women are still reeling under acute financial stress. On Sunday morning, volunteers of the Anti-Hunger Squad Foundation reached Sonagachhi on two mini-trucks loaded with dry ration. Each of the 1,000 women got 10kg of rice and 2kg of daal. “Many of the rooms in the buildings are locked. Many women have left the place because they could not continue paying the rent,” said Zeeshan Majid, the founder of the NGO. The foundation has been providing food to relatives of patients at government hospitals for two years. In the wake of the pandemic, the operations were scaled up and since March, the foundation has reached out to tens of thousands of people with free food. Sunday’s drive was conducted in coordination with the local police. Post-lockdown, with things gradually opening up, people are back to work. The food distribution drives across the city have come down. But many people are still struggling to make ends meet. Sonagachhi, Asia’s largest red-light district, was home to over 7,000 sex workers before the pandemic. Women from across India, and some from Bangladesh and Nepal, worked at brothels in Sonagachhi. A recent survey conducted by another NGO — Anti Human Trafficking Organisation — revealed that over 70 per cent of the sex workers wanted to leave the trade to look for new avenues of income. But most of them could not do so because of unpaid loans, taken from money lenders, brothel owners and pimps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-222
