01-11-2021||Pune||BJP stages protest against MVA not meeting Diwali deadline on compensation to flood-hit farmers||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged an agitation on Monday, to protest what it claims is an unfulfilled promise made by the Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) government, to ensure flood- affected farmers received compensation before Diwali.The BJP’s state unit president Chandrakant Patil said, “MVA promised to give compensation to farmers from Marathwada and Konkan regions before Diwali, but has not deposited it in the farmers’ accounts yet.”Patil added, “ Farmers are not getting help, ST drivers afre not getting their payments, a former home minister is absconding, but NCP leader Nawab Malik and other ministers are diverting the citizens’ attention to issues that are not important.”Patil, in particular targeted Malik, and said he should provide proof or not make baseless allegations.The BJP leader said, “The government has all the powers to do an inquiry, but instead of a legal inquiry they are approaching the media and attacking the BJP. Ideally, they should start inquiry. BJP is ready to face an inquiry. Now they are talking about an inquiry into tree planations during the BJP tenure. Do it, but even the inquiry report will accept that the BJP increased the green cover in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-stages-protest-against-mva-not-meeting-diwali-deadline-on-compensation-to-flood-hit-farmers-101635791310006.html
01-11-2021||Noida||With 18 fresh cases, dengue tally hits 443 in Noida||The dengue tally in Gautam Budh Nagar reached 443 on Monday with 18 fresh cases reported in the past 24 hours. 61 such patients are undergoing treatment in the district, said officials on Monday.The health department is also on alert with dengue cases at an all-time high in the district. According to the official data, 383 fresh cases of dengue were reported in the district in October alone. The district reported its first dengue death this year on October 19.Official data shows that Gautam Budh Nagar had reported 14 cases in 2012, 69 in 2013, zero in 2014, 176 in 2015, 17 in 2016, 13 in 2017, 28 in 2018, 40 in 2019, and 28 in 2020.“This year, there is a spike in number of dengue cases reported across districts. We have identified 18 clusters in Noida and Greater Noida where a greater number of dengue cases have been reported. Sadarpur, Chhalera, Mamura, Nithari, Barola, Chhijarsi, and sectors 5, 9, 22 and 51 have been identified as dengue hotspots in Noida; and Alpha 2, Gamma 1, Beta 1, Gaur City 1 and 2, Haibatpur, Kulesara and Surajpur in Greater Noida,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Intensive fogging drives and awareness campaigns are being carried across the district, with special focus on the identified clusters. “Total 365 teams of officials, under various authorities, have been constituted to conduct preventive action against the spread of dengue in the district. Fogging is being carried out regularly, in coordination with all the authorities, nagar panchayats and district health department. Apart from this, awareness campaigns are also being conducted to educate people about the prevention from the vector-borne disease,” Sharma added.At present, dengue testing is being done at District Hospital, Post Graduate Institute of Child Health, and Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida.Meanwhile, medical experts say that there should be a decline in the number of dengue cases reported in the district in the next fortnight.“There has been a steep rise in the dengue cases in October this year. This time, more dengue patients are suffering from high-grade fever. There are also more patients of dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome this year than in previous years. However, we are expecting a sharp fall in the number of cases being reported in the next fortnight. As temperatures go below 20 degrees Celsius (°C), bite of the Aedes aegypti mosquito -- which causes dengue -- will start becoming ineffective,” said Dr Yatendra Singh, medical superintendent of Bhangel community health centre (CHC), Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-18-fresh-cases-dengue-tally-hits-443-in-noida-101635791190548.html
01-11-2021||Noida||No let-up in dengue cases as tally nears 1,000 in Ghaziabad||There is no let-up in the number of dengue cases this season in Ghaziabad, as the overall tally since September 1 is about to reach 1,000 in the district. According to figures of the district health department, Ghaziabad on Monday reported 17 new dengue cases, taking the number of such cases to 976 in the district.Of the 976 cases, 647 (nearly 68%) have come in the month of October, the data showed. The number of dengue cases reported this year so far is the highest since 2013 when 1,622 such cases were reported, including four deaths. However, the officials said that no death has taken place due to dengue this season. Currently, 81 dengue patients are getting treatment at various hospitals in the district, the officials said.“The cases have shown an increasing trend, but we expect that the cases will decline once the temperature starts dipping. Our teams have been working for anti-larvae and anti-fogging activities. Further, a month-long door-to-door campaign is also going on to find out cases of fever,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. “So, our intent is to report every case that surfaces and take remedial action at the earliest. We are mapping dengue hot spots in the district and are expediting measures in localities which have high incidence of such cases,” Dr Gupta said. The figures also indicate that the positivity rate of the dengue cases is about 25.7%, which has resulted out of 3,731 overall tests conducted for the suspected cases. Of the total cases, 556 patients required hospitalisation with the rate of about 58%. Experts said that the dengue cases have failed to subside despite a dip in temperatures over the past week. “Many hospitals in the city are flooded with dengue patients, and surprisingly the trend is not showing any decline. This clearly indicates that not much enforcement has taken place at ground level and agencies have failed in one way or the other. Further, the testing for suspected dengue cases also needs to be increased,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). Meanwhile, Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday reviewed the dengue situation in Delhi and stressed on active coordination between the Centre and states, emphasising that a joint action plan needs to be prepared. “Many poor people are not diagnosed properly and their deaths go unreported,” Dr Mandaviya said on the need to ramp up testing. The minister directed the Union health secretary to identify and send teams of experts to states with high active caseload of dengue. He also directed that best-practices in the states need to be recorded in the subsequent review meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-let-up-in-dengue-cases-as-tally-nears-1-000-in-ghaziabad-101635791130005.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC, police chief inspect Kadiyana mining site||To keep a check on illegal mining in the district, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar inspected the Kadiyana mining site on Monday evening. Accompanied by joint commissioner of police J Elanchezhian, they took stock of the mining operations at the de-silting site and said that as per the directions of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the administration is committed to keep a vigil on illegal mining and ensure that sand is sold at the government’s fixed rate, which is ₹9 per cubic feet at mining site (excluding transportation charges). They said that joint teams of the administration and police have been formed and directed to be extra vigilant and take immediate action against those involved in illegal mining. They added that the teams will carry out surprise checking round-the-clock to ensure adherence to orders.In the morning, teams led by SDMs Dr Vineet Kumar, Jagdeep Sehgal and police officers checked the Chuhrwal, Boot and Mazarakalan sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dc-police-chief-inspect-kadiyana-mining-site-101635791012515.html
01-11-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccinations: Door-to-door process to start, teams formed||Following directions from the Central government, officials of the district health department said that survey for door-to-door vaccination of residents who are yet to take the Covid-19 vaccines will start from Tuesday.Teams comprising of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers and data entry operators will visit houses in the district and vaccinate residents. Officials said that all primary health centres in the district have conducted surveys at their level to identify people who have still not taken the vaccine and accordingly, they will constitute the teams for home visits. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “With due lists, the teams will identify people through door-to-door surveys who are yet to take their Covid-19 vaccines. After identification, the teams will sit down at common areas (similar to a camp) and vaccinate the residents. We have received instructions from higher authorities regarding door-to-door vaccination and the whole process is being chalked out.” Last week, union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had advised states and Union Territories to scale up the national Covid-19 vaccination drive with the door-to-door vaccination campaign ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ over the next month, especially focusing on covering beneficiaries due for their second dose in poor-performing districts. At present, at least 76% of the population in Gurugram district has been administered both the vaccine doses. In Gurugram, over 1.78 million people are eligible for Covid-19 vaccinations, while a total of 3.57 million vaccine jabs have been administered, according to the health department data. On Monday, 8,230 people were given the Covid-19 vaccine in the district, said officials, with 3,111 people being administered the first dose and 5,119 being given the second dose of the vaccines. On Tuesday, vaccinations will continue at the 91 centres across the district, officials said. The first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 82 centres and the second doses of Covaxin will be administered at seven centres. Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccinations-door-to-door-process-to-start-teams-formed-101635790649945.html
01-11-2021||Gurugram||MCG to mark attendance of sanitation staff using contactless biometric system||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to introduce a contactless biometric attendance system for its sanitation staff to check proxies and curb such illegal practices, officials said on Monday.The MCG’s executive engineer, Sunder Sheoran, said that the sanitation staff currently mark their attendance manually, in registers, and that often, workers send proxies or ask their colleagues to mark their attendance. In some instances, it was observed that workers who have been absent for months continued to be marked present in the registers, Sheoran said.He said that with the digital attendance system, workers will have to be present to mark their attendance. Of the 6,600 workers employed by the MCG, more than 3,500 are deputed in its sanitation wing.“In the contactless biometric attendance system, sanitation inspectors and senior sanitary inspectors will mark attendance of workers using face scanners on a daily basis. In this regard, the MCG has floated tenders for procuring the contactless biometric attendance system from a private agency, bids for which will open on November 5,” Sheoran said.Since December 2012, MCG’s sanitation staff were marking their attendance through fingerprint biometric machines. However, the system was discontinued in March 2020 following the Covid-19 outbreak and the process of marking attendance reverted to a register-based system.However, the absence of government workers from their duties as well as tampering of the attendance system, which was also highlighted by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar during a rally in Sohna on October 23, has forced the corporation to change the system, officials said.During the rally in Sohna, Khattar said that the Haryana government was going to introduce a smartwatch for all government employees, which would only work if worn by the designated employee, to track their movements during work for better accountability.Over the years, the MCG’s attempts to track movements of sanitation workers and mark their attendance biometrically has faced resistance at each turn.Last year, the MCG introduced smartwatches in a bid to find alternative ways to track and mark the attendance of sanitation workers amid complaints from residents that sanitation workers were not lifting garbage and were absent from their areas.In December 2020, the MCG distributed around a dozen GPS-enabled smartwatches on a trial basis for tracking the movement of sanitation workers. “The contactless biometric attendance system and smartwatches are designed for two different purposes. While the smartwatches track the movement of a worker, the contactless system is for marking attendance,” said Sheoran.However, the GPS smartwatch project has remained at the pilot stage so far.In August, the MCG started another pilot project wherein a multi-purpose health worker (MPHW) had to visit each municipal ward and click a group photo of sanitation workers on duty, area wise, as well as upload photos of the attendance register on a dedicated portal. However, following protests by unions of sanitation workers in September, the project was indefinitely suspended.Members of the sanitation workers’ union said that they are also against the MCG’s latest venture.“Sanitation workers are spread out. Their area of work changes on a daily basis. Hence, MCG officials will not be able to keep track and mark attendance properly. Further, MCG’s servers, even when the biometric system was operational, remained erratic due to which workers had to stand in queues for a long duration just for marking their attendance, instead of working,” said Rajesh Kumar, the district president of the Haryana Sanitation Workers Union.Kumar said that the union would also stage protests if the contactless biometric attendance system is introduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-mark-attendance-of-sanitation-staff-using-contactless-biometric-system-101635790594769.html
01-11-2021||Gurugram||Trials over, Sirhaul U-turn underpass near Ambience Mall opens||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has formally opened the underpass at Sirhaul toll plaza after conducting trials and a safety audit since October 18, officials said on Monday.Officials of the NHAI said that at present, lights are being powered using diesel generator sets and that they will be switched to a regular power supply once a connection is provided by the distribution company. The authority said that the underpass is fully functional and is being used by commuters to avoid going to Rajokri in Delhi to take a U-turn to travel towards Ambience Mall and DLF Phase-3.Saurabh Singhal, the NHAI consultant for the project, said, “The safety and movement of vehicles have been checked and now, the underpass is open for traffic. Electricity supply is being done through diesel generator sets and matter related to power connection has been taken up with DHBVN [Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam]. We have a received a proposal from the utility regarding setting up a new feeder, but we are of the view that a separate facility is not required as the load is not high,” Singhal said.He said that the authority did not hold an inauguration ceremony as the facility is a relatively small one, which forms part of a functional highway.An underpass at the border has been a longstanding demand of residents and missed several deadlines, causing severe inconvenience to those wanting to move from Shankar Chowk to Ambience Mall without travelling to Delhi. It was opened for trials on October 18.The initial deadline for the Sirhaul underpass was September 2020. Work on the underpass began on March 5, 2019; but due to a construction ban later that year due to pollution and subsequently the Covid-19 pandemic in early 2020, the project was repeatedly delayed.The length of the U-turn underpass is 377 metres, while the entire stretch, including access roads, is 1.5 kilometres long, including a 559-metre-long and seven-metre-wide service road. The width of the underpass is 14 metres and the vertical clearance of the tunnel is 5.5 metres. A speed limit of 40 kmph has been set in the facility.A 455 metre-long flyover at Shankar Chowk, which was opened earlier, was also built as a part of this project, and a speed limit of 30kmph is designated for the grade-separated flyover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/trials-over-sirhaul-u-turn-underpass-near-ambience-mall-opens-101635790593502.html
01-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram crime: Man assaulted for telling resident not to consume liquor in common area||A 48-year-old man was assaulted by a resident and his family members at Vipul Greens society in Sector 48, where he was a visitor, as an argument over consuming liquor on a dance floor located in the open on Saturday night turned violent, the police said on Monday.The victim, identified as Ravinder Kumar Sharma, a resident of Sector 7 received five stitches and is currently recovering at a private hospital.A case was registered under sections 147 (riot),149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Sadar police station. Sharma said that he was visiting the Vipul Greens society to take care of his sister’s children as she and her husband had to go away due to a death in their family. “There was Diwali mela organised in the society; my wife and I took all the children to the mela for dinner. Around 7.45pm, one of the residents entered the dance floor holding a beer bottle. There were women and children who were also at the spot and they felt uneasy, following which I requested him not to carry liquor bottle in the open area,” he said. However, the resident allegedly took offence and threatened Sharma’s life, following which Sharma left the spot and requested the security guards to ensure that the resident did not consume liquor in the open. According to the police, the resident’s mother dialled Sharma on the intercom and asked him to meet them near the lobby. As soon as Sharma stepped out of the elevator, he was hit with a sharp object and assaulted by the resident, his father and other accomplices, the police said. As Sharma collapsed, the attackers fled the spot.Aman Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that they received a call from members of the residents’ welfare association (RWA), who informed them that a person was injured and was being taken to a private hospital as he was bleeding profusely. “A team was sent to the society and the private hospital, but the victim was not in a state to record his statement. Later, we recorded statements of RWA members, security guards and others, and registered a case against the resident of Vipul Greens, his father, mother and four others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-crime-man-assaulted-for-telling-resident-not-to-consume-liquor-in-common-area-101635790592363.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||U-14 cricket tournament: GNSA beat lacklustre Crsytal Club by 208 runs||Guru Nanak Sports Academy-2 defeated Junior Crystal Club by 208 runs in a 40 over league match during the GNSA Under-14 Cricket Tournament in Jassian, Ludhiana, on Monday.After winning the toss, GNSA decided to bat and put together a giant score of 302, while losing just two wickets. After losing two wickets for 93 runs in 13.4 overs, Abhay Tewari and Dhruv smashed the Junior Crystal Club bowlers all over the ground. Abhay scored 124 runs in just 83 deliveries while scored 103 for 116.Chasing the mammoth target, the batting line up of Crystal Club junior collapsed at 94 runs, with only two batsmen able to reach the double figures.Iman Malerkotla and Yuvraj Sharma of GNSA-2 claimed five and three wickets, respectively. Arshit Arora and Karan Gill took a wicket each. Abhay Tewari was declared man of the match.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/u14-cricket-tournament-gnsa-beat-lacklustre-crsytal-club-by-208-runs-101635790591233.html
01-11-2021||Gurugram||Water supply remains muddy days after pipeline repair in Basai||Days after the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) finished shifting a pipeline at Basai village — hitting water supply for 36 hours — residents on Monday said that they are still receiving dirty water. The issue of muddy water supply was mainly reported from Malibu Town, Suncity, Sector 57 and Khandsa village.Rahul Agarwal, a member of Malibu Town Plot Welfare Association, said that since last Friday, they have been receiving blackish water. “First, the water supply was hit for around 36 hours because of pipeline shifting, regarding which the GMDA had informed residents, but since water supply resumed on Friday evening, we have been getting dirty water. The water has a foul smell too and is unfit for domestic purposes such as taking a bath,” Agarwal said. He alleged that around 2,000 residents of the society have been affected by the issue. Mona, the chairperson of development committees at Suncity residents’ welfare association, said, “Since the shifting of the pipeline, the water supply has been muddy, but authorities have said that it will improve in another 48 hours. Initially, 60% of the water was muddy, but now, it has reduced to around 35%.” An official associated with the GMDA’s water supply, who did not wish to be named, said, “When a pipeline of such a scale is shifted, mud and soil automatically fall and accumulate in the pipeline, due to which the supply gets impacted. The water gets cleared out with pressure over the course of days.” On October 22, the GMDA issued a notice stating that due to work on shifting a master water supply pipeline, which was required for completion of master road in Basai village, water supply would be hit for 36 hours from the midnight of October 27. During the shutdown, water supply to villages of Chandu, Budhera, Dhankot, Gadholi, Sectors 37C, 37D, 44-74, DLF- V and DLF Phase-I (D), among other areas, was affected. Meanwhile, officials said that chlorination has been increased to ensure that there are no bacteria in the water. “When the work was being done, there was light rain, due to which some mud went into the pipeline and it is being checked regularly. Almost 90% has been cleared out, but to avoid any bacteria so that diseases are not spread, we increased the chlorination process in the water at our boosting station,” said Abhinav Verma, an official associated with the operation and maintenance department of the water supply division of GMDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/water-supply-remains-muddy-days-after-pipeline-repair-in-basai-101635790590061.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab State Education Board to impose fee on students for hard copy of board results||Students of government and private schools affiliated to the Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) will now have to pay a fee to get hard copies of the passing certificates of their board exams.As per a recent PSEB order, students of Class 8 will have to pay ₹100, while those from Classes 10 and 12 will have to shell out ₹300 for the hard copy of the certificate, which is essential for them to get admission into the next class or to migrate to another school.According to the officials, the PSEB head office used to earlier send the certificates of the students to its board office at Punjabi Bhawan in the city.“School representatives used to collect the certificates from the board office here, which were given to the students for free. Now, the board won’t send hard copies to Punjabi Bhawan, but the results will be uploaded online and the school in-charges will provide the hard copy to the students after charging the decided fee,” said an official.A lecturer at a government senior secondary school said that parents of many students are reluctant to pay the fees and moreover, it is ethically wrong to charge from Class 8 students under Right to Education.“There are many parents who are unable to pay the admission fees and registration charges at the moment due to poor financial conditions amid the pandemic. Now, this has added to their burden. Many students have refused to pay the fee, but they will at some stage require the hard copies, during job interviews or for admission purpose,” said the lecturer.The principal of a government secondary school stated that the board has set a very nominal fee for the passing certificates, but students of private schools affiliated to the PSEB may be overcharged.“The government schools will charge the fee in accordance with the rate decided by the board, but many private schools may overcharge the students. There has been a lot of hue and cry related to overcharging by the private schools in the past”, told the principal.According to the sources PSEB is likely to increase the fees for the duplicate mark sheets or the passing certificates. For now, in case a student loses his/her passing certificate, the board charges ₹800 to issue a duplicate copy.“A meeting was held recently, where it was hike in fees to ₹1,000 was proposed for the issue of duplicate certificates. The order regarding the same may be issued soon,” revealed a senior official.District education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra said, “We have to follow the orders of the board and nothing can be done in this regard at my level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-state-education-board-to-impose-fee-on-students-for-hard-copy-of-board-results-101635790475248.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tytler’s appointment to Delhi Congress: Cong rubbing salt on wounds of Sikhs, says SAD||Lambasting the Congress for appointing Jagdish Tytler, one of the main accused in 1984 anti-Sikh violence, as permanent invitee to the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) burnt the effigy of Tytler, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and chief minister Charanjit Channi near Bharat Nagar Chowk on Monday.The SAD and Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders alleged that Congress has always tried to create a divide between Sikhs and Hindus in the country and this move has uncovered its anti-Sikh side yet again.Former cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal, SAD district president Harbhajan Dang and YAD district presidents Gurdeep Gosha (urban) and Prabhjot Dhaliwal (rural) among others were present during the protest. The leaders also slammed the Union government over rising fuel prices.Gosha and Dhaliwal said that the congress should apologise for the 1984 massacre, but it is rubbing salt into the wounds of the Sikhs. They also slammed CM Channi for his silence on the Tytler’s appointment.Protest leads to traffic chaosThe protest by SAD leaders led to traffic jams near Bharat Nagar Chowk. Though the protest was held at the side of the road, it resulted in a bottleneck, which disturbed the movement of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tytlers-appointment-to-delhi-congress-cong-rubbing-salt-on-wounds-of-sikhs-says-sad-101635789330007.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC stays BMC’s cycle track around Powai lake||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday has restrained the BMC from constructing a 10-km cycling track bordering Powai Lake till November 18 after it was informed that such activity would violate wetlands guidelines and rules. The grievance raised by students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B) through a public interest litigation (PIL) has stated that such a track would harm the wetlands ecosystem as well as disrupt the natural flora and fauna associated within the lake and hence the same should be stopped. However, the BMC, refuted the claims made in the PIL and stated that it was a manmade reservoir and hence the area surrounding the lake would not come under the purview of wetland guidelines and rules. The court has asked the state to ascertain the claim of BMC and asked both the state and BMC to file their replies within a week and posted hearing of the PIL on November 15. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade, while hearing the PIL filed by Omkar Supekar and Abhishek Tripathi, both PhD research scholars at IIT-B, was informed by advocate Rajmani Varma that the Powai lake was the habitat of the Indian marsh crocodiles and permitting the cycle track project would have an adverse impact on the crocodiles. Varma further submitted that the project was opposed by activists, environmentalists and local citizens and the issue was opposed by BJP councillors in the BMC. The PIL stated that till the information on the cycle track project was made available in the public domain and was followed by a public hearing, the site should be restored to its original form with immediate effect. The petitioners also sought creation of an online platform for dissemination of information on wetlands and timely reports of proposed projects and redressal of citizen grievances in a specific time frame. The PIL has also stated that in 2009, the Supreme Court had passed a judgement that had stressed on safeguarding wetlands and hence sought directions to the BMC to comply with it. The PIL also sought documents that indicated the lake had been denotified, thus permitting reclamation and construction on the ecologically sensitive and fragile Powai wetland. However, senior advocate Aspi Chinoy and advocate Joel Carlos, for the BMC, opposed the PIL and said that it was misconceived and the lake was a manmade reservoir and hence did not fall under the purview of wetlands. Chinoy added that the project was in public interest and there was no violation of rules governing such reservoirs. The court was also informed that the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which is the appropriate authority for such issues, was seized of the matter. When the bench sought to know from the state whether the claims of BMC were valid, additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan, for the state, sought time to take instructions. The bench then directed both the state and the BMC to file affidavits in reply and stayed the construction till November 18. The PIL is expected to come up for hearing on November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-stays-bmc-s-cycle-track-around-powai-lake-101635789276117.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis shielded drug cartel, alleges Nawab Malik; former CM retorts||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Monday tweeted separate pictures of Jaydeep Rana, an alleged drug peddler, with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and his wife Amruta Fadnavis. He also claimed that drug peddlers received protection under the previous government led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Fadnavis refuted all allegations and said he will “expose Malik’s links with the underworld” after Diwali. Malik claimed on the microblogging site Twitter that Rana, who is currently jailed, has good relations with Fadnavis and that it was Rana who funded ‘Mumbai River Anthem’, a song for which Amruta lent her voice along with Bollywood singer Sonu Nigam. He also linked Sameer Wankhede, zonal director, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) with Fadnavis, claiming that it was the former chief minister that brought Wankhede to Mumbai. “Jaydeep Rana is linked with Devendraji,” Malik claimed. “When Fadnavis was chief minister, his wife Amruta released the music video in February 2018. The former CM, then finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, then Mumbai police commissioner Datta Padsalgikar and then Mumbai municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta had also featured in the video.” Malik added, “It was directed by Sachin Gupta, the creative head was Manish Khanka and the finance head was Jaydeep Rana. Claims that anyone can take a picture when you are in public life will not work in this case. There is also another picture where both (Rana and Devendra Fadnavis) can be seen together during Ganesh Chaturthi. I don’t know who visited whose residence then.” Rana’s name was taken off the music video’s credits list from YouTube on Monday, soon after the allegations surfaced.Devendra Fadnavis, now Maharashtra’s leader of opposition, hit back at Malik and said he will reveal the NCP leader’s underworld connection. “Malik has levelled baseless allegations against me and my wife. The accused (Rana) arrested a few days ago was engaged by River March for their social drive and it has already been clarified. The accused had nothing to do with us; we were just helping them in a social cause. The accused had taken pictures with me as well, but Malik is intentionally targeting my wife. It shows their culture,” he said. Malik countered, saying, “The matter is not limited to this. It relates to a major drug business, and Fadnavis’ role in it needs to be probed… We are not questioning the photographs, but the music video’s funding. We demand an investigation either through a judicial commission or by the CBI.” Malik’s other charge pertains to a certain Niraj Gunde’s alleged frequent visits to the NCB office in Mumbai. “Why is Fadnavis’ frontman Niraj Gunde frequently visiting the NCB office,” Malik asked. “Why were people close to BJP let off by NCB? Fadnavis knew everything. Some drug peddlers were also associated with BJP and I will expose their names one by one. I feel that a drug cartel used to run under his (Fadnavis’) protection,” Malik said. Fadnavis said that what Malik revealed on Monday “is just a minor firecracker,” and that he (Fadnavis) will “burst a bomb against him after Diwali”. “I will prove his (Malik’s) underworld links after Diwali,” Fadnavis said. “Malik is trying to pressure the NCB by levelling allegations so that the chargesheet against his son-in-law (Sameer Khan) is rendered weak. However, the NCB will not buckle under any pressure. The law will take its course,” he added. Fadnavis said that he knew Neeraj Gunde, but added that he has not committed any offence. “He is being targeted because he keeps exposing NCP on social media. It’s not just me, but even chief minister Uddhav Thackeray shares cordial relations with Gunde,” Fadnavis said. Amruta Fadnavis said that the creative and technical staff members for the music video were “outsourced” and that “it was a noble cause for which she lent her support as a social activist.” “River March approached me to participate in a project to rejuvenate four Mumbai rivers that have been reduced to nullahs,” Amruta Fadnavis said. “It was due to our effort that the BMC took some steps for the rejuvenation. All of us worked without remuneration. Instead of appreciating good work, we are being targeted. We are being dragged into politics. Only ‘Bigade Nawab’, his boss or superboss will be able to tell the reason behind this politics.” Amruta Fadnavis said that if the name Rana has been taken down from the video, there was nothing wrong in doing so if they have realised that he was a negative person. “It was because of our efforts that the BMC took some steps for river rejuvenation. All of us worked without any remuneration. Instead of appreciating good work, we are being targeted. We are being dragged into politics. But, we will continue to do social work. Only ‘Bigade Nawab’, his boss or superboss will be able to tell the reason behind this politics,” she said. Amruta Fadnavis said that if the name Rana has been taken down from the video, there was nothing wrong in doing so if they have realised that he was a negative person associated with. “River March approached me for this project for the rejuvenation of four Mumbai rivers which were reduced to nullahs. It was because of our efforts that the BMC took some steps for the rejuvenation. All of us worked without any remuneration. Instead of appreciating good work, we are being targeted. We are being dragged into politics. But we will continue to do social work. Only ‘Bigade Nawab’ , his boss or superboss will be able to tell the reason behind this politics,” she said. Political analyst Hemant Desai said Malik’s allegations are farfetched. “I don’t think the former chief minister (Devendra Fadnavis) can be linked with Jaydeep Rana because while working on a project it is difficult to conduct background checks of all the people involved directly or indirectly. Similar allegations were made when RR Patil was the home minister after his picture with a person with a criminal background went viral. Patil had said that the background of each and every person is not possible while attending a public event,” Desai said. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said Malik will have to face dire consequences for dragging BJP and Fadnavis into this controversy. “Ever since the new (MVA) government was formed, Fadnavis’ frontman Niraj Gunde has been visiting offices of all central agencies right from enforcement directorate (ED), central bureau of investigation (CBI), income tax (I-T) and narcotics control bureau (NCB), money is being taken for transfers. “Big drug peddlers such as Kashiff Khan were let off by NCB. Rishabh Sachdeva, Amir Furniturewala, Pratik Gaba are also allowed to go, I believe the entire drug business is following Fadnavis’ instructions. Who is Gaba? Why was he let off by NCB, in which hotels does he organise parties? The rate of each table is in lakhs. Gaba is the main character in this game, he is the mastermind of the drugs business,” he said. Malik also claimed that Fadnavis ensured Wankhede is transferred to NCB, Mumbai linking their relations. “Fadnavis got Wankhede transferred to Mumbai NCB. He was brought in to frame innocents so that drug cartels can be run easily in Mumbai and Goa. Fadnavis was deciding what agency will investigate which case; who should be framed in a fake case, etc. It appears that his motive was to earn money.” NCP’s MVA partner Shiv Sena said it supports Malik’s allegations against Fadnavis. Sena leader Sanjay Raut assailed the BJP saying it is indulging in unethical practises to gain political mileage. “An impression is being created that we have large scale cultivation of opium and marijuana. There was a false case filed against Nawab’s son-in-law,” Raut said. “We firmly stand behind him.” ‘When are you going to bomb Pakistan?’Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took a pot shot at Fadnavis without naming him while referring to his statement about “bursting bombs after Diwali.” “There is no need to wait for Diwali to burst a political bomb. Some people have said that they are going to burst a bomb after Diwali, but my question is when are they are going to bomb Pakistan. We are eagerly awaiting that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-shielded-drug-cartel-alleges-nawab-malik-former-cm-retorts-101635788971718.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||DPS Khanna players shine in golf tournament||Shaan Singh and Ekamjot Kaur of Delhi Public School, Khanna, brought laurels to the institution by winning in their respective categories at the Delhi Public School Junior’s Open Golf Tournament on Monday. A total of 64 children from various schools and golf teaching centres participated. Shaan, playing in Category-B, completed the nine holes in 30 shots, beating Gobind Deep Singh who took 31 shots and Sanampreet Singh who took 32 shots. In the girls’ category, Ekamjot Kaur beat Nisha of SK Centre Rahon and Rekha Mehra of Government High Secondary School, Rahon. Kaur completed the nine holes in 27 shots, while Nisha took 34 shots and Rekha took 41 shots. In the senior division, Harvinder Kumar (28) was the winner. Sanjiv (30) secured the second spot and Harvinderjit Singh (32) was the second runner up.Ekash preet won the ‘putting’ Under-11 category championship, while Alamjit was the first runner up and Gurbaaz Singh bagged the third spot.In the U-15 ‘putting’ competition, Paramvir Singh bagged the title, while Paras Manku was the first runner up and Manik secured the third spot.Meanwhile, Nigam won the chipping competition, while Bhramjot bagged the second spot and Mohit retained the third spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dps-khanna-players-shine-in-golf-tournament-101635788910286.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khelo India games: Football trials for Punjab team conclude||The final football trials for the selection of the state team that will take part in the fourth edition of the Khelo India Youth Games concluded on Monday at Guru Nanak Stadium.A total of 96 players participated in the final trials, out of which 22 players were shortlisted by the district sports department, Ludhiana.The Ludhiana sports department had on Saturday hosted the trials for the girls’ and boys’ teams of kabaddi and basketball and boys’ state teams for football and handball, in which 896 athletes had participated. As many as 421 boys had participated initially.The Khelo India Games will be held from February 5 to 14, 2022, in Panchkula, Haryana.Meanwhile, the local sports department on Monday sent the lists of the selected players in all four sports disciplines to the sports director Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khelo-india-games-football-trials-for-punjab-team-conclude-101635788791069.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Pay additional ₹2 lakh to acid attack victims: Bombay high court to Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court has directed the state to pay an additional ₹2 lakh each to three acid attack victims of 2010 after it was informed that though a compensation amount of ₹3 lakh had already been paid to the victims under the Maharashtra Victim Compensation Scheme, the victims needed help to undergo continuous treatment. A division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice Madhav Jamdar while hearing the petition of three acid attack victims was informed by lawyers Anu Kaladharan and Anjali Helekar that the victims who had been attacked in 2010 were deemed eligible for compensation and had received ₹3 lakh towards it from the state. The amount the advocates submitted was the maximum amount payable under the scheme till the scheme was amended in 2017. Under the amended scheme, the amount was increased to ₹5 lakh and was made applicable to victims from December 2009. The court then held that in light of the Supreme Court direction to pay acid attack victims a minimum compensation amount of ₹3 lakh the state should pay an additional amount of ₹2 lakh to the victims within two weeks and also kept all contentions open for the petitioners and posted hearing of the petition to December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pay-additional-2-lakh-to-acid-attack-victims-bombay-high-court-to-maharashtra-government-101635788129830.html
01-11-2021||Pune||PUMTA plans alternate routes ahead of SPPU flyover construction||PUNE: The Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (PUMTA) has planned various measures to ensure the smooth flow of traffic at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk once construction of the proposed multilevel flyover along with the third metro line begins.Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on October 26 chaired a meeting with the authorities of various agencies including PUMTA when a detailed plan was discussed for traffic diversion, opening of alternate routes, broadening of roads, and relocation of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus stops on Ganeshkhind road which have been riddled with traffic jams. “We conducted a meeting of PUMTA and discussed measures to ensure the smooth flow of traffic. A draft comprising various measures has been prepared,” said Rao on Monday. PUMTA has approved two circular routes proposed by the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The first is from Senapati Bapat chowk (Ganeshkhind road) to Dhotre path to Vitthalrao Tukaram Bhosale chowk to Senapati Bapat road to Senapati Bapat chowk (Ganeshkhind road). The second is from University chowk to Pashan road to Abhimanshri road to Baner road to University road. PUMTA has also asked civic and related authorities to open and prepare alternate roads for traffic movement through this area. This includes opening DP road through Sindh society to connect Baner and Aundh; opening Ganesh galli road towards the university for four-wheelers; allowing general traffic towards Khadki railway station and range hill through the university campus and so on. PUMTA has directed other agencies as well to prepare and broaden roads. Ahead of the construction of the flyover, the location of PMPML bus stops is likely to change. Also, movement of heavy vehicles on Ganeshkhind road, which is currently allowed between 10pm and 6am, could be completely stopped once construction begins. The previous flyover at University chowk was demolished more than a year ago to erect a new multilevel flyover along with the third metro line. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and PMRDA had given their nod for this. A year since the demolition of the old flyover however and construction of the multilevel flyover has not yet started. University chowk lies on the busiest routes in the city and commuters almost always face traffic woes here. Earlier, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said in Pune that construction of the multilevel flyover at University chowk would begin soon after Diwali. He had also directed PUMTA to design a plan to ease traffic congestion when construction work began. However as of now, no specific date for commencement of work has been declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pumta-plans-alternate-routes-ahead-of-sppu-flyover-construction-101635787950205.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||Zika virus: Surveillance intensified, 100 teams formed to screen pregnant women in Kanpur||After the detection of 11 Zika virus cases in Kanpur since October 23, the state health department has sounded an alert across districts and intensified surveillance under its infectious disease control campaign to identify cases of infection, including Zika virus disease, in the early stages, officials said.Besides, the health department in Kanpur has formed more than 100 teams of auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), Ashas (accredited social health activists) and health department employees to locate pregnant women and screen them thoroughly, said Dr GK Mishra, additional director (health) of Kanpur division.The decision for the screening was taken after 400 pregnant women out of a population of 52,000 were found extremely vulnerable to the Zika virus in south-east Kanpur, according a statistical analysis by the health department in the last one week.As of now, the medical teams have taken samples of 106 pregnant women and sent them for tests.The health department in Kanpur did the analysis under the guidance of specialists sent from Delhi and Lucknow.Intensifying surveillance is in consonance with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directive to officials to increase focus on the infectious disease control.“The health department must ensure strict surveillance to check the spread of the Zika virus and should undertake frequent and extensive door-to-door sanitisation and fogging drives to stop breeding of mosquitoes,” the chief minister instructed officials, a state government spokesperson said in a press statement.At present, Kanpur has 11 active cases of the Zika virus disease and one of them is a pregnant woman, who is being monitored round the clock.The Zika virus causes microcephaly and Gaullion Barre (GB) syndrome in pregnant women. Microcephaly is a birth defect in which the growth of the baby’s head is affected.Studies have shown, Dr Mishra said, that 5% to 14% of the pregnant women infected with Zika virus have given birth to children with signs of the congenital Zika symdrome, which causes issues with brain development and vision.GB syndrome is an uncommon illness of the nervous system in which a person’s own immune system damages the nerve cells, causing muscle weakness and sometimes it leads to paralysis.“Several countries where the Zika virus has been experienced have reported an increase in the number of people with GB syndrome,” he said.For his part, Dr Vedvrat Singh, Uttar Pradesh’s director general medical health, said on Monday evening, “We are conducting the infectious disease control campaign in the state and all health staff have been briefed about the Zika virus cases and asked to keep a watch in their respective areas, though no other district, apart from Kanpur, has reported Zika virus cases till now.”“The staff has been asked to report and get tested all fever cases irrespective of the reasons and medical history,” said Dr Singh.Experts are also discussing the question whether the Zika virus was prevalent in Kanpur for long.“Virus may have been here in Kanpur for long and has come to light now,” Dr GK Mishra said, adding this notion gets strength as the patients testing positive for this virus now are largely asymptomatic.Malaria control teams are carrying out a comprehensive campaign to destroy mosquito breeding points in a three km area in Kanpur’s Chakeri area.The area within a three-kilometre radius of the place where the first case was reported has been divided into clusters—each is being combed by the health teams with a clear brief to trace pregnant women, test and monitor them along with the patients of fever, said Kanpur district magistrate Vishakh G Iyer. “Zika is a mosquito-borne virus and is caused by the same mosquito that causes dengue. Hence if prevention and surveillance methods of dengue are followed strictly or intensified, Zika can also be controlled,” said Dr Sheetal Verma, senior faculty at department of microbiology at King George’s Medical University in Lucknow.In Lucknow, over 4000 staff members are conducting surveillance.The first case of the Zika virus in Kanpur was confirmed on October 23 this year. An Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer suffering from fever was admitted in the Air Force hospital where the doctors decided to go for further tests. His samples were sent to SGPGIMS (Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences) in Lucknow, where it was confirmed that he was infected with the Zika virus.Thereafter, two more IAF personnel tested positive along with eight others.Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of an infected Aedes species of mosquito named Aedes aegypti. According to World Health Organisation, the Aedes mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon or evening.In normal course, the symptoms of the Zikus virus disease are mild fever, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain and rashes.The health department has sent two batches of mosquito samples from Kanpur to the National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR) for a genetic study in the past one week. These mosquitoes were caught inside the IAF station in Kanpur and the other localities from where the Zika virus cases have been reported.The health department on Monday issued an advisory for people and hospitals in Lucknow for the prevention, identification and treatment of Zika virus cases.A suspected Zika virus case will include a person who has returned from a country where Zika virus cases were reported within two weeks’ time, a patient having fever and (red) rashes on skin, high fever, pain in muscles or joints, red eyes (non-purulent conjunctivitis or Conjuctival hyperacmia) and headache.“The prevention of Zika virus cases shall be done via regular vector surveillance and integrated management, surveillance and elimination of sources of mosquito breeding,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, the chief medical officer of Lucknow.Fish that eat mosquito larva shall be put in places where mosquito breeding is spotted. Mosquito surveillance would be done, said the advisory for the medical staff. “For people, the best way to stay safe is to avoid mosquito bite. Though Zika virus case has not yet been detected in Lucknow or any other district apart from Kanpur, it is advisable to stay safe. Hence remove all sources of mosquito breeding, which can take place in just a spoonful of stagnant water,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.During the day, Lucknow reported 34 fresh dengue cases from different areas, including Chinhat, Malihabad, Indira Nagar, Alambagh, Kakori and Aliganj. Health teams visited different localities and educated people about using mosquito nets while sleeping and to cover the body adequately while moving outdoors. Notices were served on owners of 12 houses after the teams spotted stagnant water on their premises.Meanwhile, the microbiology department of the Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College in Kanpur has issued an alert, fearing a rise in the cases of Zika virus disease and dengue in November.The GSVM Medical College’s microbiology department has said in the alert that the larva of the Aedes mosquito would continue to be found in November.“The climatic condition and temperature is conducive,” said Vikas Mishra, associate professor of microbiology at the medical college.“Everyone needs to be in a state of high alert, the Aedes mosquito can speed up the circulation of the Zika virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zika-virus-surveillance-intensified-100-teams-formed-to-screen-pregnant-women-in-kanpur-101635787771012.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Air quality deteriorates in Mumbai as winter approaches||With the winter approaching, air quality in the city touched 188 (moderate) on Monday, up from 155 the previous day, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). PM2.5 (tiny respirable particles less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter) was noted as the day’s primary pollutant by the CPCB. An AQI between 100 and 199 is considered ‘moderate’, while between 50 and 99 ‘satisfactory’ and below 50 is considered ‘good’. AQI in excess of 200 is considered ‘poor’, above 300 ‘very poor’, above 400 ‘severe’ and above 500 ‘severe +’. As per the CPCB’s national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS), ‘moderate’ air “may cause breathing discomfort to people with lung disease such as asthma, and discomfort to people with heart disease, children and older adults”. A fortnight ago, on October 15, Mumbai’s air quality stood at 141, and has been consistently rising. Experts said the spike in airborne pollutants is typical at this time of year, due to falling temperatures and slower wind speeds. “Till the first week of October, air quality was ‘good’ to ‘satisfactory’ because of rain, which washes pollutants out of the air, and high wind speeds which disperse them,” said Gufran Beig, meteorologist with IIT-M’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). In the last week, Beig added, the city has seen a slowing down of “local winds”, with speeds not exceeding above 10kmph in most parts of the city. During the monsoon, the winds can travel with speeds well over 20kmph. “To add to this, the temperature is also dropping as winter approaches. Warm air rises, and with it pollutants also settle higher in the atmosphere. But when air is cooled, it reduces the height of the ‘inversion layer’, which is the part of the atmosphere where temperature stops decreasing with height. This in turn reduces the ‘mixing height’ of airborne pollutants and settles them much closer to the earth’s surface, so much so that the air around us can start turning hazy,” Beig said. An unseasonal bout of rain is expected over Mumbai towards the end of this week, which may bring some respite from rising pollution levels. An official with the India Meteorological Department’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai said that a low-pressure area may form over the Arabian Sea by Friday. “It’s hard to predict now but most parts of west Maharashtra coast could get rain for a day or two. Heavier showers may be felt in the south Konkan, but for Mumbai also there is a chance of rain,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-quality-deteriorates-in-mumbai-as-winter-approaches-101635787769745.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Tigers, penguins main attractions on Day 1 of zoo reopening in Mumbai||The Veermata Jijamata Bhosale Udyan, better known as Byculla Zoo, reopened on Monday to 1621 visitors, seven months after it restricted public access on account of the Covid-19 second wave in April. Authorities said the zoo’s two Royal Bengal tigers – Shakti and Karishma – were the main attractions on Monday, followed by the two Humboldt penguin chicks. One of the chicks, a male, is named Oreo. The second chick’s gender is yet to be determined. Oreo was born to Donald and Daisy on May 1 this year, while the second baby penguin’s parents are Molt and Flipper, and was born on August 19. Shakti and Karishma were brought to Mumbai from Aurangabad in February 2020, a month before India announced a nationwide lockdown. They are kept in a 3500 sq m tiger enclosure that replicates conditions at Ranthambore National Park at Rajasthan, including its flora, landscape and terrain.Monday’s reopening generated ₹68,725 in ticket revenue. In February 2021, on Day 1 of the earlier reopening, the zoo had attracted 1,419 visitors.Dr Sanjay Tripathi, director of the zoo, said, “Monday’s visitor-count of 1,621 does not include children below three and senior citizens. The zoo had between 4000 and 5000 daily visitors prior to the pandemic. This dropped to 3,000 during weekdays between first and second waves. The number of visitors will increase over the weekend.”In addition to animal enthusiasts, the zoo also gets its share of morning and evening walkers. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, only morning walks are allowed between 6am and 8.30am. The zoo timings are between 9.30 am and 6 pm with an entry fee of ₹50. Last week, BMC had appealed to children and senior citizens to avoid visiting the zoo on account of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tigers-penguins-main-attractions-on-day-1-of-zoo-reopening-in-mumbai-101635787289790.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Unaided junior colleges in Pune struggle to survive due to low number of admissions||PUNE: Following the completion of regular, special and first-come-first-serve (FCFS) rounds for Class 11 online admissions for this academic year, a total 39,663 seats continue to remain vacant in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad region. A total 90,452 students registered this year for the admission process out of which 73,662 were admitted. This in turn adversely impacted junior college teachers not on the payroll as they now face uncertainty regarding employment. The teachers have alleged that some non-aided colleges have even started removing extra staff as there have been very few admissions done this academic year.While this year, the Class 10 passing percentage rose 4.65% than that in 2020 to reach 99.95%, student registration remained low as compared to the seats available namely 113,325. As reported by HT earlier, many students opted for a break from Class 11 admissions resulting in a larger number of seats remaining vacant. There were hardly any admissions in several colleges, especially unaided junior colleges. Hence, the administration of these colleges/institutions decided to close down Class 11 divisions and ultimately pare down faculty staff. Already due to the Covid-19 pandemic, faculties have had to choose alternate sources of income with some returning to their villages, others doing odd jobs, and still others doing healthcare-related jobs.Santosh Fasage, secretary of the Junior College Teachers Association, Maharashtra state, said, “The low number of Class 11 admissions this year has drastically impacted junior college faculties as most colleges, apart from prominent ones, did not get enough admissions. And now many of the faculties have been removed from work or have not been given salaries as there are no students to teach. During the Covid lockdown period, our faculties worked at petrol pumps, hotels and did all kinds of odd jobs to support their families. Now when the colleges are finally reopening, there are not enough Class 11 students to teach and the faculties are losing their jobs.”Kishore Jaybhay, a faculty who recently lost his job, said, “I was working in a junior college for the last seven years but this year, only 35 admissions were carried out in the college. With only one division required to accommodate these students, we are removed from our jobs and am now working at a tax consultant’s office since the last month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unaided-junior-colleges-in-pune-struggle-to-survive-due-to-low-number-of-admissions-101635786449599.html
01-11-2021||Pune||State health department’s recruitment exam paper leaked: Cyber cops begin probe after plaint||PUNE The Pune cyber police department has now begun an inquiry into allegations that a question paper of the state health department’s recruitment examination, held on Sunday, October 31, was leaked. Rahul Kawthekar, an aspirant from Pune, has made a written complaint with what he claims is proof about the paper being leaked out before the exam.The state health department’s recruitment examinations were held on October 24 and 31 for Group C and D posts. At least 800,000 students had registered for the exam. “We have all the evidence about the paper being leaked for the examination on Sunday. Early in the morning some of aspirants got the paper with answers on their social media. When we came to know about it, we immediately raised the issue with the state health department officials and Pune police. Yesterday our written complaint in this regard has been taken by the Pune cyber police and we hope to get justice,” said Kawthekar. The state government has outsourced the conducting of the exams to Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL). Earlier, the same recruitment examination was scheduled for September 25-26. As NCPL could not make the necessary arrangements and students faced several technical issues, the exam was canceled. Then, on Sunday, October 24, several examination centres faced mismanagement like not the question papers nor reaching in time, wrong allocation of papers, no proper seating arrangements and no mobile-phone jammers at the centres. Dr Satish Pawar, directorate of Health Services and former state health director-general, said, “We have submitted all the necessary documents regarding the recruitment examination held on October 31 to the cyber police department. There are two important points to consider; whether the paper really was leaked or not? And if yes, how many students were involved? Was the number small or on a large scale. Everything will be clear once the police do the investigation and after that we will take a decision.”“One of the aspirants reported the paper leaking in the October 31 state health department recruitment examination and accordingly he has submitted a complaint application to Pune cyber police. Now we are doing further inquiry into this case,” said D S Hake, senior police inspector, Pune cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-health-department-s-recruitment-exam-paper-leaked-cyber-cops-begin-probe-after-plaint-101635785969491.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||Alliance talks with Samajwadi Party in final stages: RLD||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Monday said that its alliance talks with the Samajwadi Party (SP) were in the final stages for the Uttar Pradesh assembly election and the tie-up will be announced soon. The RLD and the Samajwadi Party have been constant companions since the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly election. Since then, they have contested all the assembly and Lok Sabha bypolls together, as also the 2019 Lok Sabha election.“Yes, our alliance talks are in the final stages and soon the alliance will be announced,” said Anil Dubey, RLD national general secretary.He was reacting to media reports quoting Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav as saying that the SP-RLD alliance was final now and only seat-sharing between the two parties has to be decided.The RLD enjoys support among farmers of western Uttar Pradesh and is on the same page with the SP on the issue of opposing the Centre’s three new farm laws.The Samajwadi Party has already announced an alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and a few smaller parties, including the Mahan Dal.Besides, Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary clarified on Akhilesh Yadav’s statement in an interview to PTI that he would not contest any Uttar Pradesh assembly seat himself.“So far as the matter of the SP national president contesting the 2022 UP assembly election himself is concerned, the Samajwadi Party will take the final decision and it will soon announce the decision. In the Samajwadi Party, the candidates’ selection process is already on. Akhilesh Yadav and the party are shortlisting all the ticket seekers. The scrutiny process is on,” said Chaudhary, a former Uttar Pradesh minister.A PTI interview, earlier in the day, had quoted Akhilesh as saying that he will not contest any UP assembly seat. Akhilesh Yadav has never contested any UP assembly seat himself. He began his electoral career with a victory in the Lok Sabha bypoll in 2000 for the Kannauj seat, and was re-elected in 2004 and 2009.Even after becoming the Uttar Pradesh chief minister in 2012, Akhilesh did not contest any UP assembly bypoll. Instead, he entered the state legislature through the legislative council and vacated his Lok Sabha seat. In 2019, Akhilesh became an MP for the fourth time. This time, he was elected from the Azamgarh Lok Sabha seat.Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday called upon the people of the state, well-wishers of farmers, the SP and its allies to observe the third of each month as “Lakhimpur Kisan Smriti Diwas”.“This November 3, light Kisan Smriti Deep (light a diya in memory of farmers who died in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident),” he said.The Lakhimpur Kheri incident happened on October 3 in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist died.In a tweet in Hindi, the SP chief said: “I make an appeal to all residents of UP, well-wishers of farmers, the Samajwadi Party and its allies that from now on they should observe the 3rd day of each month as Lakhimpur Kisan Smriti Diwas and remind the people of the cruelty of BJP...On this November 3, all should light Kisan Smriti Deep (earthen lamp) and pay respect to farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/alliance-talks-with-samajwadi-party-in-final-stages-rld-101635785669655.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||Sachin Pilot says BJP will be voted out of power in Uttar Pradesh||Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Sachin Pilot on Monday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government was set to be voted out of power and the Congress would present itself as an alternative in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election.Pilot also said senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were fighting for the cause of people badly suffering due to inflation. He also said no one was ready to listen to problems of the people but the Congress has been at the forefront in taking up the issues concerning the people who wanted a change in Uttar Pradesh.He also said the BJP government has not given any assurance on checking inflation. The farmers’ agitation against three new Central farm laws was completing one year this month, he noted.The former Union minister also said the BJP government protected those who were accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence while those who wanted to share the grief of the affected families were detained. Vaccination has always been free and there was nothing unusual in the BJP government’s claims about free vaccination, he said.Pilot said he was part of the UPA (United Progressive Alliance) government and the BJP had launched a negative campaign to create an atmosphere against it on the issue of 2G spectrum allocation. There was no evidence to support the presumptive scam, the Congress leader said.He also said former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) Vinod Rai’s unconditional apology to Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam and the Supreme Court’s decision on the issue have put an end to accusations made against the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and the UPA government on the 2G spectrum allocation issue during the UPA government’s tenure.“Rai’s apology and the SC verdict have put an end to the accusations that were made as part of a conspiracy,” Pilot said.“The people of state have rejected the Congress and the party does not have any organisation structure in the state. The Congress should be concerned about protecting the number of seats the party now has in the state assembly instead of talking about any change in Uttar Pradesh,” said UP BJP spokesman Avnish Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sachin-pilot-says-bjp-will-be-voted-out-of-power-in-uttar-pradesh-101635785549506.html
01-11-2021||Pune||As Pune joins UN’s “race to zero”, PMC establishes cell to promote electric vehicles||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has established a dedicated cell to promote electric vehicles in the city. The announcement was made by PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, as Pune is part of the 43 “Amrut Cities” from Maharashtra, all who have joined the UN’s “Race to Zero” ahead of the ongoing COP event in Glasgow, Scotland.The current COP26 event is a global United Nations summit about climate change. Maharashtra has the highest number of cities from any state in India that have joined the Race to Zero. “Pune Municipal Corporation’s top priority is to make our city more resilient and plan for low carbon or carbon neutral development. To achieve this, Pune city has taken several initiatives, from policy to implementation, focusing on mitigation and adaptation measures. We strongly feel that there is a need for collective efforts and learning from global peers in this endeavour to effectively address the climate change impacts. Pune has established a dedicated electric vehicle (EV) cell to accelerate the adoption of EVs in the city which is first-of-its-kind governance structure for promotion and facilitation of electric vehicle deployment in an Indian city. It will act as a single window clearance system, knowledge hub and grievance addressable mechanism,” said Kumar. Following the announcement by Aaditya Thackeray, state cabinet minister of environment, tourism & protocol, during Climate Week NYC 2021, all major cities and urban clusters in Maharashtra have pledged to go net-zero by 2050 under the UN’s Race to Zero campaign. “Cities are the solution to addressing climate change. Cities should, would and could lead the way forward towards a zero net pathway. The movement needs to begin from our homes and every little movement can lead to the creation of a larger impact. With every step we should move towards achieving our climate change goals, and together, each city can create a greater impact throughout the country,” Aaditya Thackeray had said in a recent conversation about the net-zero pathways addressing climate change. Earlier, speaking at Climate Week NYC 2021, Thackeray underlined the need for green financing to come into a country like India. “As an industrial powerhouse with 1.3 billion people, if we have to move ahead, we need to quickly transition to a green zone,” he had said. “We need to quickly transition from what we are today into something that is really climate friendly. And if we have to do that, we need to look around the world to bring in the best of ideas, the best of innovation and the best of climate financing to support these ideas,” he said. Thackeray said that all governments need to learn that this is a climate emergency. “We need to step beyond discussions into action. Because the time to act is now. We need to really reorient ourselves in terms of what we term as development to sustainable development. Every aspect of policy, be it roads or building dams or airports or whatever, needs to pass the climate test. We need development, but we have development there is going to be climate change. If we have sustainable development, then we are going to have climate change impact mitigation and adaptation,” he said. Addressing Climate Week NYC 2021, the minister added that climate change was going to affect us all across the world unilaterally. “Wherever scales of our economy or development, manufacturing, industrialisation or financial prowess that our countries have, we need to have equitable contribution to climate change action,” he said. Each of the 43 cities from Maharashtra joining the Race to Zero has a population of 100,000+. Together these cities cover a floating population of almost 65 million. Maharashtra will take its agenda of climate action forward and support the efforts of multiple cities, including Mumbai, in the Race to Zero. What cities in Race to Zero have committed to: • Create a more inclusive society • Create green and healthy streets • Reduce air pollution and ensure clean air • Develop zero-carbon buildings • Move towards resilient and sustainable energy systems • Advance towards zero waste • Create sustainable food systems • Divest in fossil fuels and invest in a sustainable future • Move towards resilient and sustainable construction systems||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-pune-joins-un-s-race-to-zero-pmc-establishes-cell-to-promote-electric-vehicles-101635785429650.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Bail applications of four accused rejected||The court of chief judicial magistrate (Lakhimpur Kheri) Chinta Ram on Monday rejected the bail applications of four accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3.Senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav said the four accused Sumit Jaiswal, Satya Prakash alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht and Shishu Pal had moved their bail applications in the CJM’s court.“The hearing on their bail applications took place in the court on Monday,” Yadav said.After hearing the prosecution and the defence arguments, CJM rejected the bail applications.Sumit Jaiswal, Satya Prakash alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht and Shishu Pal are among the 13 accused who have been arrested during investigation of FIR number 219, which had been lodged with the Tikunia police in connection with death of four farmers.Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra alias Monu and 15-20 unidentified persons had been implicated in FIR number 219. The Special Investigation Team identified and arrested 12 others in this case.Violence had erupted at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3 when four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a speeding vehicle during a protest.A local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were also killed in the subsequent violence. Two FIRs were registered in this connection. The first FIR number 219 was lodged by one Jagjeet Singh in connection with the death of the four farmers.The second FIR number 220 was lodged by Sumit Jaiswal, who had implicated unidentified miscreants in connection with death of the others, including two BJP workers. Investigators have identified and arrested two persons in connection with FIR number 220.Meanwhile, the statements of four witnesses were recorded on Monday under Section 164 of CrPC. Officials said that with these four, the statements of over 80 witnesses have been recorded under section 164 so far. Security has also been provided to the witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-bail-applications-of-four-accused-rejected-101635785309580.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||Activities of victim on dating site can’t be basis of judging virtue: Allahabad high court||Denying anticipatory bail to a rape accused, who allegedly established a physical relationship with a woman on the false promise of marriage, the Allahabad high court observed that activities of a victim on a dating site are not an indication for a judgement on anybody’s virtue.Justice Vivek Agarwal rejected the anticipatory bail application of one Abhhey Chopra of Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida). This assertion from the court came in response to the argument by the counsel for the accused, who sought to draw a presumption as to the easy virtue of the woman.In this case, the alleged victim and the accused met through dating site and allegedly, on the false promise to marry, the accused had sexual intercourse with the woman, and thereafter, he went back on his promise, leading to the registration of the case against him by the woman.It was submitted on behalf of the applicant’s side that the victim and accused met on dating sites. In view of this fact, it was submitted that within four days of their meeting, the establishment of physical relationship by the victim demonstrated that it was a case of consensual sex.It was also argued that there was no talk of marriage between the two and, therefore, the allegation that they had indulged in physical relationship in the name of marriage proposal was not made out.While declining to take into consideration the theory of consensual sex advanced by the applicant’s counsel, the court observed, “Dating sites are not an indication to have judgement on anybody’s virtues. Merely, two adults meet on a dating site, and on the third day of meeting him, exchange of words are able to garner confidence that the other party is willing to marry and in the name of marriage, if physical favour is sought, then that will not amount to characterising a victim, as a person of easy virtues having consented to physical relationship without there being any provocation like promise to perform marriage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/activities-of-victim-on-dating-site-can-t-be-basis-of-judging-virtue-allahabad-high-court-101635785249625.html
01-11-2021||Jaipur||Man held in Rajasthan for smuggling illegal liquor from one state to another||Rajasthan Police has arrested a man in Churu for allegedly possessing illegal liquor worth lakhs of rupees being smuggled from Haryana to Gujarat.Police have seized 780 boxes of illicit liquor and a tanker in the incident in Chhapar area of the district on Sunday night, they said.Churu Superintendent of Police Narayan Togas said in a statement that the estimated market value of the seized liquor and tanker is around ₹75 lakh.The tanker driver Sawai Singh Jat has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/man-held-in-rajasthan-for-smuggling-illegal-liquor-from-one-state-to-another-101635784101101.html
01-11-2021||Pune||October saw fewer deaths than February; Pune reports zero Covid deaths for the 4th day in a row||PUNE The month of February saw the first Covid-19 wave in the district recede to its lowest point and before the district could see a rise in the number of cases leading to the deadly second wave, the district recorded a total of 201 deaths due to Covid-19 between February 1 to February 28. However, October has reported 147 deaths which is the lowest since the past nine months. The month of October also saw multiple days when the district and/or the city saw no new deaths due to the infection. The case fatality rate in the district has remained consistent at 1.7%.On Monday, the city reported zero Covid-19 deaths for the fourth day in a row. On October 20 the city for the first time did not report a single death due to Covid-19 after February 6.The state health department has reported a total of 19,943 deaths out of which in 19,594 deaths the primary cause of deaths was due to Covid-19 while in the remaining cases although the person was detected of Covid-19 the cause of death was not primarily Covid-19. Out of the total, 6,892 were from Pune rural, 9,199 were from Pune city and 3,503 were from Pimpri-Chinchwad. While February was the tail end of the first wave peak, October is indicating the end of the second wave peak.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “The number of deaths in the city now has certainly fallen compared to the previous wave’s peak. In the month of October alone the city has reported zero deaths multiple times and on Monday we have reported no deaths due to the infection four days in a row. Out of the 686 active cases in the city undergoing treatment for Covid-19, 117 are critical patients and out of those 97 are on oxygen treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/october-saw-fewer-deaths-than-february-pune-reports-zero-covid-deaths-for-the-4th-day-in-a-row-101635783989599.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||Over 43 lakh poor people got houses in UP in last 4.5 years: CM Yogi||Chief minister distributed keys to a number of beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and other housing schemes at a function in Moradabad on Monday. On the occasion, he also congratulated officials on constructing dwellings for the poor under affordable housing schemes and PM Awas Yojana. The CM said houses had been provided to over 43 lakh poor and homeless people in the state in past four-and-a-half years. “Today (Monday), over 1700 poor people got benefits of the scheme in Moradabad alone. This was a Diwali gift for them,” he added.Targeting previous governments in the state, Yogi said, “Previous governments were insensitive towards welfare of people and they seldom associated themselves with pains of people. Their family was the state for them,” said CM.He further said people were deprived of roads, drinking water, medical services and other basic amenities during the previous regimes. Yogi reiterated that the BJP ensured that all 24 people of the state got benefits of government schemes meant for them. Yogi also targeted opposition leaders and workers and accused them of remaining in isolation during Covid 19 crisis. “They were in home isolation during Covid instead of sharing grief of people. I hope people would send them in isolation in the forthcoming (assembly) election in the state,” he said.On the occasion, the chief minister also took the salute of the passing out parade of 72 deputy SPs who were inducted into state police force after completing their one-year training in cybercrimes, jungle training, arms training, riot control etc at Dr BR Ambedkar Police Academy in Moradabad. He congratulated the officers and administered them the oath of office and secrecy.ADG, Police Academy, Jai Narayan Singh and DIG Shalabh Mathur besides other officials were also present there. Uttar Pradesh ministers Mahendra Singh, Bhupendra Singh, Baldev Aulakh, Ashok Kataria and many party MLAs shared the dais with the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-43-lakh-poor-people-got-houses-in-up-in-last-4-5-years-cm-yogi-101635783750716.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Pune FDA cancels licenses of two blood banks, suspends 12 firms||PUNE The Pune Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has cancelled the licenses of two blood banks, suspended 12 firms and issued show-cause notices to 25 firms for violating various laws.The two blood banks whose licenses were cancelled were located in Pune and Sangli districts.Also, the FDA has been able to inspect only 35 per cent of the firms that they were aiming to inspect due to the second Covid-19 wave’s impact in the months of April, May and June this year.SB Patil, joint commissioner, Pune FDA, said, “The licenses of the two blood banks were cancelled as they failed to meet the mandatory requirements like enough testing staff for blood testing, blood collection at the camps and also the nursing staff. They also did not have the staff for proper record keeping. While one of the blood banks is from Pune, one is from Sangli.”“Apart from this, we have also suspended the licenses of five allopathic firms, three blood banks, two blood storage centres and one homoeopathic and cosmetics centre each. We have also issued show-cause notices to 25 more firms and are awaiting a reply,” he said.Patil added that action was taken from April to September this year. “However, we could complete the inspection of only 35% of the targeted firms by September because we got to work only in the past three months due to the impact of the serious second Covid-19 wave,” said Patil.Out of the 538 firms that are located within the Pune division, 278 were expected to be done by September 2021 but only 96 were done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-fda-cancels-licenses-of-two-blood-banks-suspends-12-firms-101635783691514.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||212,303 single, return tickets sold after Maharashtra govt amends rules||The railways reported no major response from passengers on Monday after the Maharashtra government permitted fully-vaccinated passengers to buy single/return journey tickets. The railways reported the sale of more than 200,000 tickets, which has been the average sale since August 15 – when vaccinated passengers with passes were allowed on trains. The railways sold 212,303 single and return journey local journey tickets on Monday, of which 128,000 were sold on the Central Railway (CR) line and 88,303 on Western Railway (WR). “On Sunday, following the Maharashtra government notification, fewer passengers travelled as many were unaware of the new notification. We are anticipating an increase in the number of tickets this week,” said a senior CR official.Earlier, fully-vaccinated passengers were able to only purchase monthly season railway passes, 14 days after their shots. Essential care employees and people working in the state and Central governments were allowed to purchase single-journey daily tickets.Earlier, train services were suspended for the general public this year on April 15 owing to the rise in coronavirus cases in the city.The Central and Western Railway resumed operating local trains in 100% capacity after they witnessed an increase in the number of passengers travelling by local trains as the state government had eased coronavirus restrictions. CR operates 1,774 local train services, while on WR, 1,367 local trains are functional as opposed to 1,702 and 1,304 trains that were operated on the two lines earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/212303-single-return-tickets-sold-after-maharashtra-govt-s-amends-rules-101635783629382.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Six years on, Chandigarh’s industrial policy set for an overhaul||With some industrial units closing down or migrating, the Chandigarh Industrial Policy is set to be overhauled to meet industrialists’ emerging needs nearly six years after it came into force. The administration has sought industrialists’ feedback and is preparing a comprehensive report on issues being faced by them. Industries’ director Jagjit Singh said, “We are analysing all issues pertaining to industries’ growth and other requirements.” The policy, which was announced with much fanfare in 2015, assured ease of doing business, ease of transfer of property, promotion of the city’s industry at national and international levels, development of infrastructure in the industrial area, and a preferential procurement policy. The industry was allotted dedicated sectors — Industrial Area Phases 1 and 2 in the original city plan. Phases 1 and 2 have 1,884 plots spread over 150 acres. “In the last five years, the number of MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) have decreased by nearly 35% and industrial workforce has shrunk by around 20%. Nearly 40% space in the twin industrial areas is lying vacant,” said a senior UT official, who did not wish to be named. Lauding the move to reassess the industrial policy, Industries’ Association of Chandigarh president Pankaj Khanna said, “Industrial Area Phase 1 has numerous freehold plots ranging from 1 acre to 25 acres that have been lying idle as old businesses are no longer viable. Suitable policy initiatives are needed to ensure such plots serve some purpose. Education, skill development, healthcare, and convention halls can be allowed in these areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-years-on-ut-s-industrial-policy-set-for-an-overhaul-101635783568910.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||UP chief secretary asks officials to fix timeline to complete projects||Ahead of assembly elections in the state, chief secretary (CS) Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Monday directed officials to fix a timeline for the completion of all the under-construction projects that were scheduled to be ready by December 2021. He, however, cautioned against making any compromise on the quality of work.He was presiding over a meeting convened to review progress of the construction works under various government departments. The medical education department officials, according to a spokesman, told the CS that seven projects worth ₹23.74 crore were completed by September this year while five projects costing ₹36.8 crore would be ready by November and another five projects of ₹1530.44 crore were scheduled to be completed by the year end. According to home department officials, six projects worth ₹23.80 crore were completed by September and the target of completing 27 projects of ₹75.79 crore by October was met and a further target had been fixed to complete 22 project of ₹48.24 crore in November and 45 projects of ₹48.24 crore in December.Similarly, the panchayati raj department informed the CS in the meeting the as many as 53,435 community toilets worth ₹2,345.80 crore were built by September and 587 community toilets costing ₹25.77 crore were completed in October. They further said that 522 panchayat bhawans and 1585 community toilets worth ₹160.90 crore were to be built by November. “Four zila panchayat centres, 17 crematoriums and 1584 community toilets will be ready by December,” the officials said.It was found during the review of the urban development department that 45 projects worth ₹1,11.59 crore were completed by September and another 36 projects of ₹132.38 crore were completed in October even as the target was fixed to complete 44 projects of ₹154.97 crore and 39 projects of ₹86.42 crore in November and December respectively.The basic education department, the spokesman said, was found to have completed 289 projects worth ₹50.91 crore by September and another 429 projects of ₹60.16 crore were completed in October. The officials said in the meeting that the department would meet the target of completing 1,163 projects of ₹171.27 crore by December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-chief-secretary-asks-officials-to-fix-timeline-to-complete-projects-101635783209374.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||2022 UP polls: Priyanka promises govt jobs, free LPG cylinders to women||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday announced more promises, including 40 percent government jobs to women, that the party has included in its separate manifesto for women for 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.She released a list of new promises on social media that the party has incorporated. “Every day of yours is full of struggle. The Congress has prepared a women manifesto for you,” said Priyanka in a tweet while listing the promises the Congress is making to women in 2022 assembly elections.“40 percent Congress tickets are to be given to women candidates in 2022 UP assembly elections. Smartphone and electric scooty to 12th pass and graduate girls respectively, three free LPG cylinders every years, free travel in buses, 40 percent government jobs to women in accordance with the provisions for reservation, ₹1000 per month ole age or widow pension to women, honorarium of ₹10,000 per month to ‘Anganwadi workers’ and ‘ASHA bahus’ and 75 proficiency colleges in the name of brave women,” read the complete list of promises released on social media.The Congress launched three “Pratiya Yatras” to take the party’s promises to people across the state. While the three “yatras” are expected to complete their journey to the state on Monday, the party proposes to launch fourth “yatra” from Gorakhpur after Deepwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2022-up-polls-priyanka-promises-govt-jobs-free-lpg-cylinders-to-women-101635782789395.html
01-11-2021||Patna||Partition wasn’t a good idea: Nitish||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said the Partition of India and Pakistan was not at all a good idea and India would have progressed in a better way had both the countries remained a united entity.Kumar was talking to reporters after his weekly Janata Darbar, an event where people can raise their grievances against different departments.Mahatma Gandhi had never wished for Partition of the country, he said.Reacting to Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav’s statement comparing Mohammad Ali Jinnah with Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, Kumar said the India’s freedom was not won by any individual. “It was a collective effort. There were a lot of leaders, who fought for the Independence. It was nothing surprising if Jinnah is regarded highly in Pakistan,” the CM said.To a query about free flow of liquor in the state despite total Prohibition, Kumar said there was always a scope for breach of the law by anti-socials. “But the police and district administration are on their toes to check it. The officials who are not honest to their duties are being penalised. There could be some laxity on part of the officials to enforce rigorous enforcement of Prohibition laws, as their focus was on to check the spread of Covid pandemic,” said the CM.Kumar also appealed to the people to abstain from consuming liquor, which sneaks in through illegal routes. “There is a chance that the liquor could be spurious and hence can cost lives,” said the CM.Earlier, during the Janata Darbar, the CM asked the chief secretary to take action against a circle officer of Gaya for disobeying the orders of the district magistrate. Kumar took serious view of the CO’s conduct on a complaint of an elderly person, who alleged that the officer had ordered the arresting of his son when he went to seek possession of his land. The DM had passed a favourable order for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/partition-wasn-t-a-good-idea-nitish-101635782431364.html
01-11-2021||Patna||2013 Modi rally blasts: Four get death, five jail in Patna court||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Monday awarded death sentence to four of the nine people convicted in the case of serial blasts that left six dead at the venue of an election rally in Patna 2013, which was addressed by Narendra Modi, the then Gujarat chief minister and BJP’s prime ministerial candidate.Special NIA judge Gurwinder Singh Malhotra sentenced the five other convicts to prison terms ranging from seven years to life in jail. All nine were convicted on October 27 by the same court. On October 27, 2013, seven bombs went off just before Modi’s rally at Gandhi Maidan, the last one at 12.25 pm, 20 minutes before he and senior leaders took the stage. The blasts also left 90 peole injured. A total of 17 improvised explosive devices (IEDs), including the seven that detonated, were found in and around the Gandhi Maidan. Those awarded capital punishment are Imtiyaz Ansari, Haider Ali alias Abdullah alias “Black Beauty”, Noman Ansari and Mohammed Mujibullah Ansari. Umar Siddiqui and Azharuddin Qureshi were sentenced to life imprisonment, Ahmed Hussain and Feroz Aslam to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment while Mohammed Iftekhar Alam was awarded a seven-year prison term. Five of the convicts — Haider Ali alias Black Beauty, Imtiaz Ansari, Umer Siddique, Azharuddin Qureshi and Mujibullah Ansari — are already serving life sentences for Bodh Gaya blasts, which took place just over three months before the blasts at Gandhi Maidan.Special public prosecutor Lalan Kumar Sinha said the nine were convicted for criminal conspiracy, murder, attempt to murder, waging war against the government of India, conspiracy to wage war against the government, destroying evidence and the anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Two suspects, Imtiyaz Ansari and Mohammad Tariq Ajam, were also injured in the blasts and revealed the names of their accomplices during interrogation. Ajam died during treatment at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). Senior police officer Manu Mahraaj, who was Patna’s senior superintendent of police when the blasts took place, said Imtiaz’s arrest after his injury in an accidental blast at Patna railway junction on the day of Modi’s rally blew the lid off the conspiracy. “There would have been more blasts if the culprit were not arrested,” Maharaaj said. The then Bihar police chief, Abhyanand, told HT that they were happy with the court’s judgment. The former DGP said police were able to arrest one of the accused on the spot and avert a stampede at Gandhi Maidan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2013-modi-rally-blasts-four-get-death-five-jail-in-patna-court-101635782429981.html
01-11-2021||Patna||Bihar: Salary withheld for notifying Covid case without RT-PCR test||A data entry operator was penalised last week for notifying a Covid-19 case to the state headquarters before the sample was reconfirmed through real time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR), a gold standard test for Covid-19.“Instructions have been issued to withhold the salary of a data entry operator in Madhubani who did not cross-check through RT PCR a sample that tested positive on RAD kit before notifying it to the state,” said a senior health official who did not wish to be named. “We want a strong message to go across all sections that those violating the government directive will be penalised,” the official said. “We are now reconfirming through RT PCR all samples testing positive on the RAD kit after the state health department recently revised its standard operating procedure (SOP) for testing of Covid-19 samples.”Bihar’s health department, in a paradigm shift in reporting of Covid-19 cases, had advised last month to its field officers to reconfirm samples testing positive on the rapid antigen detection (RAD) kit through RT PCR, before notifying them to the state. Earlier, samples of those symptomatic, but testing negative on RAD kit, had to be reconfirmed through RT PCR, while the positive ones were treated as confirmed positive. Around 70 samples of train passengers that tested positive on RAD kit at the Madhubani railway station in September had turned out to be negative on the RT PCR, prompting the change in testing guidelines in the state. The new guidelines have been issued to eliminate possibility of false positive result, as new infections had come down in the state, said health officials. Bihar reported eight new Covid cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases 726,098 and the death toll to 9,661. The number of active cases in the state was 46. As many as 716,390 patients had been discharged so far, with a case recovery rate of 98.66%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-salary-withheld-for-notifying-covid-case-without-rt-pcr-test-101635782373414.html
01-11-2021||Other||Woman cop, minor cousin jump before running train, die||A newly recruited woman constable and her minor cousin committed suicide by jumping before a running goods train at Bhabua Road railway station in Bihar on Monday, police said.The two were standing at platform no. 3 and jumped off to the track as the goods train approached and died on the spot, police said, quoting eyewitnesses.The 23-year-old constable and her 17-year-old cousin hailed from separate villages in Siwan district, as per documents found in their bags, station house officer Ram Sewak Singh of the Government Railway Police (GRP) said .The constable lived in a rented house at Bhabua along with her mother, brother and maternal uncle. The cousin had come to their place on September 26.In his written statement to GRP , the constable’s maternal uncle has said she had gone to the railway station to see off her cousin. As there was no suicidal note left, the GRP was investigating the case to ascertain if it was a suicide or an accident, SHO Singh said.The constable was posted in the office of Kaimur’s superintendent of police. A senior police officer said though she was recruited as a female constable, she was a transgender and had initiated medical consultations for sex change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-cop-minor-cousin-jump-before-running-train-die-101635782372325.html
01-11-2021||Patna||Water pollution: Lifestyle chemicals among ‘emerging contaminants’ found in Patna groundwater||A recent study on emerging organic contaminants (EOCs) in groundwater in a rapidly developing Patna has pointed to dominance of high concentrations of lifestyle chemicals, besides medical/veterinary, agrochemical, industrial chemicals and antibiotics.A total of 73 EOCs were detected within the 51 groundwater samples in the study that has been published in the Environmental Pollution journal and was carried out by experts from the Mahavir Cancer Sansthan and Research Centre (Patna), Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences and Williamson Research Centre for Molecular Environmental Science (University of Manchester), British Geological Survey, Groundwater Hydrology Division, National Institute of Hydrology (Roorkee), National Laboratory Service (Devon) and the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences (University of Birmingham).According to the study, the EOCs included compounds in the neonicotinoids (a systemic agricultural insecticide resembling nicotine) insecticides class (compounds on the European Commission 2018 surface water Watch), perfluoroalkylated substances (family of man-made chemicals), certain compounds on the World Health Organization’s highly important antimicrobial list -2018, among other contaminants.The lifestyle compound sucralos, an artificial sweetener commonly used in yogurt, candy, ice cream and soda that is 600 times sweeter than real sugar with almost no calories and doesn’t leave an aftertaste in mouth, was most frequently detected and at the highest concentration. Sucralose is used as an indicator of “recent” wastewater contamination. The concentrations of individual compounds, says the study, ranged from below the limit of identification to a maximum of 1.2 mg/L (sucralose).The detection frequency in groundwater ranged from 2% to 41%, and the highest frequency compounds were sucralose, fluconazole, diuron and carbamazepine. Within a single sample, a wide range of compounds were detected (ranging from 0 to 24 compounds), typically reflecting mixed contributions from medical/veterinary, agrochemical, industrial and lifestyle chemicals.The maximum concentration (Cmax) of the sum of EOCs was 2.3 mg/L, with lifestyle components usually by far the largest contributor to total concentration. Importantly, 17 detected EOCs have been flagged for priority monitoring and/or regulatory importance.The study says the total EOC concentration and depth are inversely related, with highest concentrations in shallow groundwaters, although localized elevated concentrations at greater depths are also observed.The overall profile of EOCs detected has mixed consistency with what has been previously reported in northern India. The EOC profile is generally similar to what has been previously reported in Varanasi.“A major concern regarding EOCs in groundwater is the potential development of antimicrobial resistance, exacerbated by the presence of low-concentration antimicrobials,” says Prof Ashok Ghosh, chairman of the Bihar State Pollution Control Board and a member of the investigating team that carried the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/water-pollution-lifestyle-chemicals-among-emerging-contaminants-found-in-patna-groundwater-101635782371259.html
01-11-2021||Other||Bodies of two newborns found in garbage dump||Bodies of two newly born babies were found dumped in a pile of garbage on hospital road in Motihari on Monday morning, said police.Aniket Ranjan, a Motihari-based social worker said the matter came to the fore when some passersby spotted the bodies of the babies on a heap of garbage. “The scene was quite pathetic. Ants were crawling, flies were buzzing all over the bodies. It seems the heinous crime was committed at night,” said Ranjan and demanded police action against the culprit. When contacted, Dr Anjani Kumar, civil surgeon, East Champaran, said the possibility of babies being dumped after abortion cannot be ruled out. “Investigations are on and stern action will be taken against the doctor if found indulged in such crimes,” said the civil surgeon.Meanwhile, the incident has alerted the police. “We will check CCTV footage. We are also making the list of deliveries recorded in the past few hours at the hospital and nursing home in the town in our bid to find the culprits,” said Navin Chand Jha, superintendent of police (SP), East Champaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bodies-of-two-newborns-found-in-garbage-dump-101635782369722.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Pune district has 7,895,894 voters; increase of just 8,020: Official Draft Electoral Roll||According to the official draft electoral roll released by the Election Commission of India on November 1, Pune district has 7,895,894 voters. Election officials said that the number of voters in Pune district have increased by just 8,020 as compared to the draft roll. Voters have time till November 30 to register their objections after which the final electoral roll will be published in January 2022.Earlier, Pune district had 7887,874 voters. Explaining why the number of voters has increased by just 8,000, Mrinalini Sawant, deputy district election officer, said, “We had undertaken the work of revision of voter lists. The number now may seem low because a lot of deletions have been made in the revision process to update the voter list. We have also been removing duplicate entries.” The revision of voter lists also comprised updating of voters’ photographs which will help booth officers identify genuine voters at the time of elections. The district administration also undertook the task of identifying and removing demographically similar entries (DSEs) commonly known as duplicate voters.As per the draft electoral roll, Pune district has only 7,895,894 voters in 21 assembly constituencies out of which 4,131,941 are male, 3,763,708 are female, and 245 voters belong to the third gender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-has-7-895-894-voters-increase-of-just-8-020-official-draft-electoral-roll-101635782069399.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Volley, smash...success, Pune lad plays tennis with one arm||Pune: ‘I WILL’ – two words are written on Atharva Agarwal’s T-shirt as he practices at the Fergusson College tennis courts in Pune. Volley, smash, drop shot, backhand and forehand. Agarwal’s right hand has been amputated. He plays tennis with one hand. At the age of 10 he lost his right hand in an accident while on holiday with his family in Manali. “I grabbed the racquet with two fingers and with three fingers I grabbed the ball, tossed the ball up and hit it with the racquet. My coaches were shocked, but I managed to do it and started to focus on improving my technique from day one of training,” explains the 17-year-old tennis player. Agarwal’s tennis is not about a practice session or it being a hobby. Agarwal participates in tournaments. Regularly. Agarwal has played three tournaments since 2019, and then Covid struck. In three tournaments Agarwal played six matches of which he managed to win one. “I am focusing on body strength. I want to play more tournaments so I can improve my game. Playing tournaments will give me ITF points and that is for what I aim for,” added Agarwal. Coach Nandan Bal said, “He (Agarwal) is very motivated and always ready to improve his game.” Agarwal is not concerned about not having a right hand. “The only problem I face was tying my shoe laces. My hand writing also became bad after shifting from right to left. Other than that, I do not face any issue playing with a single hand,” he says. Agarwal learnt the basics under Sashikant Thombre at Sanjay Sports Academy and then shifted to Nandan Bal (March 2021) and trains at Fergusson College tennis courts. “When I worked for a year-and-a-half with Sashikant Thombre at the Sanjay Sports Academy, he taught me my forehand and backhand and my service. He taught service grip. Nandan sir took my technique to the next level and polished every stroke. How to put body weight, how to toss the ball, so focus is on improving every aspect,” says Agarwal. No special treatment Agarwal wanted to make a career in cricket, but because of his accident he picked tennis. “I was taking professional practice for cricket, but then the accident happened and I had to take a long break and I knew the sport now will be out of bounds because I will not be able to play with normal players as they will put me in the handicap quota. I realised tennis could be a sport where I can compete with normal people and if I go ahead in the sport then it will also be an inspiration for many,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/volley-smash-success-pune-lad-plays-tennis-with-one-arm-101635781889947.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Pune woman duped of Rs33 lakh in online fraud||PUNE A woman from the Kondhwa area of Pune has been duped for ₹33 lakh by people who falsely promised to send her British Pound as a gift.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 38-year-old woman living in Kondhwa Budrukh.One of the two accused contacted the woman through social media and claimed to be a bank officer. The person kept up contact with the woman starting March 2020 till July 2020, he claimed to have sent British Pound which have gotten stuck at customs.To get the “gift” released, the woman was asked to make multiple online transactions amounting to ₹33,35,000, according to the police.A case under Sections 419 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c), 66(D of Information Technology Act was registered at Kondhwa police station. Assistant police inspector Harshada Dagde of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-woman-duped-of-rs33-lakh-in-online-fraud-101635781829296.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Woman dies after fire at Diva home; Thane civic officials demolish dangerous structure||A 40-year-old woman died after a fire broke out in her house, leading to a wall of the house to collapse in Padle village of Diva on Monday. The woman was crushed under the wall and was dead by the time she was rescued. The ground-plus-one floored structure was later demolished as it was in a dangerous condition. The fire broke out at around 11.30am when the deceased, Sapna Patil, was cooking on firewood in the house and was alone. The impact of the fire led to collapse of the slab of the house, under which Patil got stuck. The fire department and the Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) reached the spot and tried to pull the woman out. However, she was already dead. Girish Zalke, Thane fire officer, said, “The owner of the house, Vinod Patil, was living with his wife, Sapna. The slab collapsed immediately, giving her no time to escape. We are not sure about the cause of the fire yet. “ Santosh Kadam, officer from RDMC, said, “The house was old style, so it burnt completely and had to be demolished. The TMC officials took charge of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-dies-after-fire-at-diva-home-thane-civic-officials-demolish-dangerous-structure-101635781769845.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Organ donations programme shows signs of recovery in Mumbai||In the first 10 months of the year, Mumbai has matched up the organ donations conducted last year and is likely to record more donations in the last two months. While the numbers are much lower than the pre-pandemic phase, medical experts said that the trend will improve as hospitals have fully resumed non-Covid work. Organ donations in the city had reached an all-time high of 79 in 2019. The programme was hit badly the following year owing to the pandemic as only 30 donations had taken place in the city. This year, 30 donations have been recorded till October 19. “After the pandemic hit in 2020, we could resume organ donation work only in June this year,” said Dr SK Mathur, president of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC). “As Covid-19 cases went down and intensive care units (ICUs) became available, the donations and transplant began slowly. We hope to do better than last year. We still have two more months to go,” he said. Non-Covid patients did not visit hospitals either due to the lockdown or amid the fear of the contracting the infection. Doctors said that a large number of deaths happened at home, which also reduced the possibility of organ donations. A detailed protocol was issued by Maharashtra’s Directorate of Health Services (DHS) for hospitals to re-start organ donations and transplants, keeping safety protocol in mind. “Not just Mumbai, organ donations have slowly picked up across Maharashtra,” said Dr Mathur, adding that 75 donations have been recorded in the state so far, which is the same number that was recorded in the whole of 2020. Dr Akash Shukla, joint director, Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (ROTTO), said the donations are likely to pick up in the coming days. “When the Covid-19 cases were raging, a lot of patients could not reach hospitals and the focus of intensivists was on Covid-related work. But with more vaccinations and safety protocol in place, the organ donations will pick up next year,” he said. Plastic surgeon Dr Nilesh Satbhai from Global Hospital in Parel said more awareness is needed in Maharashtra. Referring to three hand transplant procedures he has carried out this year, Dr Satbhai said that the donors were from Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. “I hope that Maharashtra takes the lead in donations soon,” he said. Mumbai’s fourth hand transplant patient stable A 32-year-old accountant based in Pune, who is the latest to undergo a bilateral hand transplant procedure in Mumbai, is now in a stable condition. The patient, Prakash Shelar, had suffered severe electrical burns in 2019, following which his upper and lower limbs had to be amputated. On Saturday evening, Shelar was taken into the operation theatre for the transplant procedure, which concluded early on Sunday. The limbs were donated by the family of a 14-year-boy from Surat who had a chronic kidney disease and was himself waitlisted for a kidney transplant. Shelar’s hand transplant was the fourth such procedure conducted in Mumbai. “We have been waiting for this procedure for almost a year,” said Shelar’s wife Madhuri, 30. The couple has two children, aged four and two. “He has been determined to be able to do something to earn a living for the future of our children,” she said adding that they had visited Global Hospital a year ago. With the help of doctors, they started a fundraising campaign and have raised nearly ₹20 lakh. While the cost of the bilateral hand transplant procedure is estimated to be around ₹25 lakh, patients require immunosuppressants throughout their life that cost between ₹2 lakh and ₹3 lakh a year. “The procedure went well,” said Dr Satbhai, who led the team of doctors who conducted the transplant. “As the donor was a teenager, we were slightly concerned about the mismatch in the size of the hands. However, the donor was tall and the recipient also had a moderate built, so we did not face any problems,” he said. Hand transplants in MumbaiAugust 2020: Train accident victim Monika More, 23, undergoes the transplant at Global Hospital, the first such procedure in Mumbai. The hands were donated by the family of a brain dead patient from Chennai. August 2021: The second such procedure was conducted at the civic-run KEM Hospital on 21-year-old Rahul Ahirwar from Madhya Pradesh, who had lost both his hands in a power press machine accident. The KEM doctors could transplant only the right hand as Ahirwar developed a problem with the blood vessels on the left side. The hands were donated by a young donor from Mumbai. October 2021 Jagdev Singh, 22, from Rajasthan, who became a quadruple amputee due to electrical burns, underwent a bilateral hand transplant at Global Hospital. The hands were donated by the kin of a 52-year-old man who was declared brain dead at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. Prakash Shelar, 32, a Pune-based accountant who became a quadruple amputee after suffering from electrical burns, underwent a bilateral hand transplant at Global Hospital. The hands were donated by the kin of a 14-year-old boy from Surat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/organ-donations-programme-shows-signs-of-recovery-in-mumbai-101635781529296.html
01-11-2021||Dehradun||Owaisi’s AIMIM considers Uttarakhand debut in 2022, says Nayyar Kazmi||HARIDWAR: The Uttarakhand unit of Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) is considering to contest the 2022 assembly elections from three plain districts of the state but a decision on the proposal is yet to be taken, a senior state party leader said on Wednesday.Uttarakhand AIAMIM president Nayyar Kazmi said the state unit’s proposal has been placed before party boss Owaisi who is yet to take a call. Kazmi said the proposal was sent after a survey indicated the party could field candidates on 22 seats in Udham Singh Nagar, Haridwar and Dehradun districts which have a substantial minority population.“We have identified 22 seats where AIMIM can perform better and even win a seat or two. We are the lone party catering to the minority as well as neglected segments so we stand a good chance if party president decides to field party candidates in 2022 Uttarakhand Assembly elections too,” said Kazmi.Kazmi said Owaisi fan-following among the youth was on display during his personal visit to Haridwar on Wednesday last week when hundreds lined up for a glimpse.Owaisi’s party has been on an expansion mode for several years; the Hyderabad-headquartered party already has lawmakers in Maharashtra and Bihar.“We are now waiting for the party high command’s decision and in the meantime, we have started strengthening the party in the hill state”, said Nayyar Kazmi.Political analyst SMA Kazmi said the minority vote would not automatically translate into electoral support for a party if it is not perceived to have a fighting chance to win a seat.“No doubt popularity of Owaisi is immense among youths but to contest elections the first time and win seems a herculean task as of now. But yes, they can start with fielding candidates and gradually strengthen the party here,” Kazmi said, adding that the community was likely to rally behind the party that is perceived to be in a position to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), “whether it is Congress, Aam Aadmi Party or AIMIM”.Owaisi was in Uttarakhand to visit the revered Sufi shrine of Sabir Pak Kaliyari at Piran Kaliyar in the Haridwar district. The four-time Hyderabad parliamentarian paid obeisance at the revered Sufi shrine where the famous Sabir Pak Kaliyar annual urs (death anniversary of a Sufi saint) is held. Piran Kaliyar is the dargah of the 13th-century Sufi saint of Chishti Order, Alauddin Ali Ahmed Sabir Kalyari also known as Sarkar Sabir Pak and Sabir Kaliyari, situated at Kaliyar village, near Haridwar on the banks of Ganga Canal, 7 km from Roorkee. After offering obeisance, Owaisi went to the residence of the state president of AIMIM Nayyar Kazmi where he interacted with the party’s state unit office-bearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/owaisis-aimim-considers-uttarakhand-debut-in-2022-says-nayyar-kazmi-101635780929488.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University receives 2020 MAKA Trophy||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar received the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy 2020 on behalf of the university from the minister of youth affairs and sports Anurag Thakur at New Delhi on Monday.In 2020, the university had won the trophy for the second consecutive time for best all-round performance in sports among Indian varsities. The award ceremony was held virtually due to the pandemic, and the physical ceremony took place on Monday along with the event organised to honour those who had been awarded the Arjuna Award, Dhyan Chand Khel Rattan Award and Droncaharya Award for 2020. The vice-chancellor was accompanied by professor Prashant Gautam, director, sports, PU; and Dr Rakesh Malik, deputy director, sports, PU. The rolling MAKA Trophy is awarded annually by the ministry of youth affairs and sports.Panjab University has been felicitated for its “outstanding achievement at the international level, All-India Inter-University Sports and Khelo India University games. PU is delighted to physically receive the prestigious MAKA trophy from the honourable minister and the credit goes to the hard work of the coaches and players,” the V-C said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-receives-2020-maka-trophy-101635780569380.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||2 including minor arrested for robbing Dombivli man at night||The Kalyan crime branch has arrested two persons for allegedly assaulting and robbing a passer-by who was returning home from work at around midnight on Saturday. They snatched his phone and valuables and beat him up and fled from the spot. The complainant, Chandrashekhar Gupta, 40, is a resident of Kailash Nagar in Dombivli (W), where the incident occurred. Gupta was returning home from his office when two persons including a minor started walking with him and after two minutes, they held him and started beating him up. After the man fell down, the accused snatched his mobile phone and gold chain and fled the spot. The Kalyan crime branch officers checked CCTV footage and found a picture of one of the accused. An officer said, “ We laid a trap through our sources and arrested two of them including a minor. The accused are alcoholic and involved in petty crimes. One accused has been identified as Sahil Gaikwad, 22.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-including-minor-arrested-for-robbing-dombivli-man-at-night-101635780389389.html
01-11-2021||Bangalore||South Western Railways engineer receives ₹1.29 crore bribe, CBI files FIR||The CBI has filed an FIR against an executive engineer of the South Western Railways posted in Bengaluru for allegedly receiving over ₹1.29 crore bribe from contractors over eight years, officials said on Monday.The central probe agency has named executive engineer Ghanshyam Pradhan, M Suryanarayana Reddy, his firm Krishi Infratech and Vangala Suryanarayana Reddy in the case, they said.It was alleged that Pradhan was receiving bribes in his bank accounts from contractors whose works were supervised by him, they said."It was further alleged that illegal gratification to the tune of ₹1.29 crore was received by the said public servant in his accounts and the accounts of his family members from the contractors during the period from 2011 to 2019," CBI Spokesperson R C Joshi said.After filing the case, the CBI recently carried out searches at 16 locations, including Bengaluru, Hubli, Mysuru, Sangli, Nandyala and Rangareddy at the premises of the accused and others leading to the recovery of several incriminating documents, Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/south-western-railways-engineer-receives-rs-1-29-crore-bribe-cbi-files-fir-101635779116040.html
01-11-2021||Pune||International flights from January 2022 likely: Pune airport director||Pune: No commercial international flight has operated at Pune’s Lohegaon airport from March 2020. That could change from January 2022. “Once the full fledged operations start at the airport (December 1), there is a possibility that airlines will be given consent for international flights. Nothing yet has been finalised, but we are hoping that international flight operations may start from January 2022,” said Santosh Dhoke, airport director. The offical Twitter handle of the Lohegaon airport is already getting queries for flights to Dubai. Regular flyer Bihan Sarkar said, “Travelling becomes easy when a flight is available from Pune, we fly to Dubai once in a year. I hope flights start again, due to Covid I have not travelled since last two years.” The airport is seeing massive crowds after it restarted operations on October 30. A total of 56 domestic flights are operating and footfall has reached 18,000. Lohegaon airport currently connects 21 cities. “We have already provided new slots. First the airlines check viability before starting any new flight. After 24×7 operations start, there is scope for new flights to be added,” said Dhoke. “Work on the multistorey parking and new terminal is going on and we are expecting to complete it within the estimated deadline,” said Dhoke. The deadline for the parking lot is January 2022 and for the new terminal is September 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/international-flights-from-january-2022-likely-pune-airport-director-101635780149451.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Coastal road: Fisherfolk to continue stir despite call for independent review by BMC||In response to the protests by Worli fisherfolk against the construction of an interchange between the coastal road and the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has suggested that a qualified, independent organisation be appointed to review the fishing community’s demands.However, Nitesh Patil, president of the Worli Koliwada Nakhava Matsyavyavsay Sahakari Society (WKNMSS), said, “We are going to continue our agitation till our demands are met. Other fishing villages of Mumbai are now ready to join us in our struggle.”Over 100 fishing boats from Worli Koliwada have been staging a sit-in in the alignment of the interchange since October 30. The fisherfolk said that the proposed span of 60 metres (m) between the pillars of the interchange will cut off their access to customary fishing grounds, and have demanded a span of at least 200m to ensure safe passage for their boats.Speaking to HT after meeting with the fishing community leaders on Monday afternoon, municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said that he is not opposed to redesigning the interchange, but added that fisherfolk’s demands need to be “properly reviewed”. “The impact of the coastal road on fishing has been vetted by the Maharashtra coastal zone management authority (MCZMA), the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) and the fisheries department. The fisherfolk have an available span of 29m under the BWSL, but are able to use only 17m because of some rocks in the area. If 17m is sufficient, 60m under the interchange should also suffice. But if the fisherfolk still feel that they require more area, then we suggest that an independent, qualified institute be appointed to review the situation. The fisherfolk can choose the organisation they feel is best for the task. After an independent review, if it is found that we need to leave a larger span for their boats to pass through, it will be done. It may involve an additional couple of hundred crores [of rupees], but we are open to it. The demand for redesigning needs to be substantiated through a proper assessment,” Chahal said.Shweta Wagh, an architect and researcher who has been closely monitoring the impact of the project on Worli’s fishers, pointed out that contrary to Chahal’s claim, studies carried out before the project began did not consider the existence of fishing in the inter-tidal and shallow waters of Worli. Wagh also said that BMC’s insistence on an independent, expert review undermines the fisherfolk’s own knowledge and expertise.“BMC discovered only later, when independent studies were presented by petitioners in the court, that the area supports fishing activities. The social and environmental impact assessment reports of the project have no mention of fishing in the Worli area, nor any assessment of impacts. It was only after the construction began that various agencies like NIO and the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute were engaged, but by then a great deal of damage had already been done. The [Bombay] high court in its judgment stated that MCZMA has not considered all the facts before granting clearance,” said Wagh.The fisherfolk, meanwhile, said that the current situation would not have arisen had BMC taken them into confidence at the project planning stage itself. They emphasised that the corporation has already violated the terms of CRZ (coastal regulatory zone) clearance by hampering fishing activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coastal-road-fisherfolk-to-continue-stir-despite-call-for-independent-review-by-bmc-101635779489559.html
01-11-2021||Other||YAD burns Tytler’s effigy in Amritsar||Amritsar Youth Akali Dal (YAD), the youth wing of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), on Monday staged a protest at Court Chowk in Amritsar against the Congress party’s decision to appoint Jagdish Tytler as one of the permanent invitees to the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee. Tytler’s name had earlier figured in connection with the 1984 anti-Sikh riots and the Congress’ decision to accord him prominence in the Delhi unit is facing protests from the Sikh community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yad-burns-tytler-s-effigy-in-amritsar-101635779189609.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 139 new Covid cases on Monday||PUNE On Monday, Pune district reported 139 new Covid-19 cases and no new deaths due to the infection, as per the state health department. The progressive count now stands at 1.15 million out of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,943 deaths reported and 3,210 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 60 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 365,407 and the death toll stood at 6,892.Pune city reported 50 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 520,815 and the death toll stood at 9,199.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 29 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 268,693 and the toll stood at 3,503.Pune district also saw 18,356 vaccinations as per the CoWIN dashboard on Monday and in total 1,21,26,447. Out of which 7,849,295 are first doses and 4,277,152 are second doses. A total of 586 sites saw vaccination out of which 431 were government centres and 155 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-139-new-covid-cases-on-monday-101635779069133.html
01-11-2021||Pune||PMC to introduce waste recycling programme at Pune gardens||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is in the process of selecting five gardens to introduce innovative ideas to recycle waste and create awareness about air quality. The programme will be implemented under the Central government’s ‘National clean air programme.’One of the factors that affect air quality is solid waste, especially construction and demolition waste, burning of waste, littering among others. The PMC proposes to create awareness amongst the citizens on the relationship of air quality and solid waste, said, officials.The gardens will be from Yerawada, Katraj, Kothrud, Hadapsar and Sinhagad road area.For the programme, the Central government has provided at least ₹80 crore to the Pune region which includes PMC, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and cantonment boards.Ashok Ghorpade, chief garden superintendent, PMC, said, “It is a unique concept to use waste material to make models, statues, objects which can be displayed in gardens. It will help to spread a message among the masses about steps to curb air pollution.”Shrikrishna Dixit, a junior engineer of the solid waste department, said, “The PMC has received funds from Central government to implement the programme. The civic body has decided to use waste/scrap material to create awareness and has invited an expression of interest.”The PMC has appealed to concerned persons and agencies to present conceptual ideas for using the space innovatively to create awareness on air quality and its relation to solid waste. It includes incorporating recycled waste as part of the creative process. A movable/portable creative will be preferred, and creative must adhere to Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB)/CPCB guidelines and Solid Waste Management Rules (SWM) rules 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-introduce-waste-recycling-programme-at-pune-gardens-101635778890214.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Transport proposes to acquire 208 electric buses||With the rise in fuel prices and to contribute to an environmentally-friendly mode of transportation, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) has put up a proposal to acquire more than 200 electric buses. The civic body has put up a proposal for 208 electric buses to the Maharashtra state government. “The electric buses will help control the air pollution to some extent in the city. Presently, we have buses running on fuel and this is the first time we are looking forward to adding electric buses to the fleet. The proposal for the same has been sent on October 15,” said Deepak Sawant, chief of KDMT. As per the KDMT, these 208 buses will be added to the fleet in a span of five years in phase by phase once the proposal is sanctioned.“The entire funding for these buses will be done by the state and central government,” added Sawant.The KDMT has been running at a loss as not many of its buses were plying on road due to its defunct state or less passengers. Around 50 of the KDMT buses ply on the roads these days, although the KDMT has more than 160 buses. “The electric buses can also be a good option to have eco-friendly transportation in the city. However, the entire effort to get these buses will be a waste if the buses are not maintained. The existing buses are not in good condition as they break down anytime,” said Rahul Vaidya, 35, a passenger who takes the KDMT bus regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-municipal-transport-proposes-to-acquire-208-electric-buses-101635778710598.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Rickshaw driver arrested in Pune for extorting money in exchange for passenger’s phone||PUNE A rickshaw driver was arrested by Pune police on Monday for extorting a local businessman whose father forgot his phone in the rickshaw.The rickshaw driver was earlier rewarded for returning a bag with ₹7 lakh in it to a passenger who had forgotten it.The arrested man has been identified as Adarsh Babasaheb Paralkar (22), a resident of the Lonikalbhor area and a native of Bodka in Latur, according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shekhar Sidram Bhandari (31), owner of a washing centre and a resident of Keshavnagar in Mundhwa.On October 23, the complainant’s father took an auto-rickshaw from Keshavnagar to the Gadital area in Pune. He forgot his phone inside the rickshaw and realised it after the auto had already left.The complainant and his family started contacting the senior citizen’s phone which the rickshaw driver answered. However, the rickshaw driver - Paralkar - started demanding ₹6,000 for not releasing personal data on the phone.The man demanded the money through an online transaction and made the complainant travel to Keshavnagar, Wagholi, and Hadapsar but failed to show up himself.A case was registered against the accused under Section 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code at Mundhwa police station. Police sub-inspector Shivaji Kate of Mundhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rickshaw-driver-arrested-in-pune-for-extorting-money-in-exchange-for-passenger-s-phone-101635778589028.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Sarpanch booked, panchayat member arrested for taking bribe from scrap dealer in Vadgaon Maval||PUNE The sarpanch of a village in Vadgaon Maval was booked and one panchayat member was arrested for demanding a bribe of ₹1 lakh from a scrap dealer in exchange for letting him operate his business.The investigation was conducted and a trap was set by the Pune unit of the Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) on Sunday.The two have been identified as Santosh Popat Shinde the sarpanch of Sate village gram panchayat in Vagaon Maval area of Pune and Hrushinath Maruti Agalme, a member of the gram panchayat of the same village. While Agalme was arrested, the sarpanch is yet to be arrested in the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 53-year-old man who owns a scrap shop in the village.“The complainant has a shop registered in his wife’s name and the villagers had submitted a complaint in the gram panchayat officer against the shop. To keep the shop functional, he required a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the gram panchayat and for that the two demanded ₹1,25,000. A primary investigation was done on October 28 and on that day the two settled for ₹1,00,000,” read a statement from the ACB Pune unit.Agalme called the complainant along Kanhe phata and was caught accepting the money behind a restaurant premises.A case was registered under Sections 7(a) and 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at Vadgaon Maval police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sarpanch-booked-panchayat-member-arrested-for-taking-bribe-from-scrap-dealer-in-vadgaon-maval-101635778350736.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Lt Gen Khanduri takes charge as GOC, Western Command||Lieutenant General Nav K Khanduri took charge as the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Indian Army’s Western Command, officials said on Monday.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Lt Gen Khanduri has the distinction of being the first Air Defence Officer to be appointed as an Army Commander. On assuming charge, Lt Gen Khanduri laid wreath at Veer Smriti to pay homage to the bravehearts, who have made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty.” A guard of honour was also presented to him at the Western Command Headquarters, he added. An alumnus of Rashtriya Indian Military College, Dehradun, and the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, Khanduri passed out with the 73rd Regular Course and was commissioned into 27 Air Defence Regiment (Amritsar Airfield) on December 17, 1983. He is an alumnus of the prestigious Defence Services Staff College, College of Defence Management and the National Defence College. In a career spanning over 38 years, Gen Khanduri has served across a wide spectrum of operational areas and has tenanted a host of important command, staff and instructional appointments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lt-gen-khanduri-takes-charge-as-goc-western-command-101635778349512.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police’s EOW arrests Delhi bizman for duping Central Bank of India of ₹2.46cr||Mumbai: The economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police has arrested a 65-year-old textiles businessman from Delhi for allegedly duping the Central Bank of India of ₹2.46 crore. The accused, Romi Malhotra, had allegedly taken a loan from the public sector bank by mortgaging properties which were already mortgaged with other banks.Malhotra had been allegedly evading the police since 2013, after a case was registered against him. Recently, officers attached to EOW’s banking (fraud) unit-1 received information that the accused had been changing his locations frequently and was currently in Delhi. Malhotra is also booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in two other cases in Delhi and Dehradun. The police learnt that Malhotra would be attending a local court in Delhi. Acting on the tip off, an EOW team went to the national Capital and arrested him on October 29 when he came out of the court. He was again produced in a local court and brought to Mumbai on transit remand.A Mumbai court has remanded him in police custody till Thursday.“The accused first built a good rapport with the bank officials, and after winning their trust, availed a loan by submitting false documents. While taking the loan from the bank, he had mortgaged properties which were already mortgaged with other banks,” said an EOW officer. The accused had allegedly committed the offence between 2010 and 2013.The other two cases against Malhotra are being probed by anti-corruption wing of CBI as senior bank officials are allegedly involved in them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-s-eow-arrests-delhi-bizman-for-duping-central-bank-of-india-of-246cr-101635777749493.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Municipal Corporation increases Covid testing capacity at Nerul lab||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has augmented the capacity of its Covid testing laboratory in Nerul from 2,000 RT-PCR tests to 5,000 tests daily.The facility with the largest capacity in the MMR area has been upgraded in view of the possibility of a third Covid wave. NMMC has also set up 200 ICU beds in each of its Nerul and Airoli hospitals.The state of the art RT-PCR testing and research laboratory at Sector 15’s Maasaheb Meenatai Thackeray Hospital was commissioned by Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde. Shinde said, “It is a big relief that the city now has the capacity to test such large numbers on a daily basis. This is a timely action by NMMC to face the possibility of a third wave, if it comes. NMMC has 800 ICU beds available for any eventuality and an alert health system is in place.”Abhijit Bangar, NMMC commissioner, said, “The lab facility was initially set up on August 4, 2020 in just 11 days with the requisite permission from the state government. The lab was not shut for even a single day during the first and second Covid waves and continued to render services. Till October 30, 6,36,073 free RT-PCR tests were conducted at the lab. NMMC has spent ₹38Cr for the tests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-municipal-corporation-increases-covid-testing-capacity-at-nerul-lab-101635777693968.html
01-11-2021||Other||Congress in self-destruct mode, says Punjab BJP chief||Chandigarh Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on Monday said the Congress party is in a self-destructive mode and the squabbling between chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu had reached such a crescendo (the loudest point) that the advocate general resigned, APS Deol, resigned within weeks of his appointment. Sharma added that the Congress state president had resigned in protest against the appointments of the advocate general APS Deol and Punjab DGP IPS Sahota stating that both had been defending people involved in sacrilege cases. “Both the appointments were a prerogative of the chief minister Channi. Sidhu, however, had dubbed these appointments as controversial and had recently met the high command,” said Sharma, adding that the Congress had lost its grip on the state. “The common man is suffering and the infighting is only getting worse by the day,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-in-self-destruct-mode-says-punjab-bjp-chief-101635776969127.html
01-11-2021||Lucknow||Row over SP chief’s ‘Jinnah’ comment, BJP accuses Akhilesh of having ‘Talibani mindset’||The Jinnah controversy broke out again in Uttar Pradesh just ahead of the 2022 UP elections with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) playing up a remark by the Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav accusing him of possessing a “Talibani mindset.” “Sardar Patel, Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle,” the SP chief had said, a statement that has drawn much criticism.As several Patels, (in UP Patels are OBCs), took objection to Yadav’s remarks and gathered in Hazratganj to carry out demonstrations. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also demanded an apology from Yadav.“He should apologise to the country for his remarks,” Adityanath said adding that the comparison with Sardar Patel, who united India, with Jinnah, responsible for the division of the country, was unacceptable. Yadav’s remarks came while addressing a public meeting in UP’s Hardoi on Sunday, the birth anniversary of the country’s first deputy Prime Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The SP chief talked of Muhammad Ali Jinnah in the same breath as Sardar Patel, father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi, first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. “Why is Akhilesh Yadav praising Muhammad Ali Jinnah on the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel?” BJP’s UP unit chief Swatantra Dev tweeted. BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Brij Lal, a former director-general of police (DGP), too joined in, suggesting Yadav should read history.“Akhilesh Yadav must read history. Jinnah was involved in the mass murder of Hindus and also in the partition of the country,” Brij Lal said.State’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said Akhilesh’s Jinnah remark reflected a warped mindset. “This remark is wholly unacceptable, hugely condemnable and the SP chief should learn history better and stop eulogising those who divided India. Under PM Modi’s leadership, we are moving towards the ‘one India, great India’ concept and the opposition leader is remembering the main architect of the country’s division’.In April-May 2018, ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP staged a massive protest demanding that the portrait of Pakistan’s founder be removed from the student union office of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), where it has been mounted for decades. BJP’s Aligarh MP Satish Gautam had written to the AMU administration seeking removal of the Jinnah portrait. The AMU then pointed out that the portrait had been there for decades as part of a tradition where photographs of all life members are placed on the walls of the student union. Jinnah was the founder of the AMU.Clashes between the students and police were reported on the campus. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath then said that there was no question of celebrating Jinnah in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/row-over-sp-chief-s-jinnah-comment-bjp-accuses-akhilesh-of-having-talibani-mindset-101635774330332.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypolls: Tight security in place for counting of votes on Tuesday||Elaborate security arrangements have been put in place for the counting of votes at three assembly constituencies and one Lok Sabha seat in Himachal where bypolls were held on October 30. Chief electoral officer for Himachal, C Paulrasu said the counting of votes will begin at 8am on Tuesday. A counting assistant and counting inspector (supervisor) will be posted at each table, other than the returning officer’s table.He said that 11 counting observers have been deployed in Mandi parliamentary constituency, while in Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies, there will be one general counting observer each. Apart from this, a micro observer has also been deployed at each counting table.Paulrasu said two centers have been set up to complete the counting of postal ballot papers and electronically transmitted postal ballot system (ETPBS).In Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies, one centre each has been set up for counting of postal ballot and ETPBS votes. This will let officials to start counting of postal ballots and votes cast through EVM simultaneously.The CEO also said that in compliance with the guidelines issued in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, there will be a ban on taking out victory processions by winning candidates or their supporters after the declaration of the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypolls-tight-security-in-place-for-counting-of-votes-on-tuesday-101635773608800.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Nearly 2,800 fire personnel to be deployed in Delhi on Diwali||Around 2,800 personnel of the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) will be deployed in the national capital on November 4 on the occasion of Diwali this year, director Atul Garg told news agency ANI on Monday.Furthermore, as many as 30 fire posts have also been set up across the Union territory to handle distress calls. These are in addition to the existing 64 fire stations in the city, Garg mentioned.“We have made extensive preparations to handle fire calls during the Diwali festival. Around 2,800 fire personnel will be on duty on Diwali,” Garg was quoted as saying by ANI.
01-11-2021||Other||Sangrur ex-serviceman booked for firing at wife when stopped from drinking||Sangrur Lehra Police have booked an ex-serviceman, Buta Singh of Ramgarh Sandhuan village near Lehragaga, for firing at his wife, who sustained injuries on her arm. The woman, Manpreet Kaur, was married to Buta Singh 17 years ago, and had stopped him from consuming liquor. Buta fired at her from his .12 bore rifle and the bullet injured her right arm; she has been admitted to the Sangrur civil hospital on Sunday. A case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangrur-ex-serviceman-booked-for-firing-at-wife-when-stopped-from-drinking-101635773249585.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pak Army repatriates Indian man via LoC in Poonch||Pakistan on Monday repatriated a 35-year-old Indian man, who had inadvertently crossed over the Line of Control from Poonch district over three years ago, said officials. He was identified as Saif Deen, son of Gulam Mohammad of Gagrian Mandi in Saujiyan area of Poonch district. “He had crossed the LoC in June 2018. Today, he was handed over to the Indian authorities by Pak Army representatives at the Poonch-Rawalakote crossing point in the district. He was sent back on “humanitarian grounds”, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pak-army-repatriates-indian-man-via-loc-in-poonch-101635772108729.html
01-11-2021||Other||Manipur draft electoral roll has more women voters than men||The office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Manipur on Monday published the draft electoral roll for the state which now has 19,68,476 voters.The total electorate in Manipur now includes 10,12,655 women, 9,55,657 men and 164 members of the third gender.Announcing this during a press conference in Imphal this afternoon, CEO Manipur Rajesh Agarwal said that the printed copy of draft electoral rolls of each assembly constituency and another copy in DVD-ROM will be made available free of cost to the recognised national and state political parties.Manipur will go to THE polls in early 2022 along with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Goa.Stating that the gender ratio as of the date of draft electoral roll publication is 1060 compared to 1058 as of January 2021, the CEO said that women are more proactive in registering themselves in electoral rolls than men.The elector to population ratio (EPR) of the state is 55.81 percent because of low EPR in the hill districts. The projected population of the state is around 35,27,064 in 2022.On the other hand, the total number of polling stations across the state has reached 2,959 with an increase of 65 polling stations, including 13 each in Churachandpur and Ukhrul districts. The locations of 85 polling stations were changed.The period for filing claims and objections to the draft electoral roll will be between November 1 to 30 while November 13, 14, 27 and 28 have been scheduled for the special campaign dates to clarify or register new voters.“During this period, one can enrol, delete from, make corrections and apply for transposition of his-her name in the electoral roll,” the CEO said. “The Application forms may be submitted to the electoral registration officers, assistant electoral registration officers and booth level officers through physical forms.”To oversee the activities of special summary revision in the electoral districts, three senior officers of the state government have been appointed, he added.The first level checking (FLC) of EVMs has started in all the 11 electoral districts with the deployment of 44 engineers from Electronics Corporation of India Ltd. So far, the FLC for Jiribam district has been completed.A team of the Election Commission of India, led by deputy election commissioner Nitesh Vyas, visited the state on October 27 to see the poll preparedness of conduct of elections.On October 30, the office of the CEO, Manipur, briefed the representatives of recognised national and state political parties about the programme of Special Summary Revision with respect to 1st January 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-draft-electoral-roll-has-more-women-voters-than-men-101635771992008.html
01-11-2021||Patna||4 sentenced to death for 2013 Gandhi Maidan blasts in Patna; jail for 5 others||PATNA: Four of the nine men convicted for the 2013 serial blasts at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan have been sentenced to death by a Patna court on Monday. Special NIA judge Gurwinder Singh Malhotra sentenced the five other convicts to prison terms ranging from life to seven years.Six people were killed and 90 injured in the explosions.Seven blasts went off on October 27, 2013, right before Prime Minister Narendra Modi, then the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate, was to reach the venue to address an election meeting.The additional district and sessions judge (XV) of the special NIA court,Gurwinder Singh Malhotra awarded capital punishment to Imtiyaz Ansari, Haider Ali alias Abdullah alias “Black Beauty”, Noman Ansari and Mohammed Mujibullah Ansari.Umar Siddiqui and Azharuddin Qureshi were sentenced to life imprisonment, Ahmed Hussain and Feroz Aslam were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment while Mohammed Iftekhar Alam was awarded a seven-year prison term.Five of the convicts - Haider Ali, alias Black Beauty, Imtiaz Ansari, Umer Siddique, Azharuddin Qureshi and Mujibullah Ansari - are already serving life terms for the Bodh Gaya Mahabodhi blasts just over three months before the October 27, 2013, attack on Modi’s election rally.The nine were convicted on October 27 by the special NIA judge for planting and detonating the explosions.Special public prosecutor Lalan Kumar Sinha said the nine were convicted for criminal conspiracy, murder, attempt to murder, waging war against the government of India, conspiracy to wage war against the government, destroying evidence, explosives and railway act and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.Two suspects including Imtiyaz Ansari (Gandhi Maidan) and Mohammad Tariq Ajam (Patna Junction) were also injured in the incident and revealed the name of other suspects.Ajam died during the treatment in the PMCH. Following their revelations, the Bihar police and NIA solved the Bodh Gaya blasts case as well.Senior police officer Manu Mahraaj, who was Patna’s senior superintendent of police when the blasts took place, said Imtiaz’s arrest after his injury in an accidental blast at Patna railway junction on the day of Modi’s rally blew the lid off the conspiracy. The then SSP and then Bihar police chief Abhyanand told HT that they were happy with the court’s judgement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4-sentenced-to-death-for-2013-gandhi-maidan-blasts-in-patna-jail-for-5-others-101635769529261.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Power tariff cut by ₹3, 11% DA hike for Punjab govt staff: Channi's Diwali bonanza||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced a slew of relief measures for citizens and state government employees close on the wheels of Diwali festivities.He said power tariff for residential consumers in the state having upto 7 kilowatt load connection was being brought down by ₹3 per unit across all the slabs. For state government employees, he announced an 11 per cent hike in dearness allowance and urged them to sit for talks and not agitate over any of their demands till the next assembly election.He, however, refused to comment on the resignation by advocate general APS Deol. However, an officer in the CMO confirmed that resignation has been accepted and further course of action will be announced shortly.Regarding the latest rate cut in power tariff that was effective from Monday, Channi said electricity was now the cheapest in Punjab, while adding that this would bring in an additional burden of Rs. 3,316 crore on the state exchequer and add up to ₹14,000 crore when the total annual power subsidy bill is calculated which included subsidies on agri pumpsets. “ ₹1.19 will be the new rate for small consumers,” he said.“With today’s announcement, 95 per cent consumers have been covered touching 69 lakh consumers out of a total 72 lakh consumers with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited,” Channi said at a press conference in Chandigarh.He further said the government had decided to terminate its agreements with the GVK-owned power plant in Goindwal Sahib  that was providing electricity at ₹6-7 per unit. “We will also rework power purchase agreements with two other privately owned thermal plants in Punjab by bringing in legislation in the upcoming session of the Assembly on Nov 8,” he said.Speaking about the DA hike of government employees, Channi said, “On the occasion of Diwali, I wanted to give them a gift, one that they never had before. The employees were on strike even before I became the CM. I spoke with them this morning.”While remaining silent on arrears on the dearness allowance, Channi said the latest move would add a burden of ₹440 crore per month on the state exchequer.“We discussed the gift, they even gave me a commitment that they won't go on a strike, whatever might the situation be, as long as this government is in power. They will sit and discuss the issue,” Channi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.(With inputs from Punjab bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-tariff-cut-by-rs-3-11-da-hike-for-govt-staff-channi-s-diwali-bonanza-101635768139803.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir weather update: Brace for light showers, snow on Nov 2, 5||Kashmir is set to see a further dip in temperatures this week as the meteorological (MeT) department has predicted light rain and snow on November 2 and 5.Meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir said two mild western disturbances –winds from the Mediterranean – were expected to hit the region on these days.“Their impact won’t be much. On November 2 and 5, there are chances of scattered rain at isolated places – either in the morning or evening. The sky will remain overcast,” said Mir.“The day temperatures may go down and hover around 16-17 degree Celsius while there will be some increase in night temperatures,” he said.Summer capital Srinagar recorded a day temperature of 18.8°C on Sunday while the night temperature was 4.4°C. Winter capital, Jammu, recorded a maximum temperature of 28.1°C on Sunday and minimum of 14.9°C.On October 22 and 23, the Union Territory was hit by a major western disturbance, bringing heavy rain and snowfall in the region. Five persons had died in Kashmir owing to the inclement weather. The Met office had said that the spell brought record rainfall in many parts of the region. The summer capital Srinagar’s observatory recorded a cumulative rainfall of 66 mm against the previous extreme rainfall record of 65.4 mm for the month of October in Srinagar in 1966.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-weather-update-brace-for-light-showers-snow-on-nov-2-5-101635768030055.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze sent to Mumbai Police custody in extortion case||Mumbai’s crime branch on Monday took dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze into custody from Taloja jail in connection with an extortion case registered at Goregaon police station against him, former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and a few some others.A senior police officer said a team from the crime branch visited Taloja jail at around 10am on Monday and took Vaze into custody. After a medical check-up, he will be produced before a police court, the officer said. The crime branch had approached a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, and on October 29, the latter had permitted the crime branch to take Vaze into custody for interrogation in the extortion case. Vaze, arrested by the NIA in the Antilia bomb scare case and the subsequent Mansukh Hiran murder case, had been lodged in Taloja jail. In August, the Goregaon police station had registered a case against Singh, Vaze and a few other individuals - Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vijay Singh and Riyaz Bhati – over the extortion case. The complainant, hotelier Bimal Agarwal, alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him and had threatened to register cases against Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar, both of which he owns. According to crime branch officials, Vaze is the main accused in the case. The police have already arrested Sumeet Singh, who had allegedly collected extortion money for Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-sent-to-mumbai-police-custody-in-extortion-case-101635768028676.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Diwali bonanza: Punjab cuts power tariff by ₹3 per unit for domestic consumers||The Punjab cabinet on Monday decided to cut power tariff by ₹3 per unit for domestic consumers with immediate effect. The populist decision, which comes just months ahead of the assembly elections, will put a burden of ₹3,316 crore per year on the exchequer. Also read: Farm fires: Provide cost-effective tech to farmersThe announcement was made by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi after the cabinet meeting. “We are reducing power tariff by ₹3 per unit for domestic consumers,” Channi told a press conference in Chandigarh. It is a “big Diwali gift” for people, he said, adding that the decision will come into effect immediately. He said according to a survey conducted by his government, people wanted quality and cheap power.Domestic consumers having up to 7KW load connection across all slabs will be benefited. With this announcement, 95% of consumers have been covered as the beneficiaries comprise 69 lakh of the 72 lakh PSPCL consumers. PPAs with two more private plants to be reworkedThe chief minister announced that the government has decided to terminate the power purchase agreement (PPA) with the GVK-owned power plant at Goindwal Sahib in Amritsar. He said his government will rework the power purchase agreements with two other privately owned thermal plants in Punjab by bringing a legislation in the session of the state assembly on November 8.11% dearness allowance for Punjab employeesThe Punjab chief minister also announced 11% dearness allowance (DA) to the employees with effect from July 1. This will add a burden of ₹440 crore a month on the state exchequer. The Channi government is, however, silent on paying the DA arrears. The CM claimed that the employees have agreed to call off their week-long strike and have assured him that there will be no strike by them during the remaining tenure of his government before the assembly elections early next year.Mum on resignation of APS Deol as advocate generalDuring the press conference, Channi evaded a query on the resignation of APS Deol as advocate general on Monday afternoon. A senior official in the chief minister’s office later confirmed that the resignation has been accepted and further course will be announced shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cuts-power-tariff-by-3-per-unit-for-domestic-consumers-101635767608543.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab paddy straw-based 10MW Jalkheri power plant a non-starter||Amid the spike in paddy stubble fires over the past week, the much-hyped eco-friendly alternative of the Jalkheri biomass project of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has remained a non-starter even three years since its re-tendering. Also read: Farm fires: Provide cost-effective tech to farmersThe 10-MW biomass power project, located at Jalkheri village in Fatehgarh Sahib district, can handle paddy straw of one lakh acres. The plant has been idle since September 2007. In December 2018, the PSPCL leased it out on renovate, operate and transfer (ROT) basis for 20 years. Citing it as a major development at that time, the PSPCL said it has managed to bring M/s Sukhbir Energy Private Limited for this work in reverse tendering of tariff at ₹5.84 a unit. But the private company didn’t do anything to restart the plant. This biomass fuel-based plant built by the erstwhile Punjab State Electricity Board was commissioned in June 1992. The plant remained operational till July 1995 after which it was given on lease to M/s Jalkheri Power Plant Ltd (JPPL) in July 2001. The plant was commissioned in July 2002 and operational till September 2007. In 2012, efforts were made to restart the project by giving a licence to a private developer to run it for a specific period by giving it on lease. Even then no response was received. In 2018, the plant was re-tendered to be leased out. On December 27, 2018, during reverse auction (RA), a tariff rate of ₹5.84/unit was quoted by one of the participant bidders. According to the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission, however, generic tariff for biomass power projects (RE technologies) for FY 2018-19 is ₹8.25 to ₹8.36 per unit for the projects that are tendered by Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA). The PSPCL had projected a saving for ₹13 crore per annum. Project was to be operational in March 2021 According to the tender, the project was to be operational in 27 months from the date of signing the lease. However, not a single work was initiated to renovate the plant. “We have written to the company repeatedly to comply with the provisions of the tender and start the plant. However, no investment was made to restart it. We have now started penal proceedings,” said a PSPCL official. “Once the Jalkheri power plant becomes operational, not only 80,000MT per annum of rice straw shall be consumed for producing electricity, but this will also help in meeting renewable purchase obligations (RPO) requirements of the PSPCL. But now the PSPCL’s plans are shattered,” said the official, requesting anonymity. He said that the company is citing Covid-19 related force majeure (unforeseeable circumstances that prevent from fulfilling the contract) for not initiating the process, but the fact is that it is unviable to run the project at ₹5.84 unit. He said that the company roped was running two similar projects at ₹8.36 per unit and both started after this tender process. Penal proceedings against private firm PEDA has twice floated tenders for 150-MW biomass projects, but no one came forward to install such plants over tariff-related issues. When contacted, PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said that he is seized of the matter. “We will take strict action against the company as it didn’t commence work and time has lapsed. They are citing force majeure, but it is not the case. I have asked officials to start penal proceedings and similarly to restart the process to re-allocate it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-paddy-straw-based-10mw-jalkheri-power-plant-a-nonstarter-101635766648585.html
01-11-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Mula-Mutha rejuvenation should as much be a priority as river beautification||Earlier this month when the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) hurriedly cleared the Mula-Mutha riverfront development project without much debate, it raised eyebrows. Last week when it went ahead and invited bids – in an equally hurried manner – it invited a warning from the state government’s water resource department that the civic body would be solely responsible for any flood situation arising due to the project.The PMC plans to develop the riverbed on the lines of the famed Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad. The project entails embankments, promenades, theme parks, walkways and even parking lots along the river bed.In their current form, the two rivers that flow through the city – Mula and Mutha – are among the most polluted water bodies in the state. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) in its various reports have maintained that Mula and Mutha, which flows along a 22-km stretch through Pune city, contained human and animal excreta higher than the permissible limits. For Punekars, some spots of these rivers have become an eyesore as the river carries more sewage than clean water.The beautification project intends to make the river accessible for citizens for recreational purposes, which is currently out of question. The development of the banks is expected to stop the dumping of garbage and aims to stop the threat of flooding by restoring the natural limit of the riverbanksThere is currently a rush for riverfront development projects across cities where water bodies are polluted. These projects put heavy stress on the beautification of rivers and being treated as an extension of urban spaces, as noted by South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People.To take care of the ecological aspect and revive the river, there is another project the PMC has undertaken and is being funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). To rejuvenate the river, the proposed pollution-abatement-cum-river-rejuvenation project aims to stop the flow of untreated water into the rivers which also increases the growth of hyacinths, leading to serious environmental issues and mosquito menace.The project envisages construction of 11 new sewage treatment plants to cover sewage generation till 2027, laying of 1,13.6 km of sewage lines connected to houses in the city, construction of 24 community toilets in slum areas to stop open defecation along the river banks, monitoring of flow of effluent water, facilitation of public awareness programmes and the overall objective of rejuvenation of the Mula-Mutha. The project was sanctioned by the central government under the National River Conservation Plan (NRCP) in 2015. The actual project cost was ₹990.26 crore. However, due to delays, the estimated cost has gone over to ₹1,500 crore.Both projects were on paper since 2016-17 but were delayed due to several reasons. They are in the pipeline now.Will the beautification project just be a cosmetic make-up on something that requires bigger efforts? The PMC needs to clarify this especially when the manner in which the proposal was quickly cleared even as its cost has escalated to Rs4,727 crore from over ₹2619 around five years ago.The two rivers are important to Pune’s ecology. Just as a blind replication of riverfront projects elsewhere in India or abroad can risk going public money down the drain, keeping them in their current form means keeping the 22-km stretch inaccessible to citizens.The need then is to focus equally on river rejuvenation while riverfront development projects progress without alienating from the river. The need is also to ensure the beautification project is not just restricted to cosmetic make-up but a real change, which is in consonance with ecology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-mula-mutha-rejuvenation-should-as-much-be-a-priority-as-river-beautification-101635764728405.html
01-11-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata man suspected to have murdered Subir Chaki arrested in Mumbai||KOLKATA: Vicky Haldar, the prime suspect in the murder of Subir Chaki, 61, a top executive of a private firm, and his driver Rabin Mondal, 65, was arrested in Mumbai on Sunday evening, people familiar with the development said.Vicky Haldar, who was arrested along with an accomplice, Subhankhar Mondal, is being brought to Kolkata on a transit remand granted till November 3 by a Mumbai judge.The two suspects were traced to a parking lot of an under-construction high-rise apartment building in Mumbai on Sunday evening and arrested, said an officer of the detective department of the Kolkata Police which cracked the case. The Mumbai Police helped in the investigation.Haldar had been on the run after killing Subir Chaki, managing director of Mumbai-headquartered Kilburn Engineering, and his driver at the top executive’s ancestral house in south Kolkata’s Gariahat area on October 17.Initial investigations by the detective department indicated that Chaki and his driver were murdered after the top executive recognised Vicky who was posing as a buyer for Chaki’s three-storey ancestral house at Kankulia Road. The intention, a police officer said, was to rob Chaki.Vicky met Chaki for the first time around 10 months ago under a different name. Subir Chaki had been trying to sell the house where he was found dead for nearly six years. It is not clear how that meeting ended.On October 17, Haldar and his accomplices killed Subir Chaki and his driver, and decamped with Chaki’s gold rings and purse, which contained some cash and credit cards, a second police officer said.Vicky Haldar’s mother Mithu Haldar was the first of the six suspects to be arrested on October 20. Mithu Halder is alleged to have offered ₹50,000 each to two of the suspects, Jahir Gazi and Bapi Mondal, to help her son carry out the robbery. Police told a Kolkata court that the Vicky Halder and his mother, who worked as a nurse for elderly people a short distance from Chaki’s ancestral house, planned the crime.Jahir Gazi and Bapi Mondal were picked up from the remote Patharpratima area of South 24 Parganas on October 22. The fourth, Sanjay Mondal, an e-rickshaw driver, was picked up from the Parulia area of South 24 Parganas district on October 29.Officers said that Vicky’s interrogation will reveal more information and help investigators trace the knives used in the crime.In the past, Subir Chaki, an alumnus of IIT Kharagur and IIM, Calcutta, sent his driver with the keys when prospective buyers wanted to see the house. The police suspect that Chaki might have been led to believe that he was close to sealing a deal and hence came to the house himself on October 17.Chaki, who lived at New Town on the eastern outskirts of the city with his wife, mother and mother-in-law, also owned property at a posh south Kolkata condominium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-man-suspected-to-have-murdered-subir-chaki-arrested-in-mumbai-101635764368500.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||CBI books city firm, directors for cheating IDBI Bank of ₹63.10 cr||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against a Mumbai-based company, its directors, unknown public servants and private persons for allegedly cheating IDBI Bank to the tune of Rs. 63.10 crore between 2014 and 2016, officials said. The case was registered based on a complaint lodged by IDBI Bank officials, on the basis of which the central agency booked Topworth Steels and Power Private Limited, its directors Surendra Champalal Lodha, Abhay Narendra Lodha. Ashwin Narendra Lodha, Nitin Golecha and unknown public servants and private persons. “The accused entered in a conspiracy to cheat IDBI Bank and committed fraud in the various credit facilities availed under consortium of banks namely Letter of Credit/Trade Credit Bank Guarantee (LC/TCBG), bank guarantee as well as cash credit limits,” said a CBI official. The account was classified as non-performing assets (NPA) due to persistent irregularities, thereby, causing an alleged loss of ₹63.10 crore to the public sector bank, the CBI said in a release. The agency has conducted searches at nine places, including Mumbai, Nagpur and Chhattisgarh at the house and office premises of the accused which has led to the recovery of incriminating documents, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-books-city-firm-directors-for-cheating-idbi-bank-of-rs-63-10-cr-101635763529824.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||APS Deol resigns as Punjab advocate general||Criminal lawyer Amar Preet Singh Deol resigned as advocate general of Punjab on Monday. He was appointed on September 27. Sources said Deol resigned in the afternoon but his resignation was yet to be accepted by the Charanjit Singh Channi government. Neither Deol nor the state government has confirmed the development so far. Also read: 46 IAS, PCS officers transferred in poll-bound PunjabSoon after Deol’s appointment, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had resigned from his post, criticising his appointment and also that of director general of police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. Sidhu has been adamant on his replacement since then and conveyed the same to the central leadership of the Congress. Deol had secured release of Sumedh Saini Deol, 61, had shot into limelight earlier this year when he secured the release of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, arrested by the vigilance bureau in a 2020 criminal case. Deol had appeared for Saini, among other accused, in the 2015 sacrilege cases before the Punjab and Haryana high court. This became the reason for the criticism of the government following his appointment. It was being reasoned that a person who defended Saini and those accused in sacrilege cases, should not have been appointed advocate general. Several Sikh organisations had also opposed his appointment. Subsequently, Deol brought in a senior advocate and criminal lawyer Rajwinder Singh Bains as special public prosecutor to appear in post-sacrilege violence cases and also the cases in which Saini is an accused. However, this appointment was questioned due to Bains once representing a complainant in the 2015 sacrilege cases. Last week, the government had to give an undertaking to the high court that Bains will not appear in post sacrilege violence cases till November 23. On the drug cases, Deol tried hard that sealed cover reports in the high court be opened. However, due to the festive season, the matter was taken up on two-three occasions but no decision could be taken on them and the matter now stands deferred till November 18. The court is yet to decide on whether the reports are to be opened. Sensitive cases in run-up to elections All these cases are politically sensitive and important for the new government that has to face the assembly election within four months. “The recent developments in the high court go against the promises being made by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. They have been promising that the sealed cover reports in drug cases will be opened at the earliest and that the probe will be expedited in the sacrilege cases,” a key functionary said, adding nothing substantial has been achieved in the courts. One more reason being cited is of the high court not allowing the production warrants of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in a sacrilege case. Deol had assured comprehensive security arrangements, including the deployment of a chopper, but the court did not agree to bring the dera chief from Rohtak’s Sunaria jail to Faridkot and added that if the police desired so, it could interrogate him in Rohtak jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aps-deol-resigns-as-punjab-advocate-general-101635763228329.html
01-11-2021||Bangalore||Will rename Mumbai-Karnataka region as Kittur Karnataka: Chief minister Bommai||The Mumbai-Karnataka region will be renamed as ‘Kittur Karnataka’ region as there is no point in retaining the old name when border disputes often emerge, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday. "We have recently renamed Hyderabad-Karnataka region as Kalyana Karnataka. We have now decided to rename Mumbai-Karnataka region as 'Kittur Karnataka' in the coming days," the chief minister announced during the Karnataka Rajyotsava, which is celebrated to commemorate the formation of Karnataka state 65 years ago.The chief minister was apparently referring to the repeated claims made by Maharashtra politicians demanding the merger of Belagavi district and a few border regions of Karnataka with Maharashtra owing to the presence of substantial Marathi speaking population. He also said that a decision to this effect will be taken in the upcoming cabinet meeting. Explaining the reason behind naming the cluster of districts in North Karnataka as Kittur-Karnataka region, Bommai said, "After the unification of Karnataka, our border disputes started and it has been settled but yet we hear the quarrels taking place. Is there any meaning to still call it Mumbai-Karnataka region when so many things are happening? What is the point in calling it Mumbai-Karnataka?" He argued that the changes in the region should have happened in 1956 when the State Reorganisation Act came into effect. Stating that mere renaming is not sufficient until the standard of living of the people in that region improves and development takes place, Bommai said the regional imbalance and disparities should also go and all the regions should grow together. The chief minister said his government is making efforts in to end regional disparity with a vow not to leave any region in the state underdeveloped. "We are also committed to prepare an action plan for the development of 'Kittur Karnataka region'," Bommai said. He also told the gathering that the funds for the Kalyana Karnataka region bordering Telangana will be doubled in the next budget and ₹3,000 crore will be allocated for the purpose. Speaking about the Kannada Rajyotsava, Bommai said the Covid-19 situation compelled the government to organise the event in a restricted way but the pandemic could not reduce the government's respect and love for Kannada. Bommai claimed that the 21st century is about the importance, objectives, and self-esteem of Kannada. Going into the history of Kannada and Kannadigas, the chief minister said there were Kannadiga rulers who ruled the neighbouring states such as Kadamba, Chalukya, and Vijayanagara empire. Bommai said Kannada displayed its unique internal strength to survive even in the face of onslaught by foreign invaders. "Even when rulers from other regions took reins here, Kannada managed to save itself. The language withstood the attacks of foreign forces and is standing firm. It was possible because it has got its own internal strength, which we should never forget. No force can ever destroy Kannada," the chief minister said. Bommai said the government has given utmost importance to Kannada making the language compulsory in the higher education under the new National Education Policy (NEP). He also said that his government has made efforts to teach engineering in Kannada medium. Bommai emphasised that his government wants that the Kannadigas should get up to 75 per cent jobs in jobs in government, private and semi-government industries in Karnataka. Earlier, the chief minister offered his obeisance to Bhuvaneshwari Devi, the mother Goddess of Karnataka and hoisted the Kannada flag along with the national tricolour at the Kanteerava Stadium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-rename-mumbai-karnataka-region-as-kittur-karnataka-chief-minister-bommai-101635762264670.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||How will Diwali impact Delhi's air quality? Here's what IMD says||Delhi's air quality is expected to dip to 'very poor' category a day after Diwali, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its forecast. With the drop in temperature, The air quality index (AQI) is already recording a drop in the quality of air Delhiites breathe."Till November 4, air quality is expected to be in 'poor' category. It could dip to 'very poor' category on 5-6 November due to northwesterly winds and bursting of crackers," IMD scientist VK Soni was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He added that minimum temperature in the national capital will remain between 13-15 degrees Celsius for the next three days.On Monday, Delhi's AQI plunged to poor category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The hourly AQI at 7am was 278, while the average 24-hour AQI on Sunday was 289.As per government agencies, an AQI within the range of 0-5 is regarded as 'good', 51-100 is 'satisfactory', 101-200 is 'moderate', 201-300 is 'poor' and 301-400 is 'very poor' and 401-500 is considered 'severe'.The minimum temperature on Monday dipped two notches below normal to settle at 13.6 degrees Celsius in Delhi.Sunday's maximum temperature settled at 29.7 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's average while the minimum temperature settled at 16.5 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season's average.Isolated rainfall was also likely in the region and expected to improve air quality. According to union earth science ministry's System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the share of crop residue burning emissions in PM2.5 was about 8 per cent on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-will-diwali-impact-delhi-s-air-quality-know-imd-forecast-101635758936776.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Recipes with a twist for festival season||What could be a better season than winters to relish these piping hot delicacies? And the cheery on the top is festivities that allow everyone to indulge in scrumptious sweets without any guilt. We share few recipes with a twist that can satiate all taste buds.Pistachio halwaspanakopitas with wild bee Himalayan honeyFor Pistachio halwaIngredients1.5 tablespoon ghee 0.5 cup sugar 2 tablespoon milk1 cup boiling water1.25 cup shelled pistachiosMethodPut pistachios in a bowl, top with boiling water and soak for 30 minutes.Drain pistachios thoroughly and put in a blender (mixer).Add milk and process in blender until finely chopped and mix in sugar.Heat a large non stick skillet, add ghee and melt over medium-low heat.Add pistachio paste and cook for about 15 minutes, stirring constantly, until mixture is very thick keep a side and let it coolFor spanakopitasIngredients Phyllo pastry sheets-12nosMelted butter-200gmWild bee Himalayan honey-80mlMethod Remove phyllo from refrigerator and cover with a lightly damp kitchen towel. Take 1 phyllo sheet and place on a clean surface. Brush all over with melted butter, and then top with another sheet of phyllo. Brush second sheet of phyllo all over with butter, then slice into 6 long, evenly sized strips (about 12”-x-3” each).Assemble spanakopitas: Place a tablespoon of pista halwa mixture on the corner nearest you on one strip of phyllo. Fold corner over mixture to make a triangle, Repeat until all filling and all phyllo is used.Place all folded triangles seam side down on baking sheets and brush with butter. Bake until golden and crisp, 20 to 23 minutes. Let cool slightly before serving. top with wild bee Himalayan honey and serve.Moti choor with cream angles and vanilla foamIngredientsFor crème anglaise(eggless)2 tsp Custard powder ⅔ cup sugar1½ cups very hot milkpinch salt3 Tbsp. unsalted butter (optional)Saffron 1 gmFor vanilla foam1 Tbsp. softened butter ¼ cup sifted confectioners sugar ½ tsp. creamlarge pinch salt1 teaspoon pure vanilla extractMoti choor laddoo- 3nos : for serving trayMethod For crème anglaiseWhisk the crusted powder with milk in a saucepan, add the sugar while continue beating for 2 to 3 minutes until the mixture is pale yellow and thick. Add butter and keep stirring and not beating. Add saffron and keep it aside·Method for foamMix all the ingredients together and and give a boil , blend with hand machine till the foam is formed.For servingTake a serving tray with Moti choor laddoos placed on it, pour in crème angles and top them with vanilla foam.Gond Ke Laddoo granola bar with fresh coconut and palm jaggery·Ingredients for Gond Mix6 tbsp ghee ½ cup gond / edible gum2 tbsp cashew2 tbsp almonds (chopped)2 tbsp raisins1½ cup dry coconut grated2 tbsp poppy seeds ¾ cup dry dates (seedless) ¼ tsp cardamom powder ¼ tsp nutmeg powder 1 cup palm jaggery syrup2 tbsp waterIngredients for Granola mix1/3 cup (113 grams) pure honey1/4 cup unsalted butter1/4 cup light brown sugar1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt1/2 cup dried cranberries, coarsely chopped 1/4 Flex seeds-roasted1/4 Sesame seeds-roasted1/4 Sunflower seeds-roastedGrated fresh coconut-50gmsMethodIn a pan heat ¼ cup ghee and roast ½ cup Gond in batches.Crush the Gond using your hand or with a help of rolling pin.Roast dry fruits, 1½ cup dry coconut and 2 tbsp poppy seeds.Roast Khajur with 2 tbsp ghee on low flameTransfer the roasted Khajur into the same bowl.Additionally add ¼ tsp cardamom powder and ¼ tsp nutmeg powder.Mix well making sure all the dry fruits is well combined. Keep aside.Pour jaggery syrup over dry fruit mixture and mix well.Once the mixture is still warm add in the granola mix and give the shape you like it.Recipes by chef Prem K Pogakula, executive chef, The Imperial, New Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/recipes-with-a-twist-for-festival-season-101635761381692.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh appears before ED after evading it for four months||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Mumbai after evading the agency for over four months in connection with a money laundering probe against him.“Despite Hon. High Court granting me liberty to approach the Special Court [for pre-arrest bail] by invoking my constitutional rights, I am today going to the ED’s office and extending my full cooperation in the investigation,” Deshmukh said in one of his tweets on Monday, his first since July 2. The Bombay high court on Friday rejected Anil Deshmukh’s petition against the ED’s summons and for barring the agency from arresting him even as it said he was free to apply for anticipatory bail.Deshmukh, who also posted video messages on Twitter, said the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the ED probe, and the alleged harassment meted out to him and his family has deeply aggrieved him.Also Read: Kodiyeri slams central agencies after releaseFormer Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh has accused Deshmukh of asking police officers, including Sachin Vaze, to collect ₹100 crore monthly from bars, hookah parlours and restaurants. Vaze has since been arrested in connection with an SUV with explosives found abandoned outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, and the death of Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the vehicle days before it was reported stolen.Anil Deshmukh said Vaze is in jail for committing a heinous crime like murder while Singh has fled the country for avoiding arrest in extortion cases registered against him. He added this was the first time that fingers were being pointed at him in his political career.The ED has summoned Deshmukh five times since June 25. Except for the first, the remaining summons were for Deshmukh’s personal appearance but he did not appear before the agency until Monday.The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered on May 11 on the basis of the CBI’s First Information Report (FIR) on April 21.The ED has so far arrested Anil Deshmukh’s personal assistant Sanjeev Palande and secretary Kundan Shinde in the money laundering case and filed a charge-sheet against them. Vaze has also been named an accused in the charge sheet. The ED has alleged that on Deshmukh’s instructions, Vaze called a meeting of bar owners and demanded monthly ₹3 lakh from each of them. The agency alleged in the charge sheet that Vaze collected ₹4.7 crore from bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021 at Deshmukh’s behest. It added Vaze handed over the “extorted money” to Shinde and subsequently a part of the amount was routed to the charitable trust in Nagpur through shell companies.The CBI conducted a preliminary inquiry in the case after Singh moved the high court before registering the FIR against Deshmukh on April 21 under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-appears-before-ed-after-evading-it-for-four-months-101635760288344.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||NCB officer Sameer Wankhede arrives before national Scheduled Castes panel||Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai zonal officer Sameer Wankhede arrived before the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) in New Delhi on Monday to submit his caste documents.Wankhede hogged the limelight last month after he led a team of NCB officials to raid a luxury cruise ship off Mumbai coast, during Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and several others were detained, and later arrested, for allegedly possessing drugs. Wankhede met NCSC chairperson Vijay Sampla to present his original caste documents to prove that he is a Dalit, officials familiar with the development said.“He (Wankhede) has come here to present his subject before the commission. We will see and verify his documents," Subhash Ramnath Pardhi, a NCSC member was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Sampla also said that the documents provided by Wankhede will be verified with the Maharashtra government. “If the documents are found to be valid then no one can take action against Wankhede on the basis of such papers,” the NCSC chairperson told reporters.Speaking to the media after his meeting with Sampla, the NCB officer said, “Whatever facts and documents were asked by the commission have been provided to them today. My complaint will be verified and soon the NCSC chairman will reply on it,” Wankhede was quoted as saying.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Manharashtra minister Nawab Malik has levelled a series of allegations against Wankhede, including accusations that the NCB officer has forged his caste certificate and other documents to secure a job as an IRS officer under the Scheduled Castes quota after clearing the Union Public Service Commission examination. The minister has also claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth, a charge the NCB officer has refuted.Meanwhile, the NCB has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the allegations made by a witness in the cruise ship drugs raid case of an extortion bid of ₹ 25 crore by some agency officials, including Wankhede, and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-officer-sameer-wankhede-arrives-before-national-scheduled-castes-panel-101635755026805.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Dengue claims five more lives in New Delhi, infections top 1,500 this year||Five more people in New Delhi have died from dengue, according to a weekly report released by the city’s municipal authorities. The latest numbers have taken the death toll from the mosquito-borne viral infection in the Capital this year to six – the highest since 2017 when the disease claimed 10 lives. There was only one dengue death in New Delhi last year, two in 2019 and four in 2018, according to official data. In 2015, a major dengue outbreak had killed 60 people. “All six deaths [in New Delhi] happened between July and October this year, and were added to the report after investigations by the death audit committee. This is the peak season for dengue and we are still reporting a large number of cases. It is important that people remain cautious and prevent mosquito bites,” said a senior municipal official. New Delhi reported 531 new cases of dengue during the week ending on October 30, taking the Capital’s total tally to 1,537 this year. Of these, 1,196 cases were reported in October. The number of dengue cases usually starts declining around mid-November when the temperatures start dropping. This is also the highest number of cases reported in October since 2017. Also Read: Indonesian researchers breed ‘good’ mosquitoes to combat dengueLast year, a total of 1,072 dengue cases were reported in New Delhi, with 346 cases in October. In 2019, 2,036 cases were reported, with 787 infections recorded in October, according to official data. Rising dengue cases apart, the municipal corporation also fears a spike in malaria and chikungunya cases, with all these infections now being made notifiable diseases. It is now mandatory for all hospitals, clinics and diagnostic centres to report cases of notifiable diseases to the government. With dengue cases on the rise, the Delhi government has asked hospitals to utilise one-third of the beds earmarked for Covid-19 for dengue patients. Hospitals will have report the number of beds available for treatment, and also cases of fever. “We have asked all hospitals to share details of all fever cases and the beds available for the treatment of dengue patients. This will help us in estimating the need for beds going forward,” said Dr BS Charan, head of the integrated disease surveillance programme cell of the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dengue-claims-five-more-lives-in-new-delhi-infections-top-1-500-this-year-101635758368181.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypoll: BJP to act against black sheep after Tuesday’s outcome||With counting for the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency and three assembly segments of Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai slated on Tuesday, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to take disciplinary action against members who defied the party line to work against its candidates. Also read: Punjab Engineering College alumna Archana Thakur first woman to head Himachal PWDThe BJP faced the biggest rebellion in Jubbal-Kotkhai segment, where the block unit of the party resigned after the ticket was denied to Chetan Bragta and given to Neelam Saraik instead. The party has already expelled 52 office-bearers of its block unit besides the women, farmer and youth wings. It’s likely that more expulsions will be made after the election outcome. “We have sought a report from the observers appointed for the elections and action will be taken against those who defied the party line,” said state unit chief Suresh Kashyap. Rebellion in Arki, sulking leaders in Mandi The party faced rebellion in Arki, where its former legislator Govind Ram Sharma, refused to campaign for the official candidate, Rattan Singh Pal. Govind Ram, a two-time legislator, was denied the ticket in the 2017 assembly election when Rattan Singh Pal was pitted against former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Sharma has been upset with the party for denying him a ticket, while the party deputed him for electioneering in the Mandi byelections. Maheshwar Singh, a three-time Lok Sabha member scion of the royal family in Kullu, was seeking a ticket from Mandi and is since sulking. Former state BJP president Khimi Ram too is miffed with the party for being ignored. Party affairs in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna had separately met the sulking leaders. Former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar also did not campaign actively in Fatehpur after he was denied the ticket. Six Shimla councillors refused to campaignThe BJP is likely to act against six municipal corporation councillors from Shimla who refused to campaign for the Jubbal-Kotkhai official candidate, Neelam Seraik, in spite of being allocated election duties. “The party will strongly recommend that the ticket should not be given to councillors who defied its diktat,” said an office-bearer, requesting anonymity. On the other hand, the party will also assess the performance of ministers deputed on poll duties. The government had deputed state industries minister Bikram Singh to oversee the party’s Fatehpur campaign, while state health minister Rajiv Sehjal was to oversee the Arki electioneering, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj and power minister Sukhram Chaudhary in Jubbal and Kotkhai. While the party’s Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur and education minister Govind Thakur were given the responsibility to ensure the party’s win in Mandi, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur himself remained at the forefront of the campaign on his home turf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypoll-bjp-to-act-against-black-sheep-after-tuesday-s-outcome-101635756748010.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hankering after holidays, obsessed over off days||As it’s believed, God created the world in six days and rested on the seventh, giving us the concept of a free day or Sunday. A well-earned rest day for God after the gargantuan task of Creation! But we, the spoiled children of the same God, believe that we are working harder than even God and merit more rest days than just one. We all hanker after holidays, always looking forward to a little relief from our school or college or workplace as if we are being crushed under the heavy load of work. When Saturday joins hands with Sunday, making it a cosy weekend, it sends humanity around the world into an ecstatic euphoria. But people in some departments, such as we college teachers, go green with envy and red with rage, as we are destined to work on Saturday, too. We usher in the New Year with a renewed anticipation of grabbing the latest list of gazetted and non-gazetted holidays. A restricted holiday can bring an unrestricted glow of exuberance to one’s face, anytime. Coming back to work after a long summer vacation, our immediate curiosity is to know when the next holiday falls. The two days when we are on pins and needles are August 16 and January 27, after Independence Day and Republic Day, respectively, calling one another early in the morning to know whether educational institutions are closed or not. Obsessed with off days, we don’t shy away from making some adjustments here and there. Taking out a procession on the eve of a religious festival is an old tradition, and in most places, the second half of the day is declared a holiday for the convenience of those participating. But if the religious festival falls on Monday, for example, the procession will be held, not on the preceding Sunday, not even on Saturday, as these are already holidays, but on Friday, so that people can avail the benefit of the half-day off. We Indians have always basked in the warmth of the belief that we carry a little bit of India with us wherever we go. While in the United States a few years ago, we were at the office of the Indian Consulate on July 3, for a document that we needed urgently. It was around noon, but we found the place deserted, and the lone Indian security guard at the reception told us that most of the staff had gone home because the next day, July 4, was a holiday on account of US Independence Day. As we looked at him quizzically, he said with a smile, “Doesn’t it happen in India?” Interestingly, all US offices were working at full strength till late in the evening. Old habits die hard, don’t they?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hankering-after-holidays-obsessed-over-off-days-101635748347461.html
01-11-2021||Dehradun||Elephants kill 45-year-old woman in Uttarakhand||A 45-year-old woman was killed by a herd of elephants when she went to a forest to get grass to feed her cattle on Sunday evening in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani, an official said.Dhruv Singh Martoliya, sub-divisional forest officer, said Nandi Devi’s husband escaped unhurt. “[She] was rushed to a hospital where she was declared dead.” He added the husband said that they were cutting the grass when a herd of five to six elephants attacked her.Elephants have killed at least seven people in the state since June last year when a person was crushed to death by a wild tusker in the forests of the Kaladungi area in the Nainital district.Uttarakhand has 2,026 elephants, according to a census held last year. The aggression of elephants in Uttarakhand’s Corbett landscape, Rajaji National Park landscape, and Tarai areas has been a cause of concern for wildlife officials. Elephants have also died of electrocution and train hits in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/elephants-kill-45-year-old-woman-in-uttarakhand-101635747207414.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College alumna Archana Thakur first woman to head Himachal PWD||The Himachal Pradesh government has appointed Archana Singh Thakur, 55, as engineer-in-chief of the public works department. She is the first woman engineer to head the key department responsible for the construction of roads, bridges and buildings in the hill state. Also read: Will take call on Covid curbs in Himachal after Diwali, says CM Jai Ram Thakur“The job is challenging. My priority is to bring transparency in the department. I will focus on expediting projects and accelerate the pace of work,” Archana said after assuming charge on Monday. Archana joined the state public works department in 1988 after graduating from Punjab Engineering College. Her first posting was at Palampur as assistant engineer, designs, in 1988. She was promoted as an executive engineer (XEN) in 2004 and posted as XEN, Shimla, Division 2, from 2006-07. She worked as the executive engineer of PWD, Solan division, from 2007-08 and was posted as the superintending engineer under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana in 2015. She also worked as AE and XEN, PWD design, in Palampur, Nurpur, Bilaspur, Solan and Shimla. “Engineering was a rare field that women opted for in the early ’70s, but I was inspired by my father. It’s a great feeling to have made it to the top,” she said. Her father, Devender Singh Parmar, retired as chief engineer from Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Agricultural University, Palampur, in 1990. Her husband, Diljit Singh Thakur, is an inspector general of police. Their son, Ajitesh, is an MBA from Indian Institute of Management, Kolkata, and daughter, Devina, is studying at the National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-engineering-college-alumna-archana-thakur-first-woman-to-head-himachal-pwd-101635744807350.html
01-11-2021||Noida||Ahead of Diwali, section 144 imposed in Noida till November 30||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar have imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), prohibiting the gathering of four or more people in a public space, ahead of Diwali and in view of the coronavirus pandemic, reported agency ANI on Monday. The restriction came into effect on October 31 and will remain in force till November 30."Section 144 CrPC implemented in Gautam Buddh Nagar from October 31 to November 30 in view of COVID-19 pandemic ahead of upcoming festivals," ANI quoted a government press release as saying.According to the release, a social gathering will not be permitted in the district without permission from the authorities. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing will be compulsory. Gyms, restaurants and stadiums can only operate with the 50 per cent seating capacity till further order, as per the order.Also read | Air quality in Noida, Ghaziabad worsensFor wedding ceremonies, a maximum of 100 people will be allowed till further orders.Gautam Buddha Nagar is a part of the Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) and is divided into three subdivisions—Noida Sadar, Dadri and Jewar. Greater Noida is the administrative headquarters of Gautam Buddha Nagar district.Uttar Pradesh has 107 active cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). As many as 16,87,145 people have recovered from the viral disease so far in the state, the Union ministry of health and family welfare informed on Monday.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to allow the use and sale of green crackers on Diwali only for two hours in areas where the air quality is in the ‘moderate’ category or better, officials said on Saturday. The move came following the recent directions by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to keep the pollution levels in the region in check.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ahead-of-diwali-section-144-imposed-in-noida-till-november-30-101635742955536.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Hotel owner shot dead over financial dispute in south Delhi’s Mahipalpur||A 52-year-old hotel owner was shot dead allegedly over a financial dispute in south Delhi’s Mahipalpur on Sunday night, police said. Police suspect the role of a man whom the hotel owner had leased out his hotel around 10 months ago and his associates. All of them are absconding. A case of murder was registered and police teams have been formed to nab them, the police said.Deputy police commissioner (southwest) Gaurav Sharma said the police control room received a call from a person saying someone shot his brother in Mahipalpur. A police team reached there and rushed the injured man to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared brought dead.Also Read: Man shot at by brother-in-law over interfaith marriage“The deceased was identified as Krishan Pal Sehrawat, a 52-year-old resident of Gurugram. He had a gunshot injury near his left temple,” said Sharma.During the preliminary investigation, Sharma said, it has come to the notice of the police that Sehrawat had leased out his hotel to a person named Roshan Mishra about 10 months ago.“Sehrawat was having some dispute with Mishra over the issues of pending electricity bills and non-payment of the lease amount. Mishra and his associates are the prime suspects. Efforts are on to trace them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hotel-owner-shot-dead-over-financial-dispute-in-south-delhi-s-mahipalpur-101635741927490.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||On Wankhede’s ‘clean chit’ by caste panel official, Nawab Malik’s objection||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Monday upped the ante against Sameer Wankhede and said he will approach President Ram Nath Kovind against the “clean chit” to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) official by the vice chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC).Arun Halder, the NCSC vice chairperson, went to Wankhede’s house on Sunday to what the official’s wife Kranti Redkar said was to check her husband's original caste documents. Before that, Sameer Wankhede met Halder on Saturday and handed over a letter alleging harassment.“Yesterday, the chairman of the National Scheduled Castes Commission Arun Halder visited Sameer Wankhede's residence and him a clean chit. He should have conducted an investigation first and submitted a detailed report. We will complain about him to the President,” Nawab Malik said according to news agency ANI.Also read | Sameer Wankhede doing his duty, making department proud: Caste panel officialMalik has been targeting Wankhede, who is heading a probe in the drugs-on-cruise case last month after which Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested among others. The minister, who is also Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, has repeatedly claimed that the NCB raid on the cruise ship on October 2 was "fake".On Sunday, the minister also objected to Halder's statement that Wankhedes never converted. "Halder may be a BJP leader, but he is appointed to a constitutional post. He should verify all facts of what information he has been given, prepare his report and submit it to Parliament, instead of coming before the media and commenting that Wankhede did not convert. A person who is not from a Scheduled Caste cannot claim benefits," he was quoted as saying as news agency PTI.Also read | 5 things Kranti Redkar has said so far on Sameer Wankhede caste controversy"Sameer Wankhede never converted because he is a Muslim by birth. His father had converted and both children are born Muslims. I am not fighting a battle of caste and religion, but I am highlighting how a government job was obtained on a bogus caste certificate," Malik said.The NCP leader said that he stands by his claims that the Wankhede was a Muslim by birth and produced a fake certificate to get a government job.Also read | PIL seeks CBI probe into drugs-on-cruise case over ‘interference’ by Nawab MalikMalik claimed that even though the Wankhedes were Muslims, they started "changing their identity from 2015" after Sameer Wankhede came to the limelight when he stopped some Bollywood celebrities at Mumbai airport. "On their social media accounts, Dawood Wankhede (the NCB official's father) became DK Wankhede and later Dyandev. Yasmeen Wankhede (the NCB official's sister) became Jasmine and she divorced her husband, who is a Muslim and is now settled in Europe," the NCP leader claimed, according to PTI.Wankhede has repeatedly denied the minister's allegations against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/on-wankhede-s-clean-chit-by-caste-panel-official-nawab-malik-s-objection-101635740902899.html
01-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal: Covid-19 safety norms take a back seat as local train services resume||Covid-19 safety norms took a back seat on Monday as local train services resumed in Bengal after six months. Even though the services resumed from Sunday, the violations were more rampant on Monday, the first day of the week, with thousands of office goers availing the services.While most of the trains were packed with passengers jostling for space, many were not even wearing masks. The Bengal government on Friday allowed local train services to resume from October 31 even as it extended Covid-19 restrictions for another month. “Intra-state local train movement may operate with 50% of seating capacity,” it said in an order.Local train services were cancelled in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They were allowed to resume in November 2020 only to be cancelled again in May when the second wave of the pandemic hit. Also Read: Maharashtra records 30% dip in Covid-19 cases in October“We cannot run the services smoothly amid the pandemic, unless the passengers cooperate with us and help us abide by the rules,” said Ekalabya Chakraborty, spokesperson for Eastern Railway. Staff special trains for government officials were already running. Before the pandemic hit, the railways ran 920 services in the Sealdah division and around 490 in the Howrah division. South Eastern Railway (SER) operated 190 local trains. On Sunday, SER ran 49 local trains. A train compartment has a seating capacity for 124 passengers. For 50% occupancy, not more than 62 should board a compartment. But on many trains, the compartments were packed. The railway authorities even marked the seats so that one seat is left vacant between two passengers. “We are regularly announcing over the public address system so that people can follow the Covid-19 safety norms and avoid crowding. The RPF and GRP personnel along with ticket examiners were there to check whether people were wearing masks. But passengers also need to cooperate,” said a railway official. Bengal has been reporting over 900 Covid-19 cases daily over the past few days. On Sunday, 914 cases were registered across the state. The Centre has also warned the state of rising Covid-19 cases after the Durga puja. With the cases shooting up, the state government has reimposed micro containment zones in districts including Howrah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-covid-19-safety-norms-take-a-back-seat-as-local-train-services-resume-101635741267574.html
01-11-2021||Bangalore||Rajoytsava 2021: Karnataka celebrates 65th foundation day||Karnataka is among a host of states which observe their respective foundation days on November 1. The southern state, which is the heartbeat of the country's IT industry, celebrates ‘Karnataka Rajyotsava’ on the first day of November every year as it was on this date in 1956 when all Kannada speaking regions in south India merged to form what is today known as Karnataka, with the state getting its current name on November 1, 1973.Also Read | PM Modi extends greetings to 5 states on their formation day“Happy foundation day to all Kannadigas. Let us take the lead in building a rich, cohesive and developing Karnataka,” chief minister Basavraj Bommai greeted the people, his tweet translated roughly from Kannada to English. ಸಮಸ್ತ ಕನ್ನಡಿಗರಿಗೆ ೬೬ನೇ ಕನ್ನಡ ರಾಜ್ಯೋತ್ಸವದ ಹಾರ್ದಿಕ ಶುಭಾಶಯಗಳು. ನಾಡು-ನುಡಿ ರಕ್ಷಣೆಯ ಜೊತೆಗೆ ಸಮೃದ್ಧ, ಸಹಬಾಳ್ವೆಯ, ಅಭಿವೃದ್ಧಿಶೀಲ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕದ ನಿರ್ಮಾಣದ ನಿಟ್ಟಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಸಮಸ್ತ ಕನ್ನಡಿಗರೂ ಒಂದಾಗಿ ಮುನ್ನಡೆಯೋಣ.ಹಸಿರಾಗಲಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ, ಉಸಿರಾಗಲಿ ಕನ್ನಡ! #ಕನ್ನಡರಾಜ್ಯೋತ್ಸವ pic.twitter.com/Xn0KKZSEnFEvery year, Karnataka Rajyotsava is celebrated with great vigour by Kannadigas living in the state, across the country, and those living in other countries. The day is an official holiday in Karnataka, and is marked with grand festivities and celebrations. The state's red and yellow flags are hoisted across streets, in houses, and government buildings to celebrate the foundation day. The official Kannada anthem, ‘Jaya Bharatha Jananiya Tanujate’ (Victory to you mother Karnataka, the daughter of mother India), is sung as well.The festivities also include the presentation of the annual Karnataka Rajyotsava awards, which were instituted in 1966, and are the second-highest civilian honour in the state. This year, a total of 66 eminent personalities will receive the award; the list includes Dr Sudarshan, who heads the state's technical advisory committee on Covid-19; international tennis player Rohan Bopanna, among others.Also Read | Karnataka releases names for Rajyotsava awardsCelebrations this year, however, are likely to be low-key due to the demise of popular Sandalwood actor Puneeth Rajkumar, who passed away last Friday at just 46 years of age after suffering a heart attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rajoytsava-2021-karnataka-celebrates-65th-foundation-day-101635738304679.html
01-11-2021||Kolkata||Supreme Court to hear plea against ban on firecrackers in Bengal||The Supreme Court is on Monday scheduled to hear a plea against a ban on firecrackers in Bengal during the festive season.The Calcutta high court on Friday imposed a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Kali puja, Chhath puja, Christmas, and New Year eve to check air pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The matter is slated to be heard by a special vacation bench of the Supreme Court comprising Justices AM Khanwilkar and Ajay Rastogi at 11am.The Bengal government on October 26 allowed the bursting of green crackers for two hours during Kali puja and Chhath puja and 35 minutes on Christmas and New Year eve.Also Read: Haryana govt imposes blanket ban on firecrackers in 14 NCR districtsAfter the high court imposed the ban, Goutom Roy, chairman of the Association of Firecracker Manufacturers, moved the apex court.“Is it possible to test firecrackers? Can you put a mechanism in place before November 4 (Diwali)? We cannot kill people by following judgments blindly,” the high court said.The court observed it would be an impossible task for police and law enforcement bodies to inspect firecrackers and the classification under which they were sold.Recently, a section of Kolkata’s leading doctors, environment experts, medical associations submitted a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting a blanket ban on firecrackers. The Centre has warned the state about rising Covid-19 cases in Kolkata after the Durga puja. Bengal has been reporting over 900 cases daily over the past few days. On Sunday, 914 new cases were registered across the state.With cases shooting up, the state government reimposed micro containment zones in districts including Howrah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-against-ban-on-firecrackers-in-bengal-101635740187181.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Pandemic: Maharashtra records 30% dip in Covid-19 cases in October||Maharashtra on Sunday reported under 1,500 Covid-19 cases for the eighth day (1,172), taking its tally to 6,611,078. With 20 fatalities, the toll from the pandemic in the state reached 140,216. Maharashtra recorded a 30% dip in cases and a 35% drop in deaths in October compared to September. The state’s active case count dropped to 16,658 on Sunday as it reported more recoveries than infections.Maharashtra reported 60,222 Covid-19 cases in October, 29.95% less than those in September (85,980). In September, the state reported 1,754 deaths. The fatalities dipped to 1,149 in October. In August, Maharashtra reported 161,161 cases and 4,522 deaths.Officials said despite the reopening of several activities and the festive season, there has not been any spurt in the cases so far. Also Read: Delhi schools reopen today with 50% capacityAround 76.62% of cases on Sunday were recorded in Mumbai, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, and Ahmednagar. Mumbai and MMR reported 515 cases, while Pune 245, and Ahmednagar 138. Gadchiroli, Gondia, Bhandara, Akola, Hingoli, Jalna, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, and Dhule districts did not report any Covid-19 cases on Sunday.As many as 108,040 tests were conducted on Sunday with a positivity rate of 1.08%. The overall positivity rate in Maharashtra was 10.55% and the overall case fatality rate was 2.12%.Mumbai reported 308 infections, which took its tally to 756,749, and three fatalities. The toll from the pandemic in Mumbai rose to 16,247 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-maharashtra-records-30-dip-in-covid-19-cases-in-october-101635739407179.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||‘Poor’ category: Delhi’s air quality on Monday morning||The air quality in Delhi remained in the poor category on Monday morning. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7am was 278 in the “poor” category. The average 24-hour AQI on Sunday was 289.Lucknow had the worst air quality on Monday morning and it topped the chart with the AQI of 282 at 7am. The air quality in Chennai on Monday was the best among 10 cities with an AQI of 41 at 7am. According to the union earth science’s ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Delhi’s AQI was likely to improve to the upper end of “poor” category for the next two days. There was an expected change in the wind direction to westerly/south-westerly that was likely to reduce the emissions from stubble burning. Also Read: Weather forecast: Light rain likely in western Himalayan region, parts of PunjabIsolated rainfall was also likely in the region and expected to improve air quality. According to SAFAR, the share of crop residue burning emissions in PM2.5 was about 8%.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. The AQI in the poor category leads to breathing discomfort for most people.Delhi is likely to experience mainly overcast weather on Monday, said the India Meteorological Department. The minimum temperature was expected to remain around 15 degrees Celsius and the maximum 30 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/poor-category-delhi-s-air-quality-on-monday-morning-101635738746887.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Health minister to chair review meeting on dengue amid rising cases in Delhi||Union minister for health Mansukh Mandaviya will chair a review meeting on Monday as the dengue cases in Delhi are seeing an alarming surge, officials said. The meeting will be held at 10am, according to the officials. During the meeting, the health minister will also discuss ways on how the Centre can assist the Delhi government led by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in curbing the surge in cases.The meeting will also see participation from the officials of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP).With the onset of the monsoon every year, the city sees a dengue outbreak, which usually ends as the winter season arrives. However, this year, the city is seeing a major uptick in cases which is still continuing.Doctors said earlier that despite the prevalence of the serotype 2 dengue virus associated with a higher risk of severe disease, most people are not showing severe symptoms.Dengue virus causes fever and haemorrhagic symptoms and is associated with more severe diseases.Delhi has reported over 1,000 cases of dengue this year, with more than 280 cases logged in the last week, according to a civic report released on Monday last week.Of the total number of dengue cases this season, 665 were recorded in the first 23 days of this month alone. The city recorded its first death due to the vector-borne disease this season on October 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/health-minister-to-chair-review-meeting-on-dengue-amid-rising-cases-in-delhi-101635736645638.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt working on creating more spaces for cyclists and pedestrians: Baijal||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal said on Sunday the Delhi government is working on creating more spaces for cyclists and pedestrians in the Capital.“In coming times, cyclists and pedestrians will have their own space on the roads and efforts are being made for the same. A fit India can only be a strong India,” said Baijal in a press statement issued on Sunday by the Delhi government to mark the 146th birth anniversary of India’s first deputy prime minister and home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.To commemorate Patel on his birth anniversary, the government organised a series of events between Friday and Sunday, starting with a bicycle rally which, according to the press statement, witnessed participation of both government employees and general public.“National Unity Day is the day which makes us re-dedicate ourselves to the cause of nation building. The task of nation building has to be performed in more than one ways, with unity among citizens being the first requisite along with other commitments,” said chief secretary Vijay Dev in the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-working-on-creating-more-spaces-for-cyclists-and-pedestrians-baijal-101635729960795.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||No seating cap in Delhi cinema halls from today; 200 guests allowed at weddings||Cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes in Delhi will be allowed to reopen with 100 per cent seating capacity starting Monday, according to the order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The revised guidelines also raised the number of people allowed to attend weddings and last rites from 100 to 200, as the coronavirus pandemic is now subsiding in the city.Movie theatres and multiplexes were closed in April after the Covid-19 cases saw an exponential rise in the daily number of infections, with the overall nationwide second wave. The Aam Aadmi Party-led city government allowed them to reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity in the last week of July, when Covid-19 cases started falling steadily.During the surge, attendance at funerals was also scaled down to 20 while 50 guests were allowed in wedding ceremonies. This was raised to 100 people in both types of gatherings in September.As per the official order, owners of cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will be responsible for strict adherence to official guidelines and Covid-appropriate behaviour at the premises. "In case any violation is found, strict penal, criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant, bar, cinemas, theatres and multiplexes," the DDMA stated in the order.The DDMA also allowed meetings and conferences in banquet halls of the city. Until now, only weddings and exhibitions were permitted there.Meanwhile, all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious gatherings are still prohibited in the city. Restaurants and bars will continue to function at 50 per cent seating capacity.Delhi Metro and public transport buses will also continue to ply with full seating capacity but no standing passengers will be allowed, as per the order.More than 90 per cent of Delhi’s population likely has some form of protection from Sars-Cov-2, the preliminary findings of the sixth and the latest serological survey in Delhi have suggested. Samples from 28,000 people were tested to see if they had antibodies to the virus, which causes Covid-19, and over 90 per cent of them turned up positive, the findings show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-seating-cap-in-delhi-cinema-halls-today-200-guests-allowed-at-weddings-101635727749491.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||2 co-accused in Aryan Khan case released from prison||Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha, the two other accused arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau with Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan in the cruise drug bust case, were released from Arthur Road jail and Byculla Women’s Prison respectively on Sunday.While the three had been granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday, Aryan Khan was released on Saturday while Dhamecha and Merchant had to wait till Sunday to ensure that all formalities were completed. The court imposed 14 conditions for grant of bail. Dhamecha’s lawyers will be making an application before the NCB seeking permission for her to travel to Madhya Pradesh, her hometown.Inspector general of police Ankush Shinde said, “As soon as the paperwork was completed Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were released.”Dhamecha’s lawyer Kaashif Khan said, “After the formalities of surety and legal paperwork were completed in the sessions court on Saturday, we got the release memo around 7:30pm and it was dropped in the letter box at Byculla women’s prison on the same day. She was released around 11am on Sunday.”“I am filing an application before the NCB seeking permission to allow her to travel to Delhi and Madhya Pradesh as per the conditions set by the Bombay high court. Her permanent hometown is in Madhya Pradesh while she lives in Delhi”.Her passport was already seized by NCB while they conducted a search in the Delhi house, added Khan.Superintendent Nitin Vychal of the Arthur Road jail said, “Arbaaz Merchant was released around 11:30am on Sunday from the jail after the paperwork was completed”.The HC had in its detailed order asked Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha to appear before the NCB’s Mumbai office every Friday between 11am and 2pm to mark their presence.Khan said, “Now Dhamecha is staying in Mumbai and her brother’s friends are helping her as she has to report every Friday in the NCB office. But soon we will be filing an application for modification and relaxation of conditions in the HC order because she does not have a house here in Mumbai”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-co-accused-in-aryan-khan-case-released-from-prison-101635726341212.html
01-11-2021||Mumbai||Caste panel official backs Wankhede, says NCB officer is being targeted despite good work||Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) official in the eye of a political storm amid several allegations against him, is doing good work and making his department proud, the vice chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has said."One officer is doing his duty and making the department proud. So how can a minister personally attack him and his family members? The government should carry out an investigation in why he is doing so,” Arun Halder said on Sunday after visiting Wankhede’s house, according to news agency PTI.Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik has levelled a slew of allegations against Wankhede. Among other things, Nawab Malik has accused the officer of forging his caste certificate and other documents to secure a job under the SC quota for the civil services examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Wankhede is an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer. Also read | Caste panel official visits Sameer Wankhede's home after forgery allegationsMalik claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth, which he denied later. Malik has also called the raid conducted by the NCB on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, in which drugs were allegedly recovered and Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others were arrested, last month as fake. The Maharashtra minister has also accused Wankhede of playing in the hands of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Sameer Wankhede told reporters that he has shared with the commission official whatever he wanted to share. Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar said Halder checked her husband's original caste documents while he was at their house. Redkar added that after going through the Wankhede’s documents, the official was convinced about her husband’s stand. Halder also met the NCB officer’s sister Yasmeen and father Dnyandev Wankhede.Also read | PIL seeks CBI probe into drugs-on-cruise case over ‘interference’ by Nawab MalikRedkar also claimed her family is in danger and that some people conducted a recce of their house. She said they will provide the CCTV footage of the Reece of their house to the police soon.Earlier in the day, Union minister and Republican Party of India (A) president Ramdas Athawale extended his support to Wankhede and said the NCB official is a Hindu Dalit and a follower of BR Ambedkar. Athawale also asked Nawab Malik to refrain from "conspiring" to defame the NCB officer and his family members. Athawale's remarks came after Wankhede's wife and father met him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-doing-his-duty-making-department-proud-caste-panel-official-101635726424256.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The windows of Daryaganj||This is a window with six panes. The glass of each pane is discoloured to a different degree—one pane is in fact partially broken, the jagged edges of its shattered glass are hanging like stalactites in a cave. Another pane is left with no glass at all. The whole window resembles the mosaic of an artist’s carefully plotted abstraction.It is overwhelming to witness this accidental beauty enshrined in a single window. But here are dozens of similar windows clustered together as if an ambitious window convention were taking place in town. The windows are spread through a series of aged buildings that line a stretch of Shubhash Marg in Old Delhi’s Daryaganj; across the road from Golcha cinema (closed since 2012).These windows are not at all like their modern-day counterparts. Encased into venerable edifices, they ripple along like the motifs of outdated traditions. The buildings of which they are part of are in varying stages of mild dilapidation, like a wall smeared with the patina of many seasons. Even so, the innate grace of these timeworn concretes is intensely palpable. The windows not only speak for the faded elegance of these landmarks, but also convey a sense of the time passing, and of the shift in architectural aesthetics. Some of these windows are more decorative than others, embedded with an innate sense of design, architecture and thought. One tall window is crowned with a smooth arch, and resembles an archetypical Palladian window common in Venice, but without its shorter sidelights. This window is balkanised into four small rectangles, each containing a sub-window (one of the panes has its glass substituted by rotting plywood.) The windows in another building are as tall as the doorway of a hotel lobby. Each spans out into dozens of panes, some of which have their glasses missing. The effect is haunting, like a human face with dark hollows where eyes should had been. The saddest exhibit is of windows blocked up with bricks.A gleaming new building stands not far away. It is painted metallic grey, and parts of the facade are sheathed with glass, which presumably serve the purpose of windows. It is difficult to instantly fall in love with such a sight. Give it a fifty-year grace period; may be then it, too, will look exquisite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-windows-of-daryaganj-101635712675900.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||85 more Covid cases surface in Himachal||Himachal’s Covid-19 case count rose to 2,24,106 after 85 more people tested positive for the virus on Sunday. The death toll mounted to 3,738 after one patient succumbed to the infection. The highest 40 cases were reported from Kangra, 11 each from Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Una, and four each from Mandi Shimla and Solan. The active case count dropped to 1,942 while recoveries reached 2,18,410 after 198 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 50,818 cases to date followed by 31,606 cases in Mandi and 27,549 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/85-more-covid-cases-surface-in-himachal-101635712105192.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||95 fresh Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 95 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Of the total cases, 89 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 6 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 79 with active positive cases reaching 902.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 441 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 135 and 89 active cases, respectively.Officials said with 49 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 10 cases in Baramulla and Budgam districts.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,915 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.38%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,32,249 and the death toll reaches 4,432.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,145 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 846 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/95-fresh-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101635711924973.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||NIA arrests 2 more suspects in terror conspiracy case in Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday arrested two more persons after conducting raids at different locations in Kashmir in a terror conspiracy case.The two persons were arrested from Srinagar and Sopore. The NIA identified the arrested persons as Ishfaq Ahmad Wani of Srinagar and Umar Bhat of Sopore.The NIA said the arrests were made in the case related to conspiracy for undertaking violent terrorist acts in J&K and other major cities by cadres of proscribed organisations Laskhar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Al Badr and similar other outfits and their affiliates, including The Resistance Front (TRF) and the People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF).On Friday after searches, two persons namely Amir Ahmad Gojri, a resident of Srinagar, and Saddat Amin, alias Syed Arhan, a resident of north Kashmir’s Sopore, were arrested.So far, 25 persons have been arrested in this case by the NIA.On October 20, the NIA had arrested four alleged militant associates and their over the ground workers (OGWs) after conducting raids at 11 locations in Kashmir in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-arrests-2-more-suspects-in-terror-conspiracy-case-in-kashmir-101635711685018.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Untimely snow damages apple orchards in Kulgam, Shopian districts in Kashmir||The early snowfall in the southern region in October has caused heavy damages to orchards and 30% of the fruit crop that was ready for the harvest has been lost to nature’s fury.Officials said this year while orchards in north Kashmir witnessed less fruit crop, the orchards in southern parts had a bumper crop. The untimely snowfall in the third week, especially in the upper reaches of Kulgam and Shopian districts, affected not only the fruit but also trees got damaged or uprooted at many places.Director, horticulture, Ajaz Ahmad Bhat, who visited the apple orchards in south Kashmir, said as per initial estimates, 30% of fruit crops got damaged by the untimely snowfall.He said in south Kashmir growers had a bumper crop this year.“Unfortunately, growers faced damage to 30% crop or lost the matured apple trees due to the snowfall,” he said.He said the snow damaged apple in the upper belts of Shopian and Kulgam districts.Prior to the snowfall, the horticulture department had issued an advisory for the growers asking them to complete apple harvest before snowfall that occurred on October 22 and 23.“Despite our advisory, many growers couldn’t complete their harvest due to the shortage of labourers and other issues. After migrant labourers left Kashmir in mid-October soon after the killing of non-locals in different parts of Kashmir, the labour shortage also affected the timely harvest in some areas, though most of the harvesting is done by locals themselves,” he added.“Timely harvest helped reduce the losses to some extent otherwise things would have been worst,” said Bhat, who has asked growers that they should complete harvesting of apples till the third week of October. “At times growers deliberately delay harvest which results in the loss of fruit crop or damage due to untimely snow. At times it helps the growers to fetch good rates in the market,” Bhat said.Despite the losses, many growers say apple rates in mandis are good. “We are getting good rates for our produce, which will help to compensate the losses,” said Farooq Sofi, a grower from north Kashmir.On Thursday, J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said Jammu and Kashmir farmers who suffered losses in the recent snowfall would be provided assistance.Sinha said the snowfall had been declared a natural calamity.“The assessment of the loss is going on. Farmers will be provided all possible assistance,” Sinha told mediapersons after inaugurating an apple festival at the Sheri Kashmir International Convention Centre, Srinagar.“We have suffered losses due to untimely snowfall. This is the second time since 2019 when snow left our harvest completely damaged. The government should declare this as natural calamity and compensate the growers who suffered losses, otherwise, we are ruined,” said Yasir Banday, a grower from Shopian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/untimely-snow-damages-apple-orchards-in-kulgam-shopian-districts-in-kashmir-101635711505739.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hundreds bid final adieu to senior Congress leader Bali in Kangra||All roads leading to Nagrota Bagwan in Kangra were chock-a-block on Sunday as hundreds of supporters and admirers bid a tearful adieu to former minister and senior Congress leader Gurmukh Singh Bali.Bali had undergone a kidney transplant at a private hospital in Delhi and was shifted to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after developing post-surgery complications.A four-term former legislator, Bali’s last journey began from his house in Kangra town and his mortal remains were taken to Nagrota Bagwan, his constituency, in an open vehicle.People lined up along the highway and the towns to pay last respect to their beloved leader. His body was placed at OBC Bhawan in Nagrota Bagwan where political leaders and the general public paid him floral tributes.Among the political leaders who paid tributes to Bali at Nagrota included the leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, former Union minister Chandresh Kumari, Dalhousie legislator Asha Kumari, Sujanpur MLA Rajinder Singh Rana, BJP’s Mandi legislator Anil Sharma, former MLA Rajesh Dharmani and many others.Bali was cremated with full state honour at the crematorium near Chamunda temple. His son Raghubir Singh Bali lit the pyre.Forest minister Rakesh Pathania, Kangra deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal and superintendent of police (SP) Khushal Chand Sharma paid tributes to the former minister on behalf of the state government.‘End of an era as party loses most vocal leader’Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri termed Bali’s demise a great loss to the party as well as the state.“It is a sad day for the people of the state. Bali always worked for the poor and downtrodden. He believed in development-oriented politics and always worked in that direction,” said Agnihotri.Whichever department he headed as a minister, Agnihotri said, Bali always tried to bring new innovation.Whether it was the tourism department, transport or food and civil supply department, he worked with a new vision.Bali was very vocal on the issue of unemployment and was instrumental in implementing an unemployment allowance scheme in the state during the Congress regime.He is also credited with bringing electric buses to Himachal. Known for his flamboyance, Bali maintained a firm grip on bureaucracy. He would not hesitate to clash with the chief minister of his own government over policy decisions if ignored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hundreds-bid-final-adieu-to-senior-congress-leader-bali-in-kangra-101635711327490.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur pays tributes to Sardar Patel, Indira Gandhi||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday paid tributes to India’s first Deputy Prime Minister and home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 146th birth anniversary and said Sardar Patel sacrificed every moment of his life for “Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat”.Earlier, the chief minister also paid floral tributes to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, who laid down her life for the unity and integrity of the nation. He also administered an oath of unity on the occasion.While addressing the people on the occasion, the chief minister said Sardar Patel always wanted India to be strong, inclusive, alert and developed.He said this day was observed as Rashtriya Ekta Diwas or National Unity Day since 2014 marking the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who is credited with uniting all the 562 princely states of the pre-independent country, to build the Republic of India.Thakur said it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who decided to construct the Statue of Unity as a mark of respect to the colossal statue of the Indian statesman and Independence activist Saradar Patel.While remembering former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on her 37th death anniversary celebrated as Rashtriya Sankalp Divas, he said Indira Gandhi played a major role in maintaining the unity and integrity of the nation.He also appreciated the people of the state for strictly adhering to the SoPs of the state government to help check the spread of Covid. He said the state had emerged as the first state in the country to achieve the target of a cent per cent first dose administration of Covid vaccine and now was poised to achieve the target of cent per cent vaccination of eligible age group by end of November this year.The chief minister also administered the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas pledge to the people on the occasion.An impressive march past was presented by the contingents of the police, home guard, NCC, NSS and Scouts and Guides led by DSP Ankit Sharma.Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, former speaker Radha Raman Shastri, mayor, Shimla municipal corporation, Satya Kaundal, chairman, HIMFED, Ganesh Dutt, chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh, director-general of police Sanjay Kundu, secretary, GAD, Devesh Kumar, deputy commissioner, Shimla, Aditya Negi, director, information and public relations, Harbans Singh Brascon, senior civil, military and police officers were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-pays-tributes-to-sardar-patel-indira-gandhi-101635711147865.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will take call on Covid curbs in Himachal after Diwali, says CM Jai Ram Thakur||Day after three assembly constituencies and one parliamentary seat went to the polls, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday claimed that anti-incumbency against his government was not a factor in the polls.“There was no big issue against the state government during the polls. The opposition was trying to weave inflation into the issue, but they did not highlight any big issues against the state government,” he said.“People have been supportive of our government and they will continue to do so in future too. I am hopeful that the results will be good. The anti-incumbency factor against my government was not visible in the elections,” said Thakur on the sidelines of the National Unity Day function organised on The Ridge to commemorate the birth anniversary of the country’s first home minister, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The bypolls have a trend of low polling. There was only 51% polling in the Mandi Lok Sabha seat bypolls in 2013. This time it’s 58%. The polling trends are good in certain areas while not so great in a few places. We are satisfied with the polling trend,” said Thakur when asked about the low polling percentage in the Mandi Lok Sabha seat“Inflation was a big issue in the hands of the Congress which they played to the hilt in the elections. It’s not that inflation in rising during the BJP rule, the cost of cylinders and onions had been spiralling during the Congress regime too. It’s just a temporary phase. Covid has impacted the global economy,” he said.Even as poll pundits got down to assess the outcome of the bypolls to the three assembly constituencies and one parliamentary seat, the chief minister said low polling in the Mandi parliamentary seat would have no bearing on the prospects of the BJP nominee. Thakur indicated fewer curbs to check the steadily rising infections in the state after the festive season.“The government will shortly review the situation. There has been a steady increase in Covid cases in the last few days which is worrying. Children being infected in schools is more worrying. The government will observe the situation and decide further after Diwali,” the chief minister added.“The government has observed that more cases have come in Kangra, but no stringent measures are required right now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-take-call-on-covid-curbs-in-himachal-after-diwali-says-cm-jai-ram-thakur-101635711025230.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC marks death anniversary of Indira Gandhi’s assassin, Congress flays move||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Sunday observed the 37th death anniversary of Beant Singh, one of the two assassins of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, at the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, in the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar. Also, Congress leaders and workers observed Gandhi’s death anniversary in the city and condemned the SGPC’s move to commemorate the “killers” of the former prime minister.An akhand path, bhog, kirtan and ardas were performed by the SGPC at Jhanda Bunga Sahib Gurdwara as a tribute to Beant. Akal Takht additional head granthi Giani Malkiat Singh, SGPC member Manjit Singh and leaders of some Sikh radical organisations besides a representative of parallel Akal Takht jathedar Dhian Singh Mand hailed Beant and Satwant Singh, the other assassin of the former PM, as “martyrs”.Beant Singh along with Satwant had gunned down Gandhi on October 31, 1984, to avenge Operation Bluestar by the army to flush out armed terrorists from the Golden Temple complex. Beant was shot dead after the incident while Satwant was injured critically. Satwant and co-conspirator Kehar Singh were hanged to death on January 6, 1989.“The then central government in 1984 employed the army to commit genocide of Sikhs. At least 38 gurdwaras, including the Golden Temple and the Akal Takht, were attacked,” said Giani Malkiat Singh.SGPC member Manjit Singh said, “The three restored the honor of Sikhs.”Satwant Singh’s nephew Sukhwinder Singh Agwan was honoured by the SGPC on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-marks-death-anniversary-of-indira-gandhi-s-assassin-congress-flays-move-101635710844965.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt working seriously on sacrilege, drug cases, says minister Sukhjinder Randhawa||Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday said the Punjab government was working seriously on the cases of sacrilege and drugs and the guilty will not be spared. Addressing a press conference after attending a meeting organised by Tarn Taran MLA Dharambir Agnihotri, Randhawa, who also hold the home portfolio, said, “Yes, there has been long delay in delivery of justice in the sacrilege cases. The case has been taken up on priority.”Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim, the minister said, will be interrogated in the neighbouring state as per the direction of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in connection with the desecration cases. “Our special investigation team (SIT) will visit Haryana for the interrogation in a day or two. The case will be investigated thoroughly and nobody will be implicated falsely,” he added. On alleged conspiracy behind visit of Lakhbir Singh, who was lynched by some nihangs for allegedly committing sacrilege, to the Singhu border, Randhawa said, “An SIT is working to find out how Lakhbir went to Delhi and who was behind this. The SIT will soon bring the truth to the fore.” The state government has already asked the Punjab and Haryana High Court to open the sealed reports on drugs, he added. “The next hearing is on November 19 and we hope that the names of those involved in the drug business will be revealed that day,” he said. The minister slammed former CM Amarinder Singh for supporting the Centre’s decision to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 km to 50 km in Punjab. MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-working-seriously-on-sacrilege-drug-cases-says-minister-sukhjinder-randhawa-101635710605152.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Not all uniform: Most govt schools to reopen today, pvt ones hold out||Many government schools across the Capital will resume in-person classes from November 1, but most private schools will only open after Diwali.Sudha Acharya, who is the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, said over 120 schools (private schools) under it will reopen after Diwali.“Many schools have Diwali holidays from November 2 onwards. So, all our schools have decided to reopen after Diwali,” she said.Acharya, who is also the principal of ITL Public School in Dwarka, said that from November 8 her school will call one section across all classes for the first week.“On an average, there are around 40 students in each section, and we will call one section from Nursery to Class 8 in the first week. Based on the response, we will call two sections per class in the second week,” she said.This is the first time since March last year that schools are allowed to hold in-person classes for all. However, hybrid classes will continue as well, after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) instructed that online learning be encouraged.With in-person classes being allowed for all, schools said they will have utilise all their resources.“We have reorganised our laboratories to use as classrooms. We will also have to change our timetable because we have teachers who teach classes 8 and 9 and since lessons will run in hybrid mode, we have to arrange accordingly,” Acharya said.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said they will reopen from November 8. “We have sent out consent forms for classes 6 to 8; primary school will be started later in a phased manner. Most of the top private schools are opening after Diwali. We need to get consent and arrange timetables, and all this will take some time,” said Arora.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya Sector-8 Rohini, said they will be calling 50% of parents of students of Nursery to Class 8 on November 1 and the rest on November 2.“We want parents of younger children to see the safety measures installed by us so that it gives them some confidence. This is particularly important for those children who were admitted to our school this year. We will continue the process of acquiring consent on Monday and Tuesday. If this is completed in these two days, we will start school from Wednesday and resume full-fledged classes after Diwali,” he said.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of the government school principals’ association, said they will call middle school students Monday onwards for his government school in Rohini. “We have asked our students to come with a printed copy of no-objection certificate in the given format Monday onwards and have only called classes 6, 8, and 10 on Monday and 7, 9, and 11 on Tuesday. We will call primary school students after Diwali as our primary school wing has vaccination centres. Most government school principals will call students on an alternate class basis, and most will start with primary school students next week onwards,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-all-uniform-most-govt-schools-to-reopen-today-pvt-ones-hold-out-101635709420068.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shots fired after drunken brawl outside nightclub in Chandigarh||A 26-year-old man was shot at multiple times, with one bullet grazing past his knee, in a case of mistaken identity after a brawl between two groups in the rear parking lot in Sector 26 past Saturday midnight. Police have ruled out gang violence.The incident took place outside nightclubs on the road leading to the police station in Sector 26, and according to witnesses, police had also set up a naka near the spot.The victim has been identified as Simranjeet Singh, an agriculturalist from Ambala, who was visiting a nightclub on Saturday night. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, after the incident. Police said he just got a minor injury and is fine as the bullet had grazed past his knee.Meanwhile, two of the four accused have been identified and three teams have been sent to Punjab to arrest them, said senior officials.Had kept foot on car’s side to tie shoelaceAfter the nightclubs shut down around midnight, two groups of revellers who had come on a Hyundai i20 and Maruti Suzuki Alto cars started arguing with each other over parking of their vehicles.In the meantime, Singh came out of the nightclub and was going towards his vehicle when he stopped to tie his shoelace. As he placed his foot on the side of the parked i20 car, its occupants thought that he is from the other group and trying to provoke them, said an investigating official One of the men then opened fire before the group fled in the car, which had a Chandigarh registration number. Police said both the accused and the victim were drunk, which led to the confusion and subsequent firing. “It’s not confirmed whether two or three shots were fired. The two bullets recovered are from a 32 bore pistol. The accused have been identified and will be arrested soon,” said superintendent of police (SP, City) Ketan Bansal. A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector-26 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shots-fired-after-drunken-brawl-outside-nightclub-in-chandigarh-101635710488740.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur horror: Friend rapes 22-year-old woman at gunpoint||The Zirakpur police have booked a Bathinda man for raping a 22-year-old woman at gunpoint in Zirakpur.The victim in her complaint stated that on October 29, she was returning to Mohali from her home in Barnala on a bus. As she was carrying a lot of luggage, she called her friend Kulwinder Singh and requested him to pick her up from the Chhat light point. As she reached the spot around 8pm, Kulwinder was waiting for her in a Toyota Innova SUV. However, instead of taking her to her paying guest accommodation in Mohali, he allegedly took her to a secluded place.After threatening her with a gun, he allegedly raped her and abandoned her on the roadside. Later, the woman hired a cab and reached her paying guest accommodation. The next morning, she lodged a complaint with police, following which a case was registered under Sections 376 (rape), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code in Zirakpur.Station house officer (SHO) Onkar Singh Brar said the accused will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-horror-friend-rapes-22-year-old-woman-at-gunpoint-101635710487589.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport: 43 flights listed on winter roster||The number of flights operating from the Chandigarh International Airport has gone up to 43, same as that during the period just before the pandemic, with five domestic flights resuming in the winter schedule released on Sunday.However, the Dubai flight has not been listed in the schedule, leaving just one international destination: Sharjah.The winter schedule comes into force on October 31 and lasts till March 27 the following year. Only 38 flights were operating in the summer schedule that just ended.At 10, the maximum number of flights are on the Chandigarh-Delhi route, followed by nine on the Chandigarh-Mumbai route.Even as the airport can operate 24x7, only one flight will be landing her past midnight this winter. Taking off from Mumbai, the IndiGo flight will arrive here at 12:35 am. It will return to Mumbai at 6:15 am.Resumed flightsFive flights that have been resumed connect the city to Patna, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Delhi and Mumbai.The Patna flight will depart from Chandigarh at 7:35 am and reach the destination at 9:40 am. Thereafter, it will return to and land in Chandigarh at 11:55 pm. The additional flight from Delhi (GoAir) will depart at 10:35 am and arrive here at at 11:35 am. It will then depart for Ahmedabad at 12 noon and return to Chandigarh at 4:50 pm before taking off for Delhi.Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) chief executive officer Ajay Bhardwaj said: “The schedule for the Jammu flight is yet to be announced by the airline operator and the additional flight for Goa has also been introduced. IndiGo is already operating the flight connecting Chandigarh-Goa-Bengaluru-Goa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-airport-43-flights-listed-on-winter-roster-101635710484989.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club holds health camp for its members||The organised a free multispecialty health camp in association with Fortis Hospital. More than 100 members of the club availed the services at the camp, according to Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president of the club and chairman, medical camps.Club president Ravibir Singh Grewal said the objective behind holding the camp was to help the club members become aware of their physical fitness and general well-being.The medical team comprised experienced doctors from cardiology, medicine, orthopaedic, ENT, gastroenterology and urology. Free bone density test, ECG and blood sugar test were also conducted.Caption: (From left) Chandigarh Golf Club vice-president GS Kochhar and president Ravibir Singh Grewal with doctors during a Multispecialty heath checkup camp at the club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-holds-health-camp-for-its-members-101635710428707.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue outbreak: 148 more cases surface in tricity||No dengue death was reported in the tricity for the second consecutive day on Sunday. Meanwhile, 148 people tested positive for the mosquito-borne viral disease. Mohali recorded 100 cases, followed by 35 in Chandigarh and 13 in Panchkula.Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 2,631, of which 2,260 were reported in October. Also, Mohali recorded 31 deaths this year, of which 29 took place in October and two in September. Chandigarh has recorded 889 cases so far, of which 805 surfaced in October. Three persons have also succumbed to the disease. Of the fresh cases, maximum were reported from Manimajra, Burail, Mauli Jagran, Daria. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 583, with one death so far this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-outbreak-148-more-cases-surface-in-tricity-101635710427610.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh had wettest October in eight years||With 36.5mm rain, this October was the wettest since 2013 when 40.2mm rain was recorded, according to data provided by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The last week of October, however, remained dry and similar weather is likely to continue in November, said officialsOf the total rainfall, 75% (27.2 mm) was recorded on October 24, which was the rainiest October day in over a decade. The all-time highest rain for October was in 2004, when 139.7 mm was recorded in the month.Speaking about the above average rainfall, IMD, Chandigarh, director Manmohan Singh said: “At the start of the month, monsoon withdrawal remained delayed and was finally declared on October 8. After this, a cyclonic circulation formed over the Bay of Bengal, which led to rains here and two strong western disturbances also affected the city. Due to these three factors there was above average rainfall in October.”What lies aheadWhile the rains have stopped for now, Singh said a feeble western disturbance that will become active in the region from Monday could bring light rain in the city on Tuesday. “Dry weather is likely after that, at least for the first 10 days of the month, while later more western disturbances can be expected,” he said.The temperature is also likely to fall in the coming days. “It is unlikely that there will be a sudden drop, but a marginal dip will occur every few days. Over the coming weeks, chill can be expected,” said Singh.Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 29.3°C on Saturday to 30.2°Con Sunday. Minimum temperature went down from 13.9°C to 13.2°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 29 and 30 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 13 and 15 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-had-wettest-october-in-eight-years-101635710426328.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||HT Interview: PGIMER is overburdened due to referrals||Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), retired on Sunday after over four decades in the profession and leading the fight against Covid-19 at the institute. HT talks to him about his tenure, key challenges for his successor and how the institute can provide best facilities to patients who throng it from across the region.How do you look at your tenure as PGIMER director? My tenure that lasted four years and seven months was both satisfying and challenging. When I joined the post, I had several issues at hand but I made every possible effort to provide the best medical facilities to people. The biggest challenge was handling the Covid-19 pandemic and balancing between Covid and non-Covid medical facilities. Meeting infrastructure and oxygen requirements was also tough, but with effective team work, we were able to manage the situation. During my tenure, the institute has been the second-best medical institution in the country for four years successively.What are the key challenges facing the PGIMER?The institute is overburdened as the health facilities in neighbouring states are inadequate. Over 35% of total patients getting admitted to PGIMER belong to Punjab. Due to more referral cases, the hospital’s emergencies run double the capacity with patients even on stretcher trolleys. The patient care gets hampered. Also, maintaining harmony among the PGIMER faculty and staff is a challenge. And what are the possible solutions? Plans have been made to increase capacity at the institute’s emergencies, and even medical emergencies at trauma centres will help in providing more facilities. Also, PGIMER is ready to give training to doctors from other states, so that health facilities can be improved there and referral case load can decrease.How has the patient load impacted the institute’s key focus on research?The faculty remains busy in providing quality treatment to patients. Despite that, they are making efforts to contribute to research work. Over 2,500 research papers were published in 2021 and PGIMER also contributed some excellent research works during Covid-19 pandemic.Some big ticket projects are stuck, including satellite centres and some on the campus. What explains the delayed implementation?The Satellite Centres at Sangrur and Mother and Child Care Centre at PGIMER are near completion. Also, work has been started at Satellite Centres in Ferozepur and Una, and a project at Sarangpur. Getting clearances and enough manpower delayed the implementation while Covid-19 situation was another reason. What is your take on the trend of highly competent doctors leaving PGIMER?Many doctors prefer money and they move out of PGIMER to join private facilities. This is their personal choice but with money, they should also keep focus on providing facilities to the needy patients. What is your advice to young doctors and those who want to pursue medical profession?The young doctors must be competent and must have empathy towards the patients. Also, they should stick to the ethics of medical profession. PGIMER’s handling of Covid has been criticised. Even at the peak, it only admitted 500 patients. What was the reason?PGIMER was only admitting severe Covid-19 patients with big health complications. The mild or moderate patients were getting treatment at other facilities. The patients were being admitted keeping in mind the institute’s infrastructure capabilities as we also had to balance with emergency non-Covid patients. What will be your advice to your successor?The next director must know the PGIMER inside out. He must build strong relationships and harmony among employees and should deal with the challenges calmly. He should work for the betterment of the institute and society. What are your post-retirement plans?I am getting several offers and will join some government or private institute so that I can serve people. Along with it, I will continue to provide free treatment to poor people. I will continue to give eyesight to partially or fully blind people through my surgeries, as it is my dream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ht-interview-pgimer-is-overburdened-due-to-referrals-101635710425109.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi waives GST on langar at Jalandhar’s Devi Talab Mandir||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday announced waiver of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on langar at the Devi Talab Mandir in Jalandhar.The CM, who paid obeisance at the temple, said the ethos of love, brotherhood and harmony in society will be maintained at every cost and will always remain his government’s top priority. He described his visit to the temple as a “gratifying experience”. He said the temple is a fountainhead of inspiration and positivity for millions of people from around the world. Channi said he came to the shrine to pray for the state, its peace and development, to which his government is fully committed. “The selfless service of langar at the centres of religious and spiritual pilgrimage is an integral part of Punjab’s rich culture and heritage. While paying obeisance at Sri Devi Talab Temple, I announced to waive the GST on langar served at this highly revered temple,” Channi said in a tweet.CM dons hockey goalie’s gearChief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday donned the goalkeeper’s gloves as he hit the field at the Katoch hockey stadium in Jalandhar and defended against fast-paced hits from his sports minister and former India captain Pargat Singh.On Saturday too, Channi had tried his hands at hockey at the international stadium in Mohali as a goalie.He was requested by an organiser to play the game, according to an official statement. Channi defended three out of the total five hits made by Singh, it added.He also defended some hits made by players who were part of the men’s national hockey team in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, it said. Channi later said that it was a remarkable day of his life as he relived memories from his youth.He said that sports is the only means through which the unbounded energy of the youth can be channelised in a positive manner. He said that the Punjab government is committed to promoting sporting activities in the state. Reaches out to Cong MLAs, Jalandhar MP CM Channi reached out Congress MLAs, MP and former MP in Jalandhar on Sunday. He visited the houses of party MLAs Rajinder Beri, Sushil Rinku and Bawa Henry besides that of Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary and former MP Mohinder Singh Kay Pee. Channi also met their supporters and other party leaders and gathered feedback. Channi said the Punjab government iwas committed for all-around development of Jalandhar and would ensure continuous flow of funds for timely completion of the ongoing projects in the city. MP Santokh Singh said that he apprised the CM about the ruling party’s prospects in the upcming elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-waives-gst-on-langar-at-jalandhar-s-devi-talab-mandir-101635710365039.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP terms cotton crop compensation announced by Punjab govt as paltry, rejects it||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday rejected the meagre amount of compensation announced by the Punjab government for cotton crop ruined by pink bollworm infestation. Calling the government announcement a “jest with cotton growers and farm labourers”, the party questioned the parameters used by the government to assess crop damage. “The dreadful attack of pink bollworm in the Malwa region has inflicted heavy economic losses on cotton growers and farm labourers. If the government does not change its attitude, the cotton belt will not emerge from economic crisis for many years to come,” AAP kisan wing state president and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said in a statement. The AAP leader said the government announcement of nominal compensation exposed the chief minister’s drama and showmanship. “The farmers and people of Punjab will never forgive you for this,” he said. He demanded a compensation of ₹30,000 to ₹60,000 per acre and relief of ₹15,000 per labourer to compensate for the loss of pink bollworm infestation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-terms-cotton-crop-compensation-announced-by-punjab-govt-as-paltry-rejects-it-101635710246838.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police book man for thrashing daughter, snatching her mobile phone||The Mataur Police have booked a saloon owner in Phase-3B2 for thrashing and snatching a mobile from his daughter.The accused has been identified Ranjit Singh, who lives in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, and runs a saloon in Phase-3B2, MohaliThe victim, Parminder Kaur, who lives in Sector 63, Chandigarh, alleged that on October 28, Ranjit, her father, took her to one of the cabins in the saloon, and abused and thrashed her and even injured on her hand. Then, he fled from the scene after taking her mobile phone. She was taken to civil hospital in Phase-6 for treatment and later informed the police and lodged a complaint against her father.The victim stated that her mother had died when she was only four-years-old, after which his father started living in Noida with a woman and they had two children. Kaur said that she had very little contact with him and there is a rift between them as her father often fights with her.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSPanchkula police arrest gang of vehicle thievesThe Panchkula Police have busted a gang of vehicle thieves with the arrest of five men and recovered two stolen SUVs in a special operation, one each from Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. The accused have been identified as Sunny, Sandeep and Ashok of Hisar and Surender of Sirsa. Also, Lichi Rakshap from Arunachal Pradesh, a former police constable, has been arrested for buying stolen vehicles. They have been arrested in cases of vehicle thefts reported on September 25 from Sector 21 and on October 8 from Sector 7, for which a special team of crime branch was constituted by senior officials.Lt Gen RP Singh relinquishes command of Western ArmyLieutenant General RP Singh relinquished command of the Western Army on his superannuation on Sunday. Singh, who was commissioned into 1 mechanised infantry (1 Madras) in 1982, took over as the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, on August 1, 2019. He was presented a ceremonial guard of honour at the Western Command headquarters on Sunday. He is a recipient of the Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM), Ati Vishist Seva Medal (AVSM) and Vishist Seva Medal (VSM) for his service to nation.CItizens’ collective raises issue of air pollutionEcoSikh and Clean Air Punjab-a citizens’ collective, organised a meeting on Sunday where they appealed to all political parties to include the issue of air pollution in their election manifestos for the forthcoming assembly polls in Punjab. Over 50 prominent citizens from across the state attended the meeting. 19 docs felicitated on World Stroke Day As many as 19 neurologists and neurosurgeons from tricity were felicitated during an event organised by Zorgers Healthcare, Mohali, on World Stroke Day. Varun Gupta, founder of Zorgers Healthcare, said, “Doctors involved in the diagnosis and treatment of stroke patients are instrumental in saving precious lives.”Dhanas man held with 50.5-grams heroinThe operation cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested a resident of Small Flats, Dhanas, and recovered 50.50 grams of heroin from his possession. The accused, Sunil Kumar alias Sandy, 29, was arrested near the community centre in Dhanas on Saturday. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act has been registered against him at the Sarangpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-book-man-for-thrashing-daughter-snatching-her-mobile-phone-101635710245204.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana fingerprint bureau bags third place in national event||Haryana fingerprint bureau team has secured the third place at the 22nd All India Fingerprint Bureau Directors Conference held at National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Delhi.The online conference was organised by NCRB on October 28-29. The theme this year was the use of national automated fingerprint system for crime prevention, a police spokesperson said. Haryana fingerprint bureau demonstrated smart fingerprint science technique used in the Nikita Tomar murder case and secured the third position among all the states of India. More stories in briefJhajjar SP orders raids for arrest of 13 criminals
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||3 years on, Punjabi University dragging feet on corruption, nepotism probe reports||Punjabi University, Patiala, has been delaying action for nearly three years against its officials and employees on the findings of inquiry reports related to allegations of corruption, embezzlement and nepotism from 2007 to 2017. The failure to act on alleged irregularities during the 8-year tenure of former vice-chancellor Jaspal Singh led to an administrative and financial mess at the varsity, particularly after he resigned in 2017. Even as the state government had directed the varsity authorities to put their house in order by taking action on these reports, nothing concrete was done.The then higher education secretary Anurag Verma, who was appointed officiating V-C in the wake of Jaspal Singh’s resignation in March 2017, had ordered 14 internal inquiries after he received complaints of irregularities in the university’s functioning from 2007 to 2017. The reports of these inquiries in sealed cover were handed over to then vice-chancellor BS Ghuman in December 2017. Ghuman formed a two-member committee comprising former Punjab secretary-rank officer Jagjit Singh Puri and former Haryana additional director general of police (DGP) VK Kapoor to further enquire into the reports. The panel also submitted its findings in sealed cover to the university in July 2018. One of the complainants alleged that the varsity authorities were trying to save the skin of their employees involved in siphoning of funds and corruption.V-C Prof Arvind said action on these reports is on his priority list.“I have gone through these reports and further inquiry is on. The probe will be take to its logical conclusion before April next year. It is taking time since these are complex reports. The ones with no conclusive findings will be ignored,” said Prof Arvind.The inquiry reports The inquiry reports deal with the recruitment of 62 assistant professors , purchase of fire extinguishers to the tune of ₹80 lakh, giving priority to candidates on waiting list in teaching and non-teaching departments, hiring of outsourced employees, recruitment of teachers on fake scheduled caste/backward class certificates, purchase of question and answer sheets at exorbitant prices, undue promotions, purchase of faulty software for the distance education department and the examination branch, incorrect pay fixation and allowing service extension to retired employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-years-on-punjabi-university-dragging-feet-on-corruption-nepotism-probe-reports-101635710185112.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||At 2,895, Punjab records season’s highest farm fires in a day||Punjab on Sunday reported this harvest season’s highest paddy straw burning instances –2,895 – even as their tally of 13, 124 this year remained almost half of that until the corresponding date last year, officials aware of the matter said. Nearly 28,000 instances of stubble burning were reported until October 31 last year. But there has been a significant spike in the farm fires in the state over the last three days with daily cases hovering above 1,000.Low temperatures and stubble burning for quickly clearing fields for the next cropping season in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana are among the causes of deterioration in pollution levels around this time of the year in Delhi and surrounding areas.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the Air Quality Index (AQI) at Delhi's Anand Vihar was 371 in the "very poor" category on Monday at 11am. The "very poor" air can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.At 7am, the hourly AQI was 278 in the “poor” category. The average 24-hour AQI on Sunday was 289.Lucknow had the worst air quality on Monday morning and it topped the chart of 10 cities with an AQI of 282 at 7am. According to the union earth science’s ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Delhi’s AQI was likely to improve to the upper end of “the poor” category for the next two days. There was an expected change in the wind direction to westerly/south-westerly. That was likely to reduce the emissions from stubble burning.Air quality forecasts have suggested Delhi is headed towards an air emergency as stubble fires are expected to peak coinciding with Diwali on November 4 when pollution levels usually spike.On Sunday, Punjab's Tarn Taran district reported the highest – 285 – stubble burning incidents followed by Ferozepur (279), Sangrur (244), Barnala (199), Muktsar (198), Patiala (194), and Ludhiana (185).Tarn Taran has till October 31 recorded 2,243 farm fires, the highest in Punjab against the last year’s 4,528, followed by Amritsar (1,208), Ferozepur (1,065), and Patiala (1,027).Pathankot recorded only one farm fire incident on Sunday.“Though it presents a rosy picture on a year-to-year basis, the overall number is likely to remain nearly same of the previous year as the harvesting this time started late and there was rain in the third week of October,” said a Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) official dealing with farm fires on condition of anonymity.The official said the farm fires are likely to increase in the next two weeks when paddy harvest is expected to be completed in Sangrur, Barnala, and other districts in the Malwa region.PPCB secretary Krunesh Garg said they are hoping that the farmers will respond to their call and contribute towards a safe environment by not burning paddy straw on a large scale.The PPCB has fined nearly 3,000 farmers ₹25 lakh this year for stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-2-895-punjab-records-season-s-highest-farm-fires-in-a-day-101635709944996.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Driver burnt alive as fuel tanker catches fire in Karnal||A 60-year-old man was burnt alive as the fuel tanker he was driving caught fire after colliding with a truck coming from the opposite side on Assandh-Jind road near Gangatehri village of Karnal on late Sunday night. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot to control the flames. The deceased has been identified as Gurdeep Singh. He was taking the fuel tanker to Ellenabad from the Panipat refinery. His assistant, Lakhwinder Singh, had a narrow escape as he managed to jump out before the truck caught fire. The truck driver and his assistant also managed to escape unhurt.Investigation officer Ramesh Chand confirmed that the fuel tanker driver died in accident. He said efforts were on to douse the flames with the help of five fire tenders. Police will record the statement of assistant of tanker for further investigation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/driver-burnt-alive-as-fuel-tanker-catches-fire-in-karnal-101635709825118.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar takes a jibe at Channi govt for forgetting Indira Gandhi death anniversary||Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Sunday took a dig at the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government for forgetting former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s legacy on her death anniversary. “I can understand BJP trying to erase ‘Iron Lady of India’ from history but don’t we still have a Congress government in Punjab,” he tweeted, targeting the state government for allegedly failing to issue print advertisements in remembrance of late Prime Minister. Indira Gandhi was assassinated on this day in 1984 by two of her security guards. The Congress veteran leader also tagged an advertisement released by the Amarinder Singh government on the occasion last year, saying, “I know Capt Saab won’t mind my using this PB govt’s ad”. In another tweet, he made a veiled reference to the inclusion of Jagdish Tytler, whose name had earlier figured in connection with the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, among the permanent invitees to the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee and wondered if the Punjab government’s move to not issue any advertisements to remember Indira Gandhi had anything to do with it. “Or is it a case of “once burned twice shy” – in light of certain appointment two days ago,” he tweeted, insinuating that it was not an oversight. On Friday, Jakhar stated that since Tytler’s appointment is a sensitive issue concerning Punjab, the party leadership would have taken Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on board before deciding on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sunil-jakhar-takes-a-jibe-at-channi-govt-for-forgetting-indira-gandhi-death-anniversary-101635709706181.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cricket men’s coach Rajeev Nayyar pins hopes on match-winning performances||After sticking with VRV Singh as head coach of the Chandigarh senior men’s team for two seasons, UT Cricket Association (UTCA) sprung a surprise when they hired former Ranji Trophy cricketer from Himachal Pradesh, Rajeev Nayyar, for the upcoming season to fill Singh’s shoes. Known as the unsung hero of the game in the Himachal Pradesh cricket fraternity, Nayyar wants to carry on the good work done by Singh and add on his own ways in shaping the Manan Vohra-led team this season. “VRV did a fine job with the Chandigarh team for the first two seasons. I have been working with the boys for two months now. Chandigarh has some amazingly talented players. They have responded well and won matches against visiting teams in different tournaments. Chandigarh is already in the elite group for Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and Vijay Hazare Trophy. Our aim now is to top the plate group so that we can enter the elite group of the Ranji Trophy next season,” said 53-year-old Nayyar, who has played 96 first-class games and is the first batsman who scored a century for Himachal Pradesh in Ranji Trophy. Apart from coaching Himachal Pradesh U-14 and U-16 boys’ teams in the past, Nayyar had been in the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association selection committee for the last five years for state senior men’s team. When asked why he shifted to the Chandigarh body in a different role, he said, “When I finished my five-year stint as selector with HPCA, I told them I was keen on coaching the senior team. However, it did not happen and I applied with UTCA. It is wonderful that UTCA chose me for the job and I am raring for the upcoming season.” Nayyar made his first-class debut in 1987 and played the last match in 2006. Chandigarh will start their domestic campaign playing in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy against Uttar Pradesh on November 4 in New Delhi. Nayyar pins his hopes on cricketers like captain Manan Vohra, Ankit Kaushik, Shivam Bhambri, Sarul Kanwar, Gurinder Singh and Arpit Singh during the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy. Medium-pacer Sandeep Sharma, who has shifted from Punjab Cricket Association to UTCA this season, is down with dengue and will also miss the T20 tournament. Opening batsman Arslan Khan, who did well for Chandigarh in the first two seasons for senior men’s team, has been surprisingly missing from the squad for the domestic T20 tournament. “He impressed with his batting in two seasons. As far as his selection goes, I can’t say much as I am just a coach and not a selector. I hope the team does well and reaches the finals,” added Nayyar, who is a recipient of Parshuram award from the Himachal government, Nayyar is remembered for his record-breaking feat in 1999-2000, when he batted for 1015 minutes for his 728-ball 271 against Jammu & Kashmir in Chamba, his home town. It was in 2019 that UTCA got the BCCI affiliation. Two seasons have gone by but the association doesn’t still have its own ground and works with limited resources. “It happens with new associations. Compare the early HPCA times with the present ones. The infrastructure and the system is the best in the country. It was only in 2005 that HPCA got its first international stadium in Dharamsala. UTCA has done well with what facilities it has. In the coming years, UTCA will be bolstered in all departments. My aim is to build a winning pool of players and my focus is on that,” added Nayyar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cricket-men-s-coach-rajeev-nayyar-pins-hopes-on-match-winning-performances-101635709646937.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMS Rohtak doctors remove iron rods from man’s chest after freak accident||A team of doctors at Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) successfully removed two iron rods from an 18-year-old accident victim’s chest after a five-hour long surgery on Sunday.PGIMS cardiac surgeon Dr SS Lohchab said the youth’s two-wheeler had collided with a car carrying iron rods, following which two of the beams pierced through his chest. “Locals had cut the rods and rushed the youth to Bhagat Phool Singh Women Medical College in Sonepat, from where he was referred to PGIMS. We removed the remaining parts of the two iron rods by performing a complex surgery which lasted for five hours. It was a very difficult task for us and it could have proved dangerous in the absence of timely surgical intervention,” the cardiac surgeon added. He further said the patient is now stable and a chest X-ray showed normal lung fields. “He has no problem with respiration and he is out of danger,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgims-rohtak-doctors-remove-iron-rods-from-man-s-chest-after-freak-accident-101635709524961.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Women’s cricket: Railways thrash lacklustre Chandigarh by 246 runs||Led by solid knocks from Meghana Singh (142) and Mithali Raj (87), Railways recorded a massive 246-run win over Chandigarh in their opening match of the Women’s Senior One Day Trophy in Pune on Sunday. Batting first, to post 356/4 in 50 overs. Opener Meghana slaughtered the Chandigarh bowlers, scoring 142 runs off 121 balls including 20 fours and three sixes. Captain Mithali Raj too shone with the bat and hit 87 runs off 67 balls. She hit 11 boundaries and two sixes. In reply, Chandigarh were bowled out for 110 runs in 42.2 overs. Captain Amanjot Kaur flopped with the bat and scored just one run. Meghana Singh (2 for 16) and D Hemlatha (2 for 11) bowled well for the winning team.Brief scoresRailways: 356/4 in 50 overs (Meghana Singh 142, Mithali Raj 87, Swagatika Rath 45, Parul Saini 2 for 74) beat Chandigarh: 110 all out in 42.2 overs (Manisha Bandhan 47, Meghana Singh 2 for 16, D Hemlatha 2 for 11) by 246 runsPunjab eves carve out impressive winRiding on useful knocks from Ridhima Aggarwal (77) and Taniya Bhatia (67), Punjab beat Andhra Pradesh by 80 runs in a match played during the Women’s Senior One Day Trophy in Bengaluru on Sunday. Punjab scored 231 for 6 in 5 overs. Ridhima and Taniya bolstered Punjab innings. In reply, Andhra Pradesh were bowled out for 151 runs in 43.3 overs. Medium-pacer Harpreet Kaur took three wickets, giving away 23 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/womens-cricket-railways-thrash-lacklustre-chandigarh-by-246-runs-101635709405034.html
01-11-2021||Delhi||Operations at Delhi airport’s T1 resume after 18-month closure||Flight operations at Delhi airport’s Terminal 1 (T1) resumed on Sunday after nearly 18 months, with IndiGo and SpiceJet shifting operations there. With this, all three terminals are now functional at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport.The first flight to land in Delhi after operations resumed at T1 was a SpiceJet Durgapur to Delhi flight (12.01 am), while the first departure took place at 1.49 am, when an IndiGo flight took off for Mumbai.A Delhi airport official said till 6pm, there had been over 130 flight movements from the terminal — 69 departures and 64 arrivals.The airport operator, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on October 8 announced resumption of operations at T1, owing to an increase in passenger footfall in recent months.According to figures, footfall touched nearly 110,000 passengers a day on weekends in October, while during weekdays, it was hovering between 85,000 and 100,000 passengers.In addition, the international sector saw a footfall between 17,000 and 20,000 passengers at the start of the month, prompting authorities to reopen T1.The arrangements at T1 include six kiosks for passengers for a web check-in before entering the terminal. Passengers are being encouraged to use e-boarding scanners for entry to security and frisking entry points, to avoid close contact or crowding.“Passengers are being asked to maintain social-distancing inside,” a DIAL spokesperson said.DIAL said passengers will be asked not to use seats with cross marks to ensure social distancing, and masks will be mandatory throughout the airport.“Queue managers deployed at boarding and bussing gates will continuously monitor precautionary measures,” the DIAL spokesperson added.Work on T1 is also currently ongoing simultaneously as part of the airport expansion plan, which will see its capacity double from 20 million passengers per annum to 40 million passengers per annum.Work is expected to wrap up sometime between mid- and late-2022.DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said passengers were walking into a “safe and sanitised environment”, with the same safety measures put in place at T1 as were being followed at Terminals 2 and 3.Commercial operations of domestic and international flights were suspended from March 24, 2020.Terminal 3 was the first to reopen, on May 25, 2020, with Terminal 2 opening up in a calibrated manner from July 22, 2021 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/operations-at-delhi-airport-s-t1-resume-after-18-month-closure-101635707593476.html
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress should reconsider decision to appoint Tytler: Punjab deputy CM||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday said that the Congress high command should reconsider its decision to appoint Jagdish Tytler as one of the 37 permanent invitees to the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee if it led to the hurting of sentiments of Punjabis and Sikh community in particular. Randhawa said so during his visit to Guru Nanak Bhawan along with cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Raj Kumar Verka where he attended a programme. Randhawa was again vocal against the central government’s move to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF). “The drones carrying weapons and drugs are crossing the fencing of BSF, which reflects the failure of security forces. We strongly oppose the move of surrounding any village and raiding any house within the 50km radius. We are the third line of defence and had proved it during the time of Indo-Pak wars. We are nationalists, but the government at the Centre is trying to project us as hardened criminals. This is not expectable,” said Randhawa.He said they have received a reply from the home ministry that after Diwali, a delegation will be invited to express their concern over the move of increasing the jurisdiction of BSF. He added that the issue will be tabled during the special session to be convened on November 8. On Congress leader Sunil Jakhar’s statement of not observing the death anniversary of former prime minister Indira Gandhi, Randhawa said that she was an icon and the party had huge respect for the Nehru-Gandhi family and sacrifices they had made for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-should-reconsider-decision-to-appoint-tytler-punjab-deputy-cm-101635708866435.html
01-11-2021||Other||Punjab to launch populist OTS policy for regularising building violations||Chandigarh In a populist step ahead of assembly polls in 2022, the Punjab local bodies department has proposed a One-Time Settlement (OTS) of non-compoundable violations in residential houses, commercial shops and institutional buildings falling in municipalities and improvement trusts constructed in contravention of by-laws. The matter is expected to be taken up in Monday’s cabinet meeting for approval. The proposed policy further lowers compounding charges finalised in 2018. It says, “Non-compoundable building violations in residential plotted buildings, disclosed voluntarily, may be settled as a one-time measure by paying a composition fee of ₹250 per square feet of the non-compoundable (unauthorised construction) area.” The area of all floors will be taken into account at the time of compounding, to a maximum height of 50 feet. These rates are for A-Class municipal corporation cities, including Amritsar, Jalandhar, Mohali and Ludhiana.In 2018, the compounding fee for A-Class cities was fixed to ₹600 per square feet, which received objections from property owners and saw few takers, with only 700 applications received, even as the government expects the number to be in thousands.  For cities and towns classified as B, C and D, the compounding fee fixed is lower, in view of the potential value of the said property and location. The scheme covers unapproved and unregularised houses, shops and institutional buildings falling in cities and towns of the state, within the jurisdiction of 165 civic bodies including corporations, councils and notified area committees. Areas falling under the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) in Mohali, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Bathinda and Patiala are not covered in the scheme. “If for some reason, the matter doesn’t come up for discussion before the council of ministers on Monday, it would come up in the next meeting and a legislation would be passed in the upcoming session of the Vidhan Sabha on November 8,” said an official with the department. NEW GOVT TO TAKE CHARGE OF PROCESSThe policy will be an extension of the ‘Punjab One-time Voluntary Disclosure and Settlement of Violations of the Buildings Constructed in Violation of the Building Byelaws in Corporations and Municipalities Act, 2004’. Sources said either amendments will be introduced in the said law or it will be repealed and a new law will be enacted. As per the proposal the last date for applying for regularising the violation is March 31, 2022 and the subsequent processes would take place, once the new government takes over. Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said the department was ready with a (regularisation) policy and would be shortly launched. “Before formalising the scheme, we have taken public views, and the department has also taken into consideration the legal angle and the ground realities,” he added. For violators who own commercial properties, the compounding fee has been fixed to Rs. 500 per square yards in A-class municipal cities and is lower in other category towns and cities. In case of institutional buildings, compounding charges have been fixed at 75% of what is charged from commercial properties falling in the same category towns and cities; for charitable and government-aided institutional buildings, charges are up to 40% of that on commercial properties. The policy, according to department officers, also relaxes parking norms, providing the option to build the service at a distance of 300m from the commercial hub, if adequate space is not available in the vicinity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-to-launch-populist-ots-policy-for-regularising-building-violations-101635708865146.html
