02-11-2021||Other||Punjab CM gives nod to send PPA repudiation notice to TSPL||Chandigarh After ordering termination of power pact with GVK Goindwal plant, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday gave a go ahead to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to immediately issue notice to Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) for repudiation of their power purchase agreement (PPA). The CM said this step had been taken to safeguard the interest of consumers of the state, to reduce the burden of costly power. The average per unit charges (fixed and variable) remained at ₹5.1, ₹5.55 and ₹5.3 during financial years (FY) 18-19; FY 19-20 and FY 20-21, respectively, whereas the average cost of power per unit in the short-term market for these years has been ₹3.86, ₹3.21 and ₹3.01, respectively, a spokesperson of CMO said. On account of the cost differential between TSPL power and the short-term market power at ₹2 per unit, as per prevailing trends and the units scheduled from TSPL as 9,000 MUs, the additional cost being incurred by the PSPCL per annum, at the present rates, was about ₹1,800 crore, the CMO said, pegging the liability for the remaining period of the PPA at ₹36,000 crore. “Due to its higher variable rates, TSPL is placed lower down the merit order and as a result, lower quantum of power is scheduled, whereas PSPCL has to pay full capacity charges for the declared availability of the plant,” the CMO added. Since FY 2014-15 to FY 2020-21, 24,176 MUs of energy has been surrendered, while fixed charges of about ₹2,920 crore have been paid by the PSPCL for such energy. The cost of surrendered power from this plant was ₹389 crore, ₹756 crore and ₹446 crore during FY 18-19, FY 19-20 and FY 20-21, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-gives-nod-to-send-ppa-repudiation-notice-to-tspl-101635877790576.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||U-14 cricket tournament : Crystal Club boys’ team beat girls by nine wickets||The Crystal Club boys’ team defeated the girls’ team of the club by nine wickets in a 40 over league match during the GNSA Under-14 Cricket Tournament in Jassian, Ludhiana, on Monday.Batting first, the girls’ team was bowled out for just 31 runs, with Divya Rajput being the top scorer at 11 runs for 33 balls with two boundaries. Divyam of the boys’ team took three wickets in his four over spell.In reply, the boys’ team chased the target in just 5.2 overs at the loss of one wicket. Divyam was awarded the man of the match.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/u14-cricket-tournament-crystal-club-boys-team-beat-girls-by-nine-wickets-101635877670723.html
02-11-2021||Other||Two minor children found dead on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura||Agra Unidentified bodies of the two minor children were found along the Yamuna Expressway in Mathura district on Tuesday morning. The bodies appeared to be that of two brothers and both might have been killed elsewhere and their bodies thrown on the expressway, the police said. According to police, one of the bodies was found hanging from barbed wires alongside the expressway. Bodies were traced by villagers coming to the expressway and police was informed. “The body of one of the boys, around 8-10 years old wearing vest and pant, was found near the 74th milestone on Yamuna Expressway under Naujheel police station limits of Mathura district. The other body, aged 10-12, was found near the 79th milestone under Sureer police station of the district. The bodies have been sent for postmortem to know the exact reason of the deaths,” said Sirish Chand, superintendent of police (SP), Rural, Mathura.“Both bodies are yet to be identified and their photos have been circulated in nearby areas, besides investigation has begun into the case,” the SP said. Meanwhile, Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover, who also reached the spot said, “Besides postmortem, DNA samples of both the bodies are also being taken to help in identification of the bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-minor-children-found-dead-on-yamuna-expressway-in-mathura-101635877607943.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU experts issue advisory to keep dogs safe during Diwali||Ahead of Diwali, experts at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) have issued an advisory asking dog owners to keep their pets safe during the festival amid bursting of crackers. The experts stated that dogs develop a permanent sound phobia or excessive fear of loud noises and may develop epilepsy and other nervous signs due to bursting of crackers during Diwali. These dogs may unreasonably hide from people, urinate, defecate, drool, pant and develop separation anxiety. Dr SS Randhawa, director of veterinary clinics, GADVASU, stated that pet and stray dogs are very sensitive to this continuous noise and become restless, run away and exhibit signs of anxiety or stress. This happens as the auditory pain threshold in dogs is approximately 95 decibels, which much lesser than humans. Fireworks usually produce a sound of 190 decibels, which is harmful for the human ears too. Dr Randhawa stated that noise of crackers can be harmful and dogs may then be scared of even harmless sounds like opening of a doors or sound of doorbells. Stray dogs may get seriously injured because of accidents. Moreover, poisonous gases and harmful particulate matter may lead to severe lung oedema in them and is also dangerous for people already who have respiratory diseases like asthma. The steps which can be taken to keep pet dogs safe include stopping the bursting of crackers, keeping them indoors, keeping the radio or television set on to distract them from loud noises, playing with them to distract them from outside noises, covering the pets with blankets and keeping a first-aid kit ready with dressing material, antiseptics, analgesic and medicines. Emergency services to remain open on Diwali The experts stated that the emergency veterinary doctor will be available on Diwali day and night and the residents should immediately contact the veterinarian if they note any signs of anxiety or stress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-experts-issue-advisory-to-keep-dogs-safe-during-diwali-101635877487699.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: NGO stages symbolic protest against MC over illegal constructions||Slamming the municipal corporation’s building branch for not taking action against illegal constructions in the city, members of Yuva, an NGO, staged a symbolic protest outside the civic body’s Zone B office near Shingar cinema. They lit candles and diyas outside the office in a bid to wake the authorities from their deep slumber.President of the NGO, Kumar Gaurav, accused the assistant town planner (ATP) and other officials of the building branch of adopting corrupt practices. “The officials have adopted corrupt practices and no action is taken against unauthorised constructions. We will also file a complaint against the same with the local bodies department,” said Gaurav. Gaurav said that he has submitted repeated complaints against illegal constructions in areas falling under Zone A and B including Sundar Nagar, Meena Bazar Chowk and Tajpur Road, but they have turned a deaf ear.Despite attempts to reach ATP of Zone B, Kuljit Mangat, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ngo-stages-symbolic-protest-against-mc-over-illegal-constructions-101635877367898.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM releases coffee table book by Ludhiana-based lawyer||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, on the eve of Punjab Day, released a coffee table book titled “Sadda Sohna Punjab” authored by city-based lawyer and nature artist Harpreet Sandhu.The book depicts the mesmerising and awe-inspiring natural beauty of Punjab, bringing alive the beautiful panoramic views of densely populated green forests and the rich luxuriant rivers whirring with sparkling flow of blue waters. Channi said that this initiative will definitely help nature lovers of not only Punjab, but from across world to witness these magnificent places within the state. Sandhu said his aim behind the project was to make travellers aware of scenic locations in the state which may have been ignored previously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-releases-coffee-table-book-by-ludhiana-based-lawyer-101635877128004.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay top-ranked institute in India; slips to 42nd position in QS Asia rankings||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) is the top-ranked institute in the country, followed by IIT-Delhi and Madras, to make it to the top 50 of the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) Asia University Rankings 2022. However, the overall performance of IIT-B has dipped, as the premier institute dropped from the 37th rank to the 42nd rank overall in the 2021 list released on Tuesday evening. IIT-B secured an overall score of 71 out of 100. The institute scored 81.4 in academic reputation, 96 in employer reputation, 23 in citation per faculty, 44.7 in faculty student ratio, 100 in staff with PhD, 84.2 in papers per faculty, 78.5 international research network, 11.0 in international faculty, 4.4 in international students, 14.5 in inbound exchange and 8.3 in outbound exchange (all scores out of a maximum of 100 points). “Due to the pandemic, there has been no exchange of students, which is where we have lost some points. Also after EWS (economically weaker section) expansion of intake capacity, the student-faculty ratio is lacking at present, which is another area where we have lost points,” said professor Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of the institute.The performance of universities is measured on various parameters such as academic reputation, international research work, outbound and inbound exchange, employer reputation, faculty student ratio, international faculty and international students among others. The National University of Singapore retained the number one position once again this year, followed by the Peking University and Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, on the second and third positions. Other than the three IITs in the top 50, Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science (IISc) is on the 56th rank, while IIT-Kharagpur and Kanpur take the 60th and 64th ranks respectively. The University of Delhi is the only central university to finds its way to the top 100 by taking the 77th rank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-top-ranked-institute-in-india-slips-to-42nd-position-in-qs-asia-rankings-101635877013702.html
02-11-2021||Other||40-year-old Odisha man detained over alleged murder of wife and son||Bhubaneswar Police on Tuesday detained a 40-year-old man over allegations of strangulating his 35-year-old wife and 15-year-old son in Kalinga Nagar area of the city, officials said.Bhubaneswar’s deputy commissioner of police said a man named Abanti Mangaraj of Kalinga Nagar area has been detained under Tamando police station after receiving information that the bodies of his wife Swarnalata and son were lying in the house.“The husband was missing from the house when we received the information about two bodies lying inside. He was subsequently tracked down and is currently being questioned. He has admitted to killing his wife and son by strangulating them. However, we are yet to ascertain the reason and circumstances that provoked him to commit the heinous crime,” said the DCP.A forensic team arrived at the crime scene to collect further evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40yearold-odisha-man-detained-over-alleged-murder-of-wife-and-son-101635877011857.html
02-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj: VHP calls for restoration, maintenance of neglected temples in villages, towns||PRAYAGRAJ: With the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya being undertaken on a war footing, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has asked its members and common man to take the lead in ensuring restoration and proper maintenance of neglected temples located in their respective villages and localities. “The initiative, which is seen as a milestone in restoration of several big and small neglected temples located in towns and villages, would start from Kashi Prant of VHP under which Prayagraj falls. After successful launch, the drive will be run across the country,” said a VHP office bearer. A draft proposal in this regard was placed and discussed at a meeting of the VHP held at its provincial office in Prayagraj on Sunday. During this, VHP national vice president and general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai was also present, he added. VHP regional organisation secretary of Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Gajendra Singh said that people from all over the country supported the Shri Ram Temple being built in Ayodhya and this sequence continues even now. “The organisation believes that along with Ayodhya, temples of each village and locality should equally be grand and become the centre of faith and religious rights of the people. For this, the VHP workers and office bearers will select a temple in their respective areas and start the process of its restoration,” he said. In this context, along with taking the help of the local people, the organisation would also cooperate with its resources. If there is any difficulty in the maintenance of the temple, then the workers of the organisation would cooperate in that too, Gajendra Singh said. The help, rendered by VHP, would be in all aspect, be it financially, physically or ideologically, he added Singh further informed that the temples, which would be renovated with the help of the local people and the VHP, would be used to discuss the problems being faced by the locals along with organising ‘satsangs’. Such temples could also become a centre of ‘family satsang,’ started by VHP, Singh said. An action plan for the Gaushalas to be operated in the area would also be prepared from these temples as these would emerge as a communication center of ‘Sanatan culture’. The message of harmony in the society would also be given through these temples. It would play an important role in the integration of Hindus, he explained. “The block level group of VHP, which is presently active in the given area will also look after the work related to the temple, as no other officer or worker of VHP will be given any responsibility for this,” he added. VHP officials said that issues like conversion and ‘love jihad’ were also discussed in the Sunday meeting and it was decided that there is a need to take concrete steps to bring public awareness to curb it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-vhp-calls-for-restoration-maintenance-of-neglected-temples-in-villages-towns-101635876887949.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||Delay in communication of bail order must be addressed on a war footing: Justice Chandrachud||PRAYAGRAJ Pointing out very serious deficiency in the criminal justice system, Supreme Court Judge, Justice DY Chandrachud, said, “We should address on a war footing the delay in the communication of bail orders because this touches upon human liberty of every undertrial or even a convict who has got suspension of sentence under the law.”Justice Chandrachud, who is the chairperson of the e-committee of the Supreme Court, was speaking at the e-inauguration of virtual courts and e-sewa kendra at Allahabad high court and district court on Monday. Explaining the importance of e-seva kendras, Justice Chandrachud said they would provide under one roof all services, which we provide under the e-courts project, accessible in every establishment of the district judiciary so that lawyers, litigants who seek to find information can easily avail of those services, whether it is providing certified copy or e-payment of court fees or e-filing or videoconferencing.“The virtual court is equally a matter of utmost importance. To give you an example, virtual courts have now been set up in 12 states for adjudicating traffic challans. Across the country, 99.43 lakh cases have been completed and fines have been collected for 18.35 lakh cases. Total fine collected is over ₹119 crore while about 98,000 violators chose to contest the case,” he said.Regarding digitisation of records and e-filing, Justice Chandrachud said, “It was with this perspective that as chairperson of the e-committee of the Supreme Court, I constituted a committee of five of our most senior high court judges across India to engage with renowned experts in private sector and public institutions, for the purpose of preparing a standard operating procedure on digitisation. After we got the draft SOP, it has been circulated to all the high courts. We got wonderful suggestions.”Further, the e-committee is appointing a pan India consultant for the purpose of guiding us in the implementation of the SOP of digitisation,” he said.Others present on the occasion were Chief Justice of Allahabad high court Rajesh Bindal, Justice SP Kesarwani, chairman of Computerization of Digitization Committee of Allahabad high court and other members of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/delay-in-communication-of-bail-order-must-be-addressed-on-a-war-footing-justice-chandrachud-101635876767795.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||One dead, eight injured after part of under-construction flyover collapses in Uran||One labourer died and eight others — seven labourers and a trailer driver — were injured after a portion of the under-construction flyover at Jasai village of Uran came down. The incident happened around 4.15pm on Tuesday, when the workers were on top of the under-construction flyover. According to Uran tehsildar Bhausaheb Andhare, “Some of the labourers were on top and some were standing below. The labourers on the top were putting cement concrete on the girder when the concrete slab collapsed.” Meanwhile, deputy commissioner of police (zone 2), Shivraj Patil, said, “There were 13 labourers, of which seven were injured and one died. Of the injured, one is critical.” The deceased has been identified as Mohammad Muzammil Fajrum Rahmal Alam, 20, from Bihar and who was staying at Jasai. Apart from the labourers, Om Prakash Banu Bhardwaj, 48, a trailer driver passing along the flyover was also injured. Following the incident, the materials had fallen to both the sides of the road and the traffic was blocked for around two hours. “While the JCBs were clearing the road, we diverted the vehicles via three different routes to ensure that everyone is able to move out of the spot safely. After around two hours, the route was open for vehicular movement,” senior police inspector Ashok Gaikwad from Uran traffic unit said. “The FIR will be filed against the company who were given the contract of the flyover by National Highways Authority of India,” Patil said. NHAI authorities did not respond to the calls and the messages sent. At the time of going to press, the FIR was being lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-dead-eight-injured-after-part-of-under-construction-flyover-collapses-in-uran-101635876413357.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet gives nod to scheme to enable recovery of long pending EDC dues||The Haryana Cabinet Tuesday gave approval to the revised "Samadhan Se Vikas" scheme to enable the recovery of long-pending External Development Charges outstanding.The scheme was earlier formulated to enable the recovery of long-pending EDC dues and was approved by the Council of Ministers in its meeting held on July 6, 2020.An amount of ₹1130.13 crore has been recovered under this policy till September 30, 2021, an official statement said after the meeting of the cabinet chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.As of now, approximately ₹1,4932.87 crore EDC is outstanding with the coloniser/developers, it said, adding now the revised scheme has been approved.In another decision, the cabinet accorded approval to a proposal regarding the creation of 'work assessment norms' for work assessment for all government offices in the state.“Formulation of Work Assessment Norms and proforma to conduct work-study for each Department in the State would be done by the Staff Inspection Unit of Administrative Reforms Department,” the statement said.In another decision, the cabinet gave approval to the exemption to stage carriage buses owned by State Transport Undertakings of National Capital Region State – that is Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and NCT of Delhi -- other than Haryana from the liability to pay Motor Vehicle Tax under Reciprocal Common Transport Agreement.The cabinet also gave its approval to the “One Time Settlement Scheme” to resolve issues pertaining to the mining sector in the State under the “Vivado Ka Samadhan” scheme.In another decision, the cabinet accorded approval regarding the rationalisation of VAT on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF).Concessional rate of 1 per cent VAT on ATF was applicable on UDAAN flights under Regional Connectivity Scheme for a period of three years from August 1, 2018.A meeting was held between Union Minister of Civil Aviation and Chief Minister, Haryana on October 13, 2021, in which it was decided to extend 1 percent concessional rates of VAT on all passenger flights in Haryana to boost connectivity and tourism across the country.Accordingly, a decision was taken by Haryana Cabinet on Tuesday to extend 1 percent concessional rate to all passenger flights for a period of three years.It was also decided to levy 1 percent concessional VAT on ATF for MRO (maintenance, repair, overhaul) related activities and in adventure activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cabinet-gives-nod-to-scheme-to-enable-recovery-of-long-pending-edc-dues-101635875932067.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Probe ordered into irregularities in issuing certificates to industrial units||The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered a probe into alleged violations in issuing functional certificates to factories and industrial units in different sectors of Noida. The move comes after complaints were filed against the industry department of the Noida authority alleging that the department issued functional certificates in violation of the norms. As per the norms, if an industrial unit or a factory becomes operational, then the authority issues a ‘functional certificate’ certifying that the business operations are underway at the site and the plot is being used for the purpose for which it was allotted. Before issuance of a functional certificate, the industry department of the authority checks all the documents of the unit and also conducts an inspection at the site, said officials.“We got a complaint stating that the industry department issued a functional certificate in complete violations of the laid down rules. A functional certificate was issued illegally as the industrial plot owner had not started any operations at the site. We have directed the Uttar Pradesh infrastructure and industrial development department to probe into the allegations. We have directed the officials to probe into all functional certificates issued since July 2020,” said Satish Mahana, UP industry minister who ordered the probe last week.The UP infrastructure and industrial development department directed Noida authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari to investigate into the allegations. Following directions, the CEO has formed a three-member committee headed by authority’s additional CEO Neha Sharma. Other two members of the committee are chief financial officer and work circle engineer.“We have started the probe and are gathering all relevant files. We are compiling the data as to how many functional certificates have been issued since July, 2020. Once we have all the figures, we will be able to fix the officials’ accountability,” said Sharma, additional CEO of the authority.According to the complaint, the industry department staff issued functional certificate illegally and indulged in corruption. The violations took place because the authority in early 2020 started cancelling the allotment of plots due to delay in starting industrial operations, the complaint said.“The authority started cancelling allotment of plots, where no industry or factory was operational at the site. To evade action, the plot owners got functional certificates issued in violation of norms. If the allegations are found to be true, we will act against officials responsible,” said Mahana.Noida has at least 12,000 industrial units in different sectors.“The authority should finish the probe at the earliest and take appropriate action in this matter, as it vitiates the business atmosphere. The government must take stern action against officials and others involved in the alleged irregularities,” said Vipin Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneur Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-probe-ordered-into-irregularities-in-issuing-certificates-to-industrial-units-101635876227955.html
02-11-2021||Other||Odisha tehsildar found with multiple PAN cards, ₹4.65 lakh cash; arrested||Odisha anti-corruption officials on Tuesday arrested a tehsildar after seizing at least 5 PAN cards and cash worth ₹4.65 lakh from him, officials said.Vigilance officials said Ramachandra Jena, tehsildar of Nimapara in Puri district, was intercepted by the sleuths at his official residence at Nimapara at around 5 am with unaccounted cash worth ₹4.65 lakh. Jena, who is facing two corruption cases, including one regarding the settlement of the land, could not explain how he got the cash. Jena’s brother Laxman Jena was also arrested in the case.Jena was also found to be in possession of 5 PAN cards with different dates of birth and father’s name which are offences under the Income Tax Act. As per the IT Act, a fine of ₹10,000 is imposed on anyone who owns duplicate PAN cards under Section 272B.According to the vigilance officials, the tehsildar’s younger brother was an active accomplice and abettor in Jena’s corrupt activities. He used to manage Jena’s bribe money.During the investigation, the tehsildar’s brother confessed that in September 2021, his brother called him thrice to Nimapara and gave him 10 lakh in three instalments - ₹2.5 lakh, ₹5 lakh and ₹2.5 lakh, respectively - which he deposited in his ICICI bank account. The ICICI Bank passbook has been seized.On Monday night, he received a telephone call from his brother to collect ₹4.5 lakh on Tuesday early morning when the vigilance officials caught him. Further search at his residence at CDA Sector 11 in Cuttack and his native place at Dhanmandal in Garadpur Block of Kendrapara is on. The search operation was led by one additional superintendent of police (SP), seven deputy SPs and two inspectors of the vigilance department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-tehsildar-found-with-multiple-pan-cards-rs-4-65-lakh-cash-arrested-101635876170350.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad most polluted for fourth time since October 15||The Ghaziabad city continued to be the most polluted city in the country for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. The city’s air quality index (AQI), according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, was recorded at 334 (‘very poor’), the highest across the country, but slightly lower than Monday’s 363.This is the fourth time since October 15 this year, when the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) was implemented, that the city has emerged the most polluted one ahead of Diwali. The last three occasions when the city topped the pollution chart were on October 16 (with an AQI of 349), October 29 (AQI of 321) and November 1 (AQI of 363).According to the CPCB, the primary pollutant on Tuesday was PM2.5 at all the four monitoring stations at Indirapuram, Loni, Sanjay Nagar and Vasundhara.In neighbouring Noida, the AQI was recorded at 303, while Greater Noida’s AQI stood at 276 (‘poor’), showed the CPCB data.“The primary pollutant (PM2.5) indicates that high traffic volume on roads has resulted in high emissions. Further, the external factors like stubble burning have also contributed to the city’s pollution. On our part, we are taking up regular inspections, including night patrolling in industrial areas and construction sites, to check for violations,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.“However, during the current pre-Diwali period, Ghaziabad has fared better in terms of pollution levels which are lower than the pre-Diwali days’ figures in the last year. The rise in AQI in Noida can also be attributed to the high number of vehicles on roads due to the festival season,” Sharma added.According to the CPCB, the weekly average AQI before Diwali in 2020 was 412, as against 317 during the corresponding period this year.An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.Environmentalists said that traffic snarls across Ghaziabad due to the festive season are responsible for high pollution levels. “Snarls are rampant even in small lanes and bylanes of the city. This is leading to high vehicular emission and causing city’s AQI to deteriorate,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.Meanwhile, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) has predicted that the AQI is likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category for the next two days in Delhi.“Impact of stubble burning is expected to be low due to unfavourable winds coming from south-west and east direction. Share of crop residue burning emissions in PM2.5 is about 6% (effective fire count 1,795). Prevailing shallow mixing layer height reduces dispersion of pollutants,” the Safar forecast added.It further said that from November 4 to 6, the expected share of stubble burning in PM2.5 is likely to be in the range of 20-38%.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality early warning system for Delhi, the air quality of the national capital is likely to remain in lower end of ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category on November 2 and 3. “The air quality is likely to be in lower end of very poor category on November 4. The air quality is likely to deteriorate on November 5 and 6 but remain in very poor category. PM2.5 to be the predominant pollutant,” the forecast added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-most-polluted-for-fourth-time-since-october-15-101635876167787.html
02-11-2021||Gurugram||Namaz row: Civil society group calls for protection of constitutional rights||Members of a city-based civil society group on Tuesday called for the protection of constitutional rights of citizens and said that Muslims should be allowed to offer Friday prayers at public locations without hindrance, at a press conference held at the PWD Guest House.Members of Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a group of Gurugram residents from different communities, also announced the launch of a public awareness campaign against hatemongering.“Gurugram has been a peaceful city and people from across regions and different religions have made it their home. However, in the last two years, a few communal elements have been trying to vitiate the atmosphere by opposing peaceful Friday prayers,” a statement issued by the group at the press conference read.Altaf Ahmad, a member of the group, said that the members of the Muslim community were forced to offer namaz in open because the city lacked mosques, particularly in newer parts of the city. “We have asked the government to provide us land in different parts of the city so that we can build mosques. But till this happens, the administration must ensure that namaz is offered peacefully and no one is allowed to create disturbance,” he said. The campaign against hatemongering will run online as well as offline, to counter instances of hatred through fake news and false allegations. “A platform will be made available for all those who disagree with the current campaign against the Friday namaz and who stand for a united Gurgaon for harmony and progress,” said Arti Jaiman, a member of the Manch, who also heads a community radio station. Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, the legal advisor for Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, a Hindu group, said, “We only ask that religious practices should not be allowed in public.” Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that all efforts are being made to resolve the issue peacefully and through consensus. “A committee of stakeholders will discuss the issue and find resolution,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-row-civil-society-group-calls-for-protection-of-constitutional-rights-101635875989373.html
02-11-2021||Gurugram||MCG to procure 64 water tankers for dust control measures ahead of pollution spike||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will procure 64 water tankers fitted with spray machines to undertake dust control measures after Diwali, with winter also about to set in, officials said on Tuesday.Bids for MCG’s tender in this regard will be opened on Wednesday and a contractor will be finalised within the week. “We are trying all possible measures to curb the spread of air pollution and dust in the city, and hence, have decided to augment our sprinkling measures by hiring more water tankers,” said Subhash Yadav, nodal officer of the environment and sustainability wing of the MCG.However, officials of the MCG and independent experts said that water sprinkling has “minimal impact” on keeping pollution in check and called for more effective measures.A senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said, “Sprinkling of water for dust mitigation and controlling air pollution is impractical. The roads dry up soon after and it has no long-term impact. We objected to it during an internal district-level pollution meeting last month. However, it was dismissed by HSPCB [Haryana State Pollution Control Board].”Independent experts also agreed to the MCG official’s view, calling water sprinkling a “largely futile exercise.”Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert, said, “Sprinkling of water has a maximum impact period of one hour, after which the road dries up and dust starts swirling around. The practice is a waste of resources and futile. Instead, the government should focus on increasing green cover around medians. Certain trees and plants with pointed leaves act as a barrier to check suspension of dust in the air.”However, officials of the HSPCB said that sprinkling of water is an important part of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) that needs to be undertaken to control pollution.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer (north) for HSPCB, said, “Mechanised water sprinkling is an important way to control dust pollution that impacts the air quality in the city. During the festive season, we cannot stop people from going out or vehicles moving on the roads, but we can control the impact by implementing such measures across the city. Hence, this practice is needed.”Last year, the MCG had 40 water tankers to undertake sprinkling. Officials said that the 64 machines will be in addition to the 40 and will help with comprehensive coverage of the city.This year, the MCG has been carrying out sprinkling since early October, even before the official implementation of Grap started across the National Capital Region (NCR) on October 15.MCG officials said that water for sprinkling purposes will be procured from the sewerage treatment plants (STPs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-procure-64-water-tankers-for-dust-control-measures-ahead-of-pollution-spike-101635875987796.html
02-11-2021||Gurugram||Air quality on brink of ‘very poor’, likely to worsen till Diwali||The air quality in Gurugram deteriorated on Tuesday, ahead of Diwali, inching closer to the ‘very poor’ category of the air quality index (AQI) according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) data. For a fifth consecutive day, the district reported ‘poor’ quality of air, recording an AQI of 287 on Tuesday, which was worse than a reading of 241 recorded on Monday. According to predictions, of experts, the pollution levels are likely to worsen and reach the ‘very poor’ category by Diwali. However, Gurugram fared relatively better than many of its counterparts in the National Capital Region on Tuesday, with Faridabad, Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad recording AQI readings of 306, 303, 303 and 334, respectively, all of which were in the ‘very poor’ category of the CPCB system. According to the forecast of the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality in the National Capital Territory is likely to remain in the lower end of the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category on Wednesday and the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday (Diwali). A weather bulletin issued by the body on Tuesday evening stated that over the next five days, the air quality in the region is likely to deteriorate on Friday and Saturday and remain in the ‘very poor’ category, due to an expected increase in the particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5), the major pollutant. Stepping up enforcement action ahead of Diwali, officials of the regional pollution control board in Gurugram said that patrolling will be increased during the day as well as at night. Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board for Gurugram (north), said, “During the day, sprinkling of water at pollution hotspots and other enforcement activities will be at the highest level. We have six teams across the district that will patrol during the night as well as day to check for violations. We have also requested builders in the district to carry out sprinkling at construction sites. We urge the public to not engage in bursting of crackers and stop others from doing so too.” Meanwhile, air quality experts in the city said that some respite is likely on November 7 and 8, with a likely increase in wind speed that will disperse pollutants. Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, said, “With the impact of a western disturbance, wind speed is likely to pick up and increase to 16kmph from the 4kmph on November 7-8. From Monday onwards, the wind direction has changed from northwestern to northeastern, which helps in carrying away the pollutants. Light rain or drizzle is also expected over the region a day or two after Diwali.” A western disturbance refers to the winds originating over the Mediterranean region that carry moisture in the form of rainfall or snowfall while travelling to the northern regions. According to the India Meteorological Department, Gurugram is likely to witness partly or generally cloudy sky on November 5 and 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-on-brink-of-very-poor-likely-to-worsen-till-diwali-101635875929174.html
02-11-2021||Gurugram||Diwali: Burn unit set up at Civil Hospital||A burn unit has been set up at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 due to an anticipated spike in burn injuries during Diwali, doctors said.A six-bed unit has been set up at the hospital, where most cases over the past few years were among children aged up to 12 years, doctors said.Dr Manish Rathi, deputy medical superintendent, Civil Hospital, said, “Cases have reduced over the years and with the government imposing a complete ban on bursting of firecrackers, we are hoping that cases will be few this year, but some cases are still reported every year. The burn unit is completely equipped to handle injuries to children and adults, in addition to the round-the-clock emergency ward.”Rathi said that skin specialists and eye surgeons will also be deployed in addition to surgeons and other experts on Diwali as many a time, burn injuries affect children’s eyes. Apart from this, the hospital also has a fully functional paediatric intensive care unit.On Tuesday evening, the chief medical officer instructed the in-charges of Civil Hospital, subdivisional hospitals in Sohna and Pataudi, and the Sector 31 polyclinic to set up a dedicated asthma ward for COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) patients. As per the directions, these wards must have all suitable medicines and equipment, along with a nodal officer to ensure that all facilities are in place. Ambulance in-charges have also been instructed to ensure that medicines are available in the vehicles. Doctors, nurses, medical and paramedical staff were directed to keep their mobile phones switched on for responding to emergencies.Residents can reach the health department on 7011491319 in case of an emergency on Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/diwaliburn-unit-set-up-at-civil-hospital-101635875927845.html
02-11-2021||Other||Medical education, research jobs in C, D group to be filled permanently, says Verka||Mohali Punjab medical education and research minister Raj Kumar Verka has announced that all posts of Classes C and D in the department will be filled on permanent basis, and the contract system will be abolished. Addressing senior officers and employees of the department at the Medical Education Bhawan in Sector 69, Verka said, “All vacancies of Classes C and D, including nursing, will be filled in the department and an advertisement will be issued soon in this regard. Punjab will be transformed into a model state in the field of health education and research.” Verka also reviewed the functioning of the department and inaugurated the administrative block at the Medical Education Bhawan. The offices of medical education and research minister and principal secretary have been set up in this block. The minister added that medicine and education were important for any society and the Punjab government was committed to provide better health care facilities in the state. “All shortcomings in medical education and research in Punjab will be rectified. I appeal to all employees to work with dedication, honesty and determination to take medical education to new heights,” he said, adding that the three Government Medical Colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot were being upgraded to improve the standard of medical education. He added that BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences Mohali; Shaheed Udham Singh State Institute of Medical Sciences, Hoshiarpur, and Sri Guru Nanak Dev State Institute of Medical Sciences Kapurthala were in various stages of being established. Former minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and principal secretary education and research Alok Shekhar also addressed the gathering. Additional secretary Rahul Gupta, Dr Arshdeep Aggarwal and Dr Avnish Kumar was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-education-research-jobs-in-c-d-group-to-be-filled-permanently-says-verka-101635875627772.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Health dept keeping Covid watch on homebound migrants ahead of Diwali||Learning a lesson from the festival of Holi when homebound migrant workers had caused a spike in Covid-19 cases earlier this year, the health authorities in Uttar Pradesh are taking no chances this Diwali.For instance, the district health department has deputed 22 teams at all prominent bus stations and railway stations of Prayagraj district for carrying out rapid antigen tests of all migrants returning for the Diwali festival. The department has also decided to carry out RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests of all samples collected from these home-bound migrant workers in the run-up to Diwali even if the rapid antigen tests are negative, officials said. RT-PCR is considered the gold standard of Covid tests by experts.Prayagraj district Covid-19 nodal officer Dr AK Tiwari said that special precautions were being taken for Diwali when thousands of migrant workers of UP return home for the festival from various states, including Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh among others. “A total of 22 teams have been deployed at bus stands and railway stations. Every migrant is being screened. Even if the antigen test report is negative, the samples are being sent for RT-PCR tests with an aim not to miss any positive Covid-19 positive individual who could spread the pandemic in the district. Any person who is found positive will be isolated immediately,” he said.The nodal officer said even if the report of an antigen test from a private hospital returns negative, the samples would be sent for RT-PCR tests as a sure check. These efforts are meant to keep the pandemic from starting to spread again during the festive season. At present, Prayagraj has three active Covid-19 cases with one new case being found in the Tagore Town locality on Monday. The latest case was the first to be found after a gap of nine days.“Currently, 6000 RT-PCR tests are being done daily in the MLN Medical College. Apart from Prayagraj, samples from Pratapgarh, Mirzapur and Kaushambi are also being tested here,” he explained.Dr Sujit Verma, senior physician at SRN Hospital in Prayagraj, warned that the threat of Covid-19 was not over yet.“It is very important to follow the corona prevention guidelines during the festive season. Do not forget to maintain social distancing and wear facemasks. Frequently washing hands with soap still remains one of the most effective ways to protect oneself from the Covid-19 virus,” he said.Paediatrician Dr Yugantar Pandey said special care should be taken to protect children during Diwali as adults may have got the Covid-19 vaccination, but the kids remain vulnerable.“Wearing a facemask and avoiding overcrowded places is the best way to protect kids from the virus,” he said. In Varanasi, nigrani samitis (surveillance committees) will keep an eye on people returning to the villages from cities and inform the health department about the people with symptoms of Covid-19. The health department teams will reach the villages and provide medicines to the symptomatic people and antigen tests will be done, said chief medical officer Dr Rahul Singh.The department has not deployed any medical team for doing antigen tests at any of the railway stations here (Varanasi), he said.Each nigrani samiti comprises locals and works in coordination with the panchayati raj department which constituted them to keep a watch on villages to ensure 100% sanitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-health-dept-keeping-covid-watch-on-homebound-migrants-ahead-of-diwali-101635875567782.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||High court clears way for passenger, Ro-Ro jetties in Palghar and Thane||The Bombay high court (HC) recently cleared the way for the construction of the proposed passenger jetties at Kelwa and Kharekuran and Ro-Ro jetty at Kharwadashri in Palghar and Thane districts. The court gave its nod to the projects by the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) after it was informed that the mangroves to be cut for the projects were not much and the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) and State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) had granted approvals. The court, while refusing the request of the Bombay Environmental Action Group (BEAG) to stay its order, directed the MMB to give an undertaking that it would strictly comply with the terms and conditions stipulated in the approvals for the projects. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing three petitions filed by MMB seeking the court’s permission for cutting mangroves that fell within the Coastal Zone Regulation-I (CRZ-I), where the projects were coming up, was informed by advocates Saket Mone and Subit Chakrabarti that the projects were of pure public utility and would benefit the citizens of Palghar. The three projects consist of the passenger jetty at Kelwa near fishermen’s jetty, Kharwadshri Ro-Ro jetty and the Kharekuran passenger jetty in Thane district. While advocates had submitted that the project at Kelwa would not only benefit the citizens in the vicinity by increasing tourism but would also provide an eco-friendly travel option for the local industries without cutting any mangroves. With regards to the Ro-Ro jetty, the MMB submitted that the MCZMA had granted permission to divert 0.478 hectares of mangrove area comprising 72 mangrove trees and the board would replant five times the number of mangroves being removed. The advocates for MMB further submitted that the environmental authorities had already given their approval as no mangroves would be cut. The MMB further stated that it was willing to abide by the conditions stipulated by the MCZMA and SIEAA in its approvals and hence the court should permit the board to commence construction at the three sites. Senior advocate Sharan Jagtiani for BEAG, however, objected to the petitions and said that the jetty at Kelwa could be constructed as an extension to the existing fishermen’s jetty, instead of having a fresh construction in the buffer zone. The bench referred to the CRZ notification of 2011 and observed that activities related to the waterfront were expressly permitted and setting up of a jetty was not deemed as a prohibited activity. Hence, it cleared the way for the construction of the projects provided the board strictly adhered to the conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-clears-way-for-passenger-ro-ro-jetties-in-palghar-and-thane-101635875507803.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 10 arrested, 700kg illegal firecrackers seized ahead of Diwali||The Delhi Police on Tuesday arrested 10 people from separate places for violating regulations against the sale of firecrackers in the national capital. The police recovered around 700kg illegal firecrackers from the violators.The first person – Pawan Kumar, a resident of Tri Nagar – was arrested from west Delhi's Mundka area with 16.16kg firecrackers.Another person was nabbed on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, while going towards Nangloi on a scooter with a plastic bag, a senior police officer said, as reported by PTI.When police intercepted the scooter and checked the bag, they found firecrackers in it, said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parwinder Singh.Kumar told police he bought the firecrackers from Bahadurgarh in Haryana and wanted to sell them at his shop on Diwali, police said.In a similar incident, a 32-year-old woman was arrested from the Sultanpuri area with 25.5kg firecrackers after police received a tip-off. The accused was identified as Rani, a resident of P-4 Block. She informed police that she bought the firecrackers from Gurgaon to make quick money.Several others were arrested in a similar manner from Rohini, Sadar Bazaar and other parts of the national capital. Police recovered 570kg of completely banned non-green and green firecrackers from Rohini, while another 77.2kg worth of firecrackers were seized from the Sher Ka Pinjra area.The Delhi Pollution Control Committee had on September 28 ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced the same on September 15, saying it was "essential to save lives".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-10-arrested-700kg-illegal-firecrackers-seized-ahead-of-diwali-101635871182515.html
02-11-2021||Other||Odisha tribal couple takes newborn to hospital, allege facing social boycott||A tribal family in Odisha’s Keonjhar district has been allegedly socially ostracised by the villagers after their newborn baby girl was taken to hospital for her health check-up soon after the delivery, which, as per the locals, was against their traditional customs, officials said.Gunaram Murmu, a 22-year-old tribal of Jugalkishorepur village under Ghasipura police station of Keonjhar district, and his wife, Sugi Murmu, were blessed with a baby girl on October 29. Though Gunaram had sought an ambulance to take his wife to the sub-divisional health hospital in Anandpur, by the time it arrived, his wife had already delivered the baby.While Gunaram’s wife and the newborn were being taken to the hospital, some foetal blood fell on the floor of his house which reportedly upset the villagers. “The village headman and others said as per customs if a woman is sent to hospital after the delivery of the baby then the village is desecrated. I was asked to give three roosters, handia (a local brew) and some puja material for the purification of the village. I refused the same as I consider these superstitious practices,” said Gunaram.The tribal youth alleged that after his refusal, his family was socially boycotted following which he lodged a case with Ghasipura police station on November 1. Sub-inspector of Ghasipura police station, Manas Ranjan Panda, who went to the village to inquire into the allegations, said, villagers were upset over foetal blood falling on the floor.“They wanted penance. I held a discussion with the villagers and sorted out the issue,” said the sub-inspector.Health department officials in Keonjhar, however, said institutional delivery in the district was 98 per cent in 2020-21, up from 72.2 per cent in 2015-16. As per the state’s health management information system, the institutional delivery in Odisha in 2020-21 was 82 per cent, down from 85.3 per cent in 2015-16 (as per NFHS-4 figures), but health officials expressed hope that the NFHS-5 figures, which are due to be out for Odisha in a few weeks, would be close to 90 per cent.Additional district medical officer (family welfare), Koenjhar, Dr Pranatini Nayak said institutional deliveries in the district have been going up steadily due to targetted intervention over the last few years. “There may be some superstition among some tribal communities but more and more pregnant tribal women are coming to deliver their babies at hospitals,” she said.Health activists said despite state schemes like Mamata and central schemes like Janani Sishu Suraksha Karyakram, which promote institutional delivery, tribal districts like Keonjhar are beset with problems such as superstition. “In Mayurbhanj and Keonjhar districts, local tribals still prefer to visit the local doctor for their ailments and prefer to carry out childbirth at home despite availing the benefits of government schemes like Mamata and JSSK. The tribals there believe that the Gods will be angry if they go to a hospital instead of consulting a local doctor. Besides, in 381 community health centres across the state, there are just about 124 gynaecologists, which hampers childbirths at such centres,” said Gouranga Mohapatra, state convenor of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, an NGO working on health issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-tribal-couple-take-newborn-to-hospital-allege-facing-social-boycott-101635874909295.html
02-11-2021||Pune||CM in Baramati heaps praise on Sharad Pawar and family; taunting BJP||PUNE: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday lavished praise on Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and his family for their development vision. Thackeray was speaking at the inauguration of the Incubation and Innovation Centre and Scientific Research Institute at Baramati, Sharad Pawar’s hometown. Sharad Pawar and Ajit Pawar too were present at the occasion. The three leaders met on the day NCP leader and former state home minister Anil Deshmukh was arrested and remanded to the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED’s) custody in a money laundering case. Earlier, the Thackeray-led Shiv Sena broke its alliance with the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) and formed the government in Maharashtra by striking another alliance with the NCP and Congress party.Speaking at the event, Thackeray called Sharad Pawar a “youthful leader” who has shown the “Sun of development” to everyone. “Sharad Pawar is leading the state. He is leading several such institutes here and while he is continuously working, his family too is working tirelessly towards one obsession namely, development,” Thackeray said. Commenting on his former criticism of Sharad Pawar, Thackeray said that in politics, opponents are a must. “We were opponents and we used to criticise each other as well but the entire world knows about the friendship between Sharad Pawar and Sena supremo late Balasaheb Thackeray. Balasaheb used to tell us that we should go to Baramati and see what Sharad Pawar has done over there,” the CM said. Referring to the incubation centre, Thackeray, in a thinly-veiled reference to the snapping of ties between the Sena and BJP after the 2019 Maharashtra assembly polls, said that there should be an incubation centre in politics as well. “We (Shiv Sena) had opened one incubation centre 25 years ago. We also hatched some unwanted eggs and everyone knows what happened later,” Thackeray said. The CM said that Ajit Pawar was telling him that Baramati would become the number 2 centre in education after Pune. “According to me, as far as teaching lessons in politics is concerned, Baramati is already number one. I am sure the way Pawar and his family are working towards development, it will become one of the best centres not only in Maharashtra but in the whole country,” he said. The CM appreciated the Agricultural Development Trust in Baramati for bringing best practices from abroad and implementing them. He lauded Sharad Pawar for bringing about a transformational change in Baramati and the surrounding areas.On his part, Sharad Pawar said that the Agricultural Development Trust has constantly strived for innovation and thanked the CM for visiting Baramati and inaugurating the innovation centre. “The trust strives to use the best innovative practices and knowledge available in institutes worldwide and in India and use them in rural areas,” the NCP chief said. Sharad Pawar said he would strive to set up a centre of artificial intelligence in Baramati.In response, the CM assured full support of the state government and said he would never come in the way of good work and that if there are obstacles and red tape, those too will be removed. “We have to do all those things that will make our state not only the number one in the country but also in the world and we will do it for sure,” he said. Wishing everyone a happy Diwali, he said that some people are talking about bursting bombs after the festival. “I would like to tell them that burst bombs, burst crackers, but ensure that there is no smoke as we are yet to overcome Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cm-in-baramati-heaps-praise-on-sharad-pawar-and-family-taunting-bjp-101635874607823.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Vinod Rai must apologise to the entire nation: Ajay Maken||Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Ajay Maken on Tuesday demanded an apology by former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) Vinod Rai for his false report on 2G allotment and questioned Anna Hazare, Kiran Bedi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for their silence on the poor implementation of the Lokpal, for which they led the nationwide protest in 2013.Maken who addressed a press conference in Mumbai on Tuesday said that Vinod Rai should tender an apology to the entire nation for his sham report on 2G spectrum, which highlighted a presumptive loss of ₹1.76 lakh crore. “The report was a figment of imagination. The then principal 2G spectrum auditor RP Singh had told the joint parliamentary committee that no loss has been caused to the exchequer. The special judge in December 2017 had said that the prosecution (Central Bureau of Investigation) miserably failed to prove any charge against any of the accused. Rai has tendered an unconditional apology to Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam for his false statement, but he should apologise to the nation for his falsehood,” he said.Maken said why the self-proclaimed crusaders against corruption are silent on the poor state of Lokpal. “Baba Ramdev, Arvind Kejriwal, Kiran Bedi participated in the protest under the leadership of Anna Hazare pressing for the Lokpal Bill, which was passed in 2014. However, the Lokpal came into existence only in March 2019. Until today, the director of prosecution or director of inquiry has not been appointed under it. The Lokpal cannot work unless these posts are filled. Lokpal received 1,427 complaints in 2019 and 110 in 2020 and just 30 this year. This means the Lokpal has become dysfunctional. The question here is why the people who were fighting for it are silent now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vinod-rai-must-apologise-to-the-entire-nation-ajay-maken-101635874487631.html
02-11-2021||Noida||As pollution rises, Ghaziabad admin says no to licence for selling green crackers||The higher than ‘moderate’ average air quality index (AQI) of Ghaziabad for the month of October has prompted the district administration to not issue any licence for the sale of green crackers this Diwali, said officials on Tuesday. On October 29, the Uttar Pradesh government passed an order allowing the use and sale of green crackers for not more than two hours in areas where the AQI is “moderate” or better. The state government’s order stated that the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) monitored the air quality of 27 cities, including Ghaziabad and Noida, and found that the average AQI in these cities were under the “moderate” category from January to September this year. “We sought monthly average data from UPPCB. It indicated that the average AQI in October remained over the ‘moderate’ category. Hence, we have decided to not issue licences for the sale of green crackers this Diwali. We will enforce the directions with the help of police,” said district magistrate Gambhir Singh. On Tuesday, Ghaziabad continued to be the most polluted city in the country for the second consecutive day. The city’s AQI, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, was recorded at 334 (‘very poor’), which is slightly lower than Monday’s 363. Traders dealing in the sale of green crackers said the decision of the administration has ruined their business prospects this year. “We approached the district officials several times, but they did not provide us the basis of their decision. Our entire investment is stuck and families of traders will suffer this Diwali,” said Ashutosh Gupta, president of retail cracker traders association, Ghaziabad. Environmentalists said that the authorities were unable to control the rise in pollution levels and as a result, the traders are now at the receiving end. “Air pollution is showing an increasing trend this season. Different departments make plans every year to control pollution, but they fail to have any effect on ground. The high volume of traffic and road repair works have also led to the deterioration of air quality,” said Sushil Raghav, a city-based environmentalist. UPPCB officials said they have initiated a survey in the city to find out ongoing road repair works. “The survey is being carried out in all the five zones and a report will be compiled. Based on the report, we will calculate the environment compensation cost (ECC) and levy penalties against the Ghaziabad municipal corporation. The deadline of completing road repair works already ended on October 30,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. Municipal commissioner MS Tanwar said 95% of the road repair works are complete while the surface relaying works are 35% done. “During a video conference with state officials, we were told that the deadline for completing the works has been extended by 15 days. We are likely to finish a large chunk of the work in the next 15 days,” said Tanwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-pollution-rises-ghaziabad-admin-says-no-to-licence-for-selling-green-crackers-101635874427728.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||Six killed as truck rams into tea stall in UP’s Ghazipur||Six people were killed and three others seriously injured when a truck driver lost control and the vehicle rammed into a roadside tea stall in Ghazipur district on Tuesday, police said. The mishap occurred near Ahirauli Surtapur village under Mohammadabad police, they added. The truck driver was among those injured.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath mourned the deaths in the accident and instructed officials to ensure proper treatment to those injured besides all other possible help. A police officer said eight people were at the tea stall when suddenly a speeding truck coming from Ballia rammed into the tea stall resulting in the death four people on the spot. The officer said Satyendra Thakur, 32, Virendra Ram, 45, Golu Yadav, 15, all residents of Ahirauli village and Umashankar Yadav, 60, a resident of Jiandaspur died on the spot. A police team reached the spot and with the help of locals rushed the injured to a nearby hospital. Chandramohan Rai, 45, and Shyambihari Kushwaha, 32, both residents of Ahirauli, were rushed to the district hospital where they died during treatment. The bodies were sent for a post-mortem examination.The officer said enraged over the incident, locals blocked the road and demanded compensation. They lifted the blockade after district magistrate Mangala Prasad Singh and superintendent of police Rambadan Singh reached the spot and pacified them. Sub divisional magistrate Ashutosh Kumar said that the jam ended after the locals lifted road blockade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/six-killed-as-truck-rams-into-tea-stall-in-up-s-ghazipur-101635874307924.html
02-11-2021||Pune||Oct sees 168 confirmed dengue cases, nominal drop from Sept in PMC||PUNE: As per Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department data, October saw a total 168 and 38 confirmed cases of dengue and chikungunya, which is just a marginal drop compared to September’s 192 and 80 confirmed cases of dengue and chikungunya, respectively. October also saw 408 suspected cases of dengue, up from 392 suspected cases of the infection in September. As of the end of October, the city reported 2,483 suspected and 563 confirmed cases of dengue and 218 confirmed cases of chikungunya. The civic body issued notices to 2,359 commercial and residential properties found to be mosquito breeding spots and collected a total Rs175,950 from the offenders. Now that the monsoon has receded, it might still take some time for the number of mosquito-borne infections to fall. In November, the infections are likely to come down.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer with the PMC, said, “It has been observed now since the past several years that in the month of October, the number of dengue cases, both suspected and confirmed, usually goes up because of multiple factors, primarily environmental factors like the receding monsoon, October heat and high humidity levels. The number of cases in November will go down if it gets cooler but if it does not get cooler, the number might remain static. Cooler temperatures are not favourable for mosquito breeding. The PMC constantly raises awareness on this issue that people should ensure that there is no water left in ignored containers as these are potential mosquito breeders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oct-sees-168-confirmed-dengue-cases-nominal-drop-from-sept-in-pmc-101635873947516.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Farmers protest against Noida authority, block key road over land compensation||Traffic movement was disrupted for more than an hour on the Delhi-Noida side of the link road on Tuesday afternoon after a group of nearly 1,000 farmers blocked a stretch of the key road near Noida’s Sector 15A. The farmers from nearly 80 villages of Noida have been protesting against the Noida authority for the past two months, demanding hiked land compensation and residential land settlement.On Monday, the farmers announced that they will lay siege to the residence of local member of Parliament Dr Mahesh Sharma in Sector 15A in protest against the policies of the Noida authority. The authority officials said that the farmers have been given a space in Harola village near the authority’s Sector 6 administrative building for the protest.The farmers marched from Harola village to the Sharma’s residence on foot at 1.30pm on Tuesday. During this, the traffic movement was disrupted on the city’s main road -- Udyog Marg -- for almost half an hour as one side of the road was blocked completely till the protesters crossed the Delhi-Noida link road, where Sector 15A is located.Police stopped the protesting farmers when they tried to break gate number 1 of Sector 15A to reach Sharma’s residence. Later, they tried to break gate number 2 which was already closed to stop them near the gate. When the police stopped the farmers at gate number 2, they sat on the Delhi-Noida link road for half an hour. They left the protest site only after Sharma reached the spot and assured them help.“We will take the farmers’ issues to the highest level, be it the chief minister or the Prime Minister... so that their issues can be addressed at the earliest,” said Sharma.Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, said, “We made sure that the farmers do not create law and order issues during the protest. It was a peaceful protest, and they left the road after meeting the MP.”Farmer leaders said that the Noida authority’s policies and functioning are completely against the farmers who gave their land for the development of the industrial town. “The authority’s officials are harassing the farmers by issuing notices, demolishing houses, not giving hiked land compensation and residential plots. Our protest will continue until our demands are met,” said Sukhbir Yadav, leader of the Kisan Ekta Parishad.For the past two months, the farmers reach the Harola protest site daily at 12pm, and return to their homes in the evening. They also raise slogans against the authority officials during their sit-in.The farmers said they are not ready to get a map approved before constructing their buildings, as asked by the authority. “How can the Noida authority restrict our houses or life? Our villages have been ruined by the bad policies of the authority,” said Surendra Chauhan, another farmer leader.Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority, said, “We are trying to pacify the farmers by addressing their legitimate demands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-against-noida-authority-block-key-road-over-land-compensation-101635873831284.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Man gets SIM cards delivered at neighbour’s address in Noida, held for fraud||A 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly cheating a number of people on the pretext of facilitating loans, KYC (know your customer) and jobs by using pre-activated SIM cards, said Noida police. The suspect, identified as Priyanshu Prakhar, a native of Muzaffarpur in Bihar, used multiple SIM cards obtained with forged documents to cheat people. He was operating from a flat in Pan Oasis in Noida’s Sector 70, said police. Vivek Trivedi, station house officer (SHO) of Phase 3 police station, said on Tuesday, Prakhar ordered 14 pre-activated SIM cards from a company and gave his neighbour’s address in Noida for the delivery of the consignment to escape surveillance. “When the delivery boy reached the given address, the flat owner told him that he had not ordered for the goods. At that time, Prakhar reached there and said he had placed the order and mentioned his neighbour’s address by mistake,” he said. The flat owner suspected foul play as to why would a person give his address. He then dialled 112, following which a police team reached the spot. The police team opened the packet and found several pre-activated SIM cards. The police then searched Prakhar’s flat and recovered four mobile phones with SIM cards, one laptop, six diaries, ₹20,000 cash, nine debit cards, four Aadhaar cards, and one voter ID. During interrogation, Prakhar revealed he was operating from a flat and cheating people on the pretext of facilitating loans, KYC, and also jobs using SIM cards that have been obtained with forged documents. Sub-inspector Lokesh Kumar filed a complaint in this regard. Prakhar revealed he was cheating people with the help of two of his accomplices, who are on the run. A case has been registered against the three people under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-gets-sim-cards-delivered-at-neighbour-s-address-in-noida-held-for-fraud-101635873827471.html
02-11-2021||Noida||No entry for commercial vehicles in Noida’s key market for shoppers’ convenience||The traffic police in Noida on Tuesday restricted movement of commercial vehicles around Sector 18 market to facilitate people visiting shops on Dhanteras, said officials. The diversion was put in place from Tuesday afternoon till late night.Ashutosh Singh, traffic inspector of Noida, said that the officials have restricted movement of commercial vehicles in the market. “Autos, tempos, electric rickshaws and other vehicles will not be allowed to enter the road between Sector 27 Atta market and Sector 18 market. People travelling in their own cars and bikes, and in taxis are only allowed,” he said.A number of people visit Sector 18 and Atta markets for Dhanteras shopping, and the move aims to facilitate them and end traffic jams, Singh added. Teams of the Noida police also inspected several shopping malls and markets in the district on Tuesday.Vehicles coming from Sector 16 to Botanic Garden via Sector 18 were diverted to the left side of the Atta Peer. People had to use the next roundabout to continue to reach their destinations. Similarly, vehicles coming from Botanic Garden to Noida Sector 16 were diverted to the left side to the Film City underpass. They need to reach DLF Mall Sector 18 and exit from the Atta Peer.The traffic police said that vehicles coming from the Noida Film City will take the same route to reach Sector 16. Vehicles coming from Noida Sector 28/30 will have to use the same route -- Film City underpass and then the Atta Peer.Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77, who visited the market for shopping on Tuesday, said that unauthorised parking and vendors add to problems in Sector 18 and Atta Market. “They create nuisance mainly under the Sector 18 metro station. The traffic police should launch frequent enforcement drives to clear the stretch,” he said.Traffic movement remained smooth around the market on Tuesday evening.SK Jain, president of Noida sector 18 market association, said that many people visited the market for Dhanteras shopping on Tuesday. “Traffic police had made some diversions, which led to inconvenience to the people who came by commercial vehicles. They had to get down at some distance and then walk to the market to shop. We hope there will be a business of ₹1,500 crore this Diwali,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-entry-for-commercial-vehicles-in-noida-s-key-market-for-shoppers-convenience-101635873767879.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Noida residents rush for last-minute shopping ahead of Diwali||Festive cheer is back on the streets of Gautam Budh Nagar as people rushed to the markets in the city to buy jewellery among other items on the occasion of Dhanteras that was observed on Tuesday as well as to complete their last-minute shopping ahead of Diwali that will be observed on November 4. From vibrant wall hangings to LED diyas and candles, markets are abuzz with shoppers looking to amplify their Diwali décor as the festival of lights will be celebrated after almost a year following the Covid-19 outbreak. At Atta Market in Noida’s Sector 27, paper lanterns, floating diyas were a hit among buyers. “My son wanted us to buy paper lanterns as we will not be bursting crackers this season. We found various designs of these lanterns, which were selling for ₹1000- ₹1500 for a set of five or ten,” said Nutan Chaturvedi, a shopper at Atta market. Markets were also flooded with artificial rangoli stickers of various designs, which can be pasted on the floor and saves time for those who have little patience to learn the complex and delicate art of making rangolis. “Alternatives for rangoli making, like a sieve with patterns embossed on them, are also available in the market. Residents are opting for the green way by going for rangoli colours made of flowers and edible items. Glittering rangoli powder has also gained popularity,” said Reeta Bahuguna, a shopkeeper at Atta Market. C B Jha, president of Atta Market Traders Welfare Association, said the crowd in the market has swelled in the last fortnight. “Last year, Diwali festivities were muted but this year, pre-Covid celebrations seem to be returning to the streets of Noida. However, we have instructed shopkeepers in the market to ensure proper Covid appropriate behaviour, maintain social distancing and not allow anyone in the shops without face masks,” said Jha.Shopping malls too are witnessing record footfalls as was seen during pre-Covid days. “With malls reopening after the second wave of Covid-19, we are witnessing a consistent growth in footfall. Sales have picked up, just as in pre-Covid times, as consumer sentiment has improved due to faster vaccinations. We are receiving phenomenal response from our patrons and with festive season round the corner, we are confident that the retail sector and the food and beverage businesses will recover and witness a steady growth,” said Manish Mehrotra, vice president and centre head, DLF Mall of India, Sector 18, Noida. According to traders in Noida, shoppers seemed to be in an upbeat mood on the occasion of Dhanteras. Sushil Kumar Jain, national treasurer of All India Jewellers’ and GoldSmith Federation and president of Sector 18 Market Association said business boomed unexpectedly this festive season. “As per our estimates, goods of more than ₹1500 crore have been sold in Noida’s markets on Dhanteras. This includes sale of around ₹350 crore of gold jewellery, electronic items worth ₹300 crore, garments worth ₹150 crore, gift items worth ₹250 crore. The sale of decorative items and utensils raked in ₹50 crore each, furniture sales were reported at ₹250 crore and the sale of other miscellaneous items garnered another ₹250 crore,” said Jain. While many shoppers rushed to jewellery stores, there are some who still prefer to buy jewellery from their family jeweller. “Though a lot of options are available online but my family always comes to our family jeweller in Sector 18 market on Dhanteras every year. It is a family tradition and seems more convenient as well since our jeweller knows our taste and is also able to remake old designs of jewellery that my mother wants,” said Ashok Bansal, a shopper at Sector 18 market and a resident of Sector 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residents-rush-for-last-minute-shopping-ahead-of-diwali-101635873648936.html
02-11-2021||Pune||Biovet seeks PMC water supply to produce Covaxin||PUNE Biovet India will need 60,000-70,000 litres of water for production of its Covaxin vaccine at the Manjri plant and has asked the Pune Municipal Corporation’s water department to provide the water.The company had initially written a letter to district collector Rajesh Deshmukh. The company expects to get water in the coming days.“We are looking at the possibilities of how water can be provided to the company. Soon the arrangement will be made,” said anofficial from the water department the PMC, on condition of anonymity.Biovet, is an associate firm of Bharat Biotech, manufacturer of Covid vaccines.Last month, the company sent an application for approval to the Food Drug and Administration (FDA), which the FDA approved.Earlier in May, collector Rajesh Deshmukh and district administrator Saurabh Rao had detailed discussions with Bharti Biotech officials, with the plant expected to play a big role in the Covid vaccination drive in Pune district.The Pune Manjri unit is one of four units expected to scale production of Covaxin doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/biovet-seeks-pmc-water-supply-to-produce-covaxin-101635873647528.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||In UP’s Prayagraj, this Diwali gift pack helping poor elderly live with dignity||At a time when people in Sangam city are busy exchanging Diwali presents, a gift pack comprising five “Panchgavya Deepaks” (lamps made of five natural elements) in a set of 21 “diyas” (earthen lamps) made by poor elderly people is attracting many.Introduced by an NGO, Retirement India Foundation, which is providing lunch tiffin to city elders at a nominal cost of Re 1, the gift hamper of these eco-friendly diyas is further coming in handy in providing additional financial help to the poor elderly people of the city this festive season. “To keep many senior citizens engaged in some creative work and at the same time making them earn, the foundation has introduced a novel concept of training them in making of ‘Panchgavya Deepak’ at their homes. Sourced from South India and trained on hand-held moulding machines, these senior citizens’ groups can produce a few thousand ‘Gau Diyas’,” said NGO director Raaj Gulati. “The NGO then purchases these especially made eco-friendly and healthy diyas from these poor elders and pack them in a gift pack of 21 diyas. “Our NGO and many of the families in the city have purchased this gift pack and gifted the same to their loved ones this Diwali,” he added.“After assessing the feedback of our initiative, called ‘Hamare Diye, Aapke Liye’ (our lamps for you), our NGO plans to provide a global online market to products made by these senior citizens’ groups which would make them more self-reliant,” said Gulati. “’Panchgavya’ is a mixture used in traditional Hindu rituals that is prepared by mixing five ingredients. The three direct constituents are cow milk, dung, urine while the other two are derived products, including curd and ghee. These are mixed in proper ratio and then allowed to ferment,” he added. The material thus prepared is put in a moulding machine, giving shape to beautiful diyas.“’Panchgavya diya’ is a chemical free formulation with no charcoal or carbon footprints. The diya also burns out and this ‘Panchgavya’ composition promotes oxygen generation and also produces the phenomenal number of beneficial gases that fight pollution effectively. The residue is used as manure,” Gulati said. The society must come forward to support and improve the quality of life of our senior citizens, he appealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-up-s-prayagraj-this-diwali-gift-pack-helping-poor-elderly-live-with-dignity-101635873467974.html
02-11-2021||Pune||Amidst lower demand, Maharashtra to get 20 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in Nov||PUNE The state government is likely to get at least 20 million Covid-19 doses from the Centre for the vaccination drive, despite the lower demand, as many have shown a hesitancy in taking the second dose after second wave has waned. Even though there has been a steady supply of the vaccine, demand has gone down drastically since October, mainly due to the mandatory 84-day gap between two doses and the drop in Covid-19 cases. The state has about seven million doses pending to be administered from the October stock, officials said. Dr Sachin Desai, state immunisation officer said, “We are likely to get about 20 million doses of the vaccine this month and we have about 7 million pending as part of October’s stock.” In October, Maharashtra received 20 million doses of the Serum Institute manufactured Covishield and the Bharat Biotech produced Covaxin. Earlier on Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed a concern over the slow pace of anti-Covid inoculation in Maharashtra, saying he will take up the issue of vaccine shortages with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The chief minister also addressed the issue of vaccine hesitancy and urged more people to shed their inhibitions and get vaccinated.“Let us first focus on the task at hand, that is to get more and more people vaccinated and boost the health infrastructure in the state,” the CM had said while speaking informally to journalists in Mumbai, when asked about about his government’s long-term plan to contain the pandemic. According to Desai, the health department is supplying doses on demand to districts. “As of now the availability of vaccines is not at all the problem. We are supplying as many vaccines as is being demanded by the district administrations in the state. We are conducting massive Information, Education and Communication (IEC) programmes to educate people of the need to be fully vaccinated rather than just take one dose. Even smaller districts are getting a smooth supply of the vaccines because we have distributed the stock to regional centres to decentralise the process,” said Desai. Until October 31, the state has administered a total of 98.17 million doses, including both first and second doses, to all the categories of beneficiaries. Of these a majority of the chunk has been supplied to Mumbai district (island and suburban), 14.67 million doses, 12.10 million doses to Pune district and Thane with 8.23 million doses. Maharashtra has been administering the highest doses of vaccines among all the states in the country.PMC increases second-dose quotaThe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has upped its quota for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to 90%, as the demand for the first dose of vaccination has gone down in the city. Earlier, the second dose quota was 60%, which is now increased to 90%. In Pune city, over 105% people 18-144 age group have been vaccinated with the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amidst-lower-demand-maharashtra-to-get-20-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-nov-101635873107485.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||Vrindavan widows celebrate Diwali||Like in the past years, widows living in various ashrams of Vrindavan celebrated Diwali this year too on the Yamuna banks there on Tuesday. Maintaining social distancing, around hundred widows gathered at historic Kesi ghat on the Yamuna river in Vrindavan and lit colourful “diyas” (earthen lamps) and made “Rangoli”. They also chanted Krishna bhajans and danced to celebrate the occasion.“This is the ninth year in a row when widows participated in the celebration of lights. This programme was organised by Sulabh Hope Foundation under social reformer Dr Bindeshwar Pathak. Earlier, as per Hindu tradition, these widows were not allowed to take part in any such rituals and were treated as inauspicious,” said Vinita Verma, vice president, of Sulabh Hope Foundation.“Thousands of widows, mostly from West Bengal, have been living in Vrindavan for decades,” added Verma. One of the widows, Manu Ghosh, said, “Motivated by the series of revolutionary initiatives, widows are now happy and enjoying their stay in Vrindavan.”With the aim of bringing a ray of happiness in the lives of these widows, social reformer Dr Bindeshwar Pathak, founder of Sulabh Movement, came up with this idea to organise the festival of lights, especially for the widows living in various ashrams in Vrindavan and Varanasi in 2012, claimed the organisers.“On a routine basis, Sulabh provides them medical facilities and vocational training besides meeting their day-to-day needs so that they do not feel left out during the twilight years of their lives,” said Vinita Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vrindavan-widows-celebrate-diwali-101635872807711.html
02-11-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: Jury out on Lalu’s impact||Political observers in Bihar are divided over the impact an ailing Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad has been able to make on the results of the bypolls for two assembly seats in the state. For Prasad, who returned to Bihar in the last week of October for the first time since December 2017 when he was jailed in Jharkhand in fodder scam cases, this was the first election campaign since 2015.And the results have been mixed. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), which had won Tarapur in 2000 state polls by over 7,000 votes, has managed to retain the seat, but only with a margin of less than 4,000 votes.Party leaders said it was Prasad’s idea to field a Vaishya community candidate from Tarapur as an experiment to woo the sizeable number of voters from the traders’ community, considered to be traditional vote bank of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance.In Kusheshwar Asthan, a Congress stronghold till it went to JD(U) in 2020, RJD snubbed its ally and fielded its own candidate. In 2020, Congress has contested the seat as part of RJD-led alliance and lost by nearly 7,000 votes. This time, RJD finished second, trailing JD(U) by nearly 12,000 votes. Congress, however, lost its deposit. “We may have lost, but we fought strongly in both the seats. In Kusheshwar Asthan, we have done very well despite contesting the seat after a long time,” said RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.Experts believe Congress’s dismal performance in both seats has given ammunition to the RJD chief to justify his decision of contesting Kusheshwar Asthan too, in case there is a patch-up with the ally.“Lalu took the decision of contesting both the seats unilaterally as a calculated move to assess the party’s political base in constituencies where it has not put up candidates in the past elections. He knows there are no immediate elections in the next two years and there is always a scope of patching up with the Congress high command in the longer run,” says D M Diwakar, an avid political observer and former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Sciences. Diwakar is of the view that RJD’s performance in the bypolls would have been much worse has Lalu not joined the campaign. “ Lalu is still a charismatic leader and his presence in Patna did give fillip to the party in performing better,” he says.However, political analyst and former principal of Patna College, Nawal Kishore Choudhary, is convinced there was no “Lalu factor” in the bypolls. “There was no impact of the RJD chief in the polls. RJD always had a political base in the two seats and Tejashwi got its dividends in the 2020 assembly polls when the party won 75 seats. It is wrong that to link Lalu’s campaign as a decisive factor influencing the bypolls,” he says. JD(U) leader and water resources minister Sanjay Jha too echoed the same view. “People of the state have tasted development and reposed faith in the Nitish Kumar government. Younger generation voters do not identify with the RJD or Lalu Prasad, who had little impact on the polls,” Jha said. However, RJD’s state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said Prasad’s presence was a big morale booster for the party’s rank and file.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-jury-out-on-lalu-s-impact-101635872207489.html
02-11-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: Congress loses deposits on both seats, clamour of overhaul reignites||The humiliating defeat of Congress candidates in the bypolls for two assembly seats in Bihar, one of which it had lost only by a small margin in 2020 polls, has fuelled the demand for an immediate overhaul of the party in the state.Soon after the results became clear, former legislator and Congress leader of Mithilanchal, Rishi Mishra, said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha must step down. “Those leading the campaign in the constituencies should also go,” he said.Snubbed by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) for its demand to spare Kusheshwar Asthan seat for it, Congress walked out of the coalition and fielded Atirek Kumar, son of BPCC working president Ashok Kumar, from Kusheshwar Asthan and Rajesh Mishra from Tarapur. Atirek got less than 6,000 votes while Rajesh polled a little over 3,000. Both forfeited their deposits.All India Congress Committee (AICC) media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the party needed to start from the scratch and stay away from the coalition to revive its base in Bihar. “Congress has lost its vote base over the years. It’s a long-drawn process to rebuild credibility and win over people’s confidence,” he said the MLC, adding that there were many factors that worked adversely in the fray. “The result would have been different had the RJD not broken up the coalition,” he said.BPCC chief Jha said the party would review the reasons for defeat and take corrective steps to rebuild the organization.Some other senior leaders said AICC in-charge of Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, needed to pay more time to resurrect the organization at the grassroots levels, instead of depending too much on leaders indulging in “political tourism”. “The likes of Kanhaiya Kumar, Jignesh Mevani and Hardik Patel will work in Bihar only if the party had an army of active and dedicated workers at village and panchayat levels,” said Kishore Kumar Jha.Das and chairman of the BPCC campaign committee and Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh, could not be reached out for their comment.Former Patna University teacher and political analyst Nawal Kishore Chaudhary said the results were on the expected lines, as the Congress refused to undergo a massive overhaul. “With elections becoming individual-centric, Congress needs a dynamic and strong leader to counter the might of Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad. As of now, Congress remains a marginal force with nominal existence. Either it should undergo a complete overhaul or remain a pillion rider to the like-minded parties in Bihar,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-congress-loses-deposits-on-both-seats-clamour-of-overhaul-reignites-101635872151218.html
02-11-2021||Other||Bihar bypolls: JD(U) retains both seats, Nitish thanks people||The ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar on Tuesday retained both the assembly seats where bypolls were held on October 30, nearly doubling its victory margin in Kusheshwar Asthan and winning Tarapur seat by a reduced margin as compared to 2020 state polls.The bypolls, necessitated by the death of sitting MLAs, had turned into a battle of prestige, with an ailing Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad campaigning in an election after a gap of six years. With Tuesday’s win, JD (U) now has 45 MLAs in the 243-member Bihar assembly. The ruling National Democratic Alliance, led by chief minister Nitish Kumar, now has the strength of 127 (BJP-74, JD(U)-45; HAM-S and VIP four each). Besides, it also has the support of one independent MLA, who is a minister. The opposition alliance has 110 members in the assembly — RJD (75), Congress (19) CPI-ML (12) and CPI and CPM two each. The remaining five are with AIMIM.In Kusheshwar Asthan, a constituency reserved for scheduled castes, JD(U)’s Aman Bhushan Hazari defeated his nearest rival Ganesh Bharti of RJD by 12,695 votes. Hazari polled 59,887 votes while Bharti managed to garner 47,192 votes. In 2020, the seat was won by Hazari’s father Shashi Bhushan Hazari, who passed away following an ailment in July this year. Congress, which had contested the seat in 2020 as part of RJD-led opposition alliance but lost by around 7,000 votes, had this time fielded Atirek Kumar after deciding to contest both seats following a fallout with ally RJD. Atirek, whose father Ashok Kumar had won the seat for the party multiples times in the past. finished fourth, with 5,603 votes, less than Lok Jan Shakti Party (Ram Vilas) candidate Anju Devi, who secured third place with 5,623 votes. Congress’s performance in Kusheshwar Asthan is contrary to the strong buzz it managed to create in its campaign in which it had fielded its new catch Kanhaiya Kumar, besides a host of senior leaders. In Tarapur, JD(U) candidate Rajeev Kumar Singh defeated Arun Kumar of RJD in a close contest, by a margin of 3,821 votes. The seat had fallen vacant after the death of sitting MLA Mewalal Chowdhary, who had to resign a day after becoming a minister following allegations of corruption levelled by the Opposition. Here too, Congress put a dismal performance.In his first reaction after the results were declared, RJD’s heir apparent and leader of opposition in assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, said, “We accept the people’s verdict. The sympathy factor worked in both the places. We gave a good fight in both the places and went to people with issues.” Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is also the de facto leader of JD(U), said, “In democracy, people are the judge and they have given their verdict. I thank them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bypolls-jd-u-retains-both-seats-nitish-thanks-people-101635872149923.html
02-11-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: JD-U win redeems Nitish||The bypoll for the two assembly seats were never expected to change the complexion of the government in Bihar. And yet, they turned into high-stakes battles for prestige between the two regional powers – chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JD-U and Lalu Prasad’s RJD. JD-U comfortably retained Kusheshwar Asthan and humbled a spirited RJD in Tarapur, though with a slender margin.The only consolation for RJD was that despite loss, it showed its might as the only opposition in Bihar, while its estranged ally Congress bit the dust. For JD-U, the results have also come as a validation of Nitish Kumar. Party’s general secretary and minister Sanjay Jha, who camped in Kusheshwar Asthan for nearly a month, said after the results, “ We doubled our winning margin in Kusheshwar Asthan from 2020, which speaks a lot about the trust people have reposed in Nitish Kumar and his inclusive development politics, which has made women a decisive factor in elections.” In Tarapur, the contest turned out to be stiffer and JD-U had sensed it. Just before the polling, it had roped in veteran leader Shakuni Choudhary’s elder son Rohit Choudhary in the party. Rohit’s younger brother Samrat Choudhary is an MLC from BJP quota and minister in the Nitish cabinet. All the senior JD-U leaders campaigned in Tarapur. The position in the Assembly is such that the NDA government did not have much to worry, unless its two allies — HAM-S of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP of Mukesh Sahni — decide to play truant, which seems more unlikely now. Both have four seats each but it would also require AIMIM’s five seats to give any realistic chance to the RJD. The equations remain unchanged even after bypoll and require too many ifs and buts to alter it. In the Assembly, the NDA has 125 seats (BJP-74, JD-U-43, HAM-S-4 and VIP-4) and support of an independent candidate, which will increase to 128 with the addition of two more seats to the JD-U kitty, while the Opposition tally stands at 110 (RJD-75, CPI-ML-12, CPI-2, CPM-2, Congress-19). AIMIM has five seats. The position of the House means that even smaller parties would not like to throw tantrums, BJP and JD-U remains just four short of the majority mark and there could be more inductions from disgruntled lot in opposition ranks. For the Congress, it is a rude shock, as it has proved that it would require to put in a lot of hard work for organsiational strengthening at the grassroots and mere enthusiastic outbursts would not serve.“Politics never stops, but Nitish Kumar has salvaged his position after the poor show last year. Now, his numbers may increase further with more inductions, as power has the tendency to attract,” said social analyst NK Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-jd-u-win-redeems-nitish-101635872148587.html
02-11-2021||Other||Bettiah circle officer caught taking bribe||A circle officer (CO) was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹2.5 lakh at his residence in Bettiah on Tuesday morning, said state vigilance bureau (VB) officials. Vigilance deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Arun Paswan said the circle officer of Bettiah (Sadar), Shyamakant Prasad, had demanded a sum of ₹2.5 lakh from one Vinod Gupta, a resident of Lauriya in West Champaran, in return for a favour in a land-related dispute. “The circle officer (CO) was caught with a sum of ₹2.5 lakh around 6.30 am today (Tuesday),” said the DSP.Meanwhile, a 10-member team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Suresh Kumar Mahurwar, searched the CO’s residence in Kamalnath Nagar locality of Bettiah and recovered approximately 1kg gold and 3.2kg silver, besides ₹10.50 lakh in cash and some incriminating documents. “All other legal formalities are being fulfilled,” said DSP Mahurwar.Complainant Vinod Gupta had approached the bureau on October 29 and alleged that the CO was demanding a bribe in return for a favour after a dispute was raised by a woman Shakeela Khatoon.After verifying his complaint, a vigilance team laid a trap and caught the accused red-handed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bettiah-circle-officer-caught-taking-bribe-101635872147392.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Phase 1 of textile museum to be completed by February: BMC||Two years after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) began work on creating a textile museum at the decrepit United Mills Compound 2 and 3, to showcase Mumbai’s erstwhile mill culture, work on its first phase will be completed by February next year, the civic body has said. The museum, spread over 16.3 acres of land, will document, archive and represent Mumbai’s textile legacy.Though phase 1 does not include the actual displays for the museum, it includes a tourist attraction of a three-dimensional multimedia water fountain, within the mill’s premises. Once completed in February, the civic body is likely to throw it open for the public, and host musical fountain shows.A senior civic body official from the heritage department said, “We mulled whether to open the museum for the public after the entire project was complete. But that is at least going to take three more years. Phase one will be completed in February, after which we will open it for the public. Ticket and pricing are yet to be decided.”BMC will simultaneously work on phase two of the project, which includes creating the museum displays, structural restoration of the entire building, plumbing, drainage, fire safety, among others. This is likely to take three more years, after which, the civic body will begin procuring items for museum displays.The musical fountain will cost the civic body ₹19 crore and an additional ₹3 crore for operation and maintenance for four years. The remaining phase one will cost ₹10 crore.Phase two is in the tendering process at present.BMC first started work on phase one of the project in 2019. It entailed a facelift for a small portion of the mill compound and the work was divided into two parts. Part one comprised upgrading the infrastructure of the area, restoring gates and grills and constructing a canteen. This part of the project is complete. Part two includes landscaping of the area, constructing an open-to-air amphitheatre, cleaning up the pond, and setting up a musical fountain. People can view the musical show from the amphitheatre.The official said, “Only installing the musical fountain is remaining now. All other aspects of our phase one are done.” It took two years to complete this phase, as the heritage department received permission from the tree authority to chop off 22 affected trees in December 2020.The 3-dimensional nozzles required for the musical fountain show will be procured from the international market. The contractor initially submitted a design to the civic body, and procured locally made nozzles. “These were not up to the mark. They were only giving us two-dimensional images. From market research, we learned the kind of nozzles we are looking for are not made in the Indian market. We don’t want to compromise with the grandeur of the project. Hence, it is taking longer,” the officer added. The contractor has located German, Chinese, and Korean nozzles, and will be procuring them within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/phase-1-of-textile-museum-to-be-completed-by-february-bmc-101635871547337.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Festive Rush: Shoppers and cab drivers at odds||New Delhi Markets in Delhi-NCR are flooded with shoppers, who are thronging these places for crazy deals and gifts this festive season. And after feeling accomplished post a good session of bargaining, buyers emerge from these bustling markets only to face a nightmare to navigate through the crowds and get into the cab to reach home. Holding innumerable shopping bags, as soon as the denizens take to their phones to find their cabbies, the tussle thus begins. While the shoppers find it cumbersome to lug around their bags, cab drivers demand them to walk to out of the markets to be able to manoeuvre their vehicles easily. “After hours of festive shopping in Kamala Nagar, I booked a cab for home. Three drivers cancelled the cabs, I’m assuming due to the festival rush, and 15 minutes later one driver arrived. But less than half way into the trip, we found ourselves stuck in a massive traffic jam and the cabbie asked me and my sister to get off and refused to continue the trip even though this meant he would have had to pay a penalty out of his pocket,” says Princy Malhotra, a Delhi University student, who finally found another cab after 30 minutes of waiting on a jam packed road and could make it home only after 1.5 hours. “On a regular day, my home is just 30 minutes away from the market,” she adds.And the story is the same in the entire city, which has led to the residents and cab drivers being at loggerheads. Kritika Kaushik, a resident of Pitampura, shares that while shopping in Greater Kailash M block market with her mother-in-law, the cab driver “took his own sweet time to reach the pick up point”, after one driver had already declined to go to her pick-up location. “Coming back from GK M block market, a cab driver accepted our trip and demanded that we come outside to board the cab. We had shopped so much that it was difficult to carry all that stuff, but we didn’t have much choice. We asked him to wait for five to 10 minutes only to help him to not to get stuck in the traffic. But he didn’t want to wait, and started throwing tantrums. I didn’t take my car to avoid the parking stress, but this cab drama was too much to handle,” she recalls.Renu Mittal, a homemaker from Paschim Vihar, shares, “I wanted to go shopping in Sadar Bazar and took a cab but the driver refused to go any further as soon as he spotted the rush in the market. Of course, it was crowded, but how can he say from 1km afar, ‘Madam better hoga agar aap yahi utar jao aur walk kar lo market tak. Agar mujhe pata hota aapko yahan aana hai toh trip accept hi nahi karta!’ My friend and I had no choice then but to get off and walk. We took a cab for our convenience, but it was of no use. Then, on our way back home, we decided to take an auto rickshaw. That was a much better decision.”The cab drivers have their own set of woes, especially in the festive season when roads are jam-packed. Santosh, a cab driver rues that out of 10 trips, at least six are from or to a market. He says, “Women are either coming back after shopping or want to go to Karol Bagh or Lajpat or Chandni Chowk. And market mein leke jana ya wahan se nikalna koi mazaak nahi hai! People insist, ‘Bhaiya, market ke andar aao’ par aap batao itne rush mein kaise andar tak jayenge... isiliye cancel karna padta hai. Thoda toh unko bhi location se aage aana padega na!”Amit, who works as a driver-partner with a cab aggregator, opines, “Kitni baar ladai hoti hai isi baat pe. Par sabko lagta hai ki jo cab book kar raha hai wohi theek hai. Koi nahi sochta ki sometimes we have to take two-kilometre-long U-turns because people have issues crossing the road. And all this gets worse iss festival time pe. But humein toh apna kaam karna hai. People don’t understand our trouble driving through a bhari hui market. Riders often ask us to stop here and there during the trip so they can run errands, but when we have to refuel with CNG, tab sab nakhrae karte hain aur darate hain ki low ratings de denge.”“Is sab se toh achha hai ki tyoharon ke time pe outstation ki booking mil jaye,” says Sachin Gautam, another cab driver, and adds, “Market ki galiyon mein phas jaana kisko pasand hai! Vaise toh yahan 12 mahine rush rehta hai, but Diwali aur Bhai Dooj se pehle haalat aur kharab hoti hai.” Narrating an unpleasant experience, he shares, “Abhi ek ne cab book kari, and reaching inside the market obviously took me some time. Jab tak main struggle kar ke pahuncha, rider ne cancel karke dusri cab bula li. How unfair! Humare bare mein toh koi sochta hi nahi hai.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/festive-rush-shoppers-and-cab-drivers-at-odds-101635871190510.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai jabbed 99% of target but how many beneficiaries were from city?||Mumbai is inching closer to 100% Covid-19 vaccination coverage, with most people having received at least one dose. However, civic officials are puzzled over the accurate number of citizens from the city who have been actually vaccinated. Reason: A large number of people from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and other parts of the state have taken the jabs in Mumbai, thus, the number of doses administered may not mean the same as the number of Mumbai residents vaccinated. Mumbai’s estimated adult population eligible for vaccination is 9.2 million. As of Tuesday, the city had administered 9.1 million first doses, taking the vaccination coverage to 99%. The number of second doses administered in Mumbai stood at 5.6 million, and altogether, the city had administered 14.7 million doses, according to the CoWIN dashboard. The civic body estimates that about 10% of the doses administered in Mumbai were for people outside the city. “But 10% is also a very rough estimate,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told HT. “Instead of getting into how many people from outside have taken the vaccine in the city, we have decided to focus on taking the vaccination coverage much beyond 100% to ensure that we cover all citizens,” he said. According to Kakani, the vaccination trend is the same as the one seen in active Covid-19 patients and the number of admissions in the city. “Many patients hospitalised in Mumbai are from out of the city,” he said, adding that Mumbai residents, too, have taken Covid-19 jabs outside the city. “Mumbai has a floating population and there is a lot of travel between Mumbai and its periphery as well as from other parts of the state,” said vaccination expert Dr Naveen Thacker. “The focus must therefore be on vaccinating as many people as possible, instead of singling out the number of people in the city who have got the doses. Evaluation of the coverage at a micro-level can be conducted after a few months, and strategies can be developed. But it is not essential at the moment,” he said. State strategizes for districts with < 50% coverage Ahead of the review meeting by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Wednesday, the Maharashtra government has planned various strategies for districts with less than 50% vaccination coverage. The strategies include flexible timings for vaccination drives, a cluster-based approach focussing on groups of four to five villages at a time, increasing mobile vaccination drives, offering incentives such as fast queues at ration shops for vaccinated persons among others. Among the 40 districts with below 50% vaccination coverage in India, five are from Maharashtra. These include Akola, Buldhana, Nandurbar, Hingoli and Aurangabad. PM plans to interact with the district magistrates of all the 40 districts. The chief ministers of the states will also be present at the review. “We had a meeting with the five districts on Monday to discuss specific issues and plan ahead in order to improve the coverage,” said N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission. “There is a very minor gap for these districts to reach the 50% coverage. We found that vaccine hesitancy is not the main issue. There are other factors that have contributed to the low coverage. For instance, the floods in Aurangabad in August disturbed the vaccination drive. Also, the vaccination picked up late in these districts which is why they are slightly behind,” he said adding that the state has administered over 98 million doses so far, and the focus now will be on the districts lagging behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-jabbed-99-of-target-but-how-many-beneficiaries-were-from-city-101635871067661.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||UPPCB asks district authorities to keep tabs on air pollution during festivities||From spraying water on roads during peak traffic hours and open construction sites to ensuring closure of polluting industrial units, the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has written to district authorities on Monday asking them to follow measures and keep tabs on air quality during the festive season.In the past couple of years, the air quality of the Uttar Pradesh had turned severe during festivities partly because of increased human activities and bursting of crackers.Taking note of this, the district authorities have been asked to ensure that pollution levels in the respective districts are under check during the festivities. As part of the efforts, the state government has already banned regular crackers in the state following orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT). The UPPCB has also served notices to over 90 industrial units found violating pollution norms in the state in October and put in place a robust mechanisms to identify places recording high air pollution.In the state capital, while UPPCB is monitoring air pollution data, Lucknow Municipal Corporation has deployed road water sprinklers and humidifiers to wet major roads during peak traffic hours. “All these methods have proved to be effective and we have managed to keep the AQI (Air Quality Index) in Lucknow below 300 mark. Will be continue these efforts and make them more effective in coming days,” said member secretary of UPPCB Ajay Sharma.Amidst these efforts, the AQI levels in UP cities reflected a slight increase on Tuesday. Ghaziabad, Hapur and Noida recorded AQI above 300 mark which is categorised as very poor as per data of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Agra, Bulandshahar, Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut and Moradabad recorded AQI in range of 201 to 300 which is considered poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcb-asks-district-authorities-to-keep-tabs-on-air-pollution-during-festivities-101635870947537.html
02-11-2021||Other||Punjab reports 15 new Covid cases||Chandigarh Punjab on Tuesday registered 15 new Covid cases with no death from the virus over the past 24 hours. The positivity rate of the state was detected at .06% on the day, the media bulletin said. With these fresh cases, the state’s total tally reached 6,02,434 cases, according to the bulletin. The number of active cases in the state has witnessed a slight decrease to 228. Among fresh cases, the maximum, five, were registered in Amritsar, three in Jalandhar and two in SBS Nagar. With 32 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,645, the bulletin said. To date, 16,561 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,54,74, 654 samples have been collected for testing to date in the state, of which 24, 236 were tested on Tuesday. As many as 53,295 doses of the vaccines were administered on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-reports-15-new-covid-cases-101635870467217.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Corporators cry foul over water supply during Diwali||As the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections inch closer, corporators from across the party lines have complained of a shortage in the water supply. The corporators alleged that the water supply is being deliberately affected to ruin their image among the voters, ahead of the civic body elections.After an uproar over the issue, the standing committee meeting of the BMC was adjourned on Tuesday.The issue of water supply was raised by the Leader of Opposition and Congress corporator Ravi Raja, who also said that water department employees have been threatening to not work citing the transfer of an employee. Raja claimed that areas of Sion-Koliwada have been facing water shortage problems since October 16. “I was informed that the water issue would be resolved before Diwali, but nothing has happened so far. It appears that someone is deliberately tampering with the water supply in my area.”Along with Raja, corporators across party lines including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Samajwadi Party (SP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena have raised similar complaints.Education committee chairman and Sena corporator Sandhya Doshi said that many in Borivli have complained about not receiving a proper water supply. Doshi said, “Many locals of our ward have been questioning us about erratic water supply. Such a problem during the festival time will leave a major impact on the image we built in the past 4.5 years. People are bound to remember the problems they are facing now.”Rais Shaikh, SP group leader and corporator said, “I condemn the administration. If the leader of Opposition is not getting justice, how will other corporators get it?”Further, Rakhi Jadhav, NCP’s group leader in the BMC said, “The corporators are being troubled for water supply ahead of BMC elections in the coming months.”Corporators have claimed that as per the data on water stock shared by the hydraulic department, enough water is available. However, it is not being distributed properly, they said.BJP’s nominated corporator Bhalchandra Shirsat pointed out that while the corporators were raising the pressing issue, there were no concerned authorities from the hydraulic department to make note of the grievances and work on them.Meanwhile, additional municipal commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, who was present at the meeting, said that he did not have specific details about the water problem in the Congress corporator Ravi Raja’s ward. However, Kumar admitted that the water stock in lakes was sufficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/corporators-cry-foul-over-water-supply-during-diwali-101635870108509.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Why did PM Modi not wear a mask during G20 Summit: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday took potshots at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not masking up during his visit to Rome, Italy, for the G20 Summit and while meeting the other heads of states. An editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana also mocked the PM for throwing a coin in Rome’s iconic Trevi fountain.The editorial said that because Modi did not wear a mask during his foreign visit, the pace of immunisation against Covid-19 in the country dropped.“Except Modi, all the leaders of the countries had worn masks during the G20 summit. Modi was the only one roaming in this manner. He did not wear a mask when he met [US President] Joe Biden and French President [Emmanuel Macron]. This has led to a lot of criticism, but for ‘bhakts [Modi followers]’ Modi is a superpower. So he is not afraid of germs and viruses. Modi has shown the world to live without masks,” the editorial said.On the sidelines of the summit, Modi and the other world leaders had visited the Trevi fountain on Sunday. The delegation also threw a coin from over their shoulder in the fountain. It is believed that on throwing a coin over the shoulder into fountain, a person returns to Rome.“Like Trevi fountain, there are many such fountains and spots in India. Even if this is superstition, Modi went there and put a coin in the water. What must he have wished for… All this is superstition but there are people who have blind faith in Modi in India,” the editorial remarked. As a policy, Maharashtra BJP does not respond to criticism or remarks in Saamana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-did-pm-modi-not-wear-a-mask-during-g20-summit-shiv-sena-101635869868210.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi maintains no-death streak for 11 days straight||Delhi’s record of zero death due to coronavirus disease continued for the 11th straight day with the fatality rate remaining at 1.74 per cent and the toll at 25,091 on Tuesday.As many as 34 fresh cases were logged in the capital during the day taking the cumulative tally to 14,39,922, the government’s health bulletin showed. A total of 42 new recoveries pushed the total number of cured patients in the national capital since the pandemic struck last year to 14,14,522. The active case count in Delhi now stood at 309.Tuesday’s figure of new cases is a slight deterioration from that of Monday when 18 infections were recorded that marginally raised the case positivity rate to 0.07 per cent from 0.04 per cent. Recoveries were also more a day ago at 49.The last fatality reported in the national capital was on October 22. October saw Delhi registering the lowest number of deaths due to Covid-19 since the pandemic hit the city in March 2020.As many as four people had succumbed to the virus in October, bettering September’s figures of five fatalities.So far, a total of 2,05,32,800 eligible beneficiaries have been jabbed with Covid-19 vaccine shots, with 53,046 getting inoculated in the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed.Of the 2,05,32,800 doses administered, 1,30,75,936 have received the first shot, while 74,56,864 have been fully vaccinated.Of the 53,046 doses administered on Tuesday, 20,277 beneficiaries received their first jab and 32,769 were inoculated with the second.Owing to the consistent dip in the daily number of cases, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government has brought in multiple relaxations in restrictions that were implemented to contain the spread of the virus.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has allowed theatres, multiplexes and movie halls to function at full seating capacity, and has also increased the cap in the number of people attending weddings and funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-maintains-no-death-streak-for-11-days-straight-101635868498886.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli civic body allows fireworks stalls to be set up at 12 open spaces ahead of Diwali||Ahead of the Festival of Lights, the fire department of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has given the nod to set up firecrackers stalls at open spaces in its vicinity. KDMC has given the permission to 135 stalls in total across the Kalyan-Dombivli city at several open spaces.These stalls are only allowed in the open grounds while the civic body has prohibited them in other places like busy markets or any random shops.“We have given permission to the stalls to be put up in specific open spaces only. Apart from this, none will be allowed in other places. The civic ward officers will act against any other stalls that are operating illegally in the city in order to ensure that the fire safety norms are followed during the festival,” said an officer KDMC.As per the KDMC, the stalls are allowed at open grounds like Yashwant Rao Chavan in Rambaug Kalyan (W), Nanasaheb Dharmadhikari ground at Adharwadi Kalyan (W), Dadasaheb Gaikwad ground Kalyan (E), Bhagshala ground in Dombivli (W). In total, the permission for stalls is given at 12 open spaces across Kalyan and Dombivli.“Even though the civic body has given the permission for stalls at specific grounds, there are many hawkers and shopkeepers selling crackers in busy station and market areas. The festival is already here and the civic body has not taken any action against them till now,” said Rakesh Jain, 30, a resident of Shivaji Chowk Kalyan (W).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-allows-fireworks-stalls-to-be-set-up-at-12-open-spaces-ahead-of-diwali-101635868373166.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get 20 million Covid vaccine doses in Nov despite fall in demand||The Maharashtra government is likely to get more than 20 million Covid-19 doses from the Centre for the vaccination drive despite the lowering demand. The vaccine supply has been steady and its demand has gone down drastically from the past one month, mainly owing to two factors: the mandatory 84-day gap between two doses and the declining Covid-19 cases, thereby decreasing the need for the vaccine among beneficiaries. The state has about 7 million doses pending to be administered from the October stock. Dr Sachin Desai, state immunisation officer, said, “We are likely to get about 20 million doses of the vaccines this month and we have about 7 million already pending from the October stock. Last month, too, we had received over 20 million doses. As of now, the availability of vaccines is not at all the problem. We are supplying as much as vaccine that are being demanded by the districts. We are conducting massive information, education and communication (IEC) programmes to educate people the need to be fully vaccinated instead of just taking one dose. Even smaller districts are getting a smooth supply of the vaccine because we have distributed the stock to regional centres to decentralise the process.” Until October 31, the state has administered 98.17 million doses, of which a majority – 14.67 million doses – had been supplied to Mumbai, followed by Pune (12.10 million) and Thane (8.23 million). Maharashtra has been administering the highest number of doses among all the states in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-20-million-covid-vaccine-doses-in-nov-despite-fall-in-demand-101635867709488.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||ED custody till November 6 for ex-minister Anil Deshmukh||A holiday court in Mumbai on Tuesday remanded former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody till November 6. The Central agency arrested the 72-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader at around 1 am on Tuesday in connection with a money-laundering case registered against him in May 2021.Shortly after conducting a medical examination at Sir JJ Hospital in south Mumbai, ED officials produced Deshmukh before a holiday court for remand. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh and Hiten Venegaonkar, who appeared for the agency, sought custody for 14 days.They submitted that a comprehensive money trail needs to be established to bring the guilty to book, and, since Deshmukh has emerged as the main beneficiary, he is required to be interrogated in custody. In its application seeking Deshmukh’s remand, the agency said a foreign angle cannot be ruled out.A money-laundering case against Deshmukh was registered on May 11 this year on the basis of the Central Bureau of Investigation’s First Information Report (FIR) of April 21. The CBI FIR was, in turn, based on allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.In a letter written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had directed certain Mumbai police officers to collect an amount of ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants.ED’s lawyers pointed out that the agency’s probe revealed that, on Deshmukh’s instructions, Sachin Vaze – an assistant police inspector in Mumbai – had called a meeting of bar owners, and that, between December 2020 and February 2021 collected ₹4.7 crore from the owners of so-called orchestra bars in Mumbai to avoid police interference. In his statement to ED, Vaze reportedly revealed that he handed over the “extorted money” in two instalments to Deshmukh’s aide Kundan Shinde.Subsequently, they said, Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh received an amount of ₹4.18 crore routed through Delhi-based shell entities as donations to a Deshmukh-led charitable trust, Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur.Deshmukh’s counsels, advocates Vikram Chaudhri and Aniket Nikam maintained that the NCP leader’s arrest was illegal. They pointed out that the original complainant Param Bir Singh himself had fled the country and is wanted in several extortion cases, and Sachin Vaze, on whose statement the agency was relying, is under arrest for equally serious offences. They added that Deshmukh was in no way related to the controversy and that the investigation itself was mala fide.While ED’s counsels maintained that Vaze had, in his statements to the agency, referred to the former home minister as “Number 1”, Deshmukh’s counsel claimed that it was a reference to Param Bir Singh, indicating that Vaze was extorting money for Singh, and not for Deshmukh.On June 26, ED had arrested Shinde and Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande in the money laundering case, and on August 23, filed a charge sheet against them. Vaze is also an accused in the charge sheet.“In July 2021, ED has provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties worth ₹4.2 crore, which included the NCP leader’s residential apartment at Worli in south Mumbai, valued at ₹ 1.54 Crore, and 25 land parcels of book value ₹2.67 crore, at Dhutum village in Raigad district,” an ED officer said.The properties were held in name Deshmukh’s wife Aarti and a company named Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd. ED officers said Deshmukh family had acquired 50% ownership in this company, including its assets i.e. land and shops valued at approximately ₹5.34 crore by paying just ₹17.95 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-custody-till-november-6-for-ex-minister-anil-deshmukh-101635867707292.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||#Dhanteras2021: Denizens pin their goals on Bollywood||Come Dhanteras, and jewellery buying turns into a full-fledged mission for Delhiites to buy what’s trending. And most look towards Bollywood for inspiration. “Ek ladki Sridevi ki photo leke aayi aur kaha jaisa unhone set pehna hai, waisa banana hai,” shares Pooja Wadhwa, a Delhi-based jeweller, adding that designs worn by actors Deepika Padukone, in Padmaavat (2018) and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s Jodha Akbar (2008) style were quite popular for years. And recently, she has noticed a lot of demand for the diamond and polki sets worn by actors Malaika Arora and Kareena Kapoor Khan. “Logon ki choice kaafi high-fi ho gayi hai. Aur festival ya wedding season mein toh customers naye design chahte hi hain,” Wadhwa adds. From stone work in gold jewellery to minimalistic designs, shoppers are enquiring about everything that’s catching their fancy. “Temple jewellery, diamond and polki seem to be the favourite for many,” shares Inderjeet Singh, a jewellery shop owner at Rajouri Garden, while Sanjay Goel, from a Gurugram-based jewellery store adds antique jewellery to the list of popular choices.Acknowledging the impact of social media on jewellery buying habits, Singh adds, “Silver and gold coins ki demand toh hai hi, par aaj kal social media par jo cheez chalti hai, bazaar mein uski charcha rehti hai! Bollywood is always a favourite for Dhanteras shopping. Jaise ek ladki ne Kareena ke earrings dikha ke kaha, ‘Isne jaise pehne huye hain, waise wale dikhana.” Actor Janhvi Kapoor seems to be the new inspo for the young shoppers. Actor Kangana Ranaut’s jewellery from the National Awards ceremony look is also popular for queries, shares Goel. Silver, too, doesn’t fail to impress. Santosh Bathija, a store owner from Khan Market, says, “Silver chokers. Sheesh phool, which resembles a hair band, is the go-to choice for young jewellery lovers.” Vini Sarda, from another store in Khan Market, adds: “People are coming for stones like opal and emeralds, and are checking out pieces like chand balis. Some also bring looks from reality shows or TV serials as reference.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/denizens-pin-their-dhanterasgoals-on-bollywood-101635867466854.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Vigilance squad formed in Thane, Kalyan, Ambernath to protect animals from fireworks this Diwali||Animal lovers in Thane, Kalyan and Ambernath have formed a vigilance squad for the Diwali festival to keep an eye on the animals injured due to fire crackers. They would be carrying a first aid kit to treat animals that are found injured in residential societies. Some that need hospitalisation would be admitted too.There are different groups from several residential societies that have joined hands for the same.Sukhda Shirke, a volunteer from Friends Group in Ambernath has decided not to burst fire crackers and at the same time take a walk in the night and morning to check whether all regular street animals are fine or not.Shirke said, “We nine mothers/friends have decided to educate our children about the safety of our environment and animals this Diwali. Although none celebrated a full-fledged Diwali last year, this year, instead of planning big, we have decided to keep it simple with our rituals and reduce harmful fun with firecrackers.” They had seen a cat that was injured due to a firecracker last Diwali and couldn’t save her. She said, “This year, we decided to change ourselves and make others aware of the same. Our children also got ready for the same and they suggested we take a round on the streets at night and in the morning. We have a number of animal doctors who can treat them on an immediate basis.”Members of PAWS, Nilesh Bhanage, in Thane said, “We have been creating awareness about different animals and birds that have suffered due to fire crackers. What we perceive loud is louder for the stray animals. Stray animals often get scared and injure themselves. This Diwali, we have pledged to save firecrackers’ money and help the animals or needy people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vigilance-squad-formed-in-thane-kalyan-ambernath-to-protect-animals-from-fireworks-this-diwali-101635867408605.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Backed by 2 ruling parties, Congress wins Deglur bypoll||The Congress defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate by 41,933 votes to retain the Deglur constituency bypolls in Nanded district, results of which were announced on Tuesday. The victory is considered important for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) comprising three ruling parties – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – ahead of the local body elections and in the backdrop of the BJP’s vow of repeating the Pandhurpur bypoll episode when it had wrested the seat from the NCP in May this year. Congress’s Jitesh Antarpurkar, who polled 108,840 votes, won the bypoll by defeating BJP’s Subhash Sabne who polled 66,907 votes, while Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi’s Uttam Ingole got 11,348 votes. The victory will help the Congress to retain its number of 44 in the state Assembly. The bypoll was necessitated due to the demise of Congress’s sitting MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar in April this year. Congress picked Jitesh, son of Raosaheb Antapurkar, to get the benefit of sympathy due to the demise of the sitting MLA. BJP candidate Subhash Sabne, a three-term MLA, had defected from the Shiv Sena days before filing the nomination. The bypoll was a prestige fight for the ruling parties as well as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Key leaders, including Union and state ministers from both the sides, participated in the campaign for the bypoll held on October 30. Antapurkar maintained the lead for all 31 rounds since morning. His father had won the poll by 22,433 votes in October 2019. The constituency is reserved for a Scheduled Caste (SC) candidate. The BJP had said that it will repeat the results of Pandharpur bypoll held in May this year. The BJP had snatched the seat from the NCP as former’s Samadhan Autade bagged the seat by a narrow margin of less than 4,000 votes. It was considered a setback for the MVA government as the three parties had fought the poll together against the opposition BJP. The result of the bypoll in Deglur is also considered important ahead of the local body elections slated for early next year, as it indicates the mood of the people. More than 75% of the local bodies, including corporations and district councils, will go to polls. “It is a victory of the combined efforts put in by the three ruling parties. There have been constant efforts to destabilise and pull down the MVA government in the state by the BJP, but voters have voted against such attempts,” said Ashok Chavan, public works department minister and guardian minister of Nanded. According to the Congress leaders, the united efforts by three ruling parties helped them win the bypoll. “Although NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray did not participate in the bypoll, they were in constant touch with Chavan. Thackeray held a video conference with ena leaders from Nanded. The leaders from three ruling parties knew that it will be a major embarrassment for them if they lost. Subhash Sabne’s defection to the BJP was a clever move by BJP leaders, but it got scuttled because of the defection of Bhaskar Khatgaonkar to Congress just days ahead of voting. Similarly, Ashok Chavan had ensured that a sizable government fund was spent in the constituency in the past six months,” said a Congress leader. Senior party leader and former union cabinet minister Ajay Maken, who was in Mumbai, on Tuesday said, “The results of bypolls across the country are a clear indication that the countdown of BJP has begun. People are not happy with the autocratic way of functioning of the BJP leadership at the Centre,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-backed-by-2-ruling-parties-congress-wins-deglur-bypoll-101635867046764.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Disfigured body of missing woman found in Palghar, one arrested||A disfigured body of a 33-year-old woman, who had gone missing on Friday at Kharekhuran in Palghar, was found at her family-owned field on Monday evening. According to police, a missing complaint was registered by the victim’s husband Manish on Saturday.“On Monday evening, we found the disfigured body of victim Arti Patil in her agro-farm in Kharekhuran. The body has been sent for post-mortem. We have arrested her lover Tejas Desale for the murder. The accused had objected to her marrying Manish in January 2019 and killed her after an argument,” said senior inspector Ram Bhalsinh of Palghar police station.The police have registered a murder case against the accused. However, the victim’s family suspect the role of Manish and his family behind the murder.“We are probing all possible angles and we will not spare the guilty,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/disfigured-body-of-missing-woman-found-in-palghar-one-arrested-101635866627094.html
02-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan bypolls: Shot in arm for Gehlot govt as Congress sweeps in Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad||The Congress continued its winning streak in Rajasthan as it secured a clear victory in the two assembly constituencies – in Pratagarh’s Dhariawad and Udaipur’s Vallabhnagar – where bypolls were held on October 30.With this, the ruling Congress' tally in the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly touched 108, while the BJP had 71 legislators.In Vallabhnagar, Congress candidate Preeti Shaktawat beat Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RJP) candidate Udailal Dangi by a comfortable margin of 20,606 votes, as declared by the Election Commission.In Dhariabad, Congress' Nagraj Meena defeated his nearest rival and independent candidate Thawarchand by 18,725 votes, while BJP candidate Khet Singh Meena trailed with 46,487 (26.08 per cent) votes.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot congratulated the winners and tweeted that people have put a stamp on his government’s policies, programmes and good governance.“This is the first time in the history of Rajasthan that the ruling party is winning consecutive by-elections. After the 2018 assembly elections, elections have been held in eight assembly seats in the state, out of which Congress has won six and lost two seats traditionally held by the NDA by a small margin,” Gehlot said.“This victory shows that people have full faith in the good governance and welfare policies of our government. In future too, we would be able to maintain public trust,” he added.Accepting the BJP’s defeat in the bypolls, state chief Satish Poonia said the results depended on "local equations".Meanwhile, state ministers congratulated the winners of the bypolls and hailed Gehlot’s government for the victories.Sports minister Ashok Chandana, who was among the leaders to have campaigned in Dhariawad, said the people have voted for the “good governance” of Gehlot. “The Congress candidates on both the seats are going to win the elections with huge margins, and this was expected," he had said earlier in the day.Minister Harish Chaudhary said, “Many congratulations and best wishes to Congress candidate Preeti Shaktawat ji and Nagaraj ji Meena for their victory in the by-elections for assembly constituencies of Vallabhnagar and Dhariyavad in Rajasthan. Thanks to the people of Vallabhnagar and Dhariyavad. The Congress government of Rajasthan will always live up to your belief firmly.”The Vallabnagar assembly constituency has been a Congress stronghold since 1952. The grand old party has won the seat nine out of 16 assembly elections till date. The Dhariawad seat, which became a constituency after delimitation in 2008, made a shift by voting for Congress. The BJP had won the previous two elections in 2013 and 2016, preceded by Congress in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bypolls-shot-in-arm-for-gehlot-govt-as-congress-sweeps-in-vallabhnagar-and-dhariawad-101635861661836.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||NEET: Day after results, some examinees claim getting 2 different ranks||A day after the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced results for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG), few students have raised an objection over receiving two different all-India ranks on the same scorecard. Many of them have sent their queries to NTA but are yet to receive a response.“On every scorecard, NTA has mentioned the all-India rank obtained— both overall rank and the rank for counselling — for every student. In my case, there two different ranks awarded to me are for the counselling process itself, which is confusing,” said a student on the condition of anonymity.Unlike other NEET examinees who have been given a separate rank for admission, this particular student has received two ranks for the same and is now unsure of which one to use during admissions. “I’m not the only one facing this trouble as many others have also taken to Twitter to share their problem. We have already written to NTA for clarity,” he added.This year, NTA released results without using the tie-breaker system—which means the top three students who scored 720 out of 720 shared the first rank, while the next rank given is directly the fourth one. Similarly, 12 candidates share the fifth rank as per this year. NTA, however, mentioned that a tie-breaking system will be used for admission purposes, wherein a student older in age will take the first rank, followed by those younger to him/her, and therefore shared a separate all-India rank to each student for admissions counselling purpose.“The rule to consider age of a student in case of a tie and give the higher rank to someone older has been mentioned by the ministry of health education, and while we wanted to mention overall ranks keeping this rule aside, for counselling purpose, we had to use tie-breaker and release results,” said a senior official from NTA. He added that students who have got errors in their scorecards should download the same from NTA website again and get in touch with the authority if the errors remain despite downloading the scorecard.“All students received a scorecard where percentile scores for each subject (physics, chemistry and biology) are mentioned along with the total score out of 720, total percentile score, and two separate ranks—one for overall rank and another for counselling. There are, however, a few students who have received two ranks for counselling only. Which one should they choose then?” asked Muzaffar Khan, a Thane-based medical education counsellor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neet-day-after-results-some-examinees-claim-getting-2-different-ranks-101635865666659.html
02-11-2021||Jaipur||Congress scores a clear win on 2 Rajasthan seats, BJP gets a huge jolt||JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s ruling Congress won Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad assembly segments where bypolls were held on October 30, pushing its tally in the state assembly to 108 in the 200-member house.Tuesday’s election results have come as a huge shocker for the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which not only lost the Dhariawad seat that voted the party in the 2018 state elections but was not even in the reckoning to be the runners-up on either seat. The BJP candidate in Dhariawad came third; marginally better than Vallabhnagar where it ended up in the fourth position.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot promptly interpreted the bye-elections outcome as a vote for his government and the Congress. Gehlot tweeted that people have given their stamp of approval to the policies, programs and good governance of the state government under the leadership of Congress President Sonia Gandhi.“Congratulations and best wishes to Preeti Shaktawat, and Nagaraj Meena, for their victory in the assembly by-elections. Gratitude to the voters of both the constituencies and congratulations to the workers and leaders of the Congress party,” he tweeted. Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara called the win on two seats as a “historic win”.“The competition in the Congress was which candidates will win with a larger margin of votes,” he said.The bypolls were necessitated due to the death of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP MLA from Dhariawad Gautam Lal Meena.Congress candidate Preeti Shaktawat in Udaipur district’s Vallabhnagar defeated her nearest rival and Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) candidate Udailal Dangi, by a margin of 20,606 votes. She received 65,713 votes.Udailal Dangi, a BJP rebel was originally the Rajasthan unit’s choice for the party ticket, but he didn’t get the ticket.A BJP leader said the party could have snatched Vallabhnagar from the Congress if the leadership stuck with Udailal Dangi.Independent candidate Randhir Singh Bhinder, who stood third with 43,817 votes, also has BJP links. Bhinder walked out of the party in 2013 after he was denied a ticket and later founded the Janta Sena. Binder won the seat on a BJP ticket in 2003, and a decade later, as an independent.Himmat Singh Jhala, the BJP’s choice for the party ticket, ended up with 21,433 votes.But the Vallabnagar assembly constituency has been a stronghold of Congress with the party winning nine of the 16 assembly elections held since 1952. Pratapgarg district’s Dhariawad assembly segment, which came into existence after the 2008 delimitation exercise, last voted the Congress in 2008. In 2013 and 2018, the seat voted for BJP candidates.Congress candidate Nagraj Meena defeated independent candidate Thawar Chand, a rebel candidate of the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) with a margin of 18,725. BJP’s Khet Singh Meena came third, with 46,487 votes.A senior BJP leader said the party lost due to the selection of candidates. “The result indicates that we need to consolidate our votes and tickets should be given to those who are connected with the masses.” He reasoned that the late MLA’s son in Dhariawad, Kanhaiya Lal Meena, would have been a stronger contender since he has twice been a pradhan - now his wife holds the post - but was denied the ticket due to the policy that two people wouldn’t get the ticket.BJP state chief Satish Poonia said, “This defeat is natural; circumstantial and was dependent on local equations and issues. We need to move forward by keeping up our morale and confidence; avoiding criticism; and taking lessons. Even when we were in power, we moved ahead by taking lessons from the defeat in the by-elections.” Political analyst Manish Godha said the result suggests that there was no anti-incumbency against the state government and even if was there, it was overshadowed by the BJP’s factionalism and attempt to experiment. The result has come as a morale booster for the Gehlot government, especially since the BJP stood fourth and third on the two seats. He said inflation was an issue but the BJP lost because of its factionalism fielding new faces.“Instead of playing the sympathy card on the Dhariawad seat, they fielded Khet Singh, whereas in Vallabhnagar, candidates Bhindar or Dangi would have been better candidates… Another important factor was the absence of Vasundhara Raje from the campaign,” said Godha. Rajasthan Congress chief Dotasara said oppositions normally have an edge in bypolls due to the anti-incumbency factor. “When we were in the opposition (2013-18), the Congress won six of the eight bypolls held. In this government’s tenure, the Congress has won five of the seven assembly bypolls, and one each by RLP and BJP – this shows that anti-incumbency is there against Narendra Modi’s government,” he said, interpreting the outcome to imply that the Congress will get the public support in the 2023 state elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/congress-scores-a-clear-win-on-2-rajasthan-seats-bjp-gets-a-huge-jolt-101635865066583.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Man falls of foot overbridge, commuters assault ticket checker at Nahur||An on-duty ticket checker (TC) was assaulted by a group of unknown people after a commuter fell from a foot overbridge (FOB) at Nahur railway station on Tuesday.A ticketless commuter, after noticing the ticket checker Sandeep Chitale, tried to run and fell of the FOB, injuring his leg. The commuters then gathered around Chitale, abusing and assaulting him.According to the video that was viral on Tuesday, a group is seen abusing the TC.“I was busy making a receipt for another passenger when the incident took place. Suddenly some ladies attacked me and held me responsible for the incident. I was not even aware of it,” said Chitale.Central Railway (CR) examined the CCTV footage and registered a case against the unknown people for assaulting the ticket checker. CR will be increasing the security of ticket checkers by providing them additional railway protection force (RPF) personnel, an official said.“We will register a case with Kurla government railway police (GRP) against those who have manhandled the ticket checker,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Meanwhile, the Central and Western Railway started issuing daily tickets to fully vaccinated people on Sunday. On average, nearly 200,000 single or return journey tickets are being sold on the suburban railway network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-falls-of-foot-overbridge-commuters-assault-ticket-checker-at-nahur-101635864886717.html
02-11-2021||Other||10 Pak fishermen released after completing jail term||Amritsar The Centre on Tuesday released ten Pakistani fishermen, who had been arrested in Gujarat for illegally crossing over to the Indian territory. These fishermen, all in their 20s, were handed over to Pakistani Rangers by Border Security Force (BSF) jawans at the Attari-Wagah border at around 2:30pm. Some of them were Ibrahim Ali, Rustam Ali, Ali Muhammad, Mazid, Ali Hussan, Ali Muhammad, Shaukat Ali and Ali Azhar. Punjab Police’s protocol officer posted at the Attari Border, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Arun Pal, said, “These fishermen were arrested for allegedly violating their territorial water 4-5 years ago. They have been repatriated after their sentences are completed.”He said the fishermen were brought by the Gujarat police to the border on Monday night. “Their immigration procedure was completed about 10am and they were handed over to the Pakistani rangers in the afternoon,” he said. India and Pakistan swap lists of prisoners in each other’s custody twice a year, on January 1 and July 1. Sources said, on July 1, the Indian government had shared a list of 345 Pakistani prisoners in India, including 271 civilians and 74 fishermen, with the High Commission for Pakistan in New Delhi.Over 100 Pakistanis, stranded in India due to the Corona pandemic were allowed to cross over go the neighbouring country, via the Wagah border on Tuesday. The protocol officer said 150 more Pakistanis will be repatriated over the next few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-pak-fishermen-released-after-completing-jail-term-101635864766773.html
02-11-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: Pashupati Paras say Lalu Prasad’s campaigning loss for RJD||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader and Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras on Tuesday said Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s campaigning for his party’s candidates in the bypolls led to their losses in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats.“The campaigning done by RJD chief Lalu Prasad in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats for by-polls in Bihar was a loss for their party rather than a gain,” Paras told news agency ANI.The ailing RJD supremo campaigned at Tarapur in Munger and Kusheshwar Asthan in Darbhanga towards the end of October after a hiatus of six years. He had returned to his home turf after about three-and-a-half years having served his jail term in the multi-crore fodder scam case and undergoing treatment in Delhi.Prasad’s appearance had drawn huge crowds to rallies where he hit out at Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal United (JDU) head Nitish Kumar and his ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“People of Bihar had made Tejashwi the chief minister. But Nitish Kumar formed the government through cheating and manipulation. Had I been outside (jail), it would not have happened,” he had told a crowd at Idgah Maidan in Tarapur.“Now, I am back in Bihar and will continue to be among you people. We have to fight,” he added, while urging people to defeat the “double engine” government of Kumar.However, RJD candidate Arun Kumar Sah lost to JD(U)’s Rajiv Kumar Singh by a narrow margin of 4,000 votes. In Kusheshwar Asthan, the JD(U) won by a comfortable margin of more than 12,000 votes. Both seats were held by JD(U) leaders whose deaths had necessitated the by-election.The RJD had raised concerns of “rigged” elections in both the seats and deployed heavy artillery for vote counting. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav had objected to the posting of a police officer in Kusheshwar Asthan, following which the officer was taken off election duty by the commission.The party had also urged for postal ballots to be counted first, which the commission had agreed to, but added that counting of postal ballots will be done in a separate hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-pashupati-paras-say-lalu-prasad-s-campaigning-loss-for-rjd-101635864265322.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||UP govt gave 4.5 lakh jobs since 2017, says Yogi||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that his government gave over 4.5 lakh jobs to youths through a transparent recruitment process in the last four and a half years of his regime. “Because of the honest, fair and transparent work culture, the state is progressing fast and is soon going to become the country’s biggest economy,” said Yogi addressing a gathering after distributing appointment letters to 33 newly appointed assistant engineers in the Housing and Urban Planning department.Adiyanath told the newly appointed engineers that their role should be to improve the image of their department and advised them to shun corruption. Speaking on development work, the CM said the Kanpur Metro will be inaugurated next month.“UP’s economy, which was on 6th position in the country for four and a half years, is India’s second-biggest economy today. If we work in the same pure and transparent manner, Uttar Pradesh will become the ‘Number One’ economy in the country soon,” he pointed out.Congratulating the newly recruited engineers, the CM said the BJP-led UP government gave more jobs in government and private sector in these four and a half years than in the last 15 years. “No one can point a finger at any of the appointments because these were made in a transparent manner. From appointment to selection, the government was monitoring the entire process,” he added.Taking a jibe at the previous governments, the CM said once upon a time the development authorities of the state had become centres of corruption. “Even passing a map of a house was a difficult task. The common man was very upset. We made a big difference by deploying good officers, organising special camps to solve the problem, fixing deadlines for the work. As a result, even the common man is saying that good work is being done by development authorities,” he said.Referring to his visit to Moradabad, he also gave information about the affordable housing project under construction there and said that such innovative efforts were the demand of today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-gave-4-5-lakh-jobs-since-2017-says-yogi-101635864466571.html
02-11-2021||Other||Ahead of Diwali, air quality deteriorates in most Haryana cities||Ahead of the Diwali festival, the air quality of Haryana’s Faridabad and Bahadurgarh cities has slipped to ‘very poor’ category while residents of 10 other cities were breathing ‘poor’ quality of air, as per the official data. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Bahadurgarh and Faridabad was 318 and 306, respectively. Whereas the AQI of Panipat, Gurugram, Rohtak, Kaithal, Hisar, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Bhiwani, Charkhi-Dadri and Daruhera was between 200 and 300, respectively.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, an AQI between 0 to 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 to 100 ‘satisfactory’ and 101 to 200 ‘moderate’. The AQI between 201 to 300 is classified as ‘poor’ and 301 to 400 ‘very poor’ and above 400 is categorised as ‘severe’. Most of the Haryana cities have ‘very poor’ and ‘poor’ quality. ‘Very poor’ quality of air causes respiratory illness on prolonged exposure’ while ‘poor’ air quality causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.The deteriorating air quality is a cause of concern as the officials monitoring air pollution predicted a strong possibility that it may further get worse by the end of this week. The air quality of most Haryana cities improved last week and on September 25, all 20 cities of the state witnessed an AQI below 100. The air quality, however, dropped again with the incidents of stubble burning. The number of stubble burning incidents reached 3,038 by November 1.With 775 incidents of farm fires, Kaithal district is at the top, followed by Karnal (740), Kurukshetra (459), Fatehabad (393), Ambala (186), Jind (183) and Yamunanagar (113).Concerned over the deteriorating air quality, chairperson of the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) MM Kutty held a video conference with the deputy commissioners of the districts where the incidents of stubble burning were being reported. “During the virtual meeting, Mr Kutty asked why incidents of stubble burning were being reported in some districts every year,” said an official who attended the meeting, adding the chairperson has also emphasised the need to put a complete check on stubble burning and also took stock from the deputy commissioners about steps being over the air quality across NCR districts.With Karnal reporting 740 cases of farm fires this year, deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadva claimed that there was a considerable fall in farm fires as the number has come down to 740 against 949 of last year. He said 70 FIRs have been registered against the erring farmers and a fine of over ₹10 lakh have been imposed on 397 farmers. In Kaithal, deputy commissioner Pradeep Dahiya said that a fine of ₹6.30 lakh has been imposed on 255 farmers while in Kurukshetra a fine of ₹4 lakh has been imposed on 254 farmers so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-diwali-air-quality-deteriorates-in-most-haryana-cities-101635864347379.html
02-11-2021||Other||1,800kg poppy husk seized from Moga godown; 11 booked||Moga Police have recovered 1,800kg poppy husk from a godown at Badduwal bypass in the Dharamkot sub-division of Moga. They also impounded a truck and a Multi-Utility Vehicle (MUV) Xylo from the godown. Police have booked 11 persons under the NDPS Act; 10 of them are residents of the infamous Daulewala village, and one of them is already behind bars in a drug peddling case. Daulewala is notorious for drug smuggling, with a large number of its residents face police cases related to drugs. Moga SSP Surinderjit Singh Mand said that acting on secret information, a police team was sent to raid the godown. During the raid, the team seized this large quantity of poppy husk and vehicles. “We have registered a case of NDPS against 11 persons including Pippal Singh of Daulewala village, who has been serving 30 years sentence in jail under NDPS Act.” The other 10 accused are Inderjit Singh alias Labha; Minna Singh; Rasaal Singh, alias Nannu; Karamjit Singh, alias Karma; Gurjinder Singh, alias Motu; Jugraj Singh, alias Joga; Lakhwinder Singh, alias Kakku; Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma, and Buta Singh, all of Daulewala village and Mangal Singh of Mandir village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1800kg-poppy-husk-seized-from-moga-godown-11-booked-101635864046434.html
02-11-2021||Other||Over 900 guest faculty across Punjab start indefinite strike for job security||Patiala Over 900 assistant professors, working as guest faculty in 48 government colleges across Punjab, have started an indefinite strike from Tuesday wanting an assurance from the state government on their job security and relaxation in eligibility for regular recruitment. The guest faculty wants relaxation in recruitment process of 1,091 posts of regular assistant professors; the government has already issued a notification for this. “We want the government to issue separate orders that guest faculty will not be relieved after the recruitment process. We also want the government to exempt us from any kind of written examination,” said Harminder Singh Dimple, president, Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association. On Tuesday, a delegation from the union also met Punjab higher education minister Pargat Singh and principal secretary Krishan Kumar. “The minister has assured us that there will be no threat to our jobs. We will, however, resume work only after the government issues written orders related to it,” Dimple added. There are 1,873 sanctioned posts of lecturers in Punjab, of which 1,292 are laying vacant, with just 581 regular lecturers on the job. To deal with the staff shortage, 882 guest faculty members and 251 part-time lecturers have been providing their services for the past 15 years.Deepak Kaushal, physical education assistant professor, said, “Many guest teachers are providing services at government colleges for years, but their jobs have not been regularised due to poor policies of the state government.”“Guest faculty members are working on a salary of ₹21,600 per month. Our jobs have not been regularised to date, due to bad policies of successive state governments,” he claimed, adding that guest faculty formed the backbone of government colleges in Punjab. “The sad part is that 50% of guest lecturers have crossed the age limit to apply for other government jobs. The government should ensure that their services are retained, even as regular lecturers are appointed,” he added. During his visit to Patiala on Monday, higher education minister Pargat Singh said the government will look into all aspects. “The demands of guest faculty will be taken into consideration before taking a final call on the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-900-guest-faculty-across-punjab-start-indefinite-strike-for-job-security-101635863206940.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Start PG medical admissions to prevent burnout of current batches: Docs to GoI, CJI||The constant delay in conducting admissions to the first-year post graduate (PG) medical courses is not only creating trouble for those waiting to confirm seats, but also for those who are already pursuing the degree. In separate letters addressed to the Centre, the Chief Justice of India and the National Medical Commission (NMC), several groups of resident doctors have requested that National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)-PG counselling be kicked off at the earliest. The letters have been written by the Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA), Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA) as well as the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD).“With no admissions to first-year PG batches, healthcare institutions are being managed by current second and third-year batches of resident doctors. This is precarious, considering that these two batches have been dealing with the pandemic since March 2020. We request the government as well as the Apex court to take notice of this matter and bring relief to thousands of resident doctors,” stated the letter signed by members of FORDA. Originally scheduled to take place in January, NEET-PG was postponed first to February, then April, and eventually delayed indefinitely owing to the rising cases of Covid-19 registered across the country. The entrance test was finally conducted in September, but admissions after the exam have been stayed by the Supreme Court, which is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students, questioning the validity of the implementation of the economically backward class (EWS) and other backward class (OBC) reservations in the all-India quota (AIQ) seats. “Currently, the entire patient load is being managed by second and third-year PG resident doctors. We are lacking the entire first-year batch, which means 2,000 doctors for Maharashtra itself. Unless the authorities start PG counselling, the existing batches of resident doctors will face burnout,” said Dr Pranav Jadhav, vice-president, Central MARD.He added that even during the second wave of the pandemic between March and May, NMC had decided to delay the graduation of final-year resident doctors to have all the help needed. However, after the final-year batch graduated, no new batch has been admitted and the existing students are feeling the heat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/start-pg-medical-admissions-to-prevent-burnout-of-current-batches-docs-to-goi-cji-101635862726527.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Two arrested for Gujarat businessman’s murder in Dahisar||The Dahisar police on Tuesday arrested two men from Uttar Pradesh for killing a 40-year-old businessman who was found dead in his rented apartment on Sunday. The arrested accused will be brought to Mumbai on Wednesday. According to the police, the accused are relatives of a watchman of the hotel, where the victim Manish Patel had stayed when he arrived in Mumbai over a month ago. Police officers said the accused had decided to kill him and had intended to loot him. The officers said the accused, who was introduced to Patel by the watchman of the hotel, had grown friendly to the victim to gain access to his rented flat, where he had been staying alone. The officers traced the accused to Uttar Pradhesh through Patel’s call data record and arrested them on Tuesday. Patel, who hailed from Ahmedabad in Gujarat, had arrived in Mumbai for a business opportunity. Officers said that on Sunday they received a call from the manager of Patel’s building that he was not opening the door and not replying to the messages. When police reached, he was found lying in a pool of blood in the one-room kitchen flat, with his throat slit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-gujarat-businessman-s-murder-in-dahisar-101635862246252.html
02-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 237 new Covid cases, 13 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: As of Tuesday, Pune district has reported 237 new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,956 deaths and 3,204 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 9,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 123 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 365,530 and the death toll went up to 6,903 as 11 more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 72 new cases which took the progressive count to 520,887 and the death toll went up to 9,201 as two more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 42 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 268,735 and the toll stood at 3,503 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 9,533 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 12,137,279. Of which 7,852,653 are first doses and 4,284,626 are second doses. A total of 485 sites saw vaccination of which 342 were government centres and 143 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-237-new-covid-cases-13-deaths-in-24-hours-101635862126377.html
02-11-2021||Pune||Production rates for 43% of firms in Pune at pre-Covid levels: MCCIA||PUNE The festive season has augured well for firms in Pune district. A survey conducted by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), following the Covid-19 outbreak, reported that production rates of 43 per cent of companies in Pune district have reached pre-Covid levels. On an average, the surveyed companies said that their current level of production has increased from 88 per cent (of pre-Covid levels) in September this year, to 90 per cent in October 2021. The uptick in production levels means firms surveyed by MCCIA have reached the recovery peak of 85 per cent seen in February-March this year “The festive season has augured well for the economy of Pune region. Our journey of recovery continues. For first time since April 2020, the recovery of industry and services, including formal and informal MSMEs crossed 90%,” said Sudhir Mehta, president, MCCIA This is the 19th survey conducted by the MCCIA during Covid times. At least 150 organisations from Pune district participated in this survey. On an average, surveyed companies said that the number of employees working increased from 87% (of pre-pandemic levels) in September 2021 to 91% (of pre-pandemic levels) in October 2021. The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to be the same as they were pre-pandemic. As many as 43% of the companies said their production was already at, or above, pre-Covid levels; while 52% of the respondents said that they expect production levels to go back to pre-Covid levels in up to six months as compared to 41% of companies who felt the same in September 2021; 5% said it would take more than six months while 13% of the companies said the same in September 2021.Organisations surveyed included micro, small, medium and large at a 15%, 21%, 24% and 40% respectivel distribution. As many as 70% of the organisations surveyed were from the manufacturing sector, 11% from the services sector and the remaining 19% were involved in both manufacturing and services. Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCIA, said, “Almost half the companies have already reached or crossed pre-pandemic production levels and the other half expect to do the same by the end of this financial year. Finally the aggregate demand has picked up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/production-rates-for-43-of-firms-in-pune-at-pre-covid-levels-mccia-101635861226325.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Presidential assent for amendment to Mhada Act for cessed buildings in process: Centre to HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Union government to inform it of the status of the President assent to a bill passed by the Maharashtra government enabling it to take over pending projects under the Mumbai Building Repairs and Reconstruction Board (MBRRB) of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada). The directions were issued after petitioners of cessed buildings who are affected by projects pending since 2017, approached the HC seeking directions to the state to take over the projects as the developers had abandoned them. On its part, the state government informed the bench that it had amended the relevant section of the Mhada Act, which would enable it to take over such projects and complete them at its own cost soon after the President assent was granted and the bill became effective. A division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition of Navin Gupta, was informed by advocates JM D’Silva and VN Gupta that the petitioner was living in a cessed building- repairs and reconstruction of which came under the purview of the MBRRB. The advocates added that the contractor/developer had defaulted in completing the project as a result of which the petitioner and many others like him living in cessed buildings were left without a roof on their head. In light of these submissions, the advocates sought directions from the state to acquire the projects and ensure their completion. While responding to the grievance of the petitioner, additional government pleader Hemant Haryan submitted that the state government had amended the Mhada Act to insert section 91-A which would enable the state government to acquire the projects and complete them. Haryan submitted that the amendment had been passed by both the houses of the state legislature and was now awaiting the assent of the President. Last September, the state legislature had passed an amendment allowing the Mhada to redevelop or repair dilapidated and cessed buildings to protect the interest of the occupants of such structures. Both the Houses of the legislature had passed an amendment in the Mhada Act, 1976, empowering the authority to take over the cessed buildings, with the consent of 51% occupants, if the owners and housing societies failed to redevelop them within a year of the notification. Haryan had further submitted that the state could not proceed in the absence of such assent, therefore views from the Central government may be obtained. While responding to the direction of the bench to place their view on the issue of the assent of the President, additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the bench of the status of the bill and also informed that the process for obtaining the assent of the President was underway. The court accepted the report by the ASG and placed the petition for hearing on November 29. Numerous petitions have been filed in HC by occupants of cessed buildings in the city especially in the south and central Mumbai after the developer/contractor defaulted or abandoned the project which was entrusted to them by the MBRRB. As some of these buildings are in an extremely dilapidated condition but as the Mhada Act did not permit the state government to acquire the projects the petitioners have approached the HC seeking relief. The nod from the President will ensure that the buildings are either repaired or redeveloped by the state to ensure that there is no loss of life or property to occupants in case of any collapse similar to the building in Malwani which collapsed and killed 12 people including eight children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/presidential-assent-for-amendment-to-mhada-act-for-cessed-buildings-in-process-centre-to-hc-101635861106145.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypoll: Jai Ram accepts defeat, says will work on BJP’s shortcomings before 2022||After the electoral drubbing in three assembly constituencies and one parliamentary seat in Himachal, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, under whom the Bharatiya Janata Party fought the bypolls, accepted the outcome and took responsibility for the defeat. “I accept the people’s verdict in Mandi, Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai and congratulate the Congress candidates who have won. Our party will deliberate on the reasons for the defeat and chalk out the future strategy accordingly,” he said adding that the party will look at working on the shortcomings before the assembly elections slated for 2022.He also vindicated reports of election sabotage and attributed Congress’ victory to the sympathy factor post former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s demise and the rebellion within the saffron party. “Sympathy factor for the Congress was apparent in the tribal regions and the party seems to have taken full advantage of that,” said Jai Ram.Following the debacle, the CM cancelled his planned visit to Mandi. Deep Kamal, the party office in Shimla, where supporters had planned for big celebrations in anticipation of a thumping victory, went into a lull after the declaration of results. Jai Ram said the party would work with a renewed zeal for the assembly elections in 2022. “Congress has won Mandi but it’s not a victory that the party should celebrate, the margin was very less. Price rise was an issue and Congress exploited it to the hilt,” he said. It’s a referendum against BJP, says Congress Buoyed by the victory, the Congress said results show people have lost confidence in the ruling party. State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said, “The chief minister has lost the confidence of the people of Himachal Pradesh. The results of this byelection are a referendum against the ruling BJP government. Jai Ram Thakur should resign on moral grounds.”Thanking the voters of the state, the Congress chief said, “In constituencies where the BJP previously had a lead of more than 30,000 votes, it has now been reduced to less than 1,500.” He said the Congress’ lead in postal ballots was a clear indication of a strong anti-government sentiment among government employees.Meanwhile, Pratibha Singh who trounced BJP’s Brig Khushal Singh Thakur (retd) in the Mandi Parliamentary seat, said, “People have voted for the developmental works carried out by Congress government. Modiji promised two crore jobs but in the last seven years, he has done nothing in this regard. This victory is a tribute to my late husband, Raja Sahab, who was seen as the architect of modern Himachal Pradesh.”She thanked party workers who worked tirelessly to ensure the victory of candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypoll-jai-ram-accepts-defeat-says-will-work-on-bjp-s-shortcomings-before-2022-101635860986299.html
02-11-2021||Pune||Home dept offers room to Bhima Koregaon panel at Sahyadri guest house||PUNE A day after the Bhima Koregaon Commission announced suspension of its functioning due to a lack of space, the state home department informed the panel that one room would be made available in Mumbai to conduct the hearings. According to commission secretary VV Palnitkar, the home department has that one room would be made available at a Sahyadri guesthouse. “I am awaiting directions from the chairman. We have demanded two rooms - one cabin for commission members and one for the office. I have not seen the room. We will respond after the directions of the chairman,” said Palnitkar. The judicial commission probing the violence near Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village in 2018 suspended its scheduled hearings on Monday, saying the state government was yet to provide suitable accommodation in Mumbai despite several requests. In a letter to the state government, Palnitkar said that despite repeated letters, “nothing was heard from the government till October 31, 2021 about availability of suitable accommodation”. He added, therefore, there was no other option but to suspend the hearing schedule till the government provided accommodation. “Accordingly, the commission hereby suspends all future hearings till the Government provides suitable accommodation at Mumbai,” said the letter, a copy of which is with HT. The letter said the commission informed the government it had to postpone the hearings scheduled in March and April 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed to avoid crowding. “In its seventh status report, the commission has stated that it is likely to examine about 40 more witnesses and expects a further extension of at least six months.” The two-member commission, headed by retired high court justice J N Patel, was constituted by the state government in February 2018 to probe the sequence of events that led to violence on the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The violence left one person dead and several injured. “In the meeting dated October 28, chairman of the commission, justice J N Patel, advised principal secretary, Home, to take up the issue directly with the chief minister’s office and to get suitable accommodation on an emergent basis. It was also made clear that if suitable accommodation is not provided by October 29, 2021, the commission would suspend its hearing schedules,” the letter added. The probe panel resumed hearing in the case in August this year after a gap of nearly 14 months in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/home-dept-offers-room-to-bhima-koregaon-panel-at-sahyadri-guest-house-101635860629973.html
02-11-2021||Patna||Bihar by-election: Boost for Nitish Kumar's JD(U) as RJD fails to snatch Tarapur in close fight||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United) has been able to retain both Assembly seats that went to bypolls after the demise of its sitting MLAs. While the JD(U) candidate from Kusheshwar Asthan was able to win the seat with a comfortable margin, the Tarapur Assembly constituency witnessed a seesaw contest between JD(U) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the principal Opposition in Bihar Legislative Assembly.JD(U) had fielded Aman Bhushan Hajari from Kusheshwar Asthan after the seat fell vacant following the demise of his father, Shashi Bhushan Hajari. JD(U) was able to retain the Kusheshwar Asthan assembly constituency with over a 12,695 vote margin against rival RJD's Ganesh Bharti. JD(U)'s vote share in Kusheshwar Asthan is 45.72%, while RJD's vote share stands at 36.02%. Congress ended at 4th position with 5,602 votes and a dismal 4.28% vote share.In Tarapur, the RJD gave a scare to JD(U) as it led the trends up to 18 rounds of counting, only to give back a decisive lead after 24 rounds. JD(U)'s Rajeev Kumar Singh won the Tarapur Assembly seat by 3,852 votes over his nearest rival Arun Kumar, who was fighting from RJD's ticket. JD(U) received 46.62% of the total votes polled while RJD got 44.35% vote share. Congress performance in Tarapur was worse than Kusheshwar Asthan as it was able to receive just 2.12% of the total votes polled, 0.70% more vote share than NOTA.The overall vote share of JD(U) and RJD in the bypolls stands at 46.22% and 40.72% respectively. Congress' overall vote share (3.06%) is less than that of the Lok Jan Shakti Party (Ram Vilas) which received 3.65% of the total votes polled in the Bihar by-elections.RJD supremo Lalu Prasad's return to the poll campaign after years was seen as a huge boost for the party, which prompted the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to run an intense campaign. Nitish Kumar, state ministers and other alliance leaders held several public meetings in Kusheshwar Asthan as well as Tarapur Assembly constituency to retain the seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-by-election-boost-for-nitish-kumar-s-jd-u-as-rjd-fails-to-snatch-tarapur-in-close-fight-101635856943237.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Travel diaries: A therapy, meditation like no other||Whenever I travel, I take along two of my diaries. Favourite companions, they occupy a prime place on the bookshelf. Despite one of them having run out of blank pages, I still make it travel, which of course holds a richer travel history than the second one. During the lockdown months, I often turned to them as they made me travel again and ever since it’s become a ritual to read them every few weeks, especially at bedtime. I may have frequently dived into their deep waters but I’ve never been bored, rather with every session, my fascination soars. A warm thank you to them, which have chronicled so much – my conversations, museum visits, itineraries, flights, travel column ideas – some got published, some rejected and most importantly many lessons and epiphanies, most of which struck me during leisurely walks or while I’d be glued to the window during road or air journeys. Some of the pages make me nostalgic, some make me laugh and some allow me to hold conversations with locals I’ve met. Their emails and social media IDs, scribbled by them, sit on many of the pages, and I’m glad that I’m in touch with most of them. When I find coffee marks somewhere, I begin to wonder if they are from some flight or a café. There are pages where I get stuck and don’t feel like going further, chiefly which carry any flight notes, and I admire the details, from plane type, the airline, the meals and drinks served, the seat number, the views, my co-passengers, followed by first impressions of places I arrived at. One of them, from my first flight to Christchurch on April 1, 2019, reads: “Loving the views of Sydney’s skyline from my seat 5F (Qantas QF 139: Boeing 737) during the push back and enjoying the soothing welcome music along.” With skyscrapers drawn next to these words, the note continues: “During nearly 3-hour flight over the Tasman Sea, my eyes are being treated to the best sunset views, holding a cup of coffee in hand.” I also land on pages that hold stories of unique tours, from the Boeing factory in Seattle to a graveyard tour in a small town of Washington. It’s a joy to be led by those guides again, and get regaled by their commentary. The cycling experience around 4am along Lake Michigan in Chicago and walking up to the zenith of a hill in New Zealand’s Queenstown, where views of the lake and the Alps left me in awe; are some of my favourites. Sitting there, I wrote profusely, including epiphanies on life that crossed my mind. The diary is proof. These epiphanies act as a lighthouse for me, like the many beautiful adages I peppered my diaries with, the moment I caught them somewhere. The most inspiring one was while I was at Cape Byron Lighthouse in Australia. Its door had this on display: “Can we be the lighthouse for the world or someone?” Within a New York minute, my pen printed it on my diary. As I used one of these diaries for my interview with actor Manisha Koirala at the Khushwant Singh Literature Festival a few years ago in Kasauli, there are also pages that make me talk to her whenever I want. With many answers on how her mindset changed post cancer, there’s tons of inspiration for anyone who reads them. My diaries are therapy for me, a meditation like no other and a big chunk of me, which always makes me count my blessings and how travel has enriched me. Someone has rightly said, “We travel not to escape life but for life not to escape us.” If St Augustine is to be believed, “The world is a book and those who do not travel, read just a page.” rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/travel-diaries-a-therapy-meditation-like-no-other-101635859486198.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder quits Congress, accuses Sonia of midnight conspiracy||Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday resigned from the Congress and announced the formation of his new party, Punjab Lok Congress. In a seven-page resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the two-time former chief minister said the midnight conspiracy carried out against him at her and her children’s behest by calling a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting over his head at the dead of the night and that too through Twitter was the most “egregious” act. “It was my prerogative as the CLP leader to have called the meeting if the AICC desired it. It was only early next morning that a colleague informed me that such an outrageous act has been committed,” he wrote. Also read: Jakhar has Capt Saab twist to Channi govt’s no ad on Indira Gandhi’s death annivCapt Amarinder Singh said he felt deeply hurt by her conduct and that of her children who he still loved as much as his own children, having known their father, since they were in school together in 1954. “…I hope that no other senior Congressperson is subjected to the ignominy that I was put through,” he wrote, listing in detail his achievements, particularly his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Concerned about state in inexperienced hands Capt Amarinder Singh was made to resign as the Punjab chief minister on September 18 after a bitter tussle with Navjot Singh Sidhu amid infighting in the state Congress. The party later picked Charanjit Singh Channi as the next chief minister of the state. The former CM wrote that he was quite concerned about the inexperienced hands in which the state was given. “It is beyond my comprehension as how these inexperienced hands will handle the security situation in view of the massive influx of weapons and explosives and narcotics. We are gravely threatened by narco-terrorism that our hostile neighbour is sponsoring against us,” he said. Formal launch of party, symbol later On his new party, Capt Amarinder Singh said the registration of the party was pending approval with the Election Commission of India. “Since I announced that I will be forming my own party, my team of lawyers is working on the process and had applied to the Election Commission of India for the registration,” he said. He said the Election Commission had no objection to the proposed name, Punjab Lok Congress. About the party symbol, he said the EC had given three symbols from which one was to be chosen. “We have submitted three symbols and the final one will be chosen from the set of six, three suggested by the EC and three proposed by the party,” he said, adding, “The party will be formally launched later and its policies, programmes, agenda and vision will be spelt out at the time of the launch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-quits-congress-accuses-sonia-of-midnight-conspiracy-101635856725717.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Freshly infiltrated groups behind terror spike in Rajouri-Poonch||While the Army lost nine soldiers, including two junior commissioned officers, within four days in October, the protracted Poonch encounter in the dense jungles of Nar Khas entered the 23rd day on Tuesday. Former DGP SP Vaid, the man who contained Pak-sponsored terrorism during its peak, attributed the spike in terror activities in the twin border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, south of Pir Panjal, to freshly infiltrated terrorists. “Most likely, they are infiltrating groups. It (spike in terror attacks in Rajouri-Poonch) doesn’t appear to be a spillover from South Kashmir because not many terrorists are left in the Valley now. In the last two years, several terrorists have been eliminated in Kashmir and their numbers have been constantly depleting. Spillover takes place when their numbers go up considerably and their masters, sitting across the border, intend to engage security forces and involve Jammu,” said the former DGP. ‘Focus back on Kashmir after fall of Afghan govt’ Vaid said that after Afghanistan’s capture by the Taliban, Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) seems to have shifted its focus back on Kashmir. “Most probably, the ISI is trying to get terrorists spared from Afghanistan, and take them to launch pads along the Line of Control (LoC) to infiltrate them from Rajouri, Poonch, Uri, Tangdhar and Gurez,” the former DGP said. He said the ISI always tries to involve Rajouri, Poonch, Doda and Kishtwar areas. “Rajouri and Poonch have remained preferred routes for infiltration as they get less snow and the terrain is easier than Kashmir. People in this region are overwhelmingly nationalist and against terrorism but Hurriyat and JeI have tried to radicalise them in the past,” he said.No spillover from Valley: ArmySources within the army establishment, however, said, “As of now, there are no clear cut answers on why there is a spike in terrorism south of Pir Panjal.” “Infiltration pattern does not indicate exponential increase. Two to three militants from south Kashmir were able to sneak into the region, probably via Pir Ki Gali, but there is no big spillover from south Kashmir,” they added. The source said that though nine soldiers have died in two encounters, calling the region a hotspot of terror may not be correct at this stage. According to DGP Dilbag Singh, five to seven militants are believed to be hiding in the forests between Surankote and Mendhar tehsils of Poonch. “Two groups had come from across the LoC through Rajouri-Poonch area and they are embedded somewhere in the jungle. Going by their sighting at three places and the crossfire between them and us at two places, it seems their number is between five and seven,” he told a TV channel in Srinagar recently. On August 10, Dilbag Singh had said, “After a brief lull following the renewed truce deal between the two DGMOs on February 25, infiltration into Jammu and Kashmir resumed.” He added, “Terror camps across the border are still intact.” Route taken by infiltrators An intelligence official, requesting anonymity, said, “Sangiot and Balakote in Mendhar is an infiltration route. Once in, the terrorists cross Bhimber Gali and enter Nar Khas and Bhata Dhurian forests from where they can go to Thannamandi or to Bufliaz to Pir Ki Gali and head towards Shopian.” “It seems to that the fresh infiltration has caused disturbance in Rajouri and Poonch,” he added. “Till May, there was no infiltration in the region but we also know that during the season of maize crop and before the onset of winters, terrorists try to use these routes to infiltrate,” he said. The first major encounter took place in the region on August 6, a day after the second anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370, when two terrorists were killed in the Pangai forest of Thanamandi area of Rajouri. Another encounter took place in the same area on August 19. Two soldiers, including a JCO, were killed in an encounter. On September 13, a terrorist was killed in Manjakote area of Rajouri. “These encounters suggest that the terrorists had successfully infiltrated from across the LoC,” he said. Tufail Hussain, 36, a farmer from Shahpur, a village along the LoC in Poonch, said, “We have been living a peaceful life following a renewed truce deal on February 25 but things, it seems, have started taking an ugly turn. I don’t know whether they are coming from South Kashmir or have crossed the LoC but we are really scared.” “We request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take strong action against terrorism,” he added. Munaf Malik, former Hizbul Mujahideen commander, said, “Militancy has increased and the situation is deteriorating in the region. There could be multiple factors behind this, but I believe that resentment has increased among the people because of the rising unemployment. People are also annoyed over abrogation of Article 370.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/freshly-infiltrated-groups-behind-terror-spike-in-rajouripoonch-101635856186271.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI to hover around 300 for the next few days, says IMD||Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) will remain around 300 for the next few days and residents are expected to experience air quality that will vary from ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’, Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday.“Delhi AQI will be around 300 (poor to very poor) for the next few days, with a minimum temperature of 14°C-15°C,” RK Jenamani, IMD Scientist, told news agency ANI on Tuesday.Delhi woke up to poor air quality on Tuesday as AQI stood at the threshold of 300, which went up to 305 around 8am in the morning.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) classifies an AQI ranging from 51-100 as ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 as ‘moderate’, 201-300 as ‘poor’, 301-400 as ‘very poor’ and above 401 as ‘severe’.The IMD official also opined that the air quality has been “better comparatively”, and smog hasn't developed, due to many factors”. The early warning system for New Delhi has predicted that air quality will worsen around November 5 and 6, and may reach the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category, and PM 2.5 is expected to be the predominant pollutant.Around 20 monitoring stations flagged ‘red’ as AQI crossed 300, with Shadipur recording the worst AQI at 353, followed by Narela and Bawana at 348 each.IMD predicted partly cloudy skies on Tuesday with a minimum temperature around 15 degree Celsius and maximum temperature around 30°C, marking a slight increase from the minimum temperature of 13.6°C as recorded on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-aqi-to-hover-around-300-for-the-next-few-days-says-imd-101635855798588.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||Apply Covid ‘trace, test, treat’ formula to combat dengue, zika infections: CM||LUCKNOW In wake of 11 zika virus cases in Kanpur, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked officials to apply the Covid ‘trace, test, treat’ formula to check the spread of dengue and zika infections. “So far, Kanpur has recorded 11 confirmed cases of zika infection. Under the circumstances, it is necessary to be alert and spread awareness. Run dengue testing intensively, treat ill people at hospitals and make all necessary arrangements for this. Keep track of each patient’s health condition and also step up surveillance. For prevention, undertake extensive sanitisation and fogging drives and make full use of nigrani samitis (surveillance committees),” he told officers.Yogi Adityanath said 41 districts of the state didn’t have any active Covid cases while 17 had a patient each. In the last 24 hours, 1.38 lakh tests were done in which 70 districts did not report any fresh Covid cases. Five districts reported a total seven fresh cases, he said at the Covid-19 review meeting.He said UP had 102 active Covid cases but asked people to exercise caution. “Fresh Covid cases are rising in several countries and in many states of India. There is a need to exercise alertness and precaution. Make sure that people coming in from other states are tested and be extra alert at bus/railway stations and airports, more so because it’s festival time. There should be emphasis on Covid protocols and mask-wearing,” said the CM.On Covid vaccination, he said that UP so far had administered 13.17 crore doses of the vaccine.PM to lay foundations of Ganga e-way, Noida airportChief minister Yogi Adityanath said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would soon lay the foundations for the proposed Ganga expressway from Meerut to Prayagraj and the Noida international airport in Jewar. Both the projects would speed up the state’s development. He asked officers to make all arrangements and preparations for the proposed events.Naimisharanya Tirth Vikas ParishadChief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state government made several efforts for the development and promotion of religious, spiritual, and cultural heritage in the last four-and-a-half years and Naimisharanya was one such holy pilgrimage spot. It was necessary for form Naimisharanya Tirth Vikas Parishad for expanding scope of religious tourism at the pilgrimage spot. He asked officers to do all necessary work for the formation of the parishad (board).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/apply-covid-trace-test-treat-formula-to-combat-dengue-zika-infections-cm-101635855705757.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi records nearly 1,200 dengue cases in October, highest for month in 4 years||Delhi reported nearly 1,200 cases of dengue in the month of October, the highest number of cases reported in October since 2017. The national capital had reported 346 cases and 787 cases of dengue in October of 2020 and 2019 respectively.Death toll due to dengue has also witnessed an uptick after five more deaths due to the vector-borne disease was registered on Monday, taking the death toll to six, the highest since 2017, when the death toll had reached 10.“All six deaths [in New Delhi] happened between July and October this year, and were added to the report after investigations by the death audit committee. This is the peak season for dengue and we are still reporting a large number of cases. It is important that people remain cautious and prevent mosquito bites,” a municipal official told Hindustan Times.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the city's nodal agency in-charge of compiling data on dengue, 1,072 cases and one death had been recorded in 2020.The municipal corporation now anticipates a spike in the number of malaria and chikungunya cases along with dengue, since all three have been made notifiable diseases, making it mandatory for all hospitals, clinics and diagnostic centres to report all such cases to the government. The month of October witnesses the highest number of dengue cases every year.The Delhi government has also asked to put to use one-third of the beds reserved for Covid-19 patients for dengue patients. Hospitals will also have to notify the government on the number of available beds and cases of fever.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-highest-number-of-dengue-cases-in-october-since-2017-101635855379961.html
02-11-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Hope from the extraordinary power of ordinary people||PUNE A declaration was made on Day 1 of COP26, the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference. What is extraordinary is that the declaration is from a set of ordinary human beings, members of the first Global Citizens’ Assembly. They were joined by Nicola Sturgeon, First Minister of Scotland and Vanessa Nakate, youth activist from Africa.As shared in the column in September, the Global Citizens’ Assembly for COP26 is composed of one hundred people who together are an accurate snapshot of the world’s population by gender, age, geography, education, and attitude to climate change. The Assembly members were selected by a global lottery, meaning that anyone on earth could have been chosen.Global assembly processThe Global assembly members deliberated through October 2021, in over 30 languages, each supported by a community host with online conferencing facilities.They shared their lived experiences of climate change, gaining knowledge about climate change and the global COP processes. They shared views and hopes for how humanity should address the climate and ecological crises we face. They prepared the declaration by deliberating and voting on each sentence, giving reasons for their choice.People’s DeclarationThe ‘People’s Declaration for the Sustainable Future of Planet Earth’ presented by the Global Assembly to world leaders at the COP26 climate conference, says ecocide should be “firmly enforced alongside existing environmental protection laws”.The assembly defines ecocide as: “Unlawful or wanton acts committed with knowledge that there is a substantial likelihood of severe and either widespread or long-term damage to the environment being caused by those acts.” It could make some governments, corporations, and individuals guilty of an international crime!The Global Assembly resolved to endorse the Paris agreement, which aims to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The assembly resolved that: “The (Paris) agreement has to be strictly enforced and monitored by the United Nations, in collaboration with the relevant actors at all levels of governance.”But the assembly says mitigation should be equitable. “Developed countries should assist developing countries in building up autonomous capabilities for climate action, particularly in financial and technological terms,” the declaration says.The declaration presented by the assembly members on November 1 is specifically for COP26. The Assembly’s final statement, to be published in March 2022, will contain a broader set of statements providing a full response to the framing question: how can humanity address the climate and ecological crisis fairly and effectively?Support for Global AssemblyThe UN secretary general António Guterres and COP26 president Alok Sharma have made statements supporting the Global Assembly. “The Global Citizens’ Assembly for COP26 is a practical way of showing how we can accelerate action through solidarity and people power,”said Guterres.COP26 is branded as “an inclusive COP” after the Covid-19 restrictions. The Global Assembly process shows one of the best examples of inclusion of ordinary people. It also reflects the principles of action for climate empowerment, an integral element of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and Paris agreement.ExpectationThe citizens’ proposals are ambitious, and politicians may find the ambition hard to meet, constrained as they are by traditional politics. But citizens’ assemblies around the world are putting forth proposals that are practical and commensurate with the challenge.Rich Wilson, co-founder of the Global Assembly, speaking to BBC News on the eve of COP26, said, “Success would be if government leaders match and meet the citizens’ proposals. The expectation is that the world leaders would enter into dialogue with the citizens’ assembly, acknowledging citizens as key actors in the future of managing climate and in global governance on an ongoing basis.”FutureThe Global Assembly will become a new piece of international governance infrastructure, sitting alongside the UN, the World Trade Organisation (WTO) , and others as a place for citizens to have a direct place in decision making.Global Assembly member Mulki Devi, from Katihar, Bihar, shared that, “We have been facing crop losses in recent years due to climate change. As a member of the Global Assembly, I learned a lot about climate change. Now I want to form a women’s group in my village so we can understand more and work together.”Kunal Jaiswal, cluster coordinator for the eighteen assembly members and community hosts in India, said, “The co-creation process of the Global Assembly is equitable, flexible and inclusive. I am hopeful that it will help us all to work and move together to clarify and achieve our common goals.”The one hundred people who are the members of the first assembly on climate change are not permanent members. Other ordinary people, again selected by lottery, would convene as a Global Assembly in the future on other global issues. The number of members may even go up to one thousand.The Global Assembly is about ordinary people having a say in global decision-making. National climate assemblies and community assemblies can help take these processes much closer to people. India’s rural areas have their Gram Sabha, which is already an inclusive decision-making structure that people can and should use for climate empowerment.With such mechanisms, everyone on earth has a chance to have a say – because they are a human being. As Rich Wilson says, “It’s about time that citizens were invited to the table.”Read the Global Assembly declaration and get guidance to run your community assembly at globalassembly.orgSanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-hope-from-the-extraordinary-power-of-ordinary-people-101635853606293.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena’s Kalaben Delkar leads in Dadra and Nagar Haveli bye-elections||The Shiv Sena’s Kalaben Delkar was leading against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Mahesh Gavit as counting was underway on Tuesday for the bye-election held for the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha seat on October 30.According to the Election Commission of India website, Delkar polled 60.4% of the votes while Gavit 33.48% votes. Delkar was leading by over 40,000 votes at 1.30pm, as per the website.The bye-election was necessitated by the death of Kalaben Delkar’s husband, Mohan Delkar, an independent. If Sena wins, it will be the party’s first Lok Sabha seat outside Maharashtra. The Sena’s sole assembly election victory outside the state was in the 1990s in Uttar Pradesh.Sena leader Sanjay Raut said it will be a “historic” victory for the party in Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha by-poll. In a tweet, Raut said, “First step outside Maharashtra, giant leap towards Delhi via Dadra Nagar Haveli.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-s-kalaben-delkar-leads-in-dadra-and-nagar-haveli-byeelections-101635852214522.html
02-11-2021||Patna||Tej Pratap blames Bihar RJD chief for party's defeat in Kusheshwar Asthan bypoll||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Pratap Yadav has blamed the party's state unit chief Jagada Nand Singh and MLC Sunil Singh for the defeat in Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly bypolls. Tej Pratap, who has been critical of Bihar RJD chief, said that Jagada Nand Singh, Sunil Singh and Sanjay Yadav are ruining the party. He alleged that these party leaders want to make put a wedge between him and his younger brother, Tejashwi, who is also the leader of Opposition in the Bihar assembly. “Jagada Nand Singh, Sunil Singh and Sanjay Yadav are responsible for the defeat. They are ruining the party. They want to make us (Tej Pratap and Tejashwi) fight. I request them to leave the party,” ANI quoted him Tej Pratap Yadav as saying.Aman Bhushan Hajari of Janata Dal (United) won the Kusheshwar Asthan assembly constituency that went to the polls due to the death of his father, Shashi Bhushan Hajari. JD(U) has been able to retain Kusheshwar Asthan assembly constituency with over a 12,695 vote margin against rival RJD's Ganesh Bharti.Also Read | As Lalu Prasad returns home amid fanfare, son Tej Pratap fumes over ‘humiliation’In an apparent reference of Jagada Nand and Suni Singh, Tej Pratap recently claimed that he was stopped by “agents of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)” from meeting party supremo and his father Lalu Prasad, who had returned home after years amid much fanfare.In August, Tej Pratap Yadav and Jagad Anand Singh were involved in a war of words after state president of students' wing Akash Yadav was replaced by Gagan Kumar. Tej Pratap has objected to the decision, saying the process of replacement was not in accordance with the party's constitution."Who is Tej Pratap? I am not accountable to Tej Pratap. I am accountable to Lalu Prasad, he is my president. Among 75 party members, he (Tej Pratap) is one of them. Does he have any other post in the party?" the RJD Bihar president shot back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tej-pratap-blames-bihar-rjd-chief-for-party-s-defeat-in-kusheshwar-asthan-bypoll-101635848236822.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik targets Devendra Fadnavis again, links him to ‘high-end’ parties||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday attacked Devendra Fadnavis for a second day over what he called “high end” parties organised at a five-star hotel in Mumbai that stopped being held once Fadnavis’s tenure as the chief minister ended.Malik claimed the parties cost ₹15 crore each. “Price of each table was ₹15 lakh and [the parties] would continue for the whole night. Who were organisers of the parties? Such parties continued until you were the chief minister and discontinued after the government changed [in 2019]. Were you not aware of these parties? Was your police machinery so weak?”Malik added Fandavis, who was also the home minister then, should have taken action against such parties. “I had cautioned when you (Fadnavis) completed one year in office... about your brother. I questioned what was a duplicate Devendra Fadnavis doing in the city. Had CCTV footage of hotels been released, it would have been difficult for some people to hide their faces at that time. I have never done vendetta politics.”Also Read: We were being trapped: Sameer Wankhede refutes Malik’s latest allegationsThe comments came a day after Malik on Monday tweeted pictures of Fadnavis and his wife, Amruta, with Jaydeep Rana who was arrested in a drug peddling case. Malik alleged that drug peddlers were protected under the previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Maharashtra.Fadnavis denied the allegations on Monday and said he will expose Malik’s links with “the underworld” after Diwali.Malik on Monday dared Fadnavis to expose the links. “In 62 years of my life, no one has ever dared to say that I am linked to the underworld. Everyone knows that I was the only person targeting and questioning Devendra when he was the chief minister. Despite being targeted, you (Fadnavis) chose to keep quiet. Why? If you were aware of any such links, it was your responsibility to take action against me. By making vague allegations, I will not stop.”Malik claimed a consignment of 51 tonnes of poppy seeds has been lying at Jawaharlal Nehru Port near Mumbai for over five days and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence was yet to register a case. He questioned why action has not been taken so far.He reiterated his allegation that the drug business was going on under political protection. “A dangerous game is going on related to drugs... The entire game of drugs cannot be run without political protection... those responsible for eliminating drug cartels are found allowing drug businesses to run.”BJP leader Ashish Shelar dismissed Malik’s allegations as baseless. He added he has levelled them out of fear of getting exposed after Diwali. “Why did Malik hide the sensitive information related to the drug cartel he had. Is it not a violation of the oath he has taken as a minister?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-targets-devendra-fadnavis-again-links-him-to-high-end-parties-101635849394684.html
02-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan bye-elections: Congress candidates lead in Dhariawad, Vallabhnagar||Candidates of the ruling Congress party in Rajasthan were leading in both the assembly constituencies – in Dhariawad, Pratagarh, and in Vallabhnagar, Udaipur – as counting was underway after bye-elections. Nagraj Meena was leading by a margin of 20,252 votes over Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Khet Singh Meena in Dhariawad. In Vallabhnagar, Preeti Shaktawat was ahead of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) candidate Udailal Dangi by a margin of 8,088 votes. The Vallabnagar assembly constituency has been a Congress stronghold with the party winning nine out of 16 assembly elections since 1952. The BJP candidate Randhir Singh Bhindar managed to win in 2003, and later as an independent in 2013. Dhariawad, which became a constituency after delimitation in 2008, has witnessed three assembly polls, with the BJP having won twice, in 2013 and 2018, and the Congress in 2008. Tranpsort minister Pratap Singh Khachariywas said, “We thank the people for supporting the policies of the Ashok Gehlot-led government. The win will show that Gehlot’s policies are… [endorsed] by the people.” Sports minister Ashok Chandana, who was among the leaders who campaigned in Dhariawad, said the people have voted for the “good governance” of Gehlot. “The Congress candidates on both the seats are going to win the elections with huge margins, and this was expected,” he said. BJP state president Satish Poonia said local equations didn’t go in the party’s favour and the trends were unexpected. “The BJP suffered because of the division of votes in both the constituencies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bye-elections-congress-candidates-lead-in-dhariawad-vallabhnagar-101635845195734.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 pandemic: Maharashtra records lowest single-day cases in over a year||Maharashtra recorded under 1,000 daily Covid-19 cases after a week as 809 infections were reported on Monday, the lowest single-day caseload since May 2, 2020, when it reported 790 cases.The state has also reported a drop in the positivity rate. In May, the test positivity rate was over 10%. The test positivity rate on Monday was 0.94%. Authorities said the fewer cases on Mondays are because lesser people are tested over weekends.Kedar Toraskar, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 Task Force, said, “It is surprising that we are seeing a decline in cases despite people not adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. I think cases are declining due to vaccinations and herd immunity.”State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate said, “We never had so few figures in the past one and a half years. I agree it is Monday and figures are low, but it has never been so low. Our entire effort of ramping up tests, isolating the patients as well as mass vaccinations have given us good results.”Mumbai reported 258 cases and four deaths on Monday. The number of active patients in Maharashtra is 15,552. The toll from the pandemic has reached 140,226.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the third wave may or may not come as there is no new deadly variant in the state. He called for a need to speed up the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-pandemic-maharashtra-records-lowest-single-day-cases-in-over-a-year-101635842074426.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police bust gang of robbers, recover four pistols||With the arrest of five persons, the crime investigation agency of Ludhiana Rural police on Monday claimed to have busted a gang of robbers which was planning to commit a burglary. According to the police, the accused had gathered at a vacant plot with weapons and were hatching a conspiracy to execute robbery at a fuel station and a liquor vend.The police have recovered four pistols of .32 bore along with magazines, 18 live cartridges of .32 bore and two bullet shells from the possession of the accused.The arrested accused were identified as Arshdeep Singh alias Arsh of Agwar Gujjran village in Jagraon, Manoj Kumar Singla of Sant Nagar in Jagraon, Rajpreet Singh alias Raja of Issewal, Prabhjot Singh alias Gaddu of Baddowal and Jaskaran Singh of Birmi. Inspector Prem Singh, in-charge, CIA staff, Ludhiana Rural, said there was a tip-off that some miscreants had gathered at a vacant plot opposite Divine Palace on Ludhiana-Moga highway and were also carrying weapons with them. A raid was conducted at the spot and the accused were nabbed, he added. A case under sections 399 and 402 of the IPC and relevant provisions of the Arms Act was registered against the accused at the Sadar Jagraon police station.The inspector said that the accused were being questioned and there were chances of getting some important information from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-bust-gang-of-robbers-recover-four-pistols-101635839853896.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Two women posing as cleaners flee with cash, jewellery in Ludhiana||Two women posing as house cleaners decamped with cash and jewellery worth lakhs, police said on Monday. The incident took place in Jamalpur Colony of Urban Estate’s Phase 1, where the accused entered a house on the pretext of cleaning and fled with gold and cash lying in a cupboard. The woman who had hired them for cleaning learnt about the theft later when her daughter-in-law opened the cupboard in the night and found the jewellery and cash missing. The matter was reported at the Focal Point police station. According to victim Saroj Rani, the women had entered her house around 11am on Saturday. She said they decamped with about 250 grams of gold jewellery and ₹60,000 from her daughter-in-law’s room. Saroj Rani said her husband had gone to market at the time of the incident and her son Amit was at his shop, while her daughter-in-law, a teacher at a private school, was also at work. She was at home with her eight-year-old granddaughter at the time of theft. The women have been, meanwhile, captured in CCTV cameras installed in the house. ASI Darshan Singh said a complaint was received and a case has been registered against two unidentified women under sections 454 and 380 of the IPC. The police have launched a hunt to nab the women, he added. The footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the house has been sent to all police stations, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-women-posing-as-cleaners-flee-with-cash-jewellery-in-ludhiana-101635839674989.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Railway underbridge in Pakhowal turns into cesspool||The under-construction railway underbridge (RUB) on Pakhowal Road crossing — from Pakhowal canal bridge towards Sarabha Nagar — has turned into a pool of waste water after a chamber of the main sewer line (72 inches wide) got damaged during the construction process. The main line caters to lakhs of population residing in Dholewal, Dugri, Gill Road, Partap Chowk and other areas. The chamber was damaged around a week ago and the sewage flow has not stopped. The MC is making efforts to repair the chamber by diverting or slowing down the flow of sewage in the main line. As per MC officials, the chamber is situated near the construction site and was damaged by the Railways while digging a portion near the tracks. The construction works have now been put on hold at the site. One of the MC officials, who wished not to be named, said that it was the main sewer line. “It is not possible to plug the main line, otherwise sewer lines in a major portion of the city will choke. The MC is trying to reduce the flow of the water in the main line by diverting or reducing the inflow, so that the chamber can be repaired. But it will take a few more days,” he added. Area councillor Amrit Varsha Rampal said the line needs to be repaired at the earliest as a major portion of the city will face problems due to clogged sewer lines. Though the sewer lines have not choked as of now, this can be a major issue in future, Rampal said, adding that foul smell has already spread in the area around the construction site. Meanwhile, additional MC commissioner Aditya Dachalwal said the main sewer line was attached to the sewer treatment plant of the civic body and efforts were being made to repair the same at the earliest. “The flow is being reduced and a large amount of accumulated water has been drained out of the RUB site. No complaints have been received regarding clogged sewer lines as of now as the flow has not been stopped completely,” he added. Work stopped, project already moving at snail’s pace The Pakhowal Road ROB/RUBs project has already missed deadlines in the past and the incident is expected to delay the project further as the work has been stopped at the site.Earlier, the authorities had stated that the RUB from Pakhowal Road canal bridge towards Sarabha Nagar will be opened for traffic by August 31, but the deadline was extended to December 31. MC officials, however, said that the construction work will be started soon at the site and the RUB will be completed by December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-railway-underbridge-in-pakhowal-turns-into-cesspool-101635839494103.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two accident victims succumb to injuries||Two persons who had met with accidents on GT Road succumbed to their injuries, police said on Monday. The first accident was reported on October 29. Manpreet Singh of Patiala, a private bus driver, said his fellow driver Jaswinder Singh of Sangrur was hit by a speeding truck in Dhandari area. He said the truck driver, who was identified as Malkit Singh of Batala, fled the scene. Jaswinder was admitted to a trauma centre in Patiala with head injuries, where he died during treatment, Manpreet added. The police have registered an FIR against the truck driver. In the second incident, an unidentified driver was booked for crushing a 50-year-old man to death. The deceased has been identified as Kewal Krishan. The case was registered on the complaint of victim’s brother-in-law Ashok Kumar, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar.The accident had taken place on October 23 on Ludhiana-Delhi road. Ashok Kumar said that Kewal Krishan was crossing the road when he was hit by a vehicle. “Kewal was rushed to a hospital in Patiala where he succumbed to his injuries after a week,” he added. In both the cases, the accused have been charged under Section 304-A (causing death due to reckless driving) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-accident-victims-succumb-to-injuries-101635839194008.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana civic body goes on cleanliness overdrive ahead of Diwali||With an aim to present a cleaner look of the city ahead of the festival of Diwali, Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) launched a mega cleanliness drive on Monday morning. At MC’s Zone-D office, mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal directed the staffers, who were asked to report at 7am, to focus on main markets, roads, religious places and green belts and parks. The commissioners of all four MC’s zones were also instructed to collaborate with the councillors to spread awareness and ensure smooth flow of traffic in main markets of the city. It was decided that the drive will be conducted in the main markets, including those of Bhadaur House, Chaura Bazaar, Sector 32 on Chandigarh Road, Sarabha Nagar, Ghumar Mandi, Model Town, and Malhar Road. The sanitation staff was directed to conduct night sweeping in areas where it is difficult to carry on drives during the daytime due to heavy footfall. Directions were also issued to repair road dividers and verges.At a time when the authorities have failed to act against encroachers in the main markets resulting in traffic chaos, the staff was directed to ensure that the encroachments do not become a hindrance in smooth flow of traffic. The health branch officials were asked to ensure timely lifting of garbage from over 40 secondary dumping points in the city and take action against those burning leaves and dumping waste in the green belts and parks. Sabharwal said, “People clean their houses and surroundings on Diwali and the staff of civic body has been directed to ensure that the city also wears a clean look during the festival. The zonal commissioners have been directed to step forward and work in tandem with the councillors as they know their area well. The officials have also been told to clear the choked sewer lines. Inspections will be done on ground level and if any anomalies are found, action will be taken against officers concerned.” ‘Keep in touch with fire brigade’Considering the large number of fire incidents reported in the city on Diwali, the zonal commissioners have been directed to be in touch with the fire brigade under their respective jurisdictions. The vehicles should be kept on standby and temporary stations should also be established to reduce response time on Diwali, they were told. Arrangements should also be made to arrange water from tubewells and industrial units on Tajpur Road, Bahadurke Road and other areas, which are at some distance from the fire stations as precious time is wasted to refill the tenders from the fire stations. ‘Celebrate plastic-free Diwali’The civic body has appealed to the residents to celebrate plastic-free Diwali. Plastic carry bags were banned in the state in April 2016, but are still being used at every nook and corner of the city due to lack of enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-civic-body-goes-on-cleanliness-overdrive-ahead-of-diwali-101635839015266.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana robbery bid: Had no clue about their burglary plan, say kin of dead robber||Relatives of one of the robbers, who was shot dead by an alert security guard during a burglary attempt at Muthoot Fincorp’s branch in Sundar Nagar two days ago, arrived in the city on Monday. Among them were his uncle, brother and a cousin, who claimed that they were not aware of the robbery plan. It was after they received a call from the Ludhiana police that they learnt about the incident, they added. The family maintained that the accused neither informed them about his visit to Ludhiana nor did they know the purpose of his visit. ACP Dharampal said due to some documentation work, the robber’s postmortem examination could not be conducted on Monday. It will be done on Tuesday after which the body will be handed over to the family members for cremation, he added. Was a habitual offenderDuring the course of investigation, it has also come to the fore that the accused, identified as Amar Pratap Singh, was facing multiple criminal charges.The 13-year-old brother of the deceased robber said Amar had left the house on October 26, stating that he was going out of town along with his friends for an urgent piece of work. He said among the three siblings — two brothers and a sister — Amar was the sole breadwinner of the family as due to age-related problems, his father and mother could not work. Amar Partap Singh of Rasalpur village, Nalanda, Bihar was shot dead by a security guard at Muthoot Fincorp’s gold loan branch in Sundar Nagar after he, along with his three aides, attempted a robbery on October 30. In the incident, one of the robbers had shot at the manager of the branch, who suffered bullet injury in his right shoulder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-robbery-bid-had-no-clue-about-their-burglary-plan-say-kin-of-dead-robber-101635838893954.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Defunct streetlights to play a spoilsport during Diwali||At a time when Ludhiana is gearing up to celebrate Diwali, defunct LED streetlights in different parts of the city are playing a spoilsport during the festival of lights. As per residents and councillors, the non-functional streetlights on main roads and residential areas also increase the chances of snatching and other crimes. Many people had been complaining against the same in Model Town Extension, Dugri, Bahadurke Road, Bhamiyan Road, BRS Nagar, Field Ganj, and Haibowal among other areas. They say the company that has been given the contract to look after the lights does not pay heed to their issues despite repeated complaints. They express resentment over the municipal corporation’s failure in taking any action against the contractor. Leader of Opposition in the MC House, SAD councillor Jaspal Giaspura also slammed the authorities for making tall claims of cancelling the company’s contract, but not doing anything on the ground level. He said, “The issue has been discussed in MC House meetings several times. Streetlights on main roads of my ward are still lying defunct. In many areas, the problem is persistent for around four months. MC officials had stated that all the lights will be repaired before Diwali, but the ground reality is different.”One of the residents of Shastri Nagar, Monty, said that streetlights on the lane leading to his house near Tirkona park on Model Town-Jawaddi road have been lying defunct for over a week now. “There is always a fear of any accident or snatching. Complaints have also been submitted with MC officials , but to no avail,” he added. One of the MC officials, while requesting anonymity, said that a large number of complaints were pending with the company, but a small number of staffers has been deputed by, which affects the work. Even councillors from the Congress criticised the MC and company for delaying the installation of around 15,000 new streetlights. Over one lakh LED streetlights have already been installed in the city, as claimed by contractor company officials. Congress councillor from ward number 68 Baljinder Bunty said due to delay in installation, many of the areas will be left in dark during Diwali too. “The MC should expedite the process,” he added. MC chief Pardeep Sabharwal said contractor company officials have already been directed to ensure all streetlights were functional, not only near Diwali but on regular days too. “The situation has improved as more men and machinery has been pressed into service after the MC tightened the noose around the company. The staff has also been directed to keep a check on the non-functional lights and get those repaired. Steps are also being taken to ensure installation of new lights at missing points as soon as possible,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-defunct-streetlights-to-play-a-spoilsport-during-diwali-101635838713901.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Congress candidate leading in Maharastra’s Deglur assembly bye-elections||The Congress party’s Jitesh Antapurkar was leading in Maharastra’s Deglur assembly bye-polls by over 6,000 votes after the fifth round of counting. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Subhash Sabne polled 12,077 votes and Antapurkar 18,247 votes. Antapurkar, who has been leading from the first round of the counting, is the joint candidate of Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi.The BJP has said it will replicate its performance in the Pandharpur bye-polls in May in Deglur. The BJP won in May even as the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party, and the Congress jointly contested the Pandharpur bye-polls.Major leaders from three parties campaigned in Pandharpur in western Maharashtra.The Deglur bye-polls were necessitated because of the death of the Congress’s two-time lawmaker Raosaheb Antapurkar in April. The constituency is reserved for scheduled caste candidates. The Congress has fielded Raosaheb Antapurkar’s son Jitesh Antapurkar, while Prakash Ambedkar-led Bahujan Vanchit Aghadi has fielded Uttam Ingole.Sabne, a three-term lawmaker from Nanded, defected from the Shiv Sena to the BJP two days ahead of filing the nominations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-candidate-leading-in-maharastra-s-deglur-assembly-byeelections-101635837754091.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||We were being trapped: Sameer Wankhede refutes Malik’s latest allegations||Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) official who is investigating the drugs-on-cruise case involving Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and others, on Tuesday hit back at Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik over his allegations of a WhatsApp chat between his sister and a drug smuggler. Sameer Wankhede also refuted Malik’s claims that he wears expensive clothes and accessories.Wankhede said a drug peddler approached his sister, Yasmeen Wankhede, who is a lawyer, but she told him she does not handle cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.“A peddler, Salman, had approached my sister but she doesn't take NDPS cases so she sent him back. Salman had tried to trap us via a middleman. He was arrested and he is in jail. False allegations are being levelled by sharing his WhatsApp chat,” Sameer Wankhede said on Nawab Malik's allegations, according to news agency ANI.“The middleman, who had tried to trap us, had given a false complaint earlier this year to the Mumbai Police. Nothing came out of it. After that peddlers like Salman were used to trap my family. Such attempts are going on and the drug mafia is behind this,” Wankhede, the NCB Mumbai zonal director, said.Also read | No drugs were found on Aryan Khan, claims Sam D'Souza: ReportNationalist Congress Party leader (NCP) Malik, who has been attacking Wankhede and has called the NCB's raid on the cruise ship last month fake, earlier in the day accused the NCB Mumbai zonal director of extorting crores of rupees. He also alleged that Wankhede has raised a private army that extorts money through frivolous drugs cases."As per information available with me, as soon as Wankhede joined this department, he raised his private army comprising Kiran Gosavi. Manish Bhanushali, Fletcher Patel, Adil Usmani and Sam D'Souza," Malik told ANI. "This private army extorts money in the garb of these small cases that are highlighted exponentially to frame people while the big cases of relevance go unnoticed," he added.Also read | Sameer Wankhede doing his duty, making department proud: Caste panel officialMalik claimed NCB’s Wankhede wore a trouser worth a lakh, a shirt costing over ₹70,000 and watches worth ₹25-50 lakh. “How can an honest and upright officer claim to afford such expensive clothes?” he asked.Wankhede refuted the claims made by the minister. “As far as my expensive clothes are concerned, it is just a rumour. He has less knowledge and he should find out these things,” Wankhede said.Also read | On Wankhede’s ‘clean chit’ by caste panel official, Nawab Malik’s objectionWankhede, who is leading the investigation into the drugs bust case, is facing an inquiry by the NCB after Prabhakar Sail, an agency witness, claimed to have overheard a conversation about an alleged payoff of  ₹25 crore involving Sameer Wankhede in connection with the case. Sail claimed that  ₹8 crore of the total payoff amount was to be given to Wankhede.Aryan Khan was released on bail on Sunday after spending more than 20 days in the Arthur Road jail after being granted bail by the Bombay high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/we-were-being-trapped-sameer-wankhede-refutes-malik-s-latest-allegations-101635836897360.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal byelections: Congress scores 4-0, BJP loses to infighting||The opposition Congress swept the byelections in the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency besides the Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments by defeating the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday. Celebrations broke out in the Congress camp even before the Election Commission formally announced the results in the evening. Pratibha Singh, the Congress candidate and wife of former chief minister the late Virbhadra Singh, won from Mandi parliamentary constituency by 7,490 votes. A former two-term member of Parliament from Mandi, Pratibha polled 3,69,565 votes, while her BJP rival Brigadier Khushal Chand Thakur (retd) got 3,62,075 votes. NOTA plays spoilsport for BJPNone of the above (NOTA) played spoilsport for the BJP as it got 12,626 votes. In the 2019 general election, the BJP had won the Mandi seat by more than 4.5 lakh votes. Its voteshare declined by 20.61% in two years. The party had polled 48.14% votes as compared to 68.75% in the 2019 elections. The Congress vote share rose by 23.46%. In the last elections, it polled just 25.64% votes, while this time it got 49.14% of votes. The Mandi seat is significant as it is the home turf of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for whom this election was a litmus test of his and his party’s popularity as the state heads into an election year. The win also establishes that Pratibha will carry forward the political legacy of Virbhadra Singh, a six-time chief minister who passed away in July. Their son, Vikramaditya Singh, actively campaigned for her in the byelections. Infighting costs BJP dear in Fatehpur In Fatehpur assembly segment, Bhawani Singh Pathania of the Congress won by 5,789 votes. Pathania polled 24,449 votes against the BJP’s Baldev Thakur. Former member of Parliament Rajan Sushant, who contested as an independent candidate this time, polled 12,927 votes, thus playing spoilsport for his former party, the BJP. The ruling party was marred by infighting in Fatehpur, a stronghold of the Congress for more than a decade. The byelection was necessitated after sitting legislator Sujan Singh Pathania passed away due to a prolonged illness in February. His son, Bhawani, quit his job in a banking and insurance company to take the poll plunge. Congress snatches Jubbal-Kotkhai from BJP The Congress snatched the Jubbal-Kotkhai seat from the BJP. Congress nominee and a former two-term legislator, Rohit Thakur, defeated BJP rebel turned independent candidate Chetan Bragta by 6,293 votes. The BJP suffered a humiliating drubbing as its candidate, Neelam Saraik, couldn’t even save her security deposit. The death of BJP MLA Narinder Singh Bragta had necessitated the byelection. Thakur, the grandson of former chief minister Ram Lal Thakur, polled 29,955 votes, while Chetan, the son of Narinder Bragta, got 23,662 votes. Saraik managed to get only 2,644 votes. The BJP’s vote share slid by 45%, while the Congress vote share increased by 4.67% in the constituency. Congress retains Arki seat, infighting hits BJP The Congress also retained the Arki assembly seat that had fallen vacant after former CM Virbhadra Singh’s death in July. Congress candidate Sanjay Awasthi polled 30,798 votes against the 27,579 votes his BJP rival, Rattan Pal Singh, got. In Arki too, infighting harmed the BJP’s prospects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-byelections-congress-leads-in-mandi-arki-fatehpur-101635834513882.html
02-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal bye-elections: TMC leads in all four seats; party workers, fans celebrate||The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Bengal was leading in all four assembly constituencies on Tuesday morning where bye-elections were held on Saturday, sparking early celebrations among party workers and supporters. According to latest reports, the TMC’s margin at the top was highest in Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, where its candidate Subrata Saha was leading by around 98,000 votes. The TMC was also ahead in Dinhata in north Bengal, where party heavyweight Udayan Guha was leading by more than 81,000 votes. “In the assembly elections, we lost by 57 votes. We set a target to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the by-polls by 57,000 votes. But as the by-elections came closer, our workers became charged up and we changed our target to defeating the BJP by a margin of at least 100,000 votes,” said Udayan Guha. Also Read: BJP protests Bangladesh killings in Bengal assembly; MLAs march with candlesPalash Rana, BJP candidate from Gosaba, said, “When the by-elections could not be held in a free and fair manner, what result can you expect on the counting day?” In the other two constituencies - Santipur in Nadia and Khardah in North 24 Parganas - the ruling TMC was leading by a margin of more than 12,000 votes and 18000 votes, respectively, poll panel officials said. The trend that TMC was leading was already clear by around 10am, and celebrations broke out in several parts of the constituencies that went to polls. TMC workers burst firecrackers and celebrated with colour, with Covid-19 safety protocols taking a back seat. “The counting was going on peacefully and there were no reports of any untoward incidents,” said a poll panel official. In May this year, the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC party won the assembly polls for the third time in a row with a sweeping victory in the 292-seat contest. Later, the party won two more seats in bye-elections held on September 30. If the party wins all four seats, its tally in the state assembly will rise to 217.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bye-elections-tmc-leads-in-all-four-seats-party-workers-fans-celebrate-101635834033427.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar’s property worth ₹1000 crore seized||The income tax (I-T) department has provisionally attached various properties worth around ₹1,000 crore across Maharashtra, Delhi and Goa linked to Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, officials said on Tuesday.The attached properties include a cooperative sugar factory, according to officials. The action was taken by the I-T department after discovering an unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore last month during the massive search operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-s-property-worth-rs-1000-crore-seized-101635833419332.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Nobody has the guts…: Malik's swipe at Fadnavis over his underworld link remark||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday hit back at Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis after he said on Monday he will provide evidence of Malik's involvement with the underworld after Diwali. Referring to Fadnavis's claims, Malik asked him not to wait and go ahead in exposing his links with the underworld.“It was said that Nawab Malik has underworld connections.I spent 62 years of my life in this city. Nobody has the guts to point fingers and say that I have underworld connections,” news agency ANI quoted Nawab Malik, the Nationalist Congress Party leader, as saying.Devendra Fadnavis' rebuttal came after Nawab Malik said there was a link between the former Maharastra chief minister and a drug peddler called Jaydeep Rana, who also enjoyed good relations with Fadnavis.Also read | On Fadnavis-Malik row over drugs case, Thackeray says ‘let’s see what happens’Malik also further alleged that Rana funded an album named ‘Mumbai River Anthem’ which was sung by Amruta Fadnavis, wife of Devendra Fadnavis, and Bollywood singer Sonu Nigam. The album was released in February 2018.Addressing a press conference in Mumbai, Fadnavis on Monday said, "There are no relations between Jaydeep Rana with me or my wife. Those who have relations with the underworld should not speak about me. I will present evidence of Nawab Malik's relations with the underworld. I am waiting for Diwali to pass.Amruta Fadnavis also hit back at Nawab Malik on Monday after he posted a photograph of her with the alleged drug peddler, saying it was the River March NGO that had roped in the man in question. She called for converting the “bigde Nawab energy into sudhre Nawab”. She also said that questions should be directed at "bigde Nawab's "boss or super boss".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nobody-has-the-guts-malik-s-swipe-at-fadnavis-over-his-underworld-link-remark-101635826934938.html
02-11-2021||Patna||Bihar bye-elections: RJD seeks removal of returning officer at Kusheshwar Asthan||Just before the counting for bye-elections at Bihar’s Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats began on Tuesday, the main opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) called upon the Election Commission to remove the returning officer (RO) at Kushweshwar Asthan, arguing that his conduct was under the scanner because he had allegedly intimidated voters during the 2020 assembly polls. In a letter sent to Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra at 12.37am on Tuesday, the RJD’s Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha said Sanjeev Kumar Kapar, the returning officer at Kusheshwar Asthan, who is a sub-divisional officer at Biraul, had allegedly intimidated people to vote for the ruling party during the 2020 assembly elections in Bihar. Jha also attached audio and video files with the letter to argue his case and support the charges he made against Kapar.The letter was also circulated among members of the press. Also Read: Tejashwi Yadav confident RJD will win by ‘handsome margin’“We write this to you to convey our strongest reservation that the said officer’s presence as returning officer for the counting process shall seriously undermine the idea of free and fair elections, and hence the officer concerned should be divested of the responsibilities as returning officer for this important exercise,” Jha said in his letter to the CEC. Counting for the two bye-election seats started at 8am on Tuesday, with postal ballots being counted first, followed by EVMs votes. The by-polls are important for both the ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) and the Opposition RJD. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers, leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, and RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav – all of them had taken part in rallies ahead of the elections. Allegations of partisan behaviour of poll officials and misuse of state machinery have been flying thick and fast from both the ruling JD(U) and the RJD. On election day last Saturday, the JD(U) reacted sharply after it emerged from an audio circulating on social media that a block development officer was purportedly talking to a close aide of the party’s nominee from Kusheshwar Asthan in an intimidating manner. Earlier, the RJD complained about alleged partisan behaviour of a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) posted at Biraul in Darbhanga on poll duty. The officer was eventually removed from election duty ahead of the bye-elections. The results of the bye-polls will be significant for both the JD(U) and the RJD.A win for the JD(U) will give the ruling party a much needed opportunity to take on rival RJD in the backdrop of CM Nitish Kumar’s development model and “susshashan ( good governance)” campaign.A victory for the RJD will not only increase the party’s tally of MLAs from 75, it will also give Tejashwi Yadav and Lalu Prasad Yadav the scope to step up pressure on the ruling JD(U), among other advantages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bye-elections-rjd-seeks-removal-of-returning-officer-at-kusheshwar-asthan-101635832713545.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||No drugs were found on Aryan Khan, claims Sam D'Souza: Report||The man, whose name cropped up in connection with the pay-off allegations surrounding the drugs-on-cruise case, on Monday claimed that he was told by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) witness KP Gosavi that no drugs were found on Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, during the agency’s raid in October."In the wee hours of October 3, I came to know that the celebrity who was caught on the ship was Aryan Khan. That time Aryan told Gosavi that he wanted to talk to his manager Pooja Dadlani. Gosavi conveyed Aryan's message. That time Gosavi told me that Aryan Khan was clean and no drugs were found in his possession. He said we can help him (Aryan Khan)," D'Souza claimed, according to PTI.Also read | Aryan Khan case: SRK’s manager apparently influenced witness, NCB tells HCD'Souza said he, Gosavi, Pooja Dadlani, her husband and a man called Chikki Pandey then met at Lower Parel area of Mumbai, reported PTI. D'Souza added that he later came to know through a man called Sunil Patil that a "token amount" of ₹50 lakh is being paid.Also read | No Sameer Wankhede arrest without notice: Maharashtra govt to Bombay high courtAccording to the news agency, D'Souza also claimed that NCB officials are not corrupt. He added that Gosavi, who has been arrested in a connection with a cheating case,  and Prabhakar Sail, another independent witness in the drugs-on-cruise case, were calling each other over the phone by saving NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhade's name in their mobile phones to pretend as if he was in touch with them.Sail claimed and filed an affidavit last month that he overheard Gosavi discussing a ₹25 crore deal with Sam D'Souza over the phone in connection with the drugs case of which ₹8 crore was meant to be paid to Sameer Wankhede. Wankhede has dismissed all allegations against him as "baseless" and said he conducted a fair probe in the cruise drugs case.Also read | Witness Prabhakar Sail ready to cooperate in inquiry against Wankhede: LawyersSail claims to be the bodyguard of Gosavi, who was recently arrested by the Pune Police in a fraud case pending against him. Gosavi's photograph with Aryan Khan inside the NCB raids surfaced raising several questions.The five-member team, headed by NCB deputy director general of the northern region, Gyaneshwar Singh, is probing Wankhede and others following Sail's claims of the payoff.Officials have said that the NCB special team has recorded the statements of eight people, including Wankhede, and collected some important documents and recordings related to the cruise drugs case. However, the team failed to record the statements of Sail and Gosavi.Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB along with his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmum Dhamecha on October 3. The 23-year-old, who spent 22 days in jail, is out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-drugs-were-found-on-aryan-khan-claims-sam-d-souza-report-101635831286961.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train service suspended between Virar and Dahanu||The local train services between Virar and Dahanu stations in Mumbai have been suspended. The update was shared by the divisional railway manager (DRM), Western Railway."Due to technical reasons Local train services between Virar and Dahanu Raod has been suspended until further information," the DRM posted on Twitter.@WesternRly @ACMBCT2 Due to technical reasons Local train services between Virar and Dahanu Raod has been suspended until further information.Earlier, engine of a goods train had failed near Virar railway station.The footfall in Mumbai local trains started increasing as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation started improving in India's financial capital.Following the demands from passengers, the Maharashtra government on Sunday permitted the Central and Western Railway to restart issuing of daily tickets on their suburban railway network for all those who are fully vaccinated and have completed the mandatory cooling period of 14 days after vaccination.The state government had asked the railways to discontinue daily tickets and issue only monthly passes after resumption of the train services following the second wave of Covid-19. Only people working in the essential services were allowed to get daily tickets.Further, to increase its revenue, the Western Railway has introduced infotainment screens in compartments of eight local trains.The project is part of a non-fare revenue scheme and around 20 local trains will be fitted with such infotainment screens in the coming future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-service-suspended-between-virar-and-dahanu-101635831582937.html
02-11-2021||City||Bihar bypolls 2021: Tejashwi Yadav confident RJD will win by ‘handsome margin’||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Tuesday expressed confidence that his party would win by a ‘handsome margin,’ as counting of votes began for bypolls to two assembly constituencies in Bihar, the voting for which was held on October 30. Yadav, the leader of opposition in the state assembly, also stressed that he won't let the mandate of the people be ‘stolen by anybody.’Follow Live updates on Bihar bypolls vote counting here“We'll win by a handsome margin. If the administration or other people try to create any disturbance, then I'm here in Darbhanga. I'll not let the mandate be stolen by anybody. Our teams are here and overseeing everything,” Yadav said, according to news agency ANI.
02-11-2021||Patna||Bihar bye-polls: Initial round of counting shows mixed results for RJD, JD(U)||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) took an early lead at Kushweshwar Asthan and the ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) was ahead at Tarapur after the initial round of counting on Tuesday morning in bye-elections for the two seats in Bihar, according to reports.At 10am, the RJD led by 670 votes over the JD(U), the Congress and other parties at Kushweshwar Asthan, while in Tarapur, the JD(U) held a slender lead over its rival RJD, as per reports. Counting for the two seats began at 8am. The ruling JD(U) fielded Aman Bhushan Hazaari from Kushweshar Asthan and Rajiv Kumar Singh from Tarapur, while the RJD fielded Ganesh Bharti from Kushweshwar Asthan and Arun Kumar from Tarapur. The Congress, too, is fighting both the seats in the bye-elections that were necessitated following the deaths of two sitting MLAs - Mewalal Choudhary from Tarapur and Shashi Bhushan Hazari from Kushweshwar Asthan. Both belonged to the ruling JD(U) party. The RJD’s early lead at Kushweshwar Asthan, a constituency in Darbhanga that was won by the ruling JD(U) in the 2020 assembly polls, is seen as a big boost to the main Opposition party that has called upon the Election Commission to divest the responsibilities of the returning officer of the constituency, Sanjeev Kumar Kapar, alleging the officer of resorting to partiality in the last assembly polls. “We are going to win both the seats. In Kushweshwar Asthan, we are in the lead position, while in Tarapur , we will get a victory,” said an RJD spokesperson. JD(U) spokesperson Manish Mandal hopes the party will eventually win both the seats. “It’s just the initial rounds. We are confident of winning both the seats,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bye-polls-initial-round-of-counting-shows-mixed-results-for-rjd-jdu-101635829173451.html
02-11-2021||Indore||MP bypolls: BJP ahead in 1 LS, 2 assembly seats, Congress leads in Raigaon||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was leading in two assembly seats and one Lok Sabha constituency in Madhya Pradesh where the counting of votes was underway on Tuesday, the latest trends showed. The Congress, on the other hand, was ahead in one seat. The counting of votes is underway for the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency and three assembly seats of Prithvipur, Raigaon (SC) and Jobat (ST) in Madhya Pradesh.In the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, BJP candidate Gyaneshwar Patil was leading by 14,365 votes over his Congress rival Rajnarayan Singh Purni, an official told news agency PTI.According to updates after seven rounds of counting, BJP candidate Sulochana Rawat was leading with 5,583 votes in Madhya Pradesh's Jobat assembly seat. From the Raigaon assembly seat, the Congress's Kalpana Verma took the lead of 1,489 votes, leaving behind BJP's Pratima Bagri, the latest trends further showed.From the Prithvipur assembly seat in Niwari district, BJP's Shishupal Singh Yadav was ahead of his Congress rival Nitendra Singh Rathore by 430 votes, according to the latest trends cited by PTI.The by-elections in all the four constituencies in Madhya Pradesh was necessitated due to the demise of the sitting representatives. As many as 48 candidates are in the fray for the four seats.In the bypolls on Saturday, 63.88% voter turnout was recorded in the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency while Jobat, Prithvipur and Raigaon assembly seats recorded 55.30%, 78.14% and 69.01% turnout respectively.While the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency and Raigaon assembly seat were previously with the ruling BJP, Jobat and Prithvipur were held by its arch-rival Congress. The two parties are also in a direct contest in other bypolls. Currently, the BJP enjoys a comfortable majority in the MP state assembly with 126 out of the 230 total seats while Congress holds 94 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-latest-update-bjp-leading-on-khandwa-lok-sabha-prithvipur-raigaon-jobat-assembly-seats-show-early-trends-101635828493337.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||New Delhi wakes up to ‘very poor’ air quality on Tuesday morning||Residents of New Delhi woke up to ‘very poor’ air quality on Tuesday morning, with the overall air quality index (AQI) crossing the threshold of 300 and 20 stations reporting “red”, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). New Delhi’s overall AQI stood at 305 at 8am – a spike from Monday’s 4pm reading of 281, which was “poor”. The air quality is predicted to remain in this range for the next 24 hours, even though the wind direction changed to southeasterly, reducing the impact of stubble burning in the Capital. The CPCB classifies an AQI of 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”. In October, New Delhi didn’t see a single day of “very poor” air quality, with the worst AQI of 298, labelled “poor”, recorded on October 17. Also Read: ‘Call taken due to Covid, pollution’: Delhi doubles down on cracker banOut of the 20 stations that reported the “very poor” category on Tuesday morning, Shadipur recorded the worst AQI, at 353, followed by Narela and Bawana, at 348 each. According to the early warning system (EWS) for New Delhi, which forecasts air quality in the region, the AQI is expected to hover between “poor” and the lower end of “very poor” until Wednesday. Also, the air quality is expected to deteriorate around November 5 and 6, and may reach the upper end of the “very poor” category, with PM 2.5 expected to be the pre-dominant pollutant, according to the EWS. Tuesday turned out to be yet another chilly morning, with the mercury settling at 14.5 degrees Celsius – one degree below normal for this time of the season. The capital recorded its coldest morning of the season so far on Monday, when the minimum temperature dropped to 13.6 degrees Celsius. Met officials say a change in the wind direction to southeasterly has led to a slight rise in temperatures, with colder northwesterly winds expected by November 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-wakes-up-to-very-poor-air-quality-on-tuesday-morning-101635827733319.html
02-11-2021||Patna||Electricity in Bihar may be cheaper as existing power tariffs, slabs likely to be revised: Report||Electricity may get cheaper in Bihar as power slabs and tariffs are likely to be revised, reported Hindustan Times's sister publication Live Hindustan. The electricity department has already been strategising to bring the plan to fruition, however, the consent from Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BRRC) is yet to be sought.Speaking to reporters on Monday, energy secretary Sanjeev Hans said that they have been working on reducing the categories in electricity, which was earlier brought down from 90 to 36.The changes will be made in the power slabs too, which will be further brought down to two in the coming days as against the present three.The official also said that a 3 per cent discount is being given on online submission of electricity bills as against 2.5 per cent being given earlier.The official also spoke on the smart, prepaid metres that will be soon installed in Bihar. He said the smart meters will be more beneficial to customers as no fee is charged for installing the smart meters. Once the installation is done, the company that installed the meters will also keep a check for maintenance for at least 8 years.Notably, 17.5 million electricity metres in Bihar will be converted into smart, prepaid metres by 2025. The metres will not require manual reading for billing, distribution of bills, collection of fees and disconnection over non-payment of dues.Earlier this year, the Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC) approved an average cumulative hike in power tariff by 0.63% over the existing rate for the financial year 2021-22.For domestic urban customers, the power tariff was hiked by 5 paise to 35 paise per unit. However, for those consuming more power (over 300 units in the existing category), the commission slashed the per unit rate from ₹8.50 to ₹8.05.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/electricity-in-bihar-may-be-cheaper-as-existing-power-tariffs-slabs-likely-to-be-revised-report-101635821288049.html
02-11-2021||NA||Bihar Bypolls Results 2021 highlights: JD(U) wins both seats despite RJD's spirited fight in Tarapur||With Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) supremo Lalu Prasad back to election campaigns after nearly four years, the single largest party in the Bihar legislative assembly was sniffing an opportunity to further dent Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) in the bypolls held on October 30. The assembly seats of Tarapur constituency in Munger and Kusheshwar Asthan in Darbhanga fell vacant after the deaths of MLAs Mewalal Choudhary and Shashi Bhushan Hazari, both from the JD(U), which was already reduced to 45 seats in the last assembly election.The bypoll recorded 49.59% voter turnout, with Tarapur witnessing 49% polling and Kushshwar Asthan witnessing 50% turnout.Also Read | Counting of votes for bypolls today in 3 Lok Sabha, 29 assembly seatsIn Tarapur, RJD had fielded Arun Kumar Sah against JD(U)'s Rajiv Singh. Congress had also fielded its own candidate, Rajesh Kumar Mishra, from the seat. In Kusheshwar Asthan, Shashi Bhushan Hazari's son Aman Bhushan Hajari contested against RJD's Ganesh Bharti and Congress' Atirek Kumar.Follow bypolls Live vote counting updates hereWhile RJD used its biggest crowd-puller, Lalu Prasad, to snatch the seats from JD(U), the ruling alliance held an intense campaign to retain the seat. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Tarkishore Prasad and other state ministers held public meetings in Tarapur in a bid to prevent RJD, the principal Opposition party, from further reducing the party’s strength in Bihar Assembly.Follow all the updates here:Pashupati Kumar Paras says Lalu Prasad's return to poll campaign was a loss for RJDUnion minister and leader of Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party Pashupati Kumar Paras said that RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav's return to the election campaign for bypolls was a loss for the party rather than a gain.JD(U) wins Tarapur by 3,852 votesJD(U) has won the Tarapur Assembly seat by 3,852 votes despite spirited fight from RJD.JD(U) leads by 2,368 votes in Tarapur after 28 rounds of countingJD(U) has taken a decisive lead of 2,368 votes in Tarapur after 28 rounds of counting.JD(U)'s vote margin in Tarapur narrows down to 765JD(U)'s vote margin in Tarapur has narrowed down to 765, according to the Election Commission's official data.JD(U) workers begin celebrations as party bags Kusheshwar Asthan, leads in Tarapur#WATCH बिहार: विधानसभा उपचुनाव में जनता दल(यूनाइटेड) की कुश्वेवरस्थान सीट पर जीत और तारापुर सीट पर आगे चलने की पटना में खुशी मनाते पार्टी कार्यकर्ता। pic.twitter.com/vdff6hzyWvJD(U) workers have started celebrations as the party bagged Kusheshwar Asthan in the recently-concluded bypolls and is leading in Tarapur.  Vote margin between JD(U), RJD in Tarapur now at 1,722JD(U) is leading from Tarapur by 1,722 votes over its nearest rival RJD.JD(U)'s lead in Tarapur widensJD(U) candidate has secured 65,104 votes as against RJD's 63,482,  taking a lead of 1,859 votes in the final rounds of counting.JD(U) leads from Tarapur by 1,622 votes as final result nearsJD(U) candidate Rajeev Kumar Singh is leading the race by 1,622 votes against RJD's Arun Kumar.Tej Pratap blames Bihar RJD chief for party's defeat in Kusheshwar AsthanRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Pratap Yadav has blamed the party's state unit chief Jagada Nand Singh and MLC Sunil Singh for the defeat in Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly bypolls. Tej Pratap, who has been critical of Bihar RJD chief, said that Jagada Nand Singh, Sunil Singh and Sanjay Yadav are ruining the party. Read more…JD(U)'s vote margin in Tarapur narrows down to 308Tarapur is heading for a close finish as JD(U) candidate, Rajeev Kumar Singh, is now leading the race by just 308 votes against RJD's Arun Kumar at the end of 22 rounds of counting.JD(U) leads Tarapur by 1,063 votesHaving maintained a slender lead over the JD(U) for several rounds, RJD has started trailing as the counting is drawing to its final phase. JD(U)'s Rajeev Kumar Singh is now leading by 1,063 votes over its nearest rival RJD's Arun Kumar.RJD's margin in Tarapur narrows downRJD's Arun Kumar is now leading from Tarapur with a slender margin of 513 votes.JD(U) retains Kusheshwar Asthan, wins by 12,695 vote margin against rival RJDJD(U) has been able to retain Kusheshwar Asthan that went to the polls due to the death of Shashi Bhushan Hazari.JD(U)'s Aman Bhushan Hajari vote margin over RJD candidate continues to increaseJD(U)'s Aman Bhushan Hajari is leading in Kusheshwar Asthan by a vote margin of 12,695 over RJD's Ganesh BhartiRJD's Arun Kumar leads Tarapur with 1,567 votesRJD's Arun Kumar is leading in Tarapur with 1,567 votes against rival JD(U)'s Rajeev Kumar Singh.JD(U) cumulative vote share at 45.31%, RJD at 40.19%While both JD(U) and RJD are leading at one seat each, Nitish Kumar's party is ahead of RJD in overall vote share. Congress vote share, as of 2.40pm, stands at a dismal 3.20%.Congress vote share in Tarapur slightly above NOTACongress' vote share (1.44%) in the Tarapur assembly constituency was slightly above NOTA (1.42%) as of 2pm.Congress at 4th position in Kusheshwar AsthanIn Kusheshwar Asthan Congress' Atirek Kumar has slipped to 4th position. Anju Devi of Lok Janshakti Patry (Ram Vilas), who is at 3rd position,  is ahead of Atirek Kumar by 570 votes.RJD, JD(U) continue to maintain lead in 1 seat eachThe RJD and JD(U) continue to maintain the lead in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly seats respectively as of 2 pm. RJD candidate Arun Kumar was leading from Tarapur with 3619 votes against his nearest rival Rajiv Kumar Singh of JD(U).  On the other hand, Aman Bhushan Hazari of JD(U) was leading by 11447 votes over his nearest rival RJD's Ganesh Bharti from Kusheshwar Asthan. as per ECI data.7 rounds of counting completed at TarapurRJD's nominee Arun Kumar maintains lead in Tarapur against JD(U)'s Rajiv Kumar Singh by 3865 votes at the end of round 7.13 rounds of counting done at Kusheshwar AsthanAt the end of 13th round of counting at Kusheshwar Sthan, JD(U) candidate Aman Bhushan Hazari leads RJD's Ganesh Bharti by 6242 votesRJD, JD(U) maintain lead on one seat eachRJD's Arun Kumar continues to lead his nearest rival, JD(U) nominee Rajiv Kumar Singh, at Tarapur by 2551 votes. In Kushweshwar Asthan, JD(U) nominee Aman Bhushan Hazari builds lead of 8074 votes over his nearest rival, Ganesh Bharti of the RJD, after completion of 12 rounds of counting.JD(U) ahead by over 9000 votes in Kusheshwar AsthanAt the end of 10th round of counting, JD(U) candidate Aman Bhushan Hazari leads over RJD's Ganesh Bharti by 9010 votes.RJD bounces back in TarapurRJD candidate Arun Kumar Sah established lead of 2918 votes over JD(U)'s Rajiv Singh.JD(U) maintains lead after 9 rounds of counting in Kusheshwar AsthanAt the end of 9th round of counting, JD(U) candidate Aman Bhushan Hazari leads over RJD nominee Ganesh Bharti by 7501 votes.RJD, JD(U) ahead on one seat eachRJD leads over JD(U) at the end of round two by 917 votes in Tarapur. In Kusheshwar Asthan, JD(U) ahead of RJD by 3320 votes after six rounds of counting.JD(U) takes lead on both seatsJD(U) candidates establish lead over RJD competitors at both Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly constituencies.RJD, JD(U) lead on one seat eachAs per Election Commission of India ( ECI) trends, RJD's Ganesh Bharti leading in Kushweshwar Asthan against his nearest rival Aman Bhushan Hazari of the JD(U) by 670 votes. In Tarapur, JD(U) 's Rajeev Kumar Singh leading by 224 votes against his nearest rival Arun Kumar of the RJD.Bihar bypolls: Counting of votes underwayCounting of votes underway in Bihar for by-elections to the Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly constituencies, the voting for which took place on October 30.Tejashwi Yadav accuses Nitish Kumar of crossing ‘limits of dishonesty’नीतीश कुमार बेईमानी की सारी पराकाष्ठा पार कर चुके है।इस Audio में जो पक्षपाती अधिकारी संजीव कुमार कापर,अनुमंडल पदाधिकारी,बिरौल,JDU के पक्ष में मतदान की अपील कर रहे है उसे ही इन्होंने मतगणना कार्य का “निर्वाची पदाधिकारी” बनाया है।लुटेरों कुछ शर्म बची है कि नहीं?@ECISVEEP @CEOBihar https://t.co/RH6eYjcxPd pic.twitter.com/hgJRJKMJAvOfficer, who appealed to voters to vote for JD(U), given responsibility for vote counting, tweets RJD's Tejashwi Yadav.Counting of votes beginsCounting of votes for assembly bypolls in Bihar, held on October 30, commences.Both seats fell vacant due to demise of respective MLAsBy-elections for the two seats were necessitated due to the demise of respective MLAs, Mewalal Chaudhary (Tarapur) and Shashi Bhushan Hazari (Kusheshwar Asthan). Both were from CM Nitish Kumar's JD(U).Bihar bypolls: Counting of votes to begin at 8amCounting of votes for October 30 by-elections in Bihar, held for the Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly constituencies, will begin at 8am today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-results-2021-live-updates-101635817113793.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh, arrested by ED, to oppose remand before court today||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) late on Monday in connection with its money laundering probe in an alleged extortion racket, will on Tuesday oppose his remand before the court, according to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader’s lawyer.Anil Deshmukh, who appeared before ED for the first time on Monday after skipping multiple summons for the last four months, was arrested by the agency in the early hours of Tuesday in connection with the alleged ₹100-crore extortion and money laundering case. According to an ED official, the NCP leader was arrested after 12 hours of questioning at the central agency office on Monday.Also read | Pained that my family is being harassed: Former Maharashtra minister Anil DeshmukhOfficials said Deshmukh, 71, was arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as they claimed that the senior NCP leader was evasive during questioning and the agency will seek his custody after they produce him before a local court on Tuesday."We cooperated in the investigation related to a case involving ₹4.5 crore... We will oppose his (Anil Deshmukh) remand when he is produced before the court today," Inderpal Singh, the lawyer of Deshmukh told reporters.The former minister arrived at the ED office to join the investigation in extortion and money laundering allegations against him on Monday.Also read | CBI arrests Thane resident in corruption case against Anil Deshmukh"Today, I have presented myself before the Enforcement Directorate. Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh made false allegations against me. Where is he today? As per media reports, he has left the country," Deshmukh said in a video.On Friday, Bombay high court rejected former Anil Deshmukh's petition challenging the ED summons for him to appear before the agency.ED filed a case against Deshmukh and others after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked him in a corruption case related to allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Singh.Also read | Thackeray takes jibe at Param Bir Singh with ‘complainant is missing’ remarkSingh alleged, in a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner's post, that Deshmukh asked Waze to extort over ₹100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh denied any wrongdoing and said that Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police chief.The federal probe agency will record Deshmukh’s statement under PMLA in connection with the criminal investigation being carried out by it in the alleged ₹100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in Maharashtra police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-arrested-by-ed-to-oppose-remand-before-court-today-101635815567210.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Ashram crossing bottleneck gets narrower, traffic disarray worsens||The traffic disarray at the Ashram intersection has worsened over the past 10 days, after authorities left just one lane open for traffic moving from Bhogal towards Badarpur, tightening an already narrow bottleneck and making commuters spend about an additional hour at the junction, motorists said.The commuters said that debris, muck, barricading, and additional closures have made the vital intersection even harder to negotiate, with prohibited vehicles, like interstate buses and trucks, adding to the chaos.An HT spot check on Monday backed these claims. With traffic in full flow during the festive season, a terrible traffic situation at a crucial intersection used by around 350,000 vehicles during peak hours each day has effectively been made worse.Subhash Jain (32), a daily commuter on the stretch, said, “You have to keep in mind that you could be stuck for an additional hour in this mess.”The Delhi traffic police on October 23 issued an advisory informing commuters that a lane on Mathura Road for traffic moving towards Badarpur would be shut to make way for the relocation of a 7km-long, high-power transmission line along the Ashram Chowk underpass.“Vehicles coming on Ring Road from Sarai Kale Khan, and taking left towards Badarpur are advised to take CV Raman Marg-Mathura Road or Ashram flyover-Capt Gaur Marg- Modi Mill Flyover for Badarpur. Likewise, traffic on Mathura road from Nizammudin seeking to cross Ashram for Badarpur are advised to turn right and take Captain Gaur Marg-Modi Mill flyover for the onward journey,” the traffic police said in its official advisory.Gyanendra Mishra (48) who was travelling towards Sarita Vihar on Monday, complained about the damaged road along the underpass construction site. “The roads around all the infrastructure projects are very poorly managed. The traffic jam due to construction work is understandable, but at least the roads nearby can be maintained. The Delhi Metro corporation carried out so much work in the city, causing people very little inconvenience,” he said.Aashu Chandel, 28, who rides a motorcycle to his workplace in Faridabad said the situation has worsened over the past one week. “The road has got narrower and new parts have been dug up. It has made the stretch even more difficult to cross,” he said.Traffic police personnel at the intersection admitted that the snarls had got worse over the past week-and-a-half.“We have sent several reminders to the Public Works Department to expedite the project,” a traffic police officer said.“We will consider increasing deployment once the traffic load at other sites eases up due to the festive season,” the officer added.A senior PWD official said the bottleneck due to the barricading will ease only after Diwali.The 750-metre underpass, which connects Nizamuddin railway bridge and CSIR Apartments at the Ashram intersection, has already missed four deadlines since the work began on the project in 2019.Even though work was still on to construct the underpass, the government in February simultaneously launched work on extending the Ashram flyover on Ring Road. The two projects running together have made Ashram — which connects south and central Delhi, and virtually serves as the connection for Noida and Faridabad — a traffic nightmare.Additional commissioner of police (traffic) SD Mishra said, “Keeping in view the problems faced by commuters at the Ashram Chowk, the traffic police force has deployed more forces during the peak commuting hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ashram-crossing-bottleneck-gets-narrower-traffic-disarray-worsens-101635810073952.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||As Delhi schools reopen, a first glimpse of classes for some students||Scores of young students in the national capital got their first experience of a school environment on Monday, when they walked into classrooms for the first time in 19 months, albeit with a bit of distancing, face masks, sanitisers and temperature checks.With the Covid-19 threat abating in the capital, the Delhi government allowed public and private schools to resume all classes from Monday, while adhering to strict pandemic protocols.Luvkush, a class 5 student, enrolled at Chirag Enclave-Sarvodaya (Co-ed) Vidyalaya (Kautilya), said he was excited to wear the uniform and meet his friends. “It’s good to be back at school. During online classes, I could not meet my friends. But today, we had a lot of fun. Even though everyone was wearing masks, I could instantly recognise my friends. We also saw a film and played antakshari (a musical game),” said Luvkush, as his father Bhikam Singh looked on.Singh said online classes could not replace the experience of attending a regular school. “Children are very happy to be back in school. It’s a new beginning for them after the closure of schools for nearly two years,” he said.Schools were shut in March last year when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). While in-person classes for students in grades 9-12 restarted in September, children up to class 8 continued with online lessons.“Childhood remains incomplete without school. It is good to see that after a year and a half, children have reached their schools and classrooms. Leaving the difficult times behind, now we all have to move forward,” tweeted Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also hold the education portfolio, visited schools and spoke with children and their parents.“Due to the closure of schools, school education had suffered tremendously. However, it is expected that after reopening, our teachers and parents will work together to fight the learning gap in children,” said Sisodia.In line with the Covid-19 SOP issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA), schools need to limit occupancy in classrooms to 50% of the seating capacity. Staggered seating with sanitisation protocols has to be adopted as students return with mandatory written consent from parents.On Monday, most schools conducted activities along with happiness and mindfulness sessions to ease students into the school environment. While attendance in some schools remained low, others saw a good turnout on the first day. Teachers said students were expected to join the school in increased numbers after Diwali.Chitender Singh Verma, school principal, Chirag Enclave-Sarvodaya (Co-ed) Vidyalaya (Kautilya), said around 45.65% students from kindergarten to class 8 came to school on Monday. The school is calling only 50% of students every day. The day’s lineup of activities included film screening, quizzes, a school tour and mindfulness sessions. “We are keeping it light and interactive in the beginning along with a few lessons. There were a number of interactive activities that will help students acclimatise to life in school again,” said Verma. He said the school will focus on bridging learning gaps through “Mission Buniyaad” in the first three months.The majority of private schools are expected to resume classes from next week, after Diwali. Sudha Acharya, chairperson, National Progressive Schools’ Conference, said over 120 of their member schools will reopen after Diwali. “While a few schools have reopened on Monday, most will start from next week. School need to be readied as they had remained shut for nearly two years,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-delhi-schools-reopen-a-first-glimpse-of-classes-for-some-students-101635802853004.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Winter flowers to fill the senses||Winter is here. Those feeling homesick for the golden-yellow flowers of the amaltas must resign themselves to a long wait for the tree’s summertime bloom. Some interim relief will however arrive in the brief spring with the red semal flowers.Meanwhile, the smoggy cold season can be exploited in cultivating a relationship with the saptaparni tree. Now is the time of their bloom. The flowers of the saptaparni, though, are not easily noticeable in their clusters of pale green globules. From a distance, they resemble small brocollis. Unlike the flowers of amaltas, which fall all day long from their branches like a hailstorm of party confetti, the subdued saptaparnis drift down almost imperceptibly, in a spray of powdery fragments. Their bloom spurns showiness. As if the saptaparni were assured of its share of adoration, and doesn’t need the theatrics of pageantry.Here in upscale Golf Links, where the saptaparni is said to have been first introduced in Delhi in the 1940’s, the blossoms are noticeable only to those who actively look for them. Otherwise these flowers smoothly merge into the green of their tree leaves, standing out as unobtrusively as black stars would in a blacker sky.Sometimes, a lucky saptaparni flower plops down on the ground in its entirety, without splintering into shards. One can then place it on one’s palm and study the structure in detail. The flower is not completely green, but glazed with white; each shade’s essence ending up so fragile that one fears both might be vaporised by a passing breeze.Saptaparnis are sighted across the Delhi region. An unusually tall tree in Ghaziabad stands on the rutty side-road that connects Sahibabad Sabzi Mandi to Sector 6 in Vasundhara. A park-facing lane in Gurugram’s Sector 15 A, too, has a row of them.The saptaparni flowers are particularly cherished for their scent but this afternoon they aren’t smelling at all. Hours later, at night, the same tree is now cloaked in a fragrance that is stubbornly restrained—yet effable, pervasive, and intoxicating. One feels mildly tipsy.PS: The photo shows Gufran Siddqui, a chauffeur, holding flowers under a saptaparni tree in central Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-winter-flowers-to-fill-the-senses-101635802185272.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab doesn’t not need ‘lollipops’ but roadmap for people’s welfare: Sidhu||On a day the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government slashed power rates and approved a hike in dearness allowance for government employees, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu hit out at the “lollipop culture” practiced just two months before the state elections. Sidhu said that Punjab did not need “lollipops” but a definite roadmap for its resurgence and welfare of its people. “How will the welfare of Punjab be achieved? There are two ways. Either you give lollipop, give this free and that free. You do whatever you want for four years and nine months, carry out excesses and then give everything free. Is your only aim to come to power and form the government by telling lies and making 500 promises or work for welfare of people,” he said at an event organised by the newly formed Sanyukt Hindu Mahasabha here. The mahasabha is headed by Congress leader and former MLA Ashwani Sekhri. The PPCC president, who has been miffed over senior appointments and kept the Channi government on tenterhooks, made his first public appearance at the programme. Though Sidhu did not name anyone, his speech is being seen in Congress circles as a direct attack on Channi and his decisions. Channi was appointed as the CM after his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh resigned following a revolt by Sidhu and several ministers and legislators. However, the change of guard did not end the rift in the state Congress as Sidhu and Channi, who is the first SC chief minister of Punjab, are not on the same page on several issues. Sidhu also asked about the resources for such announcements and cited the ₹5-lakh crore debt burden on the state. “If someone says the state exchequer is flush with funds, then ETT teachers should be paid ₹50,000 salary a month, employees regularised and pension given to those who have not been getting it since 2004,” the Punjab Congress chief said, reiterating that he would continue to show the mirror and not let anyone deviate from issues. He said that before talking about Diwali gift, one must tell who would take the state out of this quagmire and the roadmap. Channi, who had last month claimed that the government coffers were full, termed Monday’s announcements as “Diwali gift” for people of the state. Earlier, the Mahasabha, a grouping of representatives of different Hindu organisations from across the state, demanded post-matric scholarships for children from poor families from the Hindu community and electricity for small shopkeepers at par with the industry at ₹5 per unit. “The idea behind the outfit is to create a platform for Hindus community so that their voice is heard,” Sekhri said. Hollow promise, says AAPAAP national spokesperson and Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Monday said that the hollow promise of cheap electricity in Punjab is an electoral stunt of “dramebaaz” chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi as the electricity rates have been reduced only till March 31, 2022. In a statement, Chadha said that if the people of Punjab get deceived by this electoral stunt of Congress, then electricity rates will get expensive again five months later. “Channi’s promise is like Capt Amarinder’s fake promise of employment and there is no difference between them,” he claimed, stating that if this is not an election stunt, the Congress should make electricity rates cheaper in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra where it is in power. He said that Channi was terrified by Arvind Kejriwal’s bijli guarantee, due to which he has made false promises to the people on the issue of electricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-doesn-t-not-need-lollipops-but-roadmap-for-people-s-welfare-sidhu-101635798930866.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Bir theft case: SIT preparing questionnaire to grill dera chief in Sunaria jail||Ahead of its visit to Sunaria jail in Rohtak to grill Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2105 sacrilege cases is preparing a questionnaire on the basis of evidence on record. Last week, a Faridkot court issued production warrants against Ram Rahim in a case of sacrilege wherein a “bir” (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. But Punjab and Haryana high court directed Punjab Police to grill Ram Rahim in Rohtak jail itself, if it so desired, and directed the jail authorities to make arrangements for the SIT to question the dera head. SIT head inspector general of police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar said the probe team is waiting for the confirmation of date from the Sunaria jail authorities to question Ram Rahim. “We will grill him immediately after getting the confirmation,” he added. An official privy with the development said that: “The SIT is preparing a detailed questionnaire on the basis of evidence collected against the dera head over his role in the 2015 sacrilege cases. The probe team wants to question Ram Rahim before the hearing in the high court on November 12, so it can submit a complete report on the conduct of the dera chief during interrogation. The SIT will seek further instructions from the court if dera head does not cooperate during the interrogation,” the official added. In July 2020, after the arrest of seven dera followers, the SIT led by former inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra had named Ram Rahim and dera’s three national committee members—Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri— as accused in the case. The “bir” was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of that “bir” were found scattered in front of a gurdwara in the adjoining Bargari village, leading to statewide protests and death of two Sikh protesters in police firing. In its chargesheet, the SIT claimed that it was Ram Rahim who ordered to carry out sacrilege to avenge insult of sect followers by a Sikh preacher. The dera head is lodged in Sunaria jail of Rohtak since August 25, 2017. In 2017, he was awarded 20-year jail term for the rape of two disciples. Subsequently, he has been convicted in murder cases of a journalist, Ram Chander Chhatrapati, and Ranjit Singh, a former dera manager, in which life sentence has been awarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bir-theft-case-sit-preparing-questionnaire-to-grill-dera-chief-in-sunaria-jail-101635798750791.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala traders look forward to a glittering Diwali as pandemic abates||Diwali, this year, has brought festive cheer to coronavirus- beleaguered businesses, with residents finally being able to shop to their hearts’ content. Ravi Kakkar, 45, who owns a jewellery store in the heart of Ambala City near Jagadhri Gate, says, “Our business depends on large gatherings and so our shop remained closed most of last year due to Covid-induced restrictions. Marriages remained low-key affairs, and business only picked up a little bit around Diwali last year,” he said. It was not just a difficult year for Kakkar workwise, but also on the personal front as he lost his father to age-related ailments and his brother-in-law to Covid.“At least customers are fearlessly wandering around markets this year, which will translate in more sale this dhanteras,” he said. With Ambala being home to one of the largest cloth markets in Asia, with at least 1,000 outlets at Old Cloth Market, Maharaja Agrasen Chowk and Kalka Chowk drawing customers from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and even Western Uttar Pradesh, retailers and wholesalers expect the cash counters to keep ringing. Dharamveer Aggarwal, who owns Kala Niketan at the Cantonment’s Sadar Bazar, says, “Sale had picked up around this time last year too as Diwali had coincided with the marriage season. We also deal in women’s designer clothing, which will also pick-up a day before the tikka festival,” he said.Several markets in the city that deal with decoration items, gifts, and artificial jewellery are also recording a huge footfall, especially in the evening. Meanwhile, cops are seen struggling to manage traffic and pedestrian movement. In a different corner of the city, traditional potters at Kumhaar Colony are elated with the increased sales at their makeshift stalls near Ram Bagh Road. Sixty-five-year-old Raj Rani, who buys gilli mitti products from his neighbours, has put-up a stall with her daughters for the second time.“We are requesting locals to buys our products over Chinese lighting sold at showrooms. They are selling the products to drive up their profits, while we need to make a living,” she says, adding that the sales had been dismal last year. Sitting across her stall, Yograj, 74, who has been selling hand-made diyas for decades with his son, believes that sales will be down this year too. “How will devotees use ₹200 per litre mustard oil to light diyas? Rise in fuel prices will also impact sale,” he predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-traders-look-forward-to-a-glittering-diwali-as-pandemic-abates-101635798631399.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 20 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Chandigarh Punjab on Monday reported 20 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,02,420, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality in Pathankot, the death toll reached 16,560, it said. The state recorded a positivity rate of 0.10 %. Among fresh cases, 4 were registered in Hoshiarpur, 3 in Pathankot and 2 in Ludhiana, the bulletin said. There are 246 active Covid cases in the state. With 22 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,613 it said. A total of 15443203 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state of which 21001 were tested on Monday. As many as 48753 doses of the vaccines were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-20-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101635798570857.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||PDP claims Mehbooba Mufti placed under house arrest||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti was on Monday put under house arrest to prevent her from visiting Anantnag to meet the family of a youth who was killed in cross-firing between security forces and militants last week, a party leader claimed.The Peoples Democratic Party leader claimed that the police have locked the main gate of Mehbooba’s house.A police official said the PDP chief was not allowed to visit Anantnag due to security reasons.Shahid Ahmad was killed in an exchange of fire between Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel and militants in Shopian district on October 24, according to police.Mehbooba was put under house arrest at her Fairview residence in Gupkar locality of the city here and not allowed to move out, the PDP leader claimed.She was to visit the family of slain youth Shahid Ahmad in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. She wanted to offer her condolences to the bereaved family, but was not allowed to move out of her residence, the party leader said.According to the PDP leader, the police have locked the main gate of Mehbooba’s house. A police vehicle has been stationed just outside the gate to disallow any movement.Ahmad’s death had evoked strong reactions from mainstream political parties in the Valley and they had demanded a probe into it.Mehbooba had said it was sad that the armed forces “operate with such impunity” in Kashmir. PTI SSB DIV DIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pdp-claims-mehbooba-mufti-placed-under-house-arrest-101635798450712.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||‘Call taken due to Covid, pollution’: Delhi doubles down on cracker ban||The Delhi government on Monday told the high court that it will not allow any firecrackers, including “green crackers”, to be sold and used in the Capital in wake of Covid-19 pandemic and the deteriorating air quality.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, while hearing a plea by 50 licensed traders seeking to sell the so-called green crackers in Delhi, was told by advocate Naushad Ahmed Khan, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, that it has seized more than 11,000 kg of firecrackers till October 24 this year.“In the last one year we are not adding any additions to the fire crackers and simultaneously we have carried out raids… wherever large-scale crackers are found… 11,119 kg firecrackers were seized till October 24..,” he said.Khan also told the court that Covid-19 is not over yet, though restrictions have been lifted on several activities.“Covid-19 is not yet over, we have to see all aspects including opening of school, trade avenues and everything we are doing. Some restrictions have been lifted and some are still in place,” he said, adding that the ban is in consonance with the earlier order passed by the Supreme Court on July 23, 2021 where it had said that the use of firecrackers could be disallowed due to considerations such as Covid and air quality.The Delhi government’s submissions were made while hearing the petition filed by Jai Kishan Fireworks, among 50 licensed traders who sought permission to sell green firecrackers in the Delhi-NCR region. The petitioners also sought permission to sell these firecrackers within Delhi to people coming from outside the Capital.Green crackers cause less air pollution than the regular variety since they do not contain barium salts. One of the petitioners said crackers of this variety are not available in Delhi because the state government “did not allow their use despite a go-ahead from the Supreme Court”. The petitioner said he wrapped up his business in the city after the ban.The court, while allowing the petitioners to withdraw their petition, declined to grant permission to sell firecrackers in Delhi, even to people from outside the city.“If somebody were to come, say from an area ‘A’ where the air quality is excellent and there is no prohibition and were to come to you in Delhi and purchase it from you, then the point of sale will be Delhi which would be in contravention of the order of the Supreme Court. The ‘sale and use’ means you can’t sell it in Delhi and you can’t use it in Delhi by bringing it from outside,” justice Sachdeva said.The court also said that in case the petitioners want relief then they ought to have moved the apex court or the National Green Tribunal for clarification.“Please go to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is already looking into the issue today. Seek clarification. [The high court is the] wrong forum. Inform National Green Tribunal. They are a specialised body,” the judge said.NGT, on December 2, 2020, announced a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during Covid-19 pandemic in the National Capital Region and all towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls below the “poor” category.This July, the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the NGT order while observing that scientific studies are not needed to ascertain the side effects of firecrackers on the health of citizens.Only 11% bad air plaints in NCR resolved: CPCBAgencies that are supposed to tackle air pollution-related complaints across the National Capital Region are faring poorly, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Only 11% of the complaints have been resolved since October 15, when measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) first come into force, the data shows. Delhi is faring worse, with only 9% of all complaints (26 of 277) resolved.Between October 15 and October 30, only 47 of 424 complaints were resolved by agencies in Delhi and NCR cities in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.In Delhi, the north corporation received the most complaints so far (103), but has only been able to resolve two of these.This is followed by the south corporation, which received 88 complaints between October 15 and October 30, but was only able to resolve two. The east corporation received 20 complaints, and resolved seven complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/call-taken-due-to-covid-pollution-delhi-doubles-down-on-cracker-ban-101635798040479.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cotton prices hit all-time high in Punjab, breach ₹10K mark||Three days after an official projection of a drastic loss in production of raw cotton this year, the “white gold” crop touched a record-breaking rate of ₹10,500 per quintal on the first day of November.According to the official data of the Punjab Mandi Board, the rate of the cash crop was reported in five figures in Muktsar on Monday.It was not confirmed how much quantity was purchased for the historic rate of ₹10,500 per quintal, which was 77% higher than the minimum support price of ₹5,925 fixed by the central government for the 2021-22 kharif season.Industry sources said it is for the first time that the cotton rates have crossed ₹10,000 mark.Prices may witness a further surge due to the ongoing high demand for Indian yarn in the global market.About 2,080 quintal cotton was purchased by private buyers in Muktsar on November 1 and to date the district has reported sale of 1.31 lakh quintals.By November 1, semi-arid cotton-growing districts reported sales of 6.35 lakh quintals.In 2020-21 season, Punjab had produced about 50 lakh quintals of cotton.Before the commencement of cotton harvesting, industry and Cotton Corporation of India, a center-government agency, had projected rates higher than the MSP on the basis of market trends.However, an infestation of the deadly pink bollworm in Bathinda and Mansa, major cotton producers, dashed the hopes of farmers. Today, 11,258 quintal cotton was sold by farmers in different mandis of south Malwa districts.Districts of Bathinda and Mansa, stated by the Punjab government as the worst-hit by pink bollworm attack, reported rates of up to ₹9,600 and ₹9,330 per quintal.Till November 1, Bathinda has recorded 1.30 lakh quintals and private buyers have bought 1.43 lakh quintals.This season, Fazilka, which remained unaffected by the pest attack, is leading with 2.12 lakh quintals and on Monday cotton rate remained ₹8,800-9,095 per quintals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cotton-prices-hit-all-time-high-in-punjab-breach-10k-mark-101635798332226.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||5 more test Covid positive in the Chandigarh tricity||Five more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Monday, against nine cases detected on Sunday. No Covid-induced death was recorded in the tricity for the 27th consecutive day. Three cases were reported in Chandigarh, followed by two in Mohali. However, Panchkula saw no new case. With fresh recoveries, the tricity’s active cases tally dropped to 70, with 34 patients still infected in Chandigarh, 25 in Mohali and 11 in Panchkula.So far, Chandigarh has reported 65,354 positive cases, of which 64,500 have been cured and 820 have succumbed. In Mohali, the total cases recorded till date are 68,823, of which 67,730 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,770 includes 30, 381 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-more-test-covid-positive-in-the-chandigarh-tricity-101635798210698.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Manpreet Badal’s brother-in-law files defamation suit against Kejriwal over Oct 29 remark||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal’s brother-in-law and Congress leader Jaijeet Singh Johal, alias Jojo on Monday filed a case of criminal defamation against Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a Bathinda court. Johal said during an address at a political programme in Bathinda on October 29, Kejriwal, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener, levelled unfounded charges of corruption against him. A case was filed in the court of additional chief judicial magistrate Kapil Dev Singla under Sections 499 and 500 of the Indian Penal Code.The matter will now be heard on November 15.Johal, who manages Manpreet’s political activities in the Bathinda Urban constituency that the minister represents in the Punjab assembly, said the allegations were politically motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manpreet-badal-s-brother-in-law-files-defamation-suit-against-kejriwal-over-oct-29-remark-101635798031836.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab announces 11% hike in DA||ChandigarhThe Punjab government on Monday increased the dearness allowance of its employees to 28% of the basic pay from the current 17%, putting an additional burden of ₹440 crore per month on the exchequer.The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, just months ahead of the Punjab assembly polls. The DA has been increased with effect from July, said Channi. He said employees are the backbone of the state administration and reiterated his government’s firm commitment to accord the highest priority to their welfare.The decision will benefit four lakh employees of the state government departments and 2 lakh of boards and corporation. Channi said the state government has resolved most of employees’ issues to their satisfaction and they have called off their strike and resumed work with immediate effect.He also announced that the employees, who were recruited after January 1, 2016, will also be given the benefit of a minimum 15% increase in the revised pay on a par with other employees.The pay of a junior employee would not be fixed higher than that of his seniors. The CM said representatives of various employees associations assured him that they would not follow the path of agitation rather get their issues resolved through mutual discussions across the table. Nod to two new universities The cabinet also approved establishment of Lamrin Tech Skills University at Railmajra, Nawanshahr, and Plaksha University Punjab at Mohali. According to a spokesperson, the cabinet gave approval to place these bills in the forthcoming session of the Punjab vidhan sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-announces-11-hike-in-da-101635797910713.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Women’s cricket: Chandigarh lose to Odisha||Chandigarh lost their second match in the ongoing Women’s Senior One-Day Trophy to Odisha in Pune on Monday. Odisha beat Chandigarh by 35 runs to take four points. Chandigarh had lost their last match to Railways by a massive 246 runs.Batting first, Odisha posted a total of 253 runs for the loss of seven wickets in 50 overs. Madhuri Meheta, 76, and Tanmayee Behera, 53, were the main scorers for Odisha. For Chandigarh, Nandani Sharma, Parul Saini and Amanjot Kaur bagged two wickets each. In response, Chandigarh scored 218 runs for the loss of six wickets in 50 overs. Captain Amanjot hammered 97 runs and remained unbeaten in Chandigarh’s cause. Shivangi scored 34 runs.Punjab eves beat Himachal PradeshPunjab recorded a 19-run win through VJD method over Himachal Pradesh in a match played in the Women’s Senior One Day Trophy in Bengaluru. Captain Taniya Bhatia scored 44 runs while spinner Mehak Kesar bagged three wickets for Punjab. Punjab take on Bengal in their next match on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/womens-cricket-chandigarh-lose-to-odisha-101635797790789.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Govt to digitise rare, valuable literature, says minister Pargat Singh on Punjab Day||The Punjab government will digitise rare and valuable literature available with the state languages department, cabinet minister Pargat Singh said on Monday. At a state-level function in Patiala on the occasion of Punjab Day, the minister, who holds the higher education and languages portfolio, said the digitisation will be undertaken with the help of the latest technologies. Stressing the need to working together to uplift the Punjabi language, Pargat appealed to Punjabi writers, intellectuals and the media to promote rich Punjabi culture and literature at the school level. “Punjabi is our mother tongue and it does not belong to just one person. Therefore, it is imperative for everyone to take initiatives to promote it. Politicians, bureaucrats and technocrats needed to work together to give a new direction to the youth,” he said. “Required manpower will be provided to cater to demands of industries in the state,” he added. On the occasion, the minister flagged off a special one month-long awareness campaign to promote the language under the ‘Punjabi Mah-2021’ campaign which, he said, will be diligently celebrated as per the Punjabi Language Act, 1967. He announced that vacancies of district language officers, research officers and other required staff will be filled in the language department. In his address, writer Surjit Singh Bhatti emphasised on launching a joint project with the help of all the universities in the state to make Punjabi the language of knowledge, science, philosophy, social sciences and employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-to-digitise-rare-valuable-literature-says-minister-pargat-singh-on-punjab-day-101635797730475.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||HPAU to make use of new-age tech to solve challenges in farm sector: V-C||Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU), Palampur, will use new-age digital technology to serve farmers effectively, vice-chancellor Prof HK Chaudhary said on Monday while speaking at the 44th Foundation Day event of the varsity.Prof Chaudhary said the HPAU was facing a staff crunch and with the implementation of National Education Policy (NEP), many more challenges are likely to emerge which would be dealt with the use of technology and improved staff strength.“Besides recruiting 40 new faculty members, various non-teaching posts will be filled in the all-India coordinated research projects soon,” he said.The V-C said the university has initiated steps to involve Ph.D scholars and research associates in academic programmes with remuneration. He said more than 200 research projects worth ₹212 crore have been submitted to various funding agencies.Prof Chaudhary said to promote the use of sustainable energy, more than 60% of the rooftop area at the campus has been covered under solar power system while work was underway for e-office and clean and green campus.A students’ centre with all requisite facilities will also be made functional soon.The V-C said that to mark the Golden Jubilee of Himachal’s statehood, the university has envisaged 51 programmes. In the next one year, a conference of 75 agricultural ambassadors (Krishi Doots) and state-level farm women fair will be held. He said scientists will accelerate work on crop diversification, integrated farming, getting geographical indicators for traditional Himalayan crops and enhance research on rich animal genetic resources in tribal areas.He said that HPAU was also working sex-sorted artificial insemination which would help solve the problem of stray cattle.Chief guest Tej Partap, vice-chancellor, GB Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, Uttrakhand, elaborated on the needs and main elements of NEP. “The country has expanded exponentially in terms of students and institutions but the quality of education has suffered,” he said.Pratap said there were plenty of jobs but not enough competent human resources. He said that social, economic and technological changes are taking place at a faster pace. “Students are to be prepared for new kind of challenges with critical thinking, communication skills and creativity,” he said.Mandeep Sharma, dean, Dr GC Negi College of Veterinary & Animal Sciences; DK Vatsa, Director of Research and various university officers were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpau-to-make-use-of-new-age-tech-to-solve-challenges-in-farm-sector-vc-101635797670665.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Confusion prevails over ‘resignation’ of Punjab advocate general APS Deol||Confusion prevailed on Monday after senior officials in the Punjab chief minister’s office (CMO) said that advocate general APS Deol tendered his resignation while the latter denied the move. Appointed on September 27 after Charanjit Singh Channi took over as chief minister in the wake of Amarinder Singh’s ouster, Deol’s appointment had come under severe criticism with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu even tendering his resignation. “I met the chief minister since the cabinet was to hold a meeting. This probably led to the speculations. I have neither been asked to resign nor I have I done on my volition,” Deol said. Channi, who was questioned about the development after the cabinet meeting, ducked the query. Earlier, Deol did not attend calls for nearly five hours after senior officials “confirmed” the senior lawyer having put in his papers. Soon after Deol’s appointment in September, Sidhu resigned from his post opposing his appointment and that of Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as director general of police (DGP). Sidhu has been adamant on his replacement and conveyed the same to the Congress high command. Deol, 61, had shot into limelight earlier this year when he secured bail of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini who was arrested by the vigilance bureau in a 2020 criminal case. Deol had also appeared for Saini, among other accused, in the 2015 post-sacrilege violence cases in the high court. This became the reason for the criticism of the government following his appointment. Several Sikh organisations had also opposed his appointment saying a person who defended those accused in sacrilege cases could not be appointed as AG. To counter the criticism, Deol brought in criminal lawyer Rajwinder Singh Bains as special public prosecutor to defend these cases. However, this move also ran into controversy as Bains in the past had appeared for one complainant in sacrilege cases. Last week, the government had to give an undertaking to the high court that Bains will not appear in post-sacrilege violence cases till November 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/confusion-prevails-over-resignation-of-punjab-advocate-general-aps-deol-101635797432231.html
02-11-2021||Other||Vajra Corps on greenery mission||Jalandhar In 2021, Vajra Corps have planted over 1.12 lakh trees by formations and units in cantonments and military stations as well as border areas in Jalandhar, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur, Ludhiana and Beas, it said in a press note. It added that improving the quality of environment is an apt way of contributing towards the national drive of Zero Carbon footprint. The press release added that successful implementation of initiatives such as arboriculture schemes, creation of bio-diversity environment parks with tree plantation integral to every commemoration event and planting of native trees had helped it achieve a greener environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vajra-corps-on-greenery-mission-101635797431041.html
02-11-2021||Kolkata||BJP protests Bangladesh killings in Bengal assembly; MLAs march with candles||KOLKATA: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators in West Bengal on Monday staged a silent protest on the campus of the West Bengal assembly after their proposal for a motion to condole the recent deaths of Hindus in Bangladesh was turned down.The BJP, the only opposition party in the 294-member legislative assembly, proposed the condolence motion when the session started on Monday.The day’s short proceedings ended after obituary references but the speaker Biman Banerjee did not allow a condolence motion on the Bangladesh killings which emerged an as issue in the October 30 bypolls held in four assembly seats. “Since we were not allowed to condole the deaths of our Hindu brothers, we took out a procession with candles inside the campus and silently mourned near the statue of BR Ambedkar. This was our duty,” said Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the assembly. The speaker could not be contacted. Ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislators refused to comment on the speaker’s decision, saying it was his jurisdiction. Adhikari also announced that BJP legislators will not attend the assembly session till November 15 because of the festivals.“The ruling party should not have convened the session in this festive season. We cannot attend the session because we have to stay among the common people and share their joy during the coming Kali puja, Diwali, Chhat puja and Jagatdhatri puja. We will come to the assembly on the last three days if the session continues till then,” Adhikari said. The session is scheduled to continue till Noveber 18.Though the BJP bagged 77 seats in Bengal, it is now effectively left with 70 legislators as five have joined to the TMC since June and two legislators did not take oath to retain their Lok Sabha seats. Bypolls in these two seats were held on October 30.The ruling party, on the other hand, has officially increased its tally from 213 to 215 by winning two Murshidabad district seats where polls were held on September 30. Two candidates who filed their papers from these seats died of Covid-19 before the March-April polls. On October 30, bypolls were held at Dinhata in Cooch Behar district, Santipur in Nadia district, Khardah in North 24 Parganas and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas. Two of these constituencies, Dinhata and Santipur, were won by the BJP in the March-April polls but the winners did not take oath to retain their Lok Sabha seats. In the remaining two, the TMC’s winning candidates died. All four districts, where the bypolls were held, are located along the Bangladesh border and have a record of illegal infiltration, smuggling and influx of Hindu refugees during India’s partition in 1947 and creation of Bangladesh after the 1971 war. Since Hindus are in the majority in all these seats, the BJP referred to history in its campaign and focused on the recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-protests-bangladesh-killings-in-bengal-assembly-mlas-march-with-candles-101635797370684.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Track maintainer awarded for averting derailment of Mumbai-Varanasi train||The Central Railway (CR) on Monday awarded track maintainer Ramu Nandlal a safety award for averting the derailment of the Banaras-Mumbai Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) train.Last month during an inspection of the railway tracks near Kasara, Nandlal had noticed a broken metal of the track that connects the adjacent tracks. He immediately alerted the railway personnel near Kasara station as well as the loco pilot and halted the outstation train that was approaching.“Nandlal’s quick response and presence of mind saved the train from a mishap. He, along with the other officials who prevented mishaps of outstation trains, were awarded on Monday,” said a senior CR official.Others who were awarded by CR on Monday were Valmiki Shantaram Ingale, Lavkesh Komal Singh, Prakash Housilal, Saluka Soy, Sachin Sriram Nagrale, Janardhan S Parguwar, Hiralal Onkar Rathod, Anna Digamber Mane and Raju Jitroji from Mumbai, Bhusawal, Nagpur, Pune and Solapur divisions. They were awarded by CR general manager Anil Kumar Lohati for alertness, contribution in averting any incident and ensuring safety in train operations while on duty.“The award consists of a medal, a commendation certificate, a citation of exemplary safety work and cash worth ₹2,000,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/track-maintainer-awarded-for-averting-derailment-of-mumbai-varanasi-train-101635797310683.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||PUTA to hold 1st executive meet to chalk out road map||The first executive meet of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) will be held on Tuesday to chalk out a strategy for the next tenure. This is the first executive meeting after president Mritunjay Kumar’s team won the PU teachers’ body poll for the second time. The members will deliberate on issues such as implementation of the seventh pay commission, house allotment, career advancement scheme (CAS )promotions, and retirement benefits for senior teachers.“Every year we come up with a strategy. Since we have been working since last year, we know the issues being faced by teachers and will formulate a roadmap to resolve them in a time-bound manner,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/puta-to-hold-1st-executive-meet-to-chalk-out-road-map-101635797250750.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal records 3 more Covid deaths||Himachal’s Covid-19 case count rose to 2,24,251 after 145 more people tested positive for the virus on Monday. Death toll mounted to 3,741 after three patients succumbed to the infection. Highest 59 cases were reported from Kangra, 28 from Hamirpur, 21 from Bilaspur, 14 each from Mandi and Una, five fro Kullu and one each from Chamba, Kinnaur, Shimla and Solan. The active case count dropped to 1,865 while recoveries reached 2,18,628 after 218 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-records-3-more-covid-deaths-101635797130799.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on assembly elections, Punjab govt slashes power tariff by ₹3 per unit||In a populist move ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, the Punjab government on Monday announced to slash power tariff by ₹3 per unit for domestic consumers. The decision that came into effect from Monday itself was taken in a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. It will be applicable for the consumers having an installed load capacity up to 7 kilowatt (kW). The reduction in power tariffs was one of the 18-point agenda that the Congress high command had given for implementation to the state government ahead of the state polls when Amarinder Singh was the chief minister. Addressing a press conference after the cabinet meeting, Channi said it was a “big Diwali gift” for people of Punjab. Nearly 69 lakh (95%) of a total of 72 lakh domestic consumers will benefit from the move that will put an additional burden of ₹3,316 crore per year on the state exchequer, he said. Citing a survey conducted by the government, the CM said people wanted quality and cheap power. With this decision, the tariffs for the domestic category have become cheapest in the country, he claimed. “People of Punjab do not want anything free. They want quality power at cheaper rates,” he said while quoting the survey.Channi said for up to 100 units of consumption (up to 2 kW), the power tariff will drop to ₹1.19 per unit from ₹4.19 per unit and for 101-300 units, the tariff will be ₹4.01 and for above 300 units, the power rate will be ₹5.76 per unit. Similarly, power rates for more than 2 kW and up to 7 kW will also come down. Taking about the AAP government in Delhi, Channi said its power subsidy is ₹2,220 crore per year as against ₹14,000 crore in Punjab.His government was procuring power at a cheaper rate and would pass on the benefit to consumers, the CM said.Monday’s announcement takes the total subsidy burden on the state exchequer to ₹13,974 crore, including ₹10,628 crore free electricity to 14 lakh agriculture tubewells, scheduled caste and backward class (SC/BC) consumers, and industrial units. Channi clarified that the existing free power facility for consumers with the load up to 1 kW to SC, OBC, BPL categories will continue. About residential consumers with load capacity over 7 kilowatts, he said that their number was “very small” and are from the creamy layer and hence needed no benefit. After Channi took charge as CM, the state government has already waived pending default bills of consumers having connected load of less than 2 KW. Also, the government was also considering shifting to monthly billing cycle instead of the existing 2 months so that the higher rates are not charged with increase in consumption, he added. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eye-on-assembly-elections-punjab-govt-slashes-power-tariff-by-rs-3-per-unit-101635797072204.html
02-11-2021||Other||SBS Nagar DC, SSP inspect mining, de-silting sites||Jalandhar Deputy commissioner Vishesh Sarangal and senior superintendent of police Kanwardeep Kaur on Monday carried out surprise inspections of mining sites falling in the district under Mission Clean and also took stock of the de-silting sites in Shamaspur, Khojan and Railmajra. Warning those at the mining site against charging above the government rate of ₹9 per cubic feet, they asked department officials to keep constant vigil. The officers also directed mining officials to install boards displaying rates at all mining sites so that no one can dare to charge exorbitantly. Meanwhile, they also interacted with the tractor-trolley owners who came to the quarries, who informed them that they have started getting sand at the fixed price. The SSP also held a meeting with senior police officers and issued directions to keep a check on the illegal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sbs-nagar-dc-ssp-inspect-mining-de-silting-sites-101635797070715.html
02-11-2021||City||ED arrests ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) late Monday night after over 12 hours of questioning in a money-laundering case linked to an alleged extortion racket in the state police establishment, officials said.They said Deshmukh, 71, has been arrested as per the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).They claimed the senior NCP leader was evasive during questioning and the agency will seek his custody after they produce him before a local court here on Tuesday.The politician arrived at the ED office in the Ballard Estate area of south Mumbai around 11:40 AM accompanied by his lawyer and his associates and was soon after put under grilling sessions with some breaks in between, sources said.Deshmukh appeared before the agency after the Bombay High Court last week refused to quash these summons. He had skipped at least five such ED notices. The money laundering case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least ₹100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ed-arrests-ex-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-in-money-laundering-case-101635796856197.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar MC to start census of street vendors this month||The Srinagar municipal corporation (MC) has decided to start a census of street vendors in the city for rehabilitating them and establishing vending zones.Mayor Junaid Mattu said the civic body will start the exercise this month. “Srinagar MC will start a city-wide street vendor census this month to identify, classify and register street vendors in all 74 wards of the city,” Mattu said in a tweet.He said this will form the basis for their rehabilitation and establishment of flea markets and vending or non-vending zones in the city. “And (this will) also ensure the success of PM-SVANidhi,” he said.Last June, the Ministry of housing and urban affairs had launched the PM Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) for providing affordable loans upto ₹10,000 to street vendors, hawkers or cart pullers selling vegetables, fruits, street food, apparel etc. The aim was to help them resume their business after the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdowns adversely impacted their livelihood.The Srinagar MC is mulling to identify some major vending zones for the rehabilitation of the street vendors.Deputy mayor Parvaiz Qadri said after PM SVANidhi was launched last year, they were not able to register the street vendors for the scheme fully as there was no official data on their numbers and types.He said the census will not only help them register people for centrally sponsored schemes but also help in rehabilitation of people in this unorganised sector.“There is also an increased demand to de-clutter our city’s major markets. The street vendors are a major cause of congestion, roadblocks and traffic snarls. We are planning to set up some vending zones in the city where their vendors can be rehabilitated,” he said. Qadri added the data will help them know how many vending zones are needed to accommodate these street vendors.“We are primarily looking at major markets such as Parimpora, Batamaloo, Hari Singh High Street, Sarai Bala and Nawhatta where these vendors are present in good numbers. The exercise will take some time, at least over a month,” he said.He said there is already a vending zone like Mecca Market in the city and another one has been set up near Kashmir Haat, where they have been installing kiosks for registered vendors. “We are attempting to rehabilitate every vendor,” he said. In May, the government, in its annual report showcasing major initiatives undertaken during 2020-21, had stated that it had provided a special credit facility for street vendors with an initial working capital of ₹1,000. It was disbursed to 11,276 cases under PM-SVANidhi Scheme, the government had stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-mc-to-start-census-of-street-vendors-this-month-101635796771836.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Non-fulfilment of demands: PU non-teaching body threatens to protest||The Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA) on Monday threatened to launch protests if the assorted demands outlined by them were not met.Writing to the vice-chancellor, the body demanded that appointment letters be issued to those awaiting the syndicate or senate’s approval to be hired on compassionate grounds. “The persons proposed to be appointed on compassionate ground are not being issued appointment letters for the want of approval of the syndicate. As such their appointment letters are requested to be issued in anticipation of the approval of the syndicate,” the letter reads.PUSA pointed out that the cases of 12 PU staffers who passed away while still in service are yet to be considered by the committee. “Appointments of their respective dependents are still pending and most of them are ‘C’ class employees,” they said, while requesting that these cases be considered by the panel constituted by the varsity.They have also demanded regularisation of daily wages staffers who have been serving for over 15 to 25 years, the construction of new houses for the staff on campus. and recruitment of more staff against vacant posts so that the existing staff is not overburdened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/non-fulfilment-of-demands-pu-non-teaching-body-threatens-to-protest-101635796770525.html
02-11-2021||Other||Farmers need to form own independent commission: Sainath||Jalandhar Hailing the farmers’ stir against the three Central farm laws, noted journalist P Sainath has called for the creation of an independent National Farmers’ Commission, controlled by farmers, to resolve the agrarian crisis and work for the betterment of farmers. “Farmers’ protest has impacted politics, as it has become an issue in the every election across the country; it has given a new direction to politics. The legalisation of MSP (Minimum Support Price) doesn’t mean guarantee of procurement, but government should give guarantee of procurement of the crop on MSP,” added Sainath, speaking at the closing session of Ghadri Babeyan Da Mela (Ghadrites) at the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Hall in Jalandhar on Monday. During his address, he also hailed the farm protest for being peaceful. “It has been the biggest peaceful protest across the world in the past five years. Sixteen years after it was tabled in Parliament, the Swaminathan Commission has not been implemented as it was pro-farmer and prepared in consultation with real farmers.” “Farmers should form their own commission at the national level, comprising farmers and farm labourers from every sector of farming. The commission will study the issues or problems of farming sector of the country and counter the government’s studies, even in courts,” he said, adding that it will add new energy among farmers. He added that the government will not be able to shut the independent commission of farmers, which could be extended to the state, district or block level. He claimed that farm suicide numbers were going up, but they (the government) were tinkering with the calculation of these figures by recreating new categories. “After 2015, it is not possible to compare with the earlier data as there is change of the methodology,” he added. Sainath underlined farmers’ ventures should be in the hands of farmers, not of corporations. It could be made much more profitable by the implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-need-to-form-own-independent-commission-sainath-101635796651367.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Anju Suri takes charge as Panjab University dean college development council||Panjab University dean international students professor Anju Suri took charge as the additional charge of dean college development council (DCDC) on Monday. The post had fallen vacant after professor Sanjay Kaushik resigned from the additional charge of DCDC last month. The office of the DCDC acts as an intermediary between the university and its affiliated colleges. It plans for integrated development of the affiliated colleges and provides them with the required help and guidance. The college development council comprises 40 members that meet at least once in a year.Speaking after taking the additional charge, Suri, who has around 29 years of teaching experience and has guided 11 PhD scholars, said she would make all efforts for the development of PU-affiliated colleges.The university has not filled the post of DCDC on a permanent basis for around 5 years, and only assigns it as an additional charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anju-suri-takes-charge-as-panjab-university-dean-college-development-council-101635796350519.html
02-11-2021||Other||Smoggy days ahead, crackers will compound pollution, warns PAU||Ludhiana With increasing incidents of stubble burning leading to a rise in pollution levels across the state, the state has another battle to fight. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has forecast smoggy days ahead, and bursting of crackers on Diwali will compound pollution woes. PAU department of climate change and agricultural meteorology head Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu said, “The wind speed across the state is around 3km per hour since the last week of October, contributing immensely to worsening the pollution.” She added, “Low wind speed and dip in temperature makes a closed-room condition in which hardly anything enters or goes out. So, the smoke becomes a suspended particle that just keeps hanging in the air.” On the possible remedy for this, she added, “The only possibility of improving air quality is due to western disturbance which brings rain or any climatic condition which leads to high-velocity winds, which is highly unlikely, at present.” She added that on Sunday (October 31), the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Ludhiana was 254, on Monday it dipped to 261. The AQI of Amritsar was recorded at 245 on Monday; Patiala 231; Jalandhar 220. An AQI between 200 and 300 is classified as poor and causes breathing problems for most of the population. Firecrackers around Diwali worsen the problem, with smog witnessed for 12 days in 2020; 10 days in 2019 and 11 days in 2018 in November. ‘DELAYED CROPPING CYCLE TO BE BLAMED’Prabhjyot added a delayed cropping cycle is also contributing to the pollution. Earlier, paddy crop was harvested by September, when the temperatures were high and the wind speed remained around 9km per hour. “High temperature and strong wind evaporate smoke. Conversely, when the weather remains still and chilly conditions, along with fog, envelop the state in October and the beginning of November. Under such a situation, setting stubble residue on fire could be hazardous,” she added. DC CLAIMS 37% DIP IN STUBBLE BURNINGEven as the AQI is deteriorating each passing day, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday claimed that Ludhiana has witnessed 37% reduction in stubble burning cases over the past year. Addressing farmers during a Kisan Mela organised by the agriculture and farmers’ welfare department, the DC said, “ The district has witnessed a dip in stubble burning incidents by 37% this time from September 15 to October 31 to 826 from 1,316 cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smoggy-days-ahead-crackers-will-compound-pollution-warns-pau-101635796290523.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||New fault lines being created among people in J&K: PDP||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday expressed concerns over New Delhi’s “renewed efforts to create and foster new fault lines between the people of Jammu & Kashmir”.In a statement issued after the Political Affairs Committee (PAC) meeting, chaired by party chief Mehbooba Mufti, the PDP stated, “Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is resorting to naked communalism and pitting people against each other on the basis of religion, cast, sect and ethnicity.”“All regions of J&K, apart from being robbed of their constitutional and democratic rights are slowly witnessing catastrophic ramifications of the BJP-RSS plans in sectors like business, employment, right to natural resources etc,” the statement further read.“Initially, some people had fallen to the false narrative of “empowered Jammu” as a justification for all that the Government of India has been doing since August 5, 2019 but it is evident that Jammu region is also paying a heavy price for the misadventures and nefarious acts of the BJP government,” the party stated. Party’s chief spokesperson Syed Suhail Bukhari said the PAC resolved that the party would redouble its efforts to fight the designs of dividing and disempowering the people of Jammu & Kashmir and give voice to the concerns and aspirations of all people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh.“The meeting also reiterated the party’s demand of immediate release of all political prisoners and speedy and impartial investigations into the cases of recent civilian killings. PAC also condemned the government’s arbitrary actions against employees, including a recent spree of terminations. The meeting also expressed grave concern over the deteriorating security situation and spike in violence levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-fault-lines-being-created-among-people-in-j-k-pdp-101635796170428.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Power tariff cut in Punjab a political stunt by Congress govt: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Punjab unit on Monday said the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government’s move to slash power tariffs was a mere political stunt. “Punjabis will never forget the insensitivity of the Congress government in the last four-and-a-half years. Now to cover its sins, the state government is making desperate attempts,” said party state general secretary Subhash Sharma.He said the state government’s appeasement strategy by announcing hike in dearness allowance (DA) was ironic as the employees were still paid on the basis of the 6th pay commission recommendations.The employees in Punjab have suffered a lot in the last over four years even as the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has implemented the 7th pay commission, he said. Govt befooling people: SAD The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday accused chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of defrauding the people of Punjab by rolling back the 35% hike in power tariff, which had been earlier affected by the Congress government.The SAD said the government would still be taking ₹3,791 crore more from power consumers by reducing power tariff by ₹3 per unit, instead of implementing the 800 units per bill cycle free power commitment of the SAD-BSP alliance. Addressing a press conference here, SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said that state Congress unit president Navjot Sidhu has exposed the Congress government by telling that it only wants to fool people during the last two months in office asking the government to specify from where it would come up with the money to honour its promise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-tariff-cut-a-political-stunt-bjp-101635796050550.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reviews preparations to combat bird flu as winged visitors arrive||With migratory birds starting to arrive at water bodies in and around Chandigarh, the UT animal husbandry department is gearing up to prevent avian influenza this season. The department on Monday organised a one-day training–cum-mock drill for officials of the animal husbandry, forest department and municipal corporation.Manish Kumar Lohan, director, animal husbandry, said, “Bird flu is a highly contagious avian disease that causes huge losses in terms of bird mortality and hits poultry trade. The department has formulated an action plan for its prevention, control and containment as per the latest government guidelines.” Dr Kanwarjit Singh Bhangoo, joint director, said four rapid response teams have been made to handle any eventuality. Each team comprises a veterinary officer and four other members. “The department has started active physical and sera surveillance of all types of birds, which include commercial, poultry, backyard poultry and in particular migratory birds. Migratory birds have started arriving in Chandigarh and usually stay here till February,” he said.The department has activated its surveillance at Sukhna Lake, which plays host to a lot of migratory birds. On Monday, 48 environmental and serum samples were collected from the lake to be sent for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-reviews-preparations-to-combat-bird-flu-as-winged-visitors-arrive-101635795878393.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali man killed in bike-auto accident at Zirakpur||A 38-year-old biker was killed in an accident with an auto-rickshaw on the Airport Road in Zirakpur late on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as Baldev Singh, who resided in Mohali. Investigating officer (IO) sub-inspector Ajit Singh said that Baldev Singh and his wife were returning from Zirakpur when the accident took place near Naraingarh Jhungain village around 8 :30pm. As a three-wheeler hit their motorcycle, the couple fell on the road and Baldev Singh suffered serious injuries. He was rushed to a private hospital in Zirakpur, where he was declared brought dead, said the IO.Police have arrested the auto driver, identified as Lala, who was later released on bail. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.After postmortem, Singh’s body was handed over to his family.Cyclist killed in Lalru mishap, car driver held In another accident reported at Lalru on Sunday evening, a 52-year-old cyclist was killed after being hit by a speeding car.The car driver, identified as Jarnail Singh of Jodhpur village in Ambala, was arrested and later released on bail.Assistant sub-inspector Sulakhan Singh, who is the IO, said the victim has been identified as Gurpal Singh of Tiwana village in Lalru. His son told police that Gurpal Singh was going to Lalru Mandi when the accident took place near PRTC dhaba around 8:30pm.The speeding car hit the bicycle from the rear and dragged the victim along for a few metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-man-killed-in-bike-auto-accident-at-zirakpur-101635795877304.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shooting outside nightclub: Chandigarh Police reach Ferozepur to arrest suspects||Three police teams have been dispatched to Ferozepur in Punjab to trace and arrest two of the four men who opened fire outside a nightclub in Sector 26 past Saturday midnight. Police have been able to identify the duo on basis of the registration number of the Hyundai i20 car, in which the group fled after firing three shots following a drunken brawl over wrong parking. One of the bullets had grazed past the knee of an Ambala man, which led to the registration of an attempt to murder case. While police have not revealed the names of the suspects, sources said they traced the number of the car, which was registered in Chandigarh, to a house in Sector 33. It had been sold further to the suspects, who hail from Ferozepur, said a police official on the condition of anonymity.Teams of the operation cell, crime branch and the Sector 26 police station have been dispatched to arrest the suspects.After nightclubs shut down around Saturday midnight, two groups of revellers who had come on a Hyundai i20 and Maruti Suzuki Alto cars started arguing with each other over wrong parking. In the meantime, another man who was visiting a nightclub was going towards his vehicle when he stopped and took support against the i20 to tie his shoelace. This provoked the suspects and they fired at him before fleeing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shooting-outside-nightclub-chandigarh-police-reach-ferozepur-to-arrest-suspects-101635795874866.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||NEET-UG 2021: Panchkula boy gets AIR 5||Suyash Arora from Panchkula has scored All India Rank 5 in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET, undergraduate) the results of which were announced on Monday. He scored 715 of a total 720 in the exam that was conducted on September 12.Suyash, 18, who completed Class 12 from Bhavan Vidyalaya School, Panchkula, said: “I want to pursue MBBS from AIIMS, Delhi, but I am yet to figure out which branch I want to specialise in.” He will be following in his sister Mehak Arora’s footsteps, who had scored the third rank in the AIIMS Delhi entrance in 2018. Following a routine was the key to prepare well, he said. “I used to study around four to five hours since Class 11, and towards the end, increased it to nine hours. When I wasn’t studying, I preferred to spend time with my friends and playing chess.”Suyash’s mother Renu Arora is a chartered accountant while his father Mahesh Arora, who was an engineer, died in 2012.Doctor couple’s daughter from Chandigarh gets 23rd rankScoring 710 out of 720, Pavit Singh of Chandigarh got an AIR 23.Pavit lives in Sector 35 and studied from Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22. Daughter of a doctor couple, Pavit said had followed a relaxed approach towards preparation. “I used to go out to eat and was also fond of watching TV and online shows. My focus was on mock tests. My grandparents were also a big source of support,” she said.Her mother Dr Brahmjyot Kaur is a pathologist at Healing Hospital, Sector 34, while her father Dr Bhavneet Singh Bhalla is a surgeon at Indus Hospital in Mohali. She wants to pursue MBBS from AIIMS, Delhi. While the results were announced on Monday night, they were being emailed by the National Testing Agency to students, leading to a lot of confusion. Coaching institutes confirmed that majority of the students had not received their result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/neetug-2021-panchkula-boy-gets-air-5-101635795873433.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: AAP promises 20,000 litre free water every month||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday promised to provide 20,000 litre free water to each household every month besides ensuring 24/7 supply without putting any additional tax burden on citizens if elected to power in the upcoming municipal elections in Chandigarh.Addressing a press conference, the party’s Chandigarh in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh said: “Under the first guarantee of AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, 20,000 litres of clean and free water will be provided to the residents of the city per month.”Elaborating on the promise, Prem Garg, party’s city convener, said: “For every household in the city, the MC will not charge anything for the first 20,000 litre per month if AAP comes to power.” When asked how the party will manage to do it at a time when the MC is incurring around ₹96 crore losses in water supply, Garg said: “Around 45% of water is being wasted. We will save this water and regularise illegal water connections outside the lal dora.” AAP election campaign committee chairman Chandramukhi Sharma said: “The BJP has failed to provide adequate water to the city residents despite a surplus.” Sharma said the daily per capita water consumption in the city is 245 litres, as compared to the national average of 135 litres per head. “This indicates the city has surplus water... then why is the government charging three times the cost and where is the surplus water going from the city?” he said, while demanding an inquiry into this “matter of concern”.The MC is expected to launch the 24x7 water supply project next month. Funded by the European Union and French government, the ₹500 crore project includes a soft loan of ₹413 that is to be repaid in 15 years. According to MC officials, the project implementation will require mandatory increase in water tariff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-election-aap-promises-20-000-litre-free-water-every-month-101635795871757.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC prepares map to include new areas||The Mohali municipal corporation has prepared a map to extend its boundaries as part of the ongoing delimitation process.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Monday approved the map, prepared using documents obtained from GMADA and revenue department, and sent it to the Punjab local government department. Sidhu said that as per the demand of people of Mohali and adjoining villages, a resolution was passed on June 28 to bring more areas under the MC. These included Sectors 66A,82, 91, 92, 116 and 117 besides Balongi, Bariali and Badmajra villages and TDI. The mayor said once the local bodies department approves the resolution and the map, objections will be sought from people. ‘’After completion of this process and clearance from the government, the entire area will come under the Mohali MC,’’ he said, adding that development works will be carried out in all villages to provide them with city-like facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-prepares-map-to-include-new-areas-101635795870554.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||India ends policy of wooing Khalistani elements abroad||The cancellation of nearly a dozen Overseas Citizen of India or OCI cards in recent weeks marks the possible end of an initiative launched in 2015 to woo Khalistani elements abroad who had moderated their stand over the years. That initiative started following the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Canada in 2015 and featured backchannel discussions between Indian intermediaries and former votaries of Khalistan in the country as well some in the United KingdomNew Delhi had also simultaneously pruned a blacklist of Khalistanis, who had earlier been prevented from entering India, with some being allowed to get the OCI cards, a lifelong visa.However, as Khalistani elements in Canada hijacked the anti-farm law protests in the country, New Delhi has resorted to a harder line by cancelling some OCI cards, which a senior official said totalled a dozen across several countries, including the United States.Among those who played a part in the introduction of the leniency initiative was then high commissioner to Canada Vishnu Prakash. He told HT that the effort had “mixed results” even as the government had “been reaching out and responding to the overtures of former Khalistani sympathisers”.The trigger for the change of course and starting a new blacklist was the surge in pro-Khalistan sentiment in countries like Canada after anti-farm law protests started in India. The new measures, a senior Indian official said, were meant as a “warning” to those indulging in anti-India activities in countries like Canada. “The behaviour and false propaganda of the Khalistani elements against agricultural reforms in India is pretty disappointing,” Prakash said.The new measures were discussed following the surge in such activity from December 2020. Other than the cancellation of the OCI cards, there is greater scrutiny when it comes to granting emergency visas to travel to India, as a senior official said, there were “strong checks put in place and diligence so that only those genuinely in need” were issued these documents.While the original blacklist featured names of Khalistanis, who had been openly involved fomenting violence in India during the 1980s and 1990s, the new regime includes those funding and providing material support for a resurgence of pro-Khalistan sentiment in India under the guise of backing the anti-farm laws movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/india-ends-policy-of-wooing-khalistani-elements-abroad-101635795812168.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue claimed 33 lives across Chandigarh tricity area in October||The number of dengue cases reported in October this year is even higher than the annual caseload in the previous three years across the tricity. After recording the severest outbreak since 2017, the hospitals’ emergencies are overflowing with patients suffering from fever. However, the health authorities in the tricity believe that the infection will soon start ebbing with a dip in temperature.This year, Chandigarh has recorded 889 cases till October 31, of which 805 surfaced in October alone. Three persons have also succumbed to the disease in October, while no death was reported in previous months. While 301 cases were reported in 2018, cases dipped to 286 in 2019 and further to 265 in 2020. No death was reported in these three years. In 2017, 1,951 cases had surfaced.However, Mohali is the worst-hit among the three areas with dengue count going up to 2,631 till October 31, of which 2,260 were reported in October. Also, Mohali recorded 31 deaths this year, of which 29 took place in October and two in September.This is the highest death toll in at least a decade. In 2018, eight people had died while the toll stood at one in the following two years. No death was reported in 2017. In Panchkula, 583 people got infected this year, of which 491 cases were reported in October. In 2017, 193 cases has surfaced, while the count was 143 in 2018, 33 in 2019 and 78 in 2020. The district also reported one death in October, the first this year.Hospitals are overwhelmed“The dengue trend has changed this year due to climatic conditions. As of now, cases should have started ebbing but we are still recording high numbers daily. The emergency department of the PGIMER is overwhelmed with patients suffering from dengue, while many of are being admitted with extremely low platelet count,” said Dr Surjit Singh, director, PGIMER.“Last year, people were extra cautious due to Covid-19 outbreak and not only dengue but diagnoses of other diseases was also low. This year, dengue cases increased because of late rains. The water was stagnant and temperature was suitable for the mosquitoes to breed,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, adding that with dip in temperature, cases will start receding. Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, senior medical officer, Kurali, said the dengue cycle repeats every four years. “With Covid-19, the immunity has become weak, which further leads to complications if a person gets infected with dengue.”Dr Mukta Kumar, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said that 10 special teams are visiting high-risk areas. Fogging is being done to check the breeding of larvae and violators are being challaned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-claimed-33-lives-across-chandigarh-tricity-area-in-october-101635795810765.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid update: 4 deaths, 98 new cases in Jammu and Kashmir||After over three months, four people lost their lives to Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. As many as 98 persons were also infected with the virus.All the four fatalities were reported in Kashmir valley - three in Srinagar and one in Budgam, the government data revealed. The last time six deaths due to Covid were reported in a day in the union territory was on July 20.Of the total cases, 84 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 14 infections.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 97 with active positive cases reaching 899.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-update-4-deaths-98-new-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101635795690404.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Crackdown on illegal mining: Raids at four mining, desilting sites in Mohali||Cracking down on illegal mining, district officials carried out raids at four mining and desilting sites at Mirzapur, Kakrala, Bhankarpur and Sarangpur on Monday. The teams that carried out surprise checks comprised executive engineer (mining) Sarabjit Singh Gill, Mohali junior engineer Davinder Singh, and Dera Bassi sub-divisional officer Naveen Garg. The crackdown on illegal sand mining is being carried out as part of ‘mission clean’, which was initiated by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday to check unscrupulous activities across the state, said deputy commissioner Isha Kalia, urging people to lodge complaints regarding the same at her office. “The state government has fixed sand rates at ₹9 per cubic feet and strict adherence to the same will be ensured. Anyone found indulging in illegal mining or selling sand at exorbitant prices will be penalised. Besides, people transporting sand should not overcharge,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/crackdown-on-illegal-mining-raids-at-four-mining-desilting-sites-in-mohali-101635795630539.html
02-11-2021||Other||UP transport department to ply 262 additional buses to clear festive rush||LUCKNOW: In view of the increased passenger rush during festivals, the state transport department has decided to ply 262 additional buses from Lucknow connecting different cities of the state, from November 2. The additional buses will run till November 11. In all, 54 buses will connect Lucknow with Gorakhpur while these buses will run from different depots, including Charbagh, Kaiserbagh, Alambagh, Awadh and Haidergarh, according to the state transport department. Similarly, 51 additional buses will connect Lucknow with New Delhi and 34 with Bahraich. In all, 32 additional buses will be deployed on Lucknow-Gonda-Balrampur route, 37 on Lucknow-Azamgarh route, 15 on Lucknow-Dehradun route, 12 on Lucknow-Haridwar route and 12 on Lucknow-Varanasi route. Besides, 17 buses will connect Lucknow with Kanpur. The regional manager of the transport commission has also issued instructions to the officials to ensure that only repaired buses are brought on the road and leaves of the staffers are not sanctioned, unless unavoidable, for smooth travel of passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-transport-department-to-ply-262-additional-buses-to-clear-festive-rush-101635795510667.html
02-11-2021||Other||ETT teachers’ recruitment: Punjab not to issue appointment letters till Nov 11||Chandigarh The Punjab government has assured the high court that it won’t issue appointment letters to the candidates selected for the posts of ETT teachers till November 11.The government counsel, on instructions from assistant director, education recruitment directorate, department of school education, Harpreet Singh, said only the scrutiny process would be done, selection shall not be finalised and the appointment letters shall not be issued till the next date of hearing of November 11. The advertisement was issued on July 30 for 6,635 posts.The plea was from those who were qualified BEd teachers, and had argued that in the past they have been considered for these posts, including in a recruitment of 2020. However, even as the court intervened in August and allowed such candidates to sit in exam. It now appears that government is ignoring their claims and is set to declare the result without considering B Ed candidates, the plea had claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ett-teachers-recruitment-punjab-not-to-issue-appointment-letters-till-nov-11-101635795330526.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hopeful of resolving issues with farmers soon as talks are underway: Khattar||Even as farm leaders threatened to escalate their agitation if evicted forcefully from the protest site to open the Delhi-Haryana borders, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday expressed optimism over ongoing dialogue with cultivators leading to resolution of the year-long agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.“I am hopeful of resolving the issue soon as talks are underway,” Khattar said in a news conference here to mark Haryana Day as the state was carved out of Punjab on November 1, 1966.“The farmers are our own people and we should sit across the table and hold talks. The only way out is dialogue,” the CM said, listing out achievements of his government in the past seven years and announcing a series of initiatives, including remitting jail term of 250 prisoners and a plan to monitor implementation of welfare schemes in villages.Khattar reiterated that the state government wants to ensure that the blockade is lifted at the earliest. He said the cultivators should shed their stubbornness and let people travel without restrictions as the blockade is causing massive damage to the industries and hardship to the commuters.Stating that the state government is making efforts to open the Singhu and Tikri borders closed by the farmers, the CM reached out to the farmers saying the problem can be solved only through dialogue.“We have constituted a committee to hold talks with the farmers. Discussions are underway and the Supreme Court has also taken cognisance of this matter. Due to the closure of the border, local residents, traders and tourists are facing inconvenience. Those blocking the highway should come forward for a dialogue,” he said.‘Mission merit is on’The CM said his government’s top priority is transparency in giving employment and that “mission merit” in recruitment will continue.He said a gang spread across different states was involved in the recent paper leaks. “We will uproot these gangs and their network. We have already arrested many people belonging to these inter-state gangs,” he added.Khattar said transparency is being exercised in recruitments being done by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission and the Haryana Public Service Commission.He said the government has provided 83,000 government jobs over a period of seven years without ‘parchi-kharchi’.He said the latest example of transparency in recruitment was of women sub-inspectors in which 58 of 64 girls were selected from poor families and no one from their family was a government employee.The CM said so far the state has registered 42 FIRs against gangs involved in paper leaks and arrested the accused.KEY ANNOUNCEMENTSSix months remission to 250 prisoners: Barring the inmates convicted for heinous crimes, Khattar on Monday announced to waive-off sentence up to six months of the prisoners locked in various Haryana jails.He said the process of releasing the prisoners eligible for this remission and convicted in general crimes will begin from November 2. About 250 prisoners will be benefited from this decision that coincides with Haryana Day.Power connections in old colonies of Gurugram-Sonepat: Khattar also announced that the government will supply power to colonies in Gurugram and Sonepat where electricity connections were not given due to dispute between builders and residents.He said the plot holders or residents of the colonies cannot be deprived of electricity due to dispute with private builders and deficient electrical infrastructure.The required electrical infrastructure will be created by distribution companies (UHBVN and DHBVN) by collecting development advance from residents of the colonies. He said a policy has been prepared to settle this long-standing issue.The decision is expected to provide relief to around 5,000 residents located in Gurugram and Sonepat. He said over 25,000 plot holders who are yet to construct their houses will also be benefitted.About 30,000 existing consumers in such colonies who already have electricity connection will be benefited by having quality power supply from the Nigam and will not have to depend on costly power generator backup power.Panchayat Guardian Policy: Haryana has about 7,000 Class-1 officers and there are over 6,220 panchayats. The Class-1 officers posted in the districts will adopt one village as its guardian to educate the villagers about government policies from which they can draw benefits.The officer will monitor implementation of various schemes. In addition to his/her duties, the officer will visit the assigned gram panchayat and interact with villagers at least once in three months.Kaushal Rozgar Nigam portal launched: Under the Haryana Kaushal Rozgar policy a ‘Nigam’ has been created to make “fair and transparent recruitments” under the outsourcing policies.Now, the job aspirants can register themselves on the portal and apply online for the posts. All those hired through the new system will get all benefits such as EPF, ESI facility, etc.This decision is expected to prevent exploitation of employees working on contract basis. The recruitment of employees through the portal will be done as per eligibility and prescribed criteria.The CM said there were complaints about contractors not paying contractual employees salary on time. He said it will be ensured that the state reservation policy is followed, salaries and other benefits are paid on time to the contractual employees is being made.The focus will also be on giving employment to socio-economically weak candidates.DC rate is now Nigam rate: Haryana will have three slabs of what is referred to as DC rate. And the DC rates will now be called Nigam rates. This rate of paying wages will be decided by the general administration department (GAD) headed by the chief secretary.Now, the state will have three different slabs of wages. Earlier, every district had different DC rates. The rates will also be applicable to the employees appointed on contract basis through Nigam.Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula and Sonepat have been included in Category-A; Panipat, Jhajjar, Palwal, Karnal, Ambala, Hisar, Rohtak, Rewari, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Jind in Category-B; and Mahendragarh, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri districts in Category-C.‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’: At least 456 services of government departments have been linked with ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ (PPP) from Monday. Khatar announced that from now onwards, benefits of these services of the government departments will be made available only through PPP IDs.The eligible beneficiaries will not have to make frequent visits to the government offices to get their work done.All information of the beneficiaries will be available through PPP IDs. He said 150 left out government department services will also be linked with the PPP by December 25.Registration of instruments: All sub divisional officers (civil) and city magistrates in the State will be designated as sub-registrars and joint sub-registrars for the purposes of registration of instruments of transfer of properties etc in each district. Tehsildars and naib tehsildars will continue to be joint sub-registrars.Cyber helpdesks: Cyber helpdesks will be set up at all FIR-registering police stations in state for registering complaints of cyber crimes. The state government has also decided to setup cyber crime police stations in all districts of Haryana in a phased manner in the next one year.Haryana Police have set up cyber crime police stations at five police range headquarters and at the police commissionerates of Gurugram, Faridabad and Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hopeful-of-resolving-issues-with-farmers-soon-as-talks-are-underway-khattar-101635795154991.html
02-11-2021||Other||Three held for hurling crude bombs at RSS activist in Varanasi||VARANASI Three persons were arrested on Monday for allegedly hurling three crude bombs at a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) activist (shakha) in Pitarkunda area of Varanasi on October 28, said police. The arrested accused were identified as Prabhunath Singh (30), Bakridu Ansari (30), Mohammad Imtiyaz (30), said station house officer, Sigra police station, Anoop Shukla. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in this connection following a complaint by the RSS volunteer Vijay Jaiswal, who was injured after one of the three bombs exploded. Bombs were hurled at Jaiswal in Pitarkunda area under Sigra police station area of Varanasi, on Thursday, police said. A team was constituted to arrest the three accused and they were nabbed on Monday, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-for-hurling-crude-bombs-at-rss-activist-in-varanasi-101635794911170.html
02-11-2021||Other||PPAs with two other thermal plants to be reviewed as well: Channi||Chandigarh Announcing the termination of Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the GVK-owned 540 MW thermal power plant at Goindwal Sahib, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that PPAs with other two thermal plants in the state will also be reworked. “In the session of the Vidhan Sabha on November 8, the House will hold discussions on the matter, take decision and also bring legislation,” Channi, who also holds the power portfolio, told media persons, after the Cabinet meeting. The CM disclosed that a notice had been served to GVK for cancellation of the PPA. The PPAs with the other two supercritical thermal plants; L&T-owned 1,400 MW at Rajpura and Vedanta group’s 1,980 MW at Mansa are also under the scanner. The cancellation of these PPAs, which were signed during the tenure of SAD-BJP government, was part of the pre-poll promise made by the Congress ahead of the 2017 state polls for the exorbitant tariff it imposed. The demand for the cancellation of these PPAs was raised during the tenure of Capt Amarinder Singh as state CM, by leaders within the party. The issue also became a rallying point for Capt’s removal. “This costly power will be replaced with the low-cost power from solar generation. Reduction in power cost will be passed to the consumers,” said the CM, adding that GVK was supplying power at rate of Rs. 6-7 a unit, while PSPCL has procured 250 MW solar power at Rs. 2.33 a unit and allotted 150 MW of solar plants to be established in state at the rate of ₹2.69 per unit. PSPCL has also issued a default notice to the Talwandi Sabo Thermal Plant for its failure to give proper supply during last paddy season. According to PSPCL chairman-cum managing director A Venu Prasad, the penalty amount works out to be between ₹600 and ₹800 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ppas-with-two-other-thermal-plants-to-be-reviewed-as-well-channi-101635794850843.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: Counting of votes today||The counting of votes for the Ellenabad bypoll in Haryana’s Sirsa district will take place on Tuesday. The bypoll for this assembly seat had taken place on October 30.Over 81.38% voters turnout was reported in Ellenabad, while in the 2019 assembly polls, 83.24% voter turnout was reported from here. The fate of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) nominee Abhay Singh Chautala, his former aide and Congress candidate Pawan Beniwal and BJP’s Gobind Kanda will be decided with this.Though as many as 17 candidates were in the fray, the main contest is said to be between these three leaders.Sirsa deputy commissioner Anish Yadav said the counting of votes will start at 8am. “Three-tier security will be deployed to ensure peaceful counting. The counting of votes will be done first followed by counting of EVM votes,” the DC said.The DC and other senior officials visited the counting centre in Sirsa to check the arrangements.INLD supremo and former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala said Abhay will win the bypoll with a thumping majority.“I have received feedback from villages and my analysis predicts that the bypoll was a cakewalk for party nominee Abhay. The farmers’ anger is brewing against the ruling BJP-JJP alliance,” he added.The bypoll was necessitated after INLD’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala had resigned from the Haryana assembly on January 27 after the Republic Day violence at Red Fort, in support of the farmers protesting against the farm laws.The Ellenabad bypoll is just as crucial for the INLD because it’s the only seat in the 90-member Haryana assembly from where the INLD had won in 2019.A decisive win would reassert the INLD’s stature in state politics, particularly in the Jat-dominated farming belt.On the other hand, the BJP sees the bypoll as a golden opportunity for it and a test for the INLD, which has been holding the agriculture-dominated seat since 1996.Abhay has been representing the constituency since 2010, while the BJP has never won from here. No member of the Chautala family has lost from here so far since 1966.This assembly seat includes 35% Jat voters, a majority of whom are dependent on agriculture. Hence, INLD’s Abhay has been expecting their support amid the farm agitation. However, the BJP is trying to get majority of the non-Jat chunk of votes as it has fielded turncoat Gobind Kanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypoll-counting-of-votes-today-101635794612177.html
02-11-2021||Other||Threat letter: High alert on railway stations across Uttar Pradesh||Lucknow: Railway officials sounded a high alert and Government Railway Police (GRP) inspected several railway stations across the state on Monday, following a letter threatening to blow up Hapur and other railway stations in Uttar Pradesh, was received by station superintendent of Hapur Railway station on Saturday. The local police and the GRP officials inspected the Hapur railway station, however, no explosives were found on its premises and vicinity. Commenting on the letter, additional director general (Railways) Piyush Anand said, “A threat was made to blow of Hapur and several other railway station across UP. The threat letter appears to be a hoax, but we are taking every measure to avoid any possibility of such incident.” “The GRP have also lodged a case regarding the matter and is trying to trace the origin of the letter. Other agencies of UP police have also been approached by the GRP for support in the investigation,” he said. The railway officials claimed that caution is being taken considering the ongoing festive season. “GRP personnel across the state are on alert in view of the festive season. We are taking all measures to ensure safety of passengers at the railway stations,” said Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/threat-letter-high-alert-on-railway-stations-across-uttar-pradesh-101635794494168.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Traffic disrupted as auto catches fire at south Delhi’s Yusuf Sarai market||Traffic was briefly disrupted on Monday morning at Yusuf Sarai market near Hauz Khas in south Delhi after an auto-rickshaw went up in flames on the road. The driver of the three-wheeler had a narrow escape as he stopped the vehicle and got out on hearing some noise coming from the rear of the auto, the police said.The police said around 11.30am, auto driver Mahender,62, was driving after refilling CNG in his vehicle. As he reached near Yusuf Sarai market, he heard a popping sound from the rear of the auto. Mahender stopped the auto to check the problem. Suddenly, the auto caught fire. He tried to douse the blaze but failed. The flames engulfed the entire engine, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker.“No physical harm to any person was reported. The cause of the fire was established as a technical fault in the auto,” she said.The police said that traffic movement was disturbed for some minutes but it was restored after the fire was doused and the burnt vehicle was removed from the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-disrupted-as-auto-catches-fire-at-south-delhi-s-yusuf-sarai-market-101635794491548.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC issues directions on employing contractual staff in hospitals||The Delhi high court has issued a slew of directives to central government hospitals and Lady Hardinge Medical College in Delhi to ensure that contractors engaging a temporary workforce in these institutions do not resort to improper and corrupt practices. In a judgment dated October 27, justice Prathiba M Singh said the hospital administrations shall ensure that steps are taken to monitor such contractors on a regular basis.The court said it will be the responsibility of the medical superintendent of the hospital to ensure that the contractual workers are not abused or misused in any manner and that their salaries payments are proper, in accordance with the amount being released by the hospitals.“For selection of the contractual firm through GeM, two separate and independent committees, bid finalisation committee and bid evaluation committee, comprising non-administrative faculty members will be constituted,” the the judge said in a 15-page order. She also said approval shall be obtained from the ministry concerned for award of contract, after the bids are evaluated and finalised.The court was dealing with a plea filed by contractually employed persons, working at the Lady Hardinge Medical College and Hospital, challenging the illegal termination of their services. The workers contended that the new contractor was coercing them to pay money to ensure their continued employment.Perusing the report by the committee, appointed by the Union health ministry, the court said there were several gaps in the recruitment of contractual workers.Issuing a slew of directions, the court said the hospital administration shall create awareness among the outsourced workers about their dues and statutory deductions.“For the said purpose, when they report for duty for the first time, a senior person from the hospital administration shall try and hold an interactive session in the presence of the contractor to sensitise them as to their rights and duties,” the court said.The judge said proper and transparent criteria shall be fixed and, once the contractor has finalized the workers, the administration shall verify their identity cards and documents before they are allowed to report for duty.While directing the constitution of a committee comprising at least two senior persons – one from administration and one from the faculty, the court said committee would interact with the outsourced employees on a quarterly basis to ascertain whether they are facing any difficulties, including with regards to salaries and other payments.“In accordance with the committee’s recommendations, salary slips may be issued each month to the outsourced workmen showing the breakup of admissible salary and statutory deductions, and the net salary payable through the bank must reflect on the salary slips,” the court said.It further said a complaint box shall be put up in a prominent place on the hospital premises, so that any contractual workers may submit their grievances, in an anonymous manner if they so choose. These complaints shall also be looked into, and action taken within two weeks of receiving the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-issues-directions-on-employing-contractual-staff-in-hospitals-101635794381256.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police constable aspirants miffed over difficult question paper||Haryana male constable aspirants were upset after the recruiting body, the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC)’s question paper explored their knowledge at different levels and had just one question regarding Haryana. Besides, there were questions from other fields.Around 5,500 posts of male constables will be filled through this examination, which started on October 31 and will continue till November 2.The constable aspirants and teachers were surprised with the difficulty level and the fact that just one question was asked from the state’s current affairs of 100 questions (each carrying 0.8 marks).The aspirants said maximum questions in the written exam were asked from biology, economics, polity, and English.Suresh Kumar, an aspirant from Mahendergarh, said he had appeared for the written exam in Panchkula on October 31. “We had studied Haryana’s current affairs for months and just one question was asked from it. While in the sub-inspector exam, which was conducted recently, majority of the questions were on Haryana. I was surprised to see questions on international relations, botany and advanced level geography,” he added.Another aspirant Praveen Malik, from Sonepat, said the written exam for the constable posts was much more difficult than that of the sub-inspectors.“The HSSC has failed to repose faith in Haryana youth. The question paper was difficult and only students who had taken coaching for CGL or other competitive exams could clear it. Different question papers were being given to students and we don’t know on what parameters the normalisation will be initiated while declaring the results,” he added.The HSSC had faced major criticism after it asked “unusual questions” in the sub-inspector exam held in September. Among the questions that had raised eyebrows include one on the “speciality of Haryana home minister Anil Vij”.Candidates were given four options to choose from: Vij is highly-educated, has been a home minister before, is unmarried, or has served as a police officer.INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala, in a press statement, slammed the HSSC and the Haryana government and accused them of keeping away youth of rural areas from getting recruited in police by setting difficult question papers.“The commission had asked high-level questions and eligibility for the exam was just Class 12. How can we expect that a Class 12 passout will answer Masters and PhD level questions? More than 500 answer sheets were found blank in the women’s written examination which was held in September. This proves that irregularities are being done. We demand an enquiry by a setting judge and dismantling of the HSSC,” he added.HSSC chairman Bhopal Singh Khadri said the question paper was set keeping in mind the Haryana Police rules. “We cannot do anything about the questions being asked and their level of difficulty. Our job is to ensure free and fair recruitment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-constable-aspirants-miffed-over-difficult-question-paper-101635794380066.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi begins revision of electoral rolls; last date to apply is November 30||Delhi on Monday released its draft electoral roll for 2022 and urged all adults to register or update their names and addresses with the state election commission by November 30. Data provided by the Delhi chief electoral officer (CEO) also showed that the draft roll saw a decline of 102,520 voters when compared to the last list published in January this year, which election officers said could be attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic. not many people would have been able to register themselves on the electoral rolls earlier due to the pandemic-induced restrictions in place, they said.The special summary revision is significant because Delhi will hold municipal elections sometime in April next year. The final electoral roll will be published on January 5, 2022. Addressing a press conference, Delhi CEO Ranbir Singh said Delhi has 14,795,549 registered voters according to the draft roll published on Monday. The total number of electors in the final electoral roll of the Delhi on January 15, 2021, was 14,898,069, which was 205,933 more than the total electors -- 14,692,136 -- in the final roll published on January 6, 2020, data with the CEO office showed.“In the past few years, we saw an increase in voters’ registration due to the Lok Sabha and Delhi Assembly elections. But this year, 319,222 voters were deleted from the list due to duplication, dead entries, and change of addresses. The Covid-19 pandemic could also be the reason why not many got their names registered or updated in the electoral rolls. Usually, the enthusiasm to get a voter ID card peaks around elections. With MCD elections scheduled next year, we hope more people register with us this month,” said Singh. 
02-11-2021||Other||Punjab’s ban on normal crackers goes up in smoke||Ludhiana Amid rising concern over deteriorating air quality, the ban imposed on sale and use of traditional firecrackers in the state turned has out to be a damp squib. The sale of banned crackers is on with impunity across the state, with enforcement missing. Ludhiana, Kurali Amritsar, Bathinda and several other cities and districts are selling crackers, despite the state government’s October 26 orders.In its order routed through the department of science, technology and environment, the government had cited orders from the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal. Citing rising pollution levels, the order said that only green crackers, which are manufactured without using barium salts or compounds of antimony, lithium, mercury arsenic, lead or strontium, chromate, were allowed for sale and use in the state. Wholesalers and traders dealing in traditional crackers claim that it is not feasible to introduce green crackers in the market by announcing restrictions just around a week before Diwali. “Green crackers are much costlier than the traditional crackers available in the market. Even if we had got them, sale will have dropped drastically,” a trader said. A Jalandhar wholesale trader, requesting anonymity, said, “The government should start the process of introducing green crackers by imposing a ban on the manufacturing of traditional crackers and promote green crackers. Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu is hub of cracker manufacturing.” “People are excited to celebrate Diwali as the pandemic played spoilsport last year. Only a few varieties of crackers are available in the market and this ban, if properly enforced, will dampen the festive mood,” said another dealer. The traders in a temporary cracker market established in the Grain Market near the Jalandhar bypass in Ludhiana said, “Some local companies have started pasting stickers of green crackers on normal boxes, as it is difficult for even department officials to differentiate between the two categories.The ban will also result in losses to traders, who have stocked the traditional crackers in large quantities.”Lambasting the authorities for allegedly making hollow claims just to save their skin before the NGT and the courts, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said nothing is done to enforce the laws at ground level. “I appeal to residents to stop polluting the environment in the name of religion and festivals. The money wasted on crackers can be used to help the needy,” Seechewal said. Passing the buck for enforcement of norms to the district administration, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary Krunesh Garg said, “The PPCB has just been tasked with monitoring air quality and action has to be taken by the district administration in their respective areas.”Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma maintained that checking was being done and only Green Crackers are being allowed for sale in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabs-ban-on-normal-crackers-goes-up-in-smoke-101635794311691.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cracker ban not to be diluted in Chandigarh: UT advisor Dharam Pal||Denying the cracker dealers’ request for temporary licences, adviser to the UT administrator Dharam Pal on Monday said that the blanket ban on crackers will be “strictly enforced” and will not be diluted. A blanket ban on the sale and use of crackers had been imposed by the UT administration on October 12, which had come as a setback for firecracker dealers across the city. As such the Chandigarh Cracker Dealers’ Association had asked the administration to issue temporary cracker licences for Diwali and Gurupurab festivals.In a letter to district magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, the association’s president Davinder Kumar Gupta and general secretary Chirag Aggarwal had said that despite specific guidelines from the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court pertaining to the sale of green crackers, the administration had imposed a complete ban in the UT.“The Supreme Court on Monday set aside an order of the Calcutta high court promulgating a blanket ban on crackers in West Bengal. Even the states surrounding Chandigarh have allowed the sale and bursting of crackers as per the orders of NGT and the Apex Court,” the letter said, adding that the administration was depriving members of the association from earning a living, which is their constitutional right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cracker-ban-not-to-be-diluted-in-chandigarh-ut-advisor-dharam-pal-101635794310341.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Even Khattar, DGP will fail to answer questions of constable recruitment exam: Surjewala||The Congress on Monday said the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) should be dismissed for “repeatedly coming up with irrelevant question papers for recruitments”.Addressing a press conference, AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “The HSSC’s ineptness in setting question papers seems to be deliberate.”Referring to the ongoing exams for recruitment of 5,500 police constables for which about 8.39 lakh youth are appearing, the former minister said the questions posed in the exam were tougher than that for the selection of IAS and IPS officers.“The level of questions was such that even the Haryana CM, DGP and IPS officers will fail to answer them. The commission had clearly mentioned in its advertisement that the criteria to be followed in the written exam will be as per the qualifications of Class 12. I can assure that the CM and his entire cabinet will not get even 33% marks in the exam,” he said.“I invite the DGP, additional DGP and IG level officers of Haryana to solve this question paper and I’m quite sure that they will fail,” he added. Questions related to Haryana and pertaining to the eligibility criteria for a police constable’s job are missing in the question paper, he said.The Congress leader said that instead of testing the calibre and competence of Haryana youngsters, the commission and the BJP-JJP government in state are playing a “cruel joke” with them. “This is a conspiratorial method to exclude deserving candidates from the selection process and accommodate favourites through manipulation,” he alleged.The Congress leader said if one goes through the eight papers presented to the candidates on October 31, one will find that even the DGP, the CM or the home minister will not be able to answer the questions.“I found that of 95 questions, only one or two were pertained to Haryana. The question arises as to whether police constable recruitment is being made for WTO or a foreign country. Questions should have been about geographical, social and political situation of Haryana, Indian Penal Code, fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, human rights, etc. However, the eight papers had questions pertaining to MA or PhD level botany, zoology, sociology, international history, international general knowledge, MSc level mathematics, etc,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/even-khattar-dgp-will-fail-to-answer-questions-of-constable-recruitment-exam-surjewala-101635794132458.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Gopal Rai urges students to say no to crackers this Diwali||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday met schoolchildren and teachers as part of the government’s anti-firecracker campaign, and urged young students to educate their peers so that no one bursts cracker this year in their neighbourhoods. “Diwali is coming and these days, fewer diyas (lamps) are lit and more crackers are burst. When these crackers go off, it is certainly nice to watch the lights and hear the sound, but along with the sound and lights, these crackers also produce smoke and poisonous gases that mix with the air. When we breathe in this air, all these toxins enter our bodies and harm the lungs. A lot of people find it hard to breathe in such circumstances, and the children and the elderly are especially at risk,” said Rai, while interacting with students on Monday. Urging them to promise that this Diwali, Delhi will be lit with diyas and not crackers, Rai said this was a pledge to protect people’s lives. “A lot of parents that I spoke to said they themselves did not like crackers but they couldn’t help bursting them since their children would insist. We have to remember that when the first Diwali was celebrated, there were no firecrackers; only diyas. All of us will celebrate a glorious Diwali this year, together and without any crackers. Spread this message and try to convince as many as you can,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhigopal-rai-urges-students-to-say-no-to-crackers-this-diwali-101635794131263.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya directs Delhi to up dengue testing||As the number of dengue cases crossed the 1,500-mark in the national capital, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya reviewed the situation on Monday, directing officials to ramp up testing so that all cases are reported and treated properly. According to official data, Delhi recorded 1,537 cases and six deaths due to the vector-borne disease until October 30.“Primary healthcare centres may prescribe anti-pyretic drugs to suppress the symptoms without addressing the root cause, which may lead to the eventual demise of the patient. Since testing is the most important step to identifying dengue, these deaths will not be reported as such and the disease will continue to be under-reported,” said Mandaviya during the review. Highlighting the urgency of intervention, the minister pointed out that while many poor people could be affected by dengue, several of them may not be diagnosed properly and their deaths were likely to be unreported. “The last two weeks have been bad in terms of the number of cases; and it looks like a mix of strains is prevalent--dengue 1 and 2. The disease outcome depends largely on when the disease is diagnosed and whether you are well-hydrated and have your vital parameters, such as blood count, liver function etc. in check. Many patients delay going to a doctor, resulting in their condition deteriorating,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, director (internal medicine), Max Healthcare. The Union health minister assured Delhi of his full support in controlling and managing the vector-borne viral disease. The Union health minister also stressed the need for effective coordination between the Centre and states, and said that officials from the health ministry will support their counterparts in the Delhi government to chalk out a detailed action plan to combat the rising cases of dengue. He said that since it seemed as if some hospitals were over-burdened with dengue cases, while beds remained empty in others, the Union health ministry suggested Delhi officials look into the possibility of repurposing beds reserved for Covid-19 patients for dengue patients. He also suggested the Delhi health officials carry out on-ground initiatives such as hotspot identification, fogging and timely treatment to curb the disease. “Use of mosquito nets, full sleeved clothing, indoor fogging are to be encouraged,” he said. Now that the schools are being reopened, Delhi government will begin a campaign to sensitise school children on larvae control, and training them to ensure there is no water storage in flower pots, feeding bowls for birds, coolers etc. Among other measures for vector control, biological larvicide fish like Gambusia have been deployed at 163 sites, the Delhi government said. Delhi government recently declared dengue a notified disease that is likely to enhance reporting and monitoring of the disease. As of now, Delhi is monitoring all fever cases, suspected dengue cases and confirmed cases. All hospitals have been converted to sites with zero tolerance for mosquito breeding, and a mosquito net will be provided to all dengue patients so that non-dengue patients undergoing treatment do not get infected. “Although only 10% cases are complicated and mortality seldom crosses 1%, all Delhi Government health officials assured the Union Health Minister that the outbreak shall be contained with the help of all stakeholders…,” read the health ministry statement. Apart from Delhi, the health minister also directed officials to focus on those states reporting dengue cases. Mandaviya directed the Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, to identify and send teams of experts to states with reporting high active dengue cases. The meeting also discussed the new vaccines developed to target dengue that is being tried in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-directs-delhi-to-up-dengue-testing-101635794071820.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Cyber fraud uses malware to hack phones via messaging apps: Delhi police||The city police force has stumbled upon a rare cyber fraud with the arrest of a 33-year-old Nigerian national who allegedly hacked phones and used messaging apps such as WhatsApp to either blackmail the owner or impersonate the person to ask money from their contacts.Police said that in this case, the accused, Chimelum Emmanuel Aniwetalu, alias Maurice Degri, sent a malware links -- disguised as links for gifts and lucrative offers -- to gain control of the victim’s phone.While a similar fraud in which email accounts of victims are hacked has become common in the last 10-15 years, police said this is the first time in Delhi that they are coming across an instance of malwares being used to get remote access of a person’s phone and use it to take control of WhatsApp account. Police have sent the suspect’s phones to forensic labs to check how many people were targeted in this way.Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) KPS Malhotra said Degri and his accomplices were operating from Delhi and Bengaluru. “We started probing this case after receiving a complaint from a person whose cell phone was hacked by some unknown persons. After taking control of the complainant’s WhatsApp account, they started demanding money from people in the contact list by sending distress messages. The suspects also blackmailed the person after gaining control of the data on the phone... We registered a case and started probe,” he said.DCP Malhotra clarified that the app was not hacked. “The data on the app is safe but if the phone is hacked, it is like giving the control of the phone to another person.”DCP Malhotra said that technical surveillance led investigators to the suspect, Degri, who was traced to a house in west Delhi’s Mohan Garden.“In all, 15 mobile phones and one laptop have been seized from his possession. The seized laptop showed that they used applications used to design various malware links... The accused used to create dedicated apps for each victim which when downloaded and installed on the victim’s phone, will send the Contacts, Call Logs and SMSs to their server, from where they could access his phone,” he added.Police said Degri and his associates would demand ₹5,000-50,000 from the victims.A WhatsApp spokesperson did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cyber-fraud-uses-malware-to-hack-phones-via-messaging-apps-delhi-police-101635793897463.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Two shot dead in separate incidents in Delhi||Two men were shot dead within half an hour of each other in south and southwest Delhi on Sunday night. Both the crimes were captured on CCTV camera footage, police said.In the first case, a 52-year-old hotel owner was shot dead allegedly over a financial dispute in south Delhi’s Mahipalpur close to Delhi airport on Sunday night, police said. Deputy police commissioner (southwest) Gaurav Sharma said the police control room received a call from a person saying someone shot his brother in Mahipalpur. A police team reached the spot and rushed the injured man to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.“The deceased was identified as Krishan Pal Sehrawat, a 52-year-old resident of Gurugram. He had a gunshot injury near his left temple,” said Sharma.During the preliminary investigation, Sharma said, police found that Sehrawat had leased out his hotel, Dolphin International, to a person named Roshan Mishra about 10 months ago.“Sehrawat was disputing pending electricity bills and non-payment of the lease amount with Mishra. Mishra and his associates are the prime suspects. Efforts are on to trace them,” he added.The police said that the two parties had an altercation over a pending payment of nearly ₹5 lakh last week as well. Sehrawat asked Mishra to vacate his property if he was not willing to pay. The issue was sorted out at the time as Mishra agreed to clear the dues soon. However, he failed to do so and Sehrawat came to the hotel on Sunday night to confront Mishra, said a police officer associated with the case.“Mishra invited Sehrawat inside the hotel and also offered him alcohol. But Sehrawat was miffed and he started demanding the money. An altercation broke out between them and they walked out of the hotel. Mishra was accompanied by three associates. During the altercation, one of the four men whipped out a gun and shot Sehrawat in the temple before fleeing. Sehrawat collapsed and died,” said the officer.Sehrawat’s son, Siddharth Sehrawat, told reporters that after retiring from the Indian Air Force, his father constructed the hotel and leased it out to Mishra. “Except Mishra, my father never had any dispute with anyone. I also fear for my life. I am still in shock,” Siddharth told reporters.Police said that raids were being conducted to nab the suspects.In the second case, two unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants shot and killed a 22-year-old auto-rickshaw driver, Rahul (known by his first name) while he was waiting for someone near Zamrudpur traffic signal. The alleged attackers fled the crime scene but the incident was captured on CCTV cameras. Police said that the three suspects have been apprehended and are being interrogated to ascertain their role and motive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-shot-dead-in-separate-incidents-in-delhi-101635793890266.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers line up at Kaithal police post to get DAP, block highway||Soon after getting reports of recovery of around 300 bags of DAP fertiliser by the police, hundreds of farmers lined up outside a police post in Kaithal city to get the fertiliser.Following complaints of farmers that a truck of DAP was being taken by a dealer, a police team took the truck into their possession and brought it to the police post for distribution among farmers who were protesting non-availability of DAP.“We had informed the police and officials of the agriculture department about the truck carrying over 300 bags of DAP being sent to a dealer, later police brought the truck to the police post and the DAP was distributed among the protesters,” local farm leader Satpal Singh said.Officials of the agriculture department said the recovered DAP belonged to a dealer in Kalayat who had provided all related documents but to avoid confrontation with farmers, the DAP was distributed among the farmers.Kaithal SDO Satish Nara said the recovered DAP was legal and it should be sent to the private dealer in Kalayat. Now it will be sold to farmers at Kaithal and the money will be sent to the dealer concerned.Kaithal deputy director (agriculture) Karam Chand said shortage of the DAP was due to early sowing of wheat but the supply of DAP has been increased and there will be no shortage of DAP in the next two-three days.He said around two lakh bags of DAP has been provided to farmers against the required four lakh bags.Earlier, the farmers had protested by blocking Pehowa Chowk of Kaithal demanding the administration to increase the supply of DAP. The farmers alleged that the government was not able to supply the DAP even though the sowing season is at its peak.Similar protest was reported in Karnal’s Assandh town as farmers associated with the BKU (Charuni) blocked the Kaithal-Assandh highway.The protesting farmers alleged that the government was unable to supply the required DAP and farmers were facing problems for the past one week. Later, following assurance from the authorities, the farmers lifted the blockade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmers-line-up-at-kaithal-police-post-to-get-dap-block-highway-101635793830323.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Of five new dengue victims in Delhi, four are under 18, say officials||Four out of the five persons who died due to dengue between the end of September and October in Delhi were children, according to government data. The five deaths took the official toll in the national Capital to six this year, the highest since 2017 when the mosquito-borne disease claimed 10 lives.In comparison, there was only one dengue death in New Delhi last year, two in 2019 and four in 2018, according to official data. In 2015, a major dengue outbreak killed 60 people.This year, the infection claimed the lives of a six-year-old boy from Tri Nagar on October 15, a 17-year-old boy from Pitampura on October 16, a 14-year-old boy from West Punjabi Bagh on October 23, and a 9-year-old boy from Rangpuri Pahari on September 9. A 27-year-old man from Punjabi Bagh also died of dengue on October 20. Two weeks ago, the death of a 35-year-old woman from Delhi in September was the first to be recorded in the official toll.This year, 34 deaths were reported to the committee, of which 25 have been investigated. The committee is yet to examine nine more deaths, which is likely to drive up the toll further. Once a dengue death is reported by a hospital, an expert committee audits all documents to see whether it was indeed the infection that killed the person and whether the origin of the case was in Delhi. 
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Girl falls into tank, dies; parents say landlord tried to hush up death||An eight-year-old girl died on Saturday after she allegedly fell into an open underground water tank at a building in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera, where she lived with her parents and three siblings in a rented room, police said on Monday.The girl’s parents have alleged that their landlord tried to cover up the incident by asking them not to inform the police about it as doing so would mean that their daughter’s body will be “cut open” for autopsy. They also alleged that the landlord stopped them from taking the girl’s body out of the tank and tried to frighten them that the police would arrest them for killing their daughter. He offered them financial help and assistance in cremating the body, they alleged. However, the girl’s mother informed the police after which the landlord fled. The police then fished out the body from the water tank.Although the family has not alleged any foul play in her death or raised suspicions of a sexual assault, the police are waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain the exact cause of death and if she was sexually assaulted.According to the police, around 2.30pm Saturday, the eight-year-old girl went to use the toilet in the rear of the house where she lived with her parents and siblings. Her parents, who work as tailors in a factory in Gurugram, panicked when she did not return till 4pm. They launched a search for her in the neighbourhood and around 6pm, they found the girl’s slipper floating in the underground tank.“We alerted our neighbours and one of them suspected that our daughter may have fallen into the tank that is nearly 11-foot deep. All of us started emptying the tank using buckets and two water motors. When the water level receded after nearly three hours, a neighbour entered the tank and his feet hit our daughter’s body. In the meantime, the landlord arrived and asked everyone to leave; he said the body was not inside the tank,” said the girl’s father.The father alleged that the landlord switched off all the lights and locked the main gate so that no outsider could enter. The landlord allegedly offered money and told the parents that the body will be taken out only if they agreed not to inform the police. But around 10pm, the girl’s mother secretly informed the police and by the time the police arrived, the landlord had fled, the father alleged.“No foul play has been reported in the matter. A case has been registered based on the allegations made by the family,” said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Gaurav Sharma.Police said the present case is similar to the one reported in August from the Delhi Cantonment, wherein a nine-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed by a priest and three employees of a crematorium, who then cremated her body allegedly without her parents’ consent or the police being informed. Her parents had alleged that the accused, who are presently in jail, tried to hush up the matter by telling them that she was electrocuted while fetching water from the water cooler. The parents had also alleged that the four men prevented them from involving the police in that matter and also offered them money to remain silent. A charge-sheet has been filed in that case, which had triggered widespread outrage and condemnation and the family was later visited by several politicians, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhigirl-falls-into-tank-dies-parents-say-landlord-tried-to-hush-up-death-101635793650229.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Gangster accused of 7 murders stabs and kills fellow inmate in Delhi jail||On Friday afternoon, in ward number 3 of Delhi’s Mandoli jail, a 39-year-old prisoner was stabbed in the head, allegedly by two prisoners, and the man succumbed to injuries the following day at the Guru Teg Bahadur hospital.The prisoner who stands accused of the murder is Vicky Pehalwan alias Raghunath, 29, one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted gangsters until his arrest in March 2020. Since then, he has gained notoriety among prison inmates as the man with the maximum number of murder cases against him — jail officers say the killing of the 39-year-old undertrial prisoner Manjeet alias Manu is the eighth such case against Raghunath in the past five years. According to the jailers, Raghunath and his accomplice Imran alias Golu used a knife, improvised from a tin sheet, to grievously wound Manjeet. Records on the status of these cases were not immediately available for verification, but jailers said these murders took place in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.According to these officers, even a dreaded Delhi gangster such as Jitender Gogi, who was shot dead by his rivals inside a courtroom at the Rohini district courts on September 24 had six murder cases against him. Gogi’s associate Kuldeep Fazza, a gangster who died in a police encounter on March 28, 2020, had five murders against him. But the total cases in which they were involved (including robbery, attempted murder, extortion and arms) were more compared to Pehalwan, which put them at the top of teh Delhi Police’s most wanted list. Following Friday’s murder, prison officers have shifted Raghunath to a high-security ward within the prison. Police investigation has revealed that Raghunath planned Manjeet’s murder for two reasons – Manjeet had stabbed Raghunath’s friend Jojo (identified only by his first name) inside Tihar last year and Manjeet also bullied Imran inside Mandoli jail. Officers of the Delhi Police special cell, who arrested him in March 2020, said Raghunath is a key member of Ankit Gujjar-Rohit Chaudhary gang. Gujjar, 29, one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted men, was allegedly beaten to death by prison officers inside jail 3 on August 3. The prison department informed the court that Gujjar and two others were injured in a scuffle that broke out after jail officers confiscated a cellphone, data cable, and a knife from Gujjar’s cell. The Gujjar-Chaudhary gang of south Delhi and western Uttar Pradesh is involved in cases of extortion, murders, robbery and contract killings, among other heinous crimes, the police said.“Raghunath is hot-headed even within the gang and he is a resident of Muradnagar in Ghaziabad. We found his involvement in seven murder cases when we arrested him from the Mehrauli-Gurgaon Road on March 6, 2020. He then told us that he comes from a poor family and was introduced to Gujjar by a mutual friend in 2014. After Gujjar’s death, he became the de facto head of the gang along with jailed gangster Rohit Chaudhary,” said a police officer, who asked not to be named.Delhi Police officers who have questioned Raghunath in the past said both Gujjar and Rohit gang used Raghunath as their hitman.According to the police, Raghunath was involved in the murder of gangster Prince Chaudhary outside Saket mall on May 6, 2019. Prince, who was Rohit’s main rival, was shot dead allegedly by Raghunath and others, at the bidding of Rohit Chaudhary and Gujjar.“Gujjar again took Raghunath’s help to murder his political rival and local BJP leader Vinod Pandit, during the panchayat elections in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, on July 19,2019. It is difficult to reform prisoners like Raghunath,”said a Delhi Police officer, asking not to be named.But prisons expert Sunil Gupta, who worked as the law officer in Tihar jail for over three decades, disagree.“The jail officers have two responsibilities — safety of prisoners and their rehabilitation. If the man has murdered eight people so far, then he should be shifted to a high security prison where he does not get to interact with other inmates. Secondly, they should counsel and advise him to join a vipassana or meditation. It works in most cases. For those lodged in terror cases, we took the help of experts to “de-radicalise” them,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-accused-of-7-murders-stabs-and-kills-fellow-inmate-in-delhi-jail-101635793530289.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Only 11% of pollution-related complaints in Delhi-NCR resolved: CPCB||Agencies that are supposed to tackle air pollution-related complaints across the national Capital region are faring poorly, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Only 11% of the complaints have been resolved since October 15, when measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) first come into force, the data shows. Delhi is faring worse, with only 9% of the total complaints (26 of 277) resolved so far. According to CPCB data, between October 15 and October 30, only 47 of 424 complaints were resolved by agencies in Delhi and NCR cities in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The data shows that in Delhi, the north corporation received the most complaints so far (103); however, it has only been able to resolve two of these complaints during this period. This is followed by the south corporation, which received 88 complaints between October 15 and October 30, but was only able to resolve two. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the east corporation received 20 complaints each, resolving one and seven complaints respectively. Among the Delhi agencies that failed to resolve a single complaint so far are the Delhi Police, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the Flood Control Department. A senior CPCB official said most complaints are related to dust violations, construction and demolition waste and instances of open-waste burning. “Daily reports are being collected and compiled now. Data is being updated in realtime as each complaint gets resolved. Agencies have already been asked to ensure pendency rate remains low and teams on the ground can resolve pollution-related complaints in a matter of days,” said the official. Meanwhile, according to CPCB data, agencies in Haryana have dealt with 15 out of 86 air pollution-related complaints, while none of the 12 complaints in Rajasthan has been resolved so far. In Uttar Pradesh, six out of 43 complaints have been resolved so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-11-of-pollution-related-complaints-in-delhincrresolvedcpcb-101635793471494.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||AAP holds protest over non-payment of salaries to civic employees in Delhi||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers protested against the non-payment of salaries to municipal employees outside the municipal headquarters near Minto Road on Monday. The protesters gheraoed the building and symbolically locked its gates.Vikas Goel, the leader of Opposition in North Delhi Municipal Corporation alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporation has not paid current employees their salaries and retired employees their pension for the last three months. “How will MCD employees celebrate Diwali without salary? When preparations for festivals are going on in everyone’s house, there is not even a grain of ration left in the house of MCD employees. How will employees celebrate Diwali without pay?” Goel asked.Manoj Tyagi, the leader of Opposition in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) said that workers engaged in cleaning Delhi are unable to light stoves in their houses. “AAP demands that if the BJP-led MCD is not able to pay salaries to the employees, then the people of the BJP should resign immediately,” he said.Prem Chauhan, the leader of Opposition in South Delhi Municipal Corporation said that if the BJP can’t run the municipal corporations and pay municipal employees, then it should learn from the AAP.BJP functionaries in the municipal corporations, in turn, blamed the Delhi government for the delay in disbursing salaries. Shyam Sunder Aggarwal, the EDMC mayor, said that the civic body has a pending payment of ₹ 525 crore in tax share allocation. “Salaries for September have been released for sanitation workers on a priority basis but remain pending for Group A, B, and C employees. We never faced delays in payment of our tax share during the Sheila Dikshit government,” he added.Jogi Ram Jain, standing committee chairman in the north corporation, said that the salary of all the employees and pension of retired employees have been released till the month of August, while the salary of safai karamcharis has been released till September. “The salary and pension for the month of September will be released to all the employees and retired employees very soon,” Jain said. “We are paying salaries to the employees through our own sources. Transfer duty of ₹61 crore for the month of August and ₹84 crore for the month of September for the north corporation are due. If the Aam Aadmi Party releases the due funds of the corporations, then the problem of salaries of employees will be completely resolved,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-holds-protest-over-non-payment-of-salaries-to-civic-employees-in-delhi-101635793354553.html
02-11-2021||Other||Four injured in KWS leopard attack||Four people, including a forest watcher, sustained injuries in a leopard attack in Kailashnagar village, under the Sujauli PS area of the Katarniyaghat range of the Katarniyaghat Wildlife Sanctuary (KWS), on Monday, the police said.Station house officer, Sujauli, Surendra Pratap Singh, said some villagers were working in the fields under the KWS when a leopard attacked them on Monday afternoon. The SO said Ram Saran, 45, s/o Murli, Krishna, 28, s/o Kallu, Rahul, 20, s/o Rajesh, all residents of Chahelwa hamlet of Kailashnagar village, were injured in the attack. Besides, a forest watcher named Vinod Singh, 42, s/o Ram Achal, also sustained injuries in the attack.On being informed, forest ranger Ram Kumar along with a team of forest employees reached the spot and rushed the injured to the primary health centre at Mihinpurwa.Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Ashok Kumar said combing operations in the area were being carried out with the help of two elephants. Besides, police force and foresters have been deployed in the area to avert any further attack of the big cat, the ASP added.SHARIQ RAIS SIDDIQUI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-injured-in-kws-leopard-attack-101635793352638.html
02-11-2021||Other||Odisha CM writes to PM Modi for increasing NREGA labour budget||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday requested PM Narendra Modi to increase the labour budget for the state under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme reasoning that it was necessitated as migrants who had returned to their homes during the second wave of the pandemic have stayed back due to reduced level of economic activities.In a letter to the PM, Patnaik requested the Union rural development ministry to increase the labour budget for the state to 25 crore person days for 2021-22. “As demand for wage employment under the MGNREGS in villages jumped, there is a need for an increase in the labour budget for Odisha,” Patnaik wrote while pointing outthat the state was yet to receive ₹1,088.72 crore - ₹377.91 crore as wage component and ₹710.81 crore as material component - under the MGNREGS.“Timely payment of wages to poor jobseekers is the fundamental guarantee under the MGNREG Act. Similarly, timely release of payment for material is critical for the creation of tangible and durable assets under MGNREGA,” he wrote. Last week, hundreds of MGNREGA workers in Sambalpur district staged a rally at Keshaibahal demanding quick payment of their wages.While the daily wage fixed by the RD ministry for MGNREGS work per person is ₹207, the Odisha government pays ₹308 per day in 20 migration-prone blocks in the state. Additional 200 days of works have also been approved for these 20 blocks.In 2020-21, Odisha generated 20 crore person days’ of works, 81 per cent higher than the total person days of work created in 2019-20 financial year on account of migrants who had stayed back following the Covid lockdown. In 2019-20, 11.14 crore person days’ of works were generated under the rural job scheme which provides for livelihood security by providing at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in every financial year to every rural household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work.In 2018-19, about 8.30 crore person days’ of works were generated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-for-increasing-nrega-labour-budget-101635793351242.html
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dr Surjit Singh takes over as PGIMER officiating director||Paediatrics department head Dr Surjit Singh took over as the officiating director of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research here on Monday. The Union ministry of health and family welfare appointed him as officiating director after Dr Jagat Ram retired on Sunday after serving a tenure of four years and seven months.“Professor Surjit Singh has been given the charge for a period of six months or till such time a regular director is appointed, whichever is earliest”, the letter from the Union ministry read.After completing his MBBS from Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, Dr Singh joined PGIMER as a resident doctor in 1984. He specialises in paediatric rheumatology, especially the Kawasaki disease, and primary immunodeficiency diseases.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Singh said, “PGIMER is facing the challenge of an increased patient load from other states. Emergencies are running at double their capacity, especially at a time when dengue and malaria cases are prevalent. Out-patient departments are also treating over 8,000 people per day. Since Covid is now ebbing, the institute’s focus will be to scale up the non-Covid facilities which have been hampered since last one-and-a half-year.” Seniority bypassed This year, the senior-most professor has not been given the officiating charge of director. Dean (academics) professor GD Puri; and dean (research) and medical superintendent professor AK Gupta had seniority, but were not picked by the Union ministry as they are both set to superannuate in next two to eight months. It will take another three to four months for the Union ministry and appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) to select the next director of the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dr-surjit-singh-takes-over-as-pgimer-officiating-director-101635793170482.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||Jammu and Kashmir Students Assn seeks amnesty for three booked for sedition||Agra The Jammu and Kashmir Students Association wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, seeking dropping of sedition charges and FIR against three Kashmiri students booked in Agra after they were allegedly found involved in posting pro-Pakistan chats on social media post the India -Pakistan match in T 20 World Cup on October 24. As per a press statement, the association also sought revoking their suspension from the college in Agra. National spokesperson of the association Nasir Khuehami said that the action against the Kashmiri students was totally arbitrary and unwarranted. “Sedition and FIR are very harsh punishments for their act and will ruin their careers and further alienate them. These harsh charges on the basis of mere WhatsApp chats will have serious consequences on their career and may lead to serious repercussions both in the long and short terms. Slapping sedition charges on them will put their career and the resources used by their parents for their education at stake,” Khuehami said. “The social media messages might have hurt the sentiment of people, but we need to reach out to them and counsel them rather than react with harsh decisions. No doubt they erred, but we hope that they will be given a chance to return to studies. Their future should not be destroyed in the larger interest of the country. The students who go to other states do so for serious studies. They have nothing to do with politics.” National general secretary of the association Younus Rashid also said that the government should give the students a chance and sought amnesty for them. Rashid requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take immediate steps to resolve the issue on humanitarian grounds and take immediate steps to revoke sedition charges and FIR against the students, so that their future was saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jammu-and-kashmir-students-assn-seeks-amnesty-for-three-booked-for-sedition-101635792815276.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Pained that my family is being harassed: Former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmumh, who on Monday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) following summons by the agency, has questioned the whereabouts of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh said that he was “pained” that he was being grilled on the allegations levelled by an officer, who according to the media reports, has “fled the country”. Stating that the allegations levelled by Singh against him are baseless, Deshmukh also said that it was not true that he was evading the probe by the central agencies. “All that I have ever sought is a transparent, fair and objective probe without any fear or favour so that truth is not rendered a casualty,” read a statement released by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader. “Param Bir Singh levelled allegations against me after he was removed as the [police] commissioner of Mumbai and not when he was on that post. Former API (assistant police inspector) Sachin Vaze levelled [extortion] allegations only after I initiated the process of his termination from the service. Vaze is facing murder charges and is being probed by NIA (National Investigation Agency) in the Antilia explosives scare. Vaze was behind the bars on many occasions in the past as well. He was a trusted aide of Singh and levelled allegations against me on his behest. The central agencies are investigating against me and my family on the allegations levelled by people, of which one has fled the country and the other is facing serious charges. My family members are being harassed and it pains me a lot,” Deshmukh said in a pre-recorded video message put out on Twitter. “Whenever I received ED summons, I had informed them that I have moved the Bombay high court (HC) and the Supreme Court (SC) and would appear before them after the ruling by the courts. I had appeared before the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) twice. My case is still pending before SC, but as it is likely to delay, I appeared before ED today,” he further said. Stating that Singh is in Belgium, Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam has questioned who is behind facilitating the Indian Police Service (IPS) officer’s safe passage. “According to the information I received from my sources, Singh is in Belgium and fled the country through Nepal. The central agencies should throw more light on this. The question is how did he flee and who helped him in doing so. The central agencies should answer these questions. If the Centre is claiming that our borders are safe and fool proof, how can a person facing five cases flee the country? According to my information, Singh has a house in London and his family lives there. The Centre should coordinate with the Interpol to bring him back,” said the former parliamentarian. In March, Singh had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleging that Deshmukh had asked crime branch officers to collect ₹100 every month from establishments. IPS officer Rashmi Shukla, who was the intelligence department chief, had submitted a report last August to the state government over the alleged exchange of money for police transfers. Taking the cognisance of Singh’s allegations, HC had ordered a preliminary inquiry by CBI against Deshmukh, while ED is probing money laundering charges against the ex-minister. “Deshmukh appeared before ED only after he failed to get respite from courts. A bigger question here is why were leaders from all three ruling parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) trying to save the former home minister. Perhaps they fear that the inquiry will reveal the names of the ruling parties’ leaders who were equally involved in the collection of the ₹100-crore. We firmly believe that the truth will come to the fore in the inquiry,” said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pained-that-my-family-is-being-harassed-former-maharashtra-minister-anil-deshmukh-101635792691045.html
02-11-2021||Pune||PMRDA panel polls on hold over issue of who is footing the bill||PUNE With elections for the metropolitan committee of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) announced, the administration is puzzled about who is to bear the cost of election.Is it the district collector’s office, the divisional commissioner, or the PMRDA?Given that there is no clarity on the finances, no date has been set for the election.The collector first issued a letter to the divisional commissioner asking for guidance on the same. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao handed the task to the PMRDA. PMRDA then wrote a letter to the state government seeking further guidance.Officers from the collector’s office and the PMRDA confirmed these communcations, but chose not to speak on record.PMRDA metropolitian commissioner Suhas Divase was not available for comment.There are 30 seats on the PMRDA’s metropolitian committee. For these 30 seats, 108 candidates are in the fray.PMRDA covers areas under the Pune, and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corpporations, apart from municipal councils and gram panchyats in Pune district.The Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations themselves go to the polls in February 2022, so for the moment, it seems an impasse is the status quo for the PMRDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmrda-panel-polls-on-hold-over-issue-of-who-is-footing-the-bill-101635792631606.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow schools pay homage to Covid-19 victims||La Martiniere College organised on Monday a special inter-faith memorial service to commemorate the lives lost in the Covid-19 pandemic. Religious leaders drawn from Hindu, Muslim, Christian and Sikh faiths simultaneously prayed for the departed souls. “The school specially reached out to the families of those who have meaningfully intimated the office about their loss. The names of the loved ones we lost were intoned during the programme,” said principal Carlyle McFarland.Likewise, on Saturday, Cathedral Senior Secondary School offered homage to 23 members of the School fraternity, who died during the Corona pandemic in 2020 and 2021. “These include parents of students and teachers, office or support staff members,” said Fr Donald D’Souza, the spokesperson of Catholic Diocese in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-schools-pay-homage-to-covid-19-victims-101635792630463.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||3 yrs after fire, Delhi HC asks cracker unit owner to pay ₹34L as compensation||New Delhi: Three years after a fire at a cracker unit in Bawana killed 17 people, the Delhi high court has directed the factory owner to deposit ₹34 lakh with the authorities as compensation for families of the victims. Justice Prathiba M Singh said that the amount should be deposited with the Commissioner of Employees’ Compensation Act of north-east district in two instalments, by November and January.“The deposit and release of the amounts are being directed to provide some succour to the families of the victims who lost earning members. One of the victims was a 13-year-old girl. The above deposits shall be subject to further orders in the present petition,” the court said.The order comes while hearing a plea by the factory’s owner Manoj Jain, challenging the notices issued by the commissioner of Employees’ Compensation Act on January 21, 2018, directing him to pay the computed compensation amounts to the legal heirs of the employees who died in the 2018 incident.As per the application for condonation of delay, the petitioner attributed the delay in filing a writ petition challenging the commissioner’s order to his former lawyer who reportedly asked him to focus on the criminal trial, which is going on in a lower court, as it is “more important” than the proceedings under the Employees’ Compensation Act, since it’s a “civil case”.The total delay in filing the writ petition is more than 1,100 days, as per the petitioner, but over 1,900 days, according to the Delhi government. In an order on October 25, the court said that the delay in filing the petition by the factory owner shall be condoned and the interim order of no coercive action shall continue subject to the ₹34 lakh being deposited. It also directed the commissioner to ensure ₹2 lakh each is released to the legal heirs of the victims.At least 17 workers died and two others were injured in the fire which took place on January 20, 2018, following which an FIR was lodged under the sections of the Indian Penal Code and Explosives Act.During the hearing, the petitioner’s counsel informed the court that in the course of the criminal trial, a sum of ₹34 lakh was already deposited by Jain’s son in 2018, who was earlier arrested and granted bail by a trial court on the condition of depositing the money.The court was informed by the counsel for the Delhi government and some of the victims that they learned of two more incidents of fire in other firms associated with the factory owner.The high court said under such circumstances and considering the delay in the present case, some conditions will be liable to be imposed for the continuation of the interim order -- preventing coercive action against Jain -- and condonation of delay.The court made it clear that if the deposits are not made by the petitioner, the application seeking condonation of delay shall automatically stand dismissed and that the writ petition challenging the commissioner’s notice will be dismissed without any further orders.It also directed the commissioner to file a status report concerning the directions before the next date of hearing on February 10 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-yrs-after-fire-delhi-hc-asks-cracker-unit-owner-to-pay-34l-as-compensation-101635792573869.html
02-11-2021||Other||Orissa High Court allows dealers to sell green crackers||Orissa High Court on Monday allowed firecracker sellers across the state to sell green crackers (ones that don’t emit much noise and gas and have reduced the size of shell) ahead of Diwali, officials said. However, this comes with a number of preconditions including burning of crackers between 8 and 10 pm and selling by dealers and retailers authorised by the Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organization, the nodal agency for regulating the safety of hazardous substances such as explosives, compressed gases and petroleum.Disposing of a writ petition by the All Odisha Firecrackers Dealers Association, that sought relaxation on the ban of the sale of firecrackers imposed by the Odisha government, a division bench of chief justice S Muralidhar and justice BP Routray ruled that the orders passed by Odisha’s Special Relief Commissioner, after meeting the firecracker dealers association on sale and use of green firecrackers that conform to the definition and formulation as proposed by CSIR-NEERI, would be followed.This year, Diwali would be celebrated across the country on November 4.“Sale and use of other fireworks would be completely banned. The sale and use of joined firecrackers (series crackers or laris) would also remain banned. Only those traders/dealers who obtain and produce a certificate from the PESO, after due inspection of their existing stock, certifying that the green fireworks stocks in their possession conform to the definition and formulation proposed by the CSIR-NEERI and are genuine would be allowed to sell their products,” the HC ruled quoting the SRC’s order on October 31.Earlier, the HC asked the Special Relief Commissioner to take an appropriate decision over the contentious issue keeping in mind the directives of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal on the sale of firecrackers. The SRC then passed an order on October 31 after meeting the firecracker dealers.Quoting from the guidelines issued by the SRC, the HC ordered that authenticated copy of the PESO certificategranted to the dealers after due inspection of existing stocks lying in possession of the traders/dealers would bedeposited with the district administration/police commissioner for getting permission to sell the green fireworks.Traders/dealers who fail to obtain and produce the certificate from PESO would not be allowed to sell their products. “Mere labelling of fireworks boxes as “green fireworks” and providing QR codes would not entitle any trader/dealer to sell the same. Only those retailers who obtain a license from the authorities concerned under the provisions of the Indian Explosive Act, 1884 would be allowed to sell green fireworks, the HC said.As per PESO, green crackers are fireworks/firecrackers with reduced size of shell, minimum ash usage and reduced usage of raw materials in the compositions and use of additives as dust suppressants to reduce emissions with specificreference to particulate matter. The green crackers have a minimum of 30 per cent reduction in particulate matter compared to routine crackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/orissa-high-court-allows-dealers-to-sell-green-crackers-101635792572518.html
02-11-2021||Lucknow||Mega Deepotsav celebrations begin in Ayodhya||Lucknow: The Yogi Adityanath government’s fifth consecutive Deepotsav celebrations started in Ayodhya on Monday with festive fervour. The celebrations were kicked off with the inauguration of Shilp Bazar at Ram Katha Park, which was the venue of several cultural events on Day One of celebrations. On the inaugural day, famous Watkar sisters of Nagpur, Bhagyashri and Dhanashri, presented a musical rendition of various parts of Ramayan. Isha Ratan and Misha Ratan from Lucknow presented Kathak dance while famous bhajan singer Anoop Jalota enthralled the audience with his devotional songs. A troupe of artiste from Janakpur, Nepal, gave a performance on Ramayan. The majestic Ram Ki Paidi ghat was all decked up with colourful lights for the mega celebrations. This ghat is the main venue of Deepotsav celebrations which will be illuminated with nine lakh earthen diyas on the eve of Diwali on Wednesday. All temples, even those in narrow lanes and bylanes of Ayodhya, are decked up for the festive occasion. “Deepotsav celebrations began in Ayodhya today (Monday). The entire city has been spruced up. The main event is scheduled on Wednesday, which will be presided over by chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya. The Ayodhya administration will go for Guinness Book of World record of lighting diyas (earthen lamps) at Ram Ki Paidi on Wednesday. For this record, nine lakh earthen diyas will illuminate Ram Ki Paidi. To make this event successful, the Ayodhya administration and the Uttar Pradesh Tourism department have mobilised 12,000 volunteers. Thirty-two other ghats in Ayodhya will also be illuminated with earthen diyas. For the first time, the state government is organising an aerial drone show on Deepotsav. Around 500 drones will draw various features from Ramayan on Ayodhya’s skyline. In addition to this, 3-D holographic show, 3-D projection mapping and laser show at the majestic Ram Ki Paidi on the banks of river Saryu will be other attractions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mega-deepotsav-celebrations-begin-in-ayodhya-101635792270469.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Nearly 35% of dengue cases detected last week in Delhi ‘untraced’||Delhi municipal corporations’ weekly report regarding vector-borne diseases showed that 184 of 531, or 34.65%, dengue cases detected last week were “untraced”. The comparative statement of dengue cases in Delhi for the week ending October 30, issued by the anti-malaria operations (headquarters) at South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), said that the hospitals did not have addresses/contacts for at least 100 dengue patients in the city. The eighty-four other patients who could not be traced were not hospitalised and had not provided their addresses/contacts to the labs testing their blood samples either.“While doing a follow-up of the infected patients, we find that many of the mobile numbers or the addresses provided by patients at the time of pathological tests are false. If we can’t reach them on these addresses or numbers during investigation, we declare these patients ‘untraced’,” Dr BK Hazarika, medical health officer, SDMC, said. Additionally, the report said 418 of these cases were “acquired infections from other states”.Explaining what acquired infections are, Dr Hazarika said, “Prima facie, we classify patients as Delhi and non-Delhi residents to identify who was infected with dengue here and who got infected from other states.” After investigation, those found to have been infected in other states are classified as “acquired infections”, he added.He also said that the municipal health staff regularly conducts awareness drives about the steps to be taken to prevent the breeding of malaria (Anopheles) and dengue (Aedes aegypti) mosquitoes. “To control the spreading of mosquito-borne diseases, domestic breeding checkers have arranged 23 million house visits till October 30 this year. They have sprayed insecticides at 2.8 million houses this year”. The report also said that 1,537 dengue cases were reported in Delhi till October 30. Delhi had reported 1,069 cases in 2019 and 612 in 2020. “Of the 531 cases detected last week, the maximum number of cases--134-- was detected in the areas under the jurisdiction of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, followed by 127 and 69 in areas under the jurisdiction of the south and east municipal bodies, respectively. Eight cases were detected in areas under the jurisdiction of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), five cases were detected in the Delhi cantonment, and four cases were detected in areas under the jurisdiction of the railways,” it stated. When contacted, Mukesh Suryan, the mayor of the SDMC – the nodal agency that releases the data of vector-borne diseases, said that no death due to dengue has taken place in either of the two hospitals, i.e. Purnima Sethi and Tilak Nagar. “We are doing the best to tackle this disease by repeated fogging and awareness drives in different wards. But, the onus of all six deaths recorded in Delhi so far this year lies on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-ruled Delhi government. Despite a huge surge in dengue cases this year, we don’t have any funds to tackle this situation. Even if the dengue victims were not Delhi residents, it was the responsibility of the state government to save their lives,” he said. Refuting Suryan’s allegations, Prem Chouhan, the leader of the Opposition in SDMC, said that it’s the responsibility of the municipal bodies, to control the vector-borne diseases in their areas. “But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal bodies want to hide all their failures, blaming the Kejriwal government. Neither do they want to perform, nor do they let others perform. Forget about government, every worker of our party is ensuring repeated fogging in all critical areas,” he said. Abhishek Dutt, the Congress leader and Andrews Ganj councillor, accused both BJP and AAP of the failure in tackling the spread of dengue in Delhi. “The fact is that neither of these parties can turn their back on their responsibilities. Instead of diverting the attention of the people with their catfight, they must perform at the ground level for the people’s suffering,” he said.He also alleged that the civic bodies are trying to “control” the number of dengue cases by “leaving cases untraced”. “Is it possible to have untraced cases in a world where everything is driven by technology? Both AAP and BJP are trying to hoodwink people with their blame game... instead of providing proper healthcare facilities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nearly-35-of-dengue-cases-detected-last-week-in-delhi-untraced-101635792210222.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches training centre to rehabilitate beggars in the Capital||The Delhi government launched a training centre and skill development centre on Monday to help persons who make their living by begging, while social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam shared the findings of a government survey, which identified 20,719 individuals as “persons engaged in the act of begging”.“The Kejriwal government is now preparing a strategy to rehabilitate beggars in Delhi. Our aim is to make Delhi begging-free... The Delhi government will ensure and provide skill training to persons engaged in begging so that they can find economic opportunities in mainstream society,” said Gautam during the launch of the training and skill development centres at the Delhi Secretariat.In February 2021, the department of social welfare in collaboration with the Institute for Human Development conducted on-ground surveys to identify persons engaged in the act of begging (PEAB), the government said in a statement.“In the survey, around 20,719 people were identified as PEAB in Delhi. Out of the total, 53% (10,987) were men, 46% (9,541) were women across 11 districts. One per cent (191) were transgenders. The highest number of PEAB were in East Delhi (2,797),” said Gautam, citing the findings of the survey.He added: “Poverty, along with many other factors, results in a person resorting to begging. People are forced into begging because of their social and economic circumstances. They are the most vulnerable section of society. Keeping this in mind, we conducted a pilot survey to identify such persons and simultaneously formulate a plan through which they can be rehabilitated.”“The department of social welfare in Delhi government has started the ‘integrated programme for the rehabilitation of beggars in Delhi’. The objective of this program is to make Delhi a begging-free city by rehabilitating beggars and also providing them with opportunities for training and skill development so that they can find jobs in the mainstream economy. The aim of the project is to create a sustainable model for rehabilitating and settlement of persons engaged in the act of begging,” the government statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-training-centre-to-rehabilitate-beggars-in-the-capital-101635791910182.html
02-11-2021||Delhi||Ex-chief secy challenges clean chit to Delhi CM, Sisodia in assault case||A Delhi court on Monday sought the response of the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and nine Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs on a plea by former chief secretary Anshu Prakash, challenging the clean chit given to them in an alleged assault on him.Additional sessions judge Geetanjali Goel issued notice to Kejriwal, Sisodia and the MLAs, and posted the matter for further hearing on November 23.On August 11, a city court had exonerated Kejriwal, Sisodia and nine AAP MLAs who were accused of allegedly assaulting Prakash during a midnight meeting in 2018, saying that there was no “criminal conspiracy” and “unlawful assembly”.The court said that the incident happened suddenly, after some of the MLAs started questioning Prakash over some issues and in the spur of the moment, two of the MLAs — Amanatullah Khan and Parkash Jarwal — allegedly hit him, without any conspiracy, prior meeting of minds or pre-meditation.The judge, however, had framed charges against the Khan and Jarwal for obstructing a public servant on duty, assaulting him and voluntarily causing hurt to Prakash, taking note of the statement of CM’s advisor VK Jain.Challenging the decision of the magistrate on Monday, Prakash, in his plea through senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, has contended that the trial court has conducted a “fishing and roving enquiry” into the allegations in the charge sheet, and has drawn erroneous inferences and conclusions without having the benefit of examination of the prosecution witnesses.“...that the trial court even while selectively relying on and considering the material available on record has arrived at divergent findings qua the accused persons, without any basis or justification, by applying different yardstick for different accused in relation to their role and involvement in the crime,” the plea said.It also said that the trial court had failed to appreciate the fact that the meeting was called at midnight, which was very unusual as there was no emergency.“The trial court has failed to appreciate the genesis of the entire case including the preceding and subsequent events of the incident wherein the complainant (Prakash) under a well-planned conspiracy was physically assaulted and intimidated as he was not giving in/agreeing to illegal directions to issue the TV advertisements (for the occasion AAP government completing three years) in violation of the guidelines of Supreme Court,” the plea added.In his complaint to the police in February, 2018, Prakash had alleged that Kejriwal, Sisodia and 11 AAP MLAs had assaulted him in a midnight meeting called by the CM’s advisor, VK Jain, to discuss release of the party’s advertisements related to the government completing three years in Delhi.Prakash alleged that he was manhandled and assaulted in the course of the meeting which was called to discuss the release of the party’s advertisements related to the government completing three years in Delhi.Police had later filed a charge sheet against Kejriwal, Sisodia and 11 AAP MLAs for offences including criminal conspiracy, assaulting a public servant, threatening to cause death or grievous injury, and wrongful confinement, among other sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/exchief-secy-challenges-clean-chit-to-delhi-cm-sisodia-in-assault-case-101635791850133.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Two injured as truck hits shanty in Greater Noida||Two persons were injured on Sunday night when a truck driver lost balance of the vehicle and allegedly hit a makeshift shanty erected on the footpath in Greater Noida’s Badalpur area. The victims were sleeping when the incident took place, police said. Dinesh Kumar, SHO, Badalpur police station, said that a truck bearing Haryana registration number was going from Ghaziabad to Bulandshahr. “The driver lost balance near Chapraula village around 12.30am. The truck hit the footpath and two persons – Rohtas,50, and Mukesh, 23, -- were injured in the incident,” he said. A police team reached the spot after getting the information and rushed the victims to a private hospital. Rohtas received head injuries while Mukesh was injured in his legs, the SHO said, adding the duo is out of danger. “Police have seized the truck and detained the driver, Sanjay. The driver said that the truck’s brakes failed that led to the incident. He was not drunk at the time of incident. We will register a case once we receive a complaint,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-injured-as-truck-hits-shanty-in-greater-noida-101635791792617.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Cops bust gang involved in leaking exam papers, 10 held||The Noida police on Monday arrested 10 people, including three retired army officials, for their alleged involvement in leaking question papers of government competitive exams. Officials said that the gang also provided solvers who would appear in place of the actual candidates in various recruitment exams in exchange for money.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said the Sector 58 police received information that the gang members would be gathering near a park in Noida’s Sector 61 early morning. “A team from the Sector 58 police station reached the spot and arrested 10 persons sitting in two cars,” he said. Police recovered ₹9.15 lakh in cash, two cheques of ₹2 lakh each, 28 admit cards of different examinations, a sample question paper of the Haryana Police constable exam, and 14 mobile phones from the suspects’ possession .Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police Noida (2), said that the suspects, Sunil Kumar and Satnam Singh, natives of Haryana, are retired subedar, while another suspect Lakhan Singh from Rajasthan is a retired army jawan. Lakhan was in contact with other suspects -- Umesh Tatwar, Abhinav Kumar, Layak, Virendra Yadav, Mahipal Yadav, Vikas Sharma and Jitendra Yadav, police said.“The suspects revealed that they had gathered to exchange information and cash. They used to leak the question papers and sold them to candidates. In some cases, the suspects used to impersonate in exams by forging documents of candidates,” Verma said. Suspect Jitendra Yadav was about to appear in the constable exam on Monday on behalf of a candidate, police said, adding that the gang had a large network spread across various states, including Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, and Bihar. They have fraudulently helped nearly 150 candidates get government jobs in the past 2.5 years. The preliminary investigation showed that the gang would charge ₹30 lakh per candidate, police said. A case has been registered against the suspects under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) at Sector 58 police station. “The suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cops-bust-gang-involved-in-leaking-exam-papers-10-held-101635791791343.html
02-11-2021||Noida||RRTS project: Ghaziabad station to act as major interchange hub||The future routes of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) to Khurja and Hapur in western Uttar Pradesh will branch out from the main Ghaziabad station, which is being constructed as part of the 82-km-long Delhi-Meerut RRTS project, officials said on Monday.The officials of the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), implementing agency of the RRTS project, said on Monday that eight routes were proposed, with three being prioritised, when the RRTS project -- which will have high-speed trains on dedicated tracks -- was conceptualised in 2006.“The design of the Ghaziabad RRTS station has been done in such a manner that it will pave the way for two future routes to Khurja and Hapur. Sufficient infrastructure is being constructed, including the loop lines at the Ghaziabad station, which will help us branch out more routes in the future as well,” said Puneet Vats, chief public relations officer (PRO) of NCRTC.The eight initially proposed corridors include Delhi-Meerut, Delhi-Alwar, Delhi-Panipat, Delhi-Palwal, Delhi-Khurja, Delhi-Rohtak, Delhi-Hapur and Delhi-Baraut, officials said, adding that the prioritised three corridors were slotted under Phase 1 of the RRTS project and the five other routes were identified under the Functional Plan on Transport for National Capital Region-2032.“The Ghaziabad RRTS station is being designed to act as a major interchange hub, and it will also have interchangeable facilities with the Metro. Besides, it will also act as an interchange station for other future routes,” Vats added.According to an estimation, the distance between Ghaziabad and Khurja is nearly 77 kilometres, and 34 kilometres between Ghaziabad and Hapur.Officials familiar with the development said that the Ghaziabad station -- which is nearly 27 metres in height and among the three prioritised corridors -- is the tallest among all the RRTS stations, will also have interchangeable facilities with the Metro. It is part of the 82km Delhi-Meerut corridor and the 17km priority section of Sahibabad to Duhai, which is being developed in Ghaziabad. The RRTS stations are being developed at Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar, Duhai, Muradnagar, Modinagar (South) and Modinagar (North).The priority section is likely to become operational in March 2023, and the entire 82km corridor is expected to be commissioned at a cost of ₹30,274 crore in March 2025, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rrts-project-ghaziabad-station-to-act-as-major-interchange-hub-101635791790115.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Noida traffic police to focus on enforcement against polluting vehicles||The Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police on Monday launched the road safety month with an aim to focus on enforcement against polluting vehicles and encourage the use of electric vehicles in the district. Police officials said they will also sensitise people to follow traffic rules during the month-long drive. Police commissioner Alok Singh said that there is a need to inculcate a sense of road discipline in the mind of every commuter. “India has world’s 1% vehicles, but it records 11% global road accidents. We need to change our mindset and follow traffic rules strictly,” Singh said at the inaugural programme at commissionerate office in Sector 108.Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that police will take strict action against polluting vehicles. “We will impound diesel and petrol vehicles older than 15 and 10 years, respectively. We are also taking action against vehicles using modified silencers. Besides, we will encourage people to use e-vehicles,” he said. The district has 771,087 registered vehicles, of which 6,937 are e-vehicles, the officials said. “At present, the traffic police department has 565 personnel. We have added around 1,000 traffic volunteers,” the DCP said. Shreya Sharma, a resident of Noida’s Sector 50 and one of the traffic volunteers, said, “Every Sunday we conduct a traffic awareness programme at the neighbouring crossing. We also urge people to wear a helmet while riding motorcycles,” she said.Anurag Kulshrestha, president of TRAX, a road safety NGO, delivered a presentation at the inaugural programme and said that roads should have 360 degree visibility, proper lane marking, walkable footpath, proper merging of traffic, and easy emergency exit. “We have found that Noida roads lack these technical aspects which must be fixed,” Kulshrestha said. Some private companies also displayed their innovative models for traffic safety and smart policing during the programme. The police commissioner visited these stalls and interacted with their representatives. Abhishek Dwivedi, chief operating officer of EVeez, put up a stall to display e-bikes on subscription basis. “E-bikes are environment friendly and cheaper as compared to diesel and petrol vehicles. We found that some people do not want to buy such vehicles but want to ride them. We are offering these vehicles for a monthly rent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-police-to-focus-on-enforcement-against-polluting-vehicles-101635791612679.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Air quality worsens in Noida, increase in mercury likely today||The air quality in Noida and Greater Noida worsened to the ‘very poor’ category on Monday, after oscillating between the ‘moderate’ and ‘poor’ categories for days.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Noida recorded the air quality index (AQI) reading, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Monday at 301 against 292 a day earlier, and Greater Noida at 306 against 292 on Sunday.An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), fire incidents have increased in the city, but the change in wind directions has helped in reducing the intrusion of smoke in the region. “Delhi’s AQI was recorded in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday, and it is likely to improve to the upper end of ‘poor’ in the next two days. This is due to the prevailing winds from west/southwest direction, and the reduction in transport of emissions from stubble burning. The share of crop residue burning emissions in PM2.5 is low, about 7% (effective fire count being 3,971) due to unfavourable wind for transport. The prevailing mixing layer height (MLH), which is shallow, reduces the dispersion of pollutants,” according to the Safar statement on Monday.The effective fire count (stubble burning) on Sunday was 3,971 against 1743 a day earlier, it added.Meanwhile, there was a slight drop in the daytime temperatures in Noida. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida on Monday were recorded at 29 degrees Celsius (°C) and 14.2 degrees Celsius, respectively, against 29.2 degrees Celsius and 17.1 degrees Celsius, respectively, a day earlier.“The maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida will hover around 30 degrees Celsius and 15 degrees Celsius on Tuesday,” said an IMD official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-worsens-in-noida-increase-in-mercury-likely-today-101635791611456.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida housing complex fined over ₹4L for violating waste management norms||The Greater Noida authority has imposed a penalty of ₹4.03 lakh against the Eco Village One housing complex in Greater Noida’s Sector 1 for not following norms as mentioned in the Waste Management Rules 2016, said officials on Monday.It imposed the hefty penalty against the residential complex for not segregating and handling the waste, and dumping the same at undesignated sites, in complete violation of the waste management rules.According to the Waste Management Rules 2016, if a housing complex produces more than 100kg waste daily or is built on a 5,000-square-metre area or above, it will be considered as a “bulk waste producer” and will have to segregate and treat the waste at source. It will have to segregate dry, wet, and plastic waste separately, and treat the same according to the rules.“We have imposed a penalty of ₹4.03 lakh against the housing complex, as during an inspection, a team from the Greater Noida authority found that it had violated the waste rules. And if it continues to flout the rules, the authority will have to increase the penalty amount against it,” said Salil Yadav, in-charge of health department, Greater Noida authority.“Earlier, we had imposed a penalty of ₹2 lakh against the same housing complex in August 2021. If they continue to violate the waste norms, the penalty amount will keep increasing,” Yadav added.Supervisors Dr Umesh Chandra, Inder Nagar and Mudit Tyagi were also part of the authority teams which conducted the inspection at the residential complex.Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Greater Noida authority, has directed its health department to conduct similar inspections and ensure that “bulk waste producers” across the city are keeping the norms in check. He has also appealed to the general public to support the authority in handling waste management in a better way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-housing-complex-fined-over-4l-for-violating-waste-management-norms-101635791610225.html
02-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad ‘most polluted’ city for third time since October 15||The air quality index (AQI) in Ghaziabad has been worsening ahead of the festival of Diwali on Thursday (November 4 this year), with the city being listed as the “most polluted” one for the third time since October 15 this year, according to the Central Pollution Control Board on Monday.Ghaziabad was listed as the “most polluted city” on October 16 with the AQI recorded at 349 -- for the first time after the implementation of the graded response action plan (Grap) on October 15 this year, and on Friday (October 29) with the AQI at 321.The AQI figures released by the CPCB shows that Ghaziabad recorded the AQI at 363 -- the highest so far -- under the ‘very poor’ category, with the primary pollutants being PM10 and PM2.5.An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that they faced issues in streamlining data at two of the four monitoring stations. “We faced some technical issues at our two monitoring stations at Vasundhara and Loni, and morning figures were shown in the afternoon. So, we are adopting rectification measures. Our patrolling teams are also monitoring the air in industrial areas and construction sites regularly,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), Delhi’s AQI was recorded in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday, and it is likely to improve to the upper end of ‘poor’ in the next two days. This is due to the prevailing winds from west/southwest direction, and the reduction in transport of emissions from stubble burning.“The share of crop residue burning emissions in PM2.5 is low, about 7% (effective fire count being 3,971) due to unfavourable wind transport. The prevailing mixing layer height (MLH), which is shallow, reduces the dispersion of pollutants,” according to the Safar statement on Monday.Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist, said, “Instances of garbage burning and heavy traffic movement on roads have led to the spike in the particulate matter in the air. It seems that there is a lack of coordination among different agencies to act on this at the ground level. High volumes of traffic movement and snarls are leading to the increase in the pollution, too.”According to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, Union Ministry of Earth Sciences, the air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to be in the ‘poor’ to lower end of the ‘very poor’ category between November 2 and 3. “In the outlook for the subsequent five days, the air quality is likely to deteriorate significantly between November 5 and 6, and it may reach the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category. PM2.5 will be the predominant pollutant,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-most-polluted-city-for-third-time-since-october-15-101635791430045.html
02-11-2021||Gurugram||Will stop public namaz: Muslim body amid clamour from right-wing groups||Members of the Muslim community on Monday said that they have decided to stop offering Friday prayers (namaz) at an open site in Sector 12, which was designated by the district administration, to avoid confrontations with right-wing Hindu groups and ensure “harmonious” coexistence of all religions.Community leaders and members of the Haryana Waqf Board on Monday met the deputy commissioner and submitted a memorandum to the chief minister, offering to stop namaz in open spaces and requesting that officials concerned be directed to remove encroachments from mosques and land owned by the Waqf Board.Khurshhid Rajaka, a member of the Haryana Waqf Board, who is also the chairman of Muslim Rashtriya Manch, said that prayers cannot be conducted under the shadow of police protection every Friday. “Prayers being offered amid opposition and against the wishes of the people are not in tune with Islam and national unity. We don’t want our Hindu brothers to feel unhappy and resort to protests to disrupt our namaz,” Rajaka said.The Haryana Waqf Board has 19 land parcels in different areas of the Gururgam district, out of which at least 13 sites are encroached upon. Members of the Muslim community also demanded land in developing sectors for the construction of mosques.Rajaka alleged that the issue of namaz has been turned into a political issue to pitch one community against the other, and said that changes can be adopted to maintain peace.The development comes a day after members of a Hindu right-wing group announced that they would perform Govardhan Puja and organise a Bhandara (community kitchen) at the namaz site in Sector 12. Earlier, members of the Muslim community offered prayers at Sector 47, but following protests by residents, they were allotted a site in Sector 12A. However, the protests continued there as well.Members of right-wing organisations have been protesting against namaz being offered in the open since September. Following a memorandum submitted to the administration by a consortium of Hindu groups — demanding that the practice be stopped — on October 26, the police were deployed to protect those offering prayers last Friday.Last Friday, at least 35 people associated with different Hindu groups were detained by the police for trying to disrupt namaz in Sector 12A on Friday afternoon, as more than 500 officers were deployed at five designated namaz sites. No violence was reported and prayers were offered peacefully, the police said.Rajaka said they have submitted a list of the 19 Waqf Board sites and requested the administration to free the land parcels from encroachments. “We have requested the existing mosques, which are few in number, to conduct multiple rounds of prayers on Friday to accommodate as many people as possible,” he said.He said that individual members of the community have also offered their private plots for Friday prayers and that they may also choose to offer prayers at these sites provided locals do not have an issue with the same.Haji Shehzad Khan, the chairman of Muslim Ekta Manch, said that they have been taking up the issue on the behalf of the community since 2018, and now and then, the issue flares up due to which they have decided to permanently end the practice. “Misinformation is being spread that those 37 sites, designated in 2018, were for only one day, but actually, it was for one day a week,” said Khan.Khan said that they will cooperate with all the stakeholders concerned and offer prayers at the places identified by the authorities in consultation with all parties concerned.Meanwhile, officials of the Gurugram district administration acknowledged the receipt of a memorandum in this regard.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gururgam, said that they have received the memorandum and will come out with a solution at the earliest.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the police are well prepared to prevent escalation of the law and order situation and they are equipped to protect those offering prayers at the designated sites. “We took strict action against those who tried to disrupt namaz and tried to give it into a communal issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-row-muslims-to-end-prayers-in-open-request-authorities-to-clear-encroachments-at-13-land-parcels-101635789990038.html
02-11-2021||Pune||Koregaon Bhima commission suspends hearings; ‘no accommodation’||The Koregaon Bhima Judicial Commission has suspended all future hearings on grounds that the Maharashtra government has not yet provided suitable accommodation for commission members in Mumbai, despite several letters of request being sent to the government over a period of one year.A letter written by commission secretary VV Palnitkar to the chief secretary of the state government, a copy of which is with HT, states: “Nothing was heard from the government till October 31, 2021, about availability of suitable accommodation. Therefore, there is no other option before the Commission but to suspend the hearing schedule till the government provides suitable accommodation to the Commission. Accordingly, the Commission hereby suspends all future hearings till the Government provides suitable accommodation at Mumbai”.The letter stated that the commission has informed the government about a proposed hearing scheduled from November 8-12, 2021.“In the meeting dated Oct 28, 2021, Chairman Justice JN Patel advised Saxena, principal secretary, Home Spl. to take the issue directly to the office of the Chief Minister and to get the suitable accommodation on an emergent basis. It was also made clear that if suitable accommodation is not provided by October 29, the commission would suspend its hearing schedules. Unfortunately, nothing was heard from the government till October 31 about availability of suitable accommodation”, the letter reads.The commission, according to its secretary, had informed the government that it had to postpone hearings scheduled in the last week of March and first week of April, 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Further notifications were also kept on hold at the request of the Commission mainly due to Covid-19 pandemic. In its 7th Status report, the Commission has stated that it is likely to examine about 40 more witnesses and expects further extension of at least six months,” the letter stated.The two-member commission, headed by retired high court justice J N Patel, was constituted by the then state government under CM Devendra Fadnavis on February 9, 2018, to probe into the sequence of events that led to violence on the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The commission has six terms of reference, including identifying causes of the January 1, 2018 riots that took place in Pune, identifying responsible groups, determining whether police and administration were prepared, and recommending short and long-term measures.When contacted, commission secretary Palnitkar said, “We have informed the chief secretary about the suspension of further hearings due to lack of space.”The Elgar Parishad conclave was first held on December 31, 2017, at Pune’s historic Shaniwarwada, ahead of the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon, which was observed on January 1, 2018. Clashes broke out between right-wing forces and Dalits near the Vijay Stambh (victory pillar) at Bhima Koregaon, located in Perne village on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/koregaon-bhima-commission-suspends-hearings-no-accommodation-101635785129594.html
02-11-2021||Mumbai||Former Maha CM protected drug peddlers, says Nawab Malik; Fadnavis hits back||Attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Maharashtra minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party(NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Monday tweeted pictures of Fadnavis and his wife, Amruta, with Jaydeep Rana, arrested in a drug peddling case.The minister said that people like Rana received protection under the previous government. Fadnavis, however, denied the allegations and said he will expose minister’s links with the Underworld after Diwali.In a series of tweets, Malik hit out at the former chief minister and the BJP. “Let’s have a discussion of links between BJP and drug peddler,” Malik said in a tweet with a photograph of Amruta Fadnavis and Rana. In another tweet, he posted a picture of Fadnavis with Rana.Rana was arrested in a drug peddling case in June this year and is currently lodged in a jail.“Jaydeep Rana is linked with Devendra ji. When Fadnavis was CM, his wife Amruta released the album in February 2018... It was directed by Sachin Gupta, creative head was Manish Khanka and finance head was Jaydeep Rana. Claims that anyone can take a picture when you are in public life will not work in this case. There is also another picture where both can be seen together during Ganesh Chaturthi, I don’t know who visited who’s residence then,” said Malik, later, at a press conference.Also Read: On Wankhede’s ‘clean chit’ by caste panel official, Nawab Malik’s objection“The matter is also not limited to this but is also related to a major drug business and Fadnavis’s role in the matter needs to be probed… We are not questioning pictures but funding of the album. We demand an investigation either through judicial commission or CBI,” Malik said.Hitting out at Malik, Fadnavis said that Rana has nothing to do with him and his wife and that he will expose Malik’s links with the underworld after Diwali. “Malik has levelled baseless allegations against me and my wife. The accused arrested a few days ago was engaged by River March for their social drive. We were just helping them in a social cause. The accused took pictures with me as well, but Malik is intentionally targeting my wife. It shows their culture,” Fadnavis told reporters. Responding to Malik’s allegations over Rana funding the album, Amruta Fadnavis said, “River March approached me for this project (Mumbai River anthem) for the rejuvenation of four Mumbai rivers which were reduced to nullahs. It was because of our efforts that the BMC took some steps for the rejuvenation... Instead of appreciating good work, we are being targeted,” she said. Devendra Fadnavis said that he will produce proof of Malik’s alleged underworld links before the media and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. “Those who have relations with the Underworld should not speak about me. I will present evidence of Nawab Malik’s relations with the Underworld. I am waiting for Diwali to pass,” the former chief minister said.Soon after Fadnavis’ allegations, Malik in a tweet in Hindi said, “We are ready”.“Malik is trying to pressurise the NCB by levelling allegations so that the charge sheet against his son-in-law is weakened. The NCB will not buckle under any pressure. The law will take its own course,” Fadnavis added.Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB earlier this year in a drugs case and was later granted bail by a court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malik-claims-link-between-fadnavis-and-drug-peddler-former-cm-hits-back-101635765988652.html
