03-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Man wanted for murder of advocate arrested in Meerut||A 32-year-old man wanted for the murder of an advocate was arrested on Wednesday. He was arrested from Meerut in a joint operation by the Meerut Special Task Force (STF) and Noida police, officials said.The suspect, Sandeep Pilwan who is a resident of Ilhabas village, allegedly murdered his cousin Nishant Pilwan, an advocate, on the night of October 25 near his house over a property dispute. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that Nishant had gone to visit a relative in the same village. On his way home, Sandeep shot him dead and fled on a scooter at 9.30pm, he said. Nishant’s father Prem Singh filed a complaint at Phase 2 police station.The Noida police scanned the CCTV footage and identified the suspect and the vehicle used in the crime. “On Wednesday, Sandeep was arrested in a joint operation by Meerut STF and Noida police. The Noida police team took him to the bushes in Noida’s Sector 85 where he had hid the countrymade gun and scooter used in the crime. At the crime spot, the suspect snatched a sub-inspector’s revolver and fired at the police team in order to escape. In retaliatory firing, the suspect was injured in his left leg and overpowered,” the DCP said. During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he had a dispute with his cousin over a piece of land, police said. “Sandeep sold a part of the disputed property to someone else. Nishant warned Sandeep of legal action, following which he murdered the advocate and fled to Meerut,” Chander said, adding that police had announced a reward of ₹50,000 on the suspect’s arrest. Members of Surajpur district bar association on Monday said that they would protest if the suspect was not arrested soon. “The suspect was produced in court that sent him to judicial custody,” the DCP saidA case was registered against the suspect under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. On Sunday, police had arrested suspect’s wife Savita for criminal conspiracy. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-wanted-for-murder-of-advocate-arrested-in-meerut-101635964080685.html
03-11-2021||Noida||Adityanath congratulates Noida DM for winning Arjuna award||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath congratulated Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY for winning the Arjuna award, a national sports award, on Tuesday. The award has been conferred on Suhas for his exemplary performance in the field of sports in 2021. Suhas secured a silver medal in the final of the men’s singles badminton SL-4 event at the Tokyo Paralympics 2020 held on September 5 this year. He also became the first Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer to win a medal at the Paralympics. “Suhas’ performance in para-badminton while fulfilling the greater responsibility as a DM of Gautam Budh Nagar is a source of inspiration for young players. This has made the state proud of him,” CM Adityanath said in a statement. The Arjuna award is India’s second highest sporting award bestowed by the ministry of youth affairs and sports to sportspersons for their outstanding performance in international as well as national events.Suhas said that this Diwali is special for him because of the achievement. “I am honoured and very happy to have been conferred the Arjuna award. Congratulatory wishes of the CM have made my Diwali even more special. I hope to continue making the state as well as the country proud,” said the 38-year-old DM. Suhas will be felicitated for the award by the CM on November 11 in Meerut. He outwitted Indonesia’s Fredy Setiawan in 31 minutes in the semi-final, but lost to France’s Lucas Mazur in the finals. A computer engineer, Suhas went on to become an IAS officer and has been posted as a district magistrate of Noida since March 2020.Meanwhile, the 38-year-old has also been conferred an honourary doctorate from his alma mater National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK), Surathkal. Suhas pursued computer science engineering here and graduated from the institute in 2004. “NITK is a prestigious institute and it is very difficult to get into it. I remember when I got admission here, I was over the moon and felt like it was the biggest achievement of my life. Today, being conferred an honourary doctorate at my alma mater is like a dream come true and I feel privileged to get this honor,” said Suhas.The DM will be awarded the doctorate during the institute’s virtual convocation ceremony on November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/adityanath-congratulates-noida-dm-for-winning-arjuna-award-101635964020684.html
03-11-2021||Noida||Platelet demand rises as dengue tally reaches 462 in Noida||As cases of dengue continue to rise in Gautam Budh Nagar, blood banks in the district have witnessed up to three-fold surge in platelet demand over the past one month.With nine new dengue cases reported on Wednesday, the total number of such cases in the district reached 462, according to data from the district health department. Of the total cases, 47 are currently under treatment at various hospitals in the district, health officials said.According to the officials, the blood bank at Child PGI hospital has reported a two-fold increase in demand for platelets. “In the last one month, the demand for platelets has increased to 10-12 units per day from 5-6 units. We are also getting demand for jumbo pack (having two units of blood) of platelets on a daily basis which is used for critical patients,” said Dr Satyam Arora, associate professor (transfusion medicine) at the hospital. Dr Arora also said that the hospital has been holding in-house and off-site blood donation camps to deal with the rising demand.Trilok Sharma, founder trustee, Rotary Noida Blood Bank, said that the blood bank is getting a demand for over 20 units of blood per day as against seven units a month ago. “We have been getting over 20 requests everyday for dengue patients asking for platelets, and have to arrange for donors for them from our team of volunteers. Besides, the demand for jumbo pack of platelets has also increased in the last two weeks,” he said. However, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, which also has blood bank with platelet facility, has not witnessed any sharp increase in platelet demand. “The hospital does not have critical patients of dengue. The daily consumption of five units of platelets at the hospital is usual and there has been no increase in demand so far,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS. Of 462 cases, 382 were reported in October alone, showed the data. The first dengue case in the district was reported on September 6, while the district reported first dengue death on October 19. Meanwhile, Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, said that the cases are expected to decline in the next fortnight. “The peak season of dengue transmission is over now and we are expecting the cases to decline in the next 15 days. However, the health department is still on alert. We are carrying out testing in areas where new cases are being reported from and conducting extensive fogging and anti-larvae spraying drives,” he said.Dr DK Gupta, chairman of Felix Hospital in Sector 137, said that around 3% of dengue patients require platelet transfusion. “Some dengue patients require platelet transfusion as their system is unable to make enough platelets for the body despite proper fluid intake and medication,” said Dr Gupta. Hospitals prepare burn units ahead of DiwaliA four-bed burn ward has been created at the district hospital ahead of Diwali as a precautionary measure. “A team of doctors and ambulances have also been put on emergency duties which will be equipped to handle burn cases,” said Dr Sushma Chandra, chief medical superintendent of the district hospital. At Child PGI hospital too, three teams of doctors from each department have been put on alert to handle any emergency cases. “In anticipation of any kind of emergency related to burn cases and pollution-related breathing issues, all head of departments at the hospital have been tasked to ensure availability of manpower and resources (medicines and surgical consumables),” said Dr BP Singh, senior emergency medical officer at Child PGI.At Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, a 10-bed burn unit has been created. “A special burn ward is ready that will have 10 beds. Besides, 30 beds have been kept in reserve for emergency. Also, a fleet of ambulances has been deployed for any emergency,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, director of public relations, Sharda Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/platelet-demand-rises-as-dengue-tally-reaches-462-in-noida-101635963962058.html
03-11-2021||Pune||PMPML to service suburban areas with 25 new bus routes||PUNE In a bid to reach passengers from newly added villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will be going to start 25 new bus routes. Daily, thousands of passengers travel from outside Pune to the city for work and to give them relief this decision was been taken.Recently, 11 new villages were added into the PMC jurisdiction and the area of the corporation has now increased. Also, Covid restrictions in the city have been eased due to which citizens from these nearby villages come to the city for work. So it was decided to add these new routes to the existing 375 city routes of the transport body. These new routes are all across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchdwad and include new villages and areas like Lavale, Bhugaon, Vangani, Vadgaon Maval, Lavharde, Ketkawale, Uruli Devachi, Varkhand, Yavat, Jejuri, Ranjangaon, Paud, Hinjewadi, Varje Malwadi, Manchar, Lonavala, Talegaon Dabhade and Shikrapur. “These new routes are specially for passengerscoming to the city for work, and for students from suburban areas. We hope to get a good response to these new routes and passengers should take the benefit of the public bus transport service,” said a PMPML senior official on the basis of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-service-suburban-areas-with-25-new-bus-routes-101635963900555.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Maha-Metro in overdrive to meet Dec deadline||PUNE As the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) plans to roll out commercial operations by December, it is working on the stations on priority.Maha-Metro issued a statement on Tuesday that read: “Commercial operations would start between Sant Tukaramnagar and Phugewadi, and Vanaz to Garware Colllege. The work in between Sant Tukaramnagar to Phugewadi is 90 per cent complete, while Vanaz to Garware is 60 per cent complete. Station works are the in final stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahametro-in-overdrive-to-meet-dec-deadline-101635963660642.html
03-11-2021||Other||PMC will have 58 wards and 173 corporators in coming elections||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will have 58 wards and 173 corporators in coming municipal elections. Each ward will have three members. The State election commission on Wednesday issued a circular and instructed the municipal commissioner structure the wards accordingly. As the number of elected members was not finalised, it was difficult for the administration begin the election process. The election commission has asked that 57 wards have three members each and one ward will have four members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-will-have-58-wards-and-173-corporators-in-coming-elections-101635963421665.html
03-11-2021||Pune||PMC polls: Chopper rides, trips to religious places to attract voters||PUNE: Aspirant candidates come up with fresh ideas to reach out or appease voters during the election season. Helicopter rides, trip to religious places, sari distribution and cultural programmes are highlights in the run-up to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) poll 2022, slated for February. Many political workers are also trying to encash festive season such as Diwali by announcing the killa (fort) making competition and other games. Some hoardings put up across the city by candidates have announced helicopter ride as prize for winner in the killa making competition. Mauli Darwatkar from Padmavati-Chavannagar area, a Shiv Sena leader and civic poll aspirant, said, “I have organised a competition for fort making and will give chopper ride to the winning kids. I had introduced this innovating prize a few years ago.” Darwatkar, who has been organising fort making competition for the past three years, gave helicopter rides to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s forts to previous winners. “We had organised programmes at Sinhgad and Sindhudurg forts. Former union minister Suresh Prabhu appreciated the event. Others are trying to copy it.” Yogesh Borate, another PMC poll aspirant from Warje, said, “During Navratri, I organised trips to various temples. It received a good response. I plan to organise Paithani sari winning competition.” However, not many have endorsed the move. Former Pune mayor and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ankush Kakade termed these programmes as a wrong trend. “I have been observing the last eight to nine municipal elections. Earlier, contesting these polls was low cost. Now, money and muscle power are important. Every aspirant is spending huge money even before the ticket is announced. How much will the candidates spend once the elections are announced and ticket is allotted by their respective party,” Kakade said. During Navratri too many candidates across the party lines organised pilgrimages to religious places. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Kasba peth legislator Mukta Tilak said that it was beyond her imagination to offer such sops. “In the name of helicopter trip, it would be cheating as only few will get the ride. Many voters do not turn up for sari distribution programmes in the city as they are fed up with poll gimmicks,” she said, adding that candidates should reach out to residents by meeting them and social work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-polls-chopper-rides-trips-to-religious-places-to-attract-voters-101635963360678.html
03-11-2021||Other||Mariyam has her cake and eats it too!||What’s a birthday without a cake? And the bigger the better! Mariyam’s 17th was celebrated with a six-kg cake.The special day of the lioness at the Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan Zoo, in Gorakhpur, was celebrated with a special cake made entirely of mutton and set upon a special platter. She looked happy and enjoyed it in her cage.Zoo employees and officials sang the birthday song, amid loud cheers from visitors, who captured the moment on their mobile phones and clicked selfies.The moment was special as Mariyam has recovered after illness caused by age-related complexities (the life span of lions is 17-18 years).“On October 1, she fell sick and became inactive, lost interest in food, but with successful treatment she is now doing well. She remains calm and when visitors look at her she gives friendly gestures. Now that she has recovered completely, the zoo authorities planned to celebrate by offering her favourite diet in the form of a cake,” Dr H Raja Mohan, director of the zoo said.Mariyam had been rescued from Gir wildlife sanctuary in Gujarat and taken to Sakarbaug zoo in Junagarh before being sent to Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan Zoo, in Gorakhpur, two years back.Mariyam has no cubs and is still under medical observation due to her old age and past ailments.In the presence of wildlife expert Dr RK Singh, Lucknow zoo health expert Dr Utkarsh Shukla, Dr Yogesh Pratap has treated Mariyam.On the occasion, members of the Heritage Foundation, an NGO engaged in wildlife protection and environment were also present.-Abdul Jadid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mariyam-has-her-cake-and-eats-it-too-101635963301990.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi woman found dead outside her house; cops begin probe||The Delhi Police have started a probe to investigate the death of a 27-year-old woman who was found dead outside her house on Wednesday morning, officials aware of the case details said.Police said they received a distress call from the woman’s husband, Avdesh Kumar, at 2.45am on November 3. Kumar, who works at a sweets shop, told the police that when he returned to his house in the Chhattarpur Pahadi area at around 2.40am, he found his wife unconscious with a bloodied head. He told the police that someone had brutally assaulted his wife and left her to die outside the house.The police team that attended the distress call took the woman to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. Benita Mary Jaiker, deputy commissioner of police (south) said police inspected the crime spot and are probing the case.According to the police, the woman was a homemaker. The couple got married five years ago and had two children. They had shifted to the Chhattarpur Pahadi house on Monday. The two children were inside the house at the time of the incident.Police are probing to check if the murder was a result of attempted robbery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-woman-found-dead-outside-her-house-cops-begin-probe-101635963300633.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Deepotsav in Ayodhya: Ram Ki Paidi ghat glitters with over 9.41 lakh earthen lamps as new record set||The majestic Ram Ki Paidi ghat on the banks of the Saryu in Ayodhya was illuminated with 9,41,551 diyas (0.94 million earthen lamps) during the Deepotsav celebrations on Wednesday evening, creating a Guinness world record for illuminating the largest number of earthen lamps at one place, the state information department said. In addition, around three lakh (0.3 million) diyas were lit in the rest of Ayodhya. The Guinness Book of World Records team handed over the certificate to chief minister Yogi Adityanath who held it up high with both his hands for the public to view it. As the chief minister lit the first diya, around 12,000 volunteers present at the ghat illuminated the other earthen lamps at Ram Ki Paidi, making the entire ghat dazzle.This was followed by a laser show and fireworks to mesmerize the gathering at the ghat for about half an hour. Around 500 drones also lit up Ayodhya’s skyline with Ramayan era scenes. Adityanath also performed aarti on the banks of the Saryu. Later, the chief minister went back to Ram Katha Park where artistes from Sri Lanka and New Delhi presented a dance ballet form of Ramayan.The Sri Lankan troupe presented a musical dance ballet of the Ramayan in which all characters were played by female artistes, except that of Lord Hanuman. Adityanath felicitated the Sri Lankan and New Delhi troupes after the performance. For Deepotsav celebrations, special arrangements were also made on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus where construction of the Ram temple is going on. The entire Ram Janmabhoomi campus was decked up with earthen lamps. In 2020, the Ayodhya administration had set a Guinness World Record by lighting 6,06,569 diyas at the Ram ki Paidi ghat. The administration had broken its own record, set in 2019 when 4,10,000 diyas were lit on Deepotsav. After forming the government in UP in March 2017, the Yogi Adityanath regime has been celebrating Deepotsav in Ayodhya every year on the Diwali eve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deepotsav-in-ayodhya-ram-ki-paidi-ghat-glitters-with-over-9-41-lakh-earthen-lamps-as-new-record-set-101635963000737.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 2,500 cops, 123 firemen on standby to ensure a safe Diwali||As the city celebrates Diwali on Thursday, at least 2,500 police personnel and 123 fire brigade officials will be on stand-by to prevent any untoward incident during the festivities. Cops will be stationed at all major points in the city, including markets, religious places and over 40 checkpoints. Traffic personnel will also be present at all major roundabouts to streamline the movement of vehicles. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, headquarter) Jyoti Yadav said that patrolling has been increased in all sensitive areas to ensure law and order. Officials have appealed residents to refrain from bursting crackers on roads. Police will take action against those bursting crackers after permissible hours. Short on staff but firemen all geared upReeling under staff shortage, the fire brigade is all geared up for Diwali night, with 123 staff members, including the 30 permanent, 73 contractual members and 20 additional drivers, on stand-by. Firemen say that on an average, 25-30 fire incidents are reported every Diwali. Apart from the five fire stations situated on old GT Road, Focal Point, Gill Road, Haibowal and Sundar Nagar, four temporary fire stations will also be established at Aarti Chowk, Jalandhar Bypass, Sherpur Chowk and Samrala Chowk. A fire tender will be stationed at each spot to reduce reaction time after receiving an alert.Assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO) Swarn Chand said no staff member will be on leave or rest on Diwali. The department has 17 fire tenders and they have tied up with the managements of malls, hospitals and industrialists in different parts of the city for water-refilling.For these heroes, duty comes first For firemen and police personnel, who will be on duty on Diwali night, it is their sense of duty that keeps them going. Fire station officer (FSO) Kartar Singh said he was never celebrated Diwali with his family in the last three decades. “My wife and two children live in Bathinda. As firemen are always required to work on Diwali nights, I, and my colleagues, don’t get to celebrate with our families. We are lucky that our family understands our line of work. I try to keep in touch with them through video calls during free time.”SFO Maninder Singh, who has a two-year-old son, says, “For us, duty comes first. On Diwali nights, we are mostly on the field throughout the festivities.”100 cops to be promoted on Diwali Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar has promoted 100 police officers ahead of the auspicious festival. Two sub-inspectors have been promoted to inspectors while two assistant sub-inspectors have been promoted to sub-inspectors. Similarly, 96 ASIs who were working on local rank for the past few months have been confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-500-cops-123-firemen-on-standby-to-ensure-a-safe-diwali-101635962941039.html
03-11-2021||Indore||Toddler sleeping with mother under bridge abducted, sexually abused in Indore||A one-year-old girl who was sleeping with her mother under a bridge was kidnapped and sexually abused by unidentified persons in the city, police said on Wednesday. “The girl and her mother were sleeping under a bridge in Teen Imli area when she was kidnapped by an unidentified person or persons on Monday night,” Azad Nagar police station in-charge Indresh Tripathi said. The child was found abandoned near the Rajiv Gandhi square, three km away, the next day. As per the medical report, she had injury marks indicating sexual abuse, he added. Police were scanning CCTV footage in the area to identify the culprits, Tripathi said, adding that probe was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/toddler-sleeping-with-mother-under-bridge-abducted-sexually-abused-in-indore-101635962349255.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to run last train service at 10pm on all lines except Green tomorrow||On the occasion of Diwali on Thursday, the Delhi Metro will operate its last train services at 10pm from all its terminal stations except the Green Line, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said today.On regular days the last trains start from 11pm at all its stations."On account of the Diwali festival, the last metro train service on November 4, will start at 10pm from terminal stations of all metro lines except Green Line (i.e, Line-5 from Inderlok/Kirti Nagar to Brig. Hoshiar Singh (Bahdurgarh) stations)," the DMRC said in a statement on Tuesday.
03-11-2021||Pune||Pune mayor instructs PMC to provide Biovet with daily water supply||PUNE Murlidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune, has instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) water supply department to provide water tankers to Bharat Biotech’s Biovet plant in Manjari. Biovet India has requested for at least six water tankers every day for production of the Covaxin vaccine and has requested the PMC to provide it. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has also asked the PMC to provide the water tankers immediately. Mohol said, “No one pointed this issue to me. I am sending the news clippings to the municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and the water department head. It’s not a big issue will be resolved in a day.” Mohol added,”I have instructed the administration to provide water immediately as it is important and vaccine production needs to get start immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-mayor-instructs-pmc-to-provide-biovet-with-daily-water-supply-101635961982102.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Diwali diyas glow in the light of political symbolism in Uttar Pradesh||The Diwali diyas (earthen lamps) have a message apparently full of political symbolism in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh this time as they are being used to showcase the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) government’s continued focus on religious sites and marketing of government schemes like the ‘awaas yojana’ (housing scheme) under which dwelling units are provided to the homeless. With the Uttar Pradesh assembly election due in February-March 2022, the Bharatiya Janata Party is wooing potters, mainly Prajapatis (a subcaste among the Other Backward Castes (OBC)). The ruling party promoted its leader Dharamvir Prajapati as one of the seven ministers of the Yogi Adityanath government and started its caste conferences with one for the Prajapati community. The BJP is calling these caste conferences samajik pratinidhi sammelans or social representative meets.Now, this Diwali diya boost is also being marketed as proof of government’s focus on the potters’ community which used to suffer due to preference for Chinese lights over the indigenous ones earlier. The border stand-off with China and the BJP-RSS’s “swadeshi diya” push also seem to be changing the narrative. Consider the numbers: Nine lakh earthen lamps in Ayodhya, another 7 lakh plus in Varanasi and around the same number in Mathura. “In fact, the nine lakh ‘diyas’ lit up in Ayodhya on Deepotsav are actually with a purpose; each representing the housewarming ceremonies of as many people in urban UP. Additionally, another 45 lakh diyas are to be lit across the state – each of them representing the total number of homeless across rural and urban UP who got a house under the government’s ‘awaas yojana’ initiative,” said Dharamvir Prajapati, who until recently was the chairman of the state’s Mati Kala Board set up to promote the community. On October 5, during his visit to Lucknow for the Urban Conclave, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had tasked the UP government with the challenge of lighting a lamp for each of the people in urban UP who got a roof over their head, courtesy his and the Yogi Adityanath government’s housing schemes. Building on the theme, Yogi Adityanath had then directed the officials to ensure that along with Ayodhya, these diyas were lit at the homes of all those who got a house across the state, whether in an urban setting or rural. Additionally, over 30 lakh BJP booth-level cadres too have been sent Diwali gifts, which, among other things, includes earthen, lotus shaped lamps. “Kamal ka phool” or the lotus flower is the election symbol of the Bharatiya Janata Party. “It is our tradition to send gifts on Diwali. And, as a cadre-based political party, we are connecting with the cadres and sending them gifts. We believe that Goddess Laxmi comes riding on a lotus flower and hence, both for the prosperity of the cadre and our state, we believe the lotus is necessary in one way or the other,” said UP BJP vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak. The Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM), an outfit backed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to connect with rashtrawadi musalmaan (nationalist Muslims), too, is doing its bit to fuel the swadeshi diya initiative. “Diyas would be lit by the Manch in at least one lakh places across the state,” said RSS pracharak Mahirajdhwaj. Diwali melas at 217 places across the state too would shine bright in the light of the diyas. The main opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) is using the same diyas for a different purpose – to embarrass the government. It has directed cadres to light up a diya each in memory of farmers who died while protesting against the government’s three farm laws. “I would want each party cadre to light up a diya for farmers,” SP chief Akhilesh Yadav told his cadres. The potters aren’t complaining. Irrespective of the purpose that the political parties have subjected the earthen lamp to, in the end it is the potters’ community which is happy as, suddenly, there are far too many takers for their diyas. Rajendra Prajapati, a potter from Kanpur, said: “It is true that the business was never as good. At many places, the diyas got sold out in no time. Diwali is free from the Chinese influence this time.” He said, “From free clay to dyes to cast earthen lamps, the government has given us a lot of facilities. The government push for these indigenous earthen lamps has given the business a boost.”Potters from across the state like Ram Milan Prajapti from Gorakhpur, Sohan Prajapati from Azamgarh and Pratyush Kumar Prajapati from Kannauj said the business has picked up substantially. “Pottery work is labour intensive. We have to source suitable mud, turn it on the wheels and slow bake them in pits fired with wood and straw. But now, people upset with China over its foul play (border standoff) has renewed people’s interest in swadeshi stuff and given a boost to our local diyas,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/diwali-diyas-glow-in-the-light-of-political-symbolism-in-uttar-pradesh-101635961980497.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Five Maharashtra districts report lowest Covid vaccination rate as CM sets November 31 deadline||Five out of the 36 districts in Maharashtra have reported a lower Covid-19 vaccination rate, and were hence a part of the video conference held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the collectors of 40 such districts of across the country. The PM instructed the district magistrates to ensure that 100% of the eligible beneficiaries receive at least one shot of the vaccine before the New Year, while chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has set a November 31 deadline for all districts in Maharashtra. While metros such as Pune and Mumbai are already on their way to achieving 100% vaccination, there are five districts in the state where less than 55% of the eligible beneficiaries have got their first dose as of Tuesday.The said five worst-performing districts are Nandurbar, Akola, Beed, Buldhana and Amravati where 51.06%, 53.29%, 53.47%, 54.22% and 54.98% of the eligible beneficiaries have got their first dose, respectively. Also, less than 25% of the eligible beneficiaries in these five districts have got their second dose. Mumbai has reported the highest vaccination rate with 98.86% of the beneficiaries having received the first dose and 60.62% having received the second dose. In Pune, 94.09% of beneficiaries have got the first dose and 51.27% have got the second dose. Manisha Khatri, district collector of Nandurbar, said, “During the video conference, the PM instructed us to ensure that 100% of the eligible beneficiaries get at least their first dose. Nandurbar has been receiving a steady flow of the vaccine since August now and over the past two days (November 1 and 2), while we had set a target of vaccinating at least 50,000 people - we were able to administer 60,000 doses. As of now, we have a temporary shortage of syringes which will be sorted out soon. Despite a huge tribal population, vaccine hesitancy is not an issue for us.”However, connectivity remains a major challenge for the vaccination drive as most villages are not connected by proper roads. “We are now carrying out door-to-door vaccination because we have multiple small villages with 10 to 20 families or smaller hamlets located at faraway distances, and it is not a priority for them to leave a day’s wages and come for the sake of the vaccination. Road connectivity with these smaller villages is a problem. Also, most of these people are available only during evening hours after the day’s work and so we are planning the vaccination drive as per their convenience to meet our targets. We are also calling over 15,000 to 20,000 people daily through 50 or so of our staff members to follow-up on those who are due for their second dose. We have about one lakh people who are due for their second dose but have not taken it (both Covishield and Covaxin),” Khatri said.During the video conference, the PM instructed the district collectors and administration to avoid becoming complacent during the festive season and ensure that every eligible beneficiary is vaccinated. The PM interacted with the district magistrates of over 40 districts in Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya and other states with low vaccination coverage. “We are now preparing to take the vaccination campaign to each household. With the mantra of ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (knock on every door), every household lacking the security net of a double dose of the vaccine will be approached. Develop micro strategies keeping in mind the experience so far to go for saturation of vaccination by addressing the gaps at the local level. You will have to do your best to take your districts nearer the national average. You can take more help from local religious leaders. I have always found leaders of all religions to be great advocates of vaccination,” the PM said during the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-maharashtra-districts-report-lowest-covid-vaccination-rate-as-cm-sets-november-31-deadline-101635961620958.html
03-11-2021||Pune||12-year-old cyclist crashes into bridge railings at Ambegaon Budruk; dies of head injuries||PUNE A 12-year-old riding a bicycle died due to head injuries after colliding with the railings on a bridge at Ambegaon Budruk on Wednesday morning. He was immediately rushed to a nearby private hospital where he was declared dead by doctors. The deceased has been identified, though his name is being withheld to protect the family’s privacy. The family reside in Astonia Royale residential housing society in Ambegaon Budruk and while originally hailing from Rajasthan, have been staying in Pune for the last many years, Bharati Vidyapeeth police officials said. The boy and one of his friends went cycling in the morning and while returning at around 6 am, from Dattanagar Chowk towards Ambegaon Budruk, road he lost control and crashed into the barricade. Local residents have complained of a steep slope on this road, causing two-wheelers to often lose control. The boy lost control and crashed into the railings of a small bridge over a nullah. “We have registered a case of accidental death. As per primary information, he lost control of the bicycle and then dashed to the iron barricades of the small bridge. Further investigations will be done and if needed an FIR will be lodged,” said Rajesh Gosavi, havaldar investigating the case from Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. Talking about this specific slope road starting from Dattanagar chowk going towards Ambegaon Budruk, Mangesh Shastri a resident of the area said, “This is a very dangerous slope to travel through. I daily travel for work and often I lose balance on my bike. Also the road is uneven at some spots. There should be more speed breakers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/12yearold-cyclist-crashes-into-bridge-railings-at-ambegaon-budruk-dies-of-head-injuries-101635961381038.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Retrieved from Canada, 18th century Annapurna idol to be installed at Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi on November 15||An 18th century idol of Goddess Annapurna, stolen from Varanasi about 100 years ago and retrieved from Canada recently, is set to return to the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and be installed there on November 15.The Uttar Pradesh government will take out a four-day Mata Annapurna Devi Yatra beginning in New Delhi on November 11, to take the idol to Varanasi.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath who, along with Union minister for tourism and culture G Kishan Reddy, spoke to media persons here on Wednesday, gave the detailed programme of the yatra that apparently provides an opportunity to the BJP government to reach out to the people ahead of the 2022 UP assembly election.Yogi Adityanath said senior ministers of the state government Suresh Rana and Neelkanth Tiwari will receive the idol at a programme in New Delhi on November 11. He said the ministers in charge of the respective districts will welcome the idol on the way and the yatra will reach Varanasi on November 14.The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) received the idol in New Delhi on October 15. The idol was part of the University of Regina’s collection at its Mackenzie Art Gallery when it was handed over by the university’s vice chancellor to India’s high commissioner to Ottawa (Canada) Ajay Bisaria last year.The chief minister said the idol passed through many hands before reaching the Canadian university and the Uttar Pradesh government was getting it back following the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Baba Vishwanath temple and Maa Annapurna have a unique connection. Maa Annapurna is believed to provide food to Baba Kashi Vishwanath and every pilgrim visiting the place gets the same as ‘prasad’ from there,” said Yogi Adityanath. Yogi said the idol’s journey will begin from New Delhi on Gopashtami falling on November 11 and the idol would be installed at the Kashi Vishwanath temple, Varanasi, on Devotthan Ekadashi falling on November 15.“I offer my gratitude to the Prime Minister for this. Gopashtami falls on November 11 and to receive the idol on this day will be auspicious. The yatra beginning from New Delhi will pass through Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bulandshahr and Hathras, and make a night halt at Soron in Kasganj. The yatra will then cover Etah, Mainpur, Kannuaj and stop for the night at Tapeshwari Devi temple in Kanpur Nagar. Next, the idol will be taken to Ram Janmabhoomi, Ayodhya via Unnao, Lucknow and Barabanki. After staying for the night at Ayodhya, the yatra will cover Sultanpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur and reach Varanasi on November 14,” said Yogi Adityanath.Yogi Adityanath also said with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts India’s heritage has made a place for itself in the world. Besides the International Yoga Day celebrated on June 12, the Prayagaraj Kumbh has also made a mark, the chief minister said.He said Ayurveda has also received worldwide recognition during the Covid-19 pandemic.For his part, Union minister Reddy said, “We have received an idol of goddess Maa Annapurna Devi from Canada. We identified the idol through an Indo-Canada artist at the MacKenzie Art Gallery of University of Regina, Canada. Prime Minister Narendra Modi made efforts for getting the idol back from Canada. Our Prime Minister spoke to the Canadian Prime Minister on phone and the request for returning the idol was made as the idol is very important to us. External affairs minister S. Jaishankar and the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) also got in touch with the government of Canada to get the idol back from there,” said Reddy.“The Prime Minister wants this idol back at the place from where this was stolen. I spoke to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on behalf of the Union government,” he said.Reddy said the Union government has received 55 idols and paintings from abroad. A total of 42 out of the 55 idols, taken out of India in the British period, have been received after Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed office in 2014, he said. The minister also said another 157 idols and paintings have been identified.“The Prime Minister went to USA recently and about 100 art works are in the process of being brought back from there,” he said. Reddy said other countries where the art works have been identified include Singapore, Australia, UK, Switzerland and Belgium.“Yes, we should definitely bring such idols back to our country. Taking out yatra is a good way to connect with the people ahead of polls,” said SK Dwivedi, former professor in the political science department at Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/retrieved-from-canada-18th-century-annapurna-idol-to-be-installed-at-kashi-vishwanath-temple-in-varanasi-on-november-15-101635961141095.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||After appeal by Yogi Adityanath, ministers share Diwali joy with the poor||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday appealed to all the public representatives, officials and employees of the Uttar Pradesh government to adopt a poor family and share the joy of Diwali with them .Soon afterwards, some of his ministers visited the poor and slum dwellers with sweets and fruits. Yogi Adityanath, who annually celebrates Diwali with Vantangias or the community of forest dwellers, had first tweeted his request and followed it with a public appeal from the Ayodhya stage on Wednesday evening.In a press statement, he greeted the people of Uttar Pradesh on the occasion of Diwali, and said the illumination of 0.9 million earthen lamps in Ayodhya indicated the number of beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana who have been handed over keys of houses allotted to them under the scheme. He said 4.3 million houses were made available to the poor in urban and rural areas up to now.Yogi Adityanath also said that there are eight lakh (0.8 million) public representatives, party and government functionaries, along with about 20 lakh government officials in the state.“If all of them take it upon themselves, I am pretty sure that not one poor family would be left out of the celebrations,” he said.“Ensure no poor, Dalit, poor or backward is left out of the Diwali celebrations,” Yogi Adityanath had said earlier in the day.“May this festival of Diwali be very auspicious for the people of the state. May the blessings of Lord Ram be with you all,” he said.In Ayodhya, he also announced extension of the government’s free ration plan for poor till March 2022, the time by which Uttar Pradesh assembly elections would have been held.Industrial development minister Satish Mahana said he would spend Diwali with the poor as well as families of martyrs while state’s MSME minister Sidharth Sath Singh said he would spend time with slum dwellers in Noida. UP’s minister of state Dharamvir Prajapati was seen visiting slum dwellers in Agra with gifts and the state’s minister of state for minority welfare Mohsin Raza spent time with specially-abled children in Lucknow on Diwali eve. From deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, to Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh, Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia to UP’s director general of police Mukul Goel, ministers, public representatives, officials all visited various places across the state to celebrate the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-appeal-by-yogi-adityanath-ministers-share-diwali-joy-with-the-poor-101635960960498.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Pune railway division area to increase, 24 stations to be added||PUNE: Soon, 24 stations will be added to the Pune railway division with the addition of the Daund to Enkai railway route. The central railway (CR) has taken the decision to add the 229km route from the Solapur division to the Pune railway division. The process of handing over the rail route from the Solapur to the Pune division will be carried out soon. This will bring several benefits to passengers as new routes (Ahmednagar and Shirdi) will start for local or DEMU trains for them.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations’ officer, CR, said, “This proposal is working out now and technical level works regarding handing over of the railway route and stations are being carried out. Soon, the final decision will be taken by the railways.”Currently, the Pune railway division area (531.15 km) is less than that of the Solapur railway division (981 km). After adding the route from the Solapur division, the Pune railway division area will increase to 739.43 km while the Solapur railway division area will reduce to 773.26 km. Also with this move, major railway stations such as Ahmednagar and Shirdi will be added to the Pune railway division.Shamsundar Mandhan, member of the Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (ZRUCC), said, “Once the new areas are added to the Pune railway division, there will be high chances of DEMU trains being started on a daily basis between Pune and Ahmednagar. It will also reduce the pressure on the Solapur division.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-division-area-to-increase-24-stations-to-be-added-101635960600511.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||Gangster Suresh Pujari booked in Rs50 lakh extortion case||Mumbai Police on Wednesday registered a fresh extortion case against gangster Suresh Pujari for allegedly trying to extort Rs50 lakh from a Santacruz based restaurateur. This fresh case against Pujari, who was arrested in the Philippines in October 2021, has been transferred to the crime branch. The complainant, a 51-year-old resident of Oshiwara in north-west Mumbai, owns a restaurant and bar in Santacruz (West). The complainant told the police one of his aides received extortion threats from Pujari in March this year. The gangster allegedly threatened to kill the restaurateur if he failed to pay Rs50 lakh. Fearing for his life, the complainant did not tell anyone, according to a police officer, who requested anonymity. “It was only when Pujari was arrested in the Philippines on October 15 by local intelligence services, that the complainant mustered the courage to report the matter,” the officer said. A complaint was lodged on Tuesday at Santacruz police station under Sections 387 (extortion by putting or attempting to put any person in fear of death or of grievous hurt) and 504 (Intentional insult) of the Indian Penal Code. The case has been transferred to the Anti-Extortion Cell of the Crime Branch for investigation. Pujari already has seven extortion cases registered against him in Mumbai, in addition to multiple extortion and firing cases in Thane and Navi Mumbai, a senior officer said. “He was on the run for 14 years.” In 2015, Interpol had issued a Red Corner Notice against him. Early in his crime career, Pujari was associated with underworld don Chhota Rajan and later with the Ravi Pujari gang, but branched off on his own in 2011. Both Suresh Pujari and Ravi Pujari stayed in touch and helped each other, a crime branch officer said. The officer added, “Pujari frequently used aliases such as Suresh Puri and Satish Pai. He returned to Mumbai in 2013, but left the country in three days on a fake passport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gangster-suresh-pujari-booked-in-rs50-lakh-extortion-case-101635959521734.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||Public Plaza to come up at Kalanagar flyover in Bandra; fountains, light art sculpture, seatings on cards||A Public Plaza is all set to be constructed under the recently inaugurated Kalanagar flyover in Bandra. The plaza is a part of the initiative undertaken by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to create an ‘Art District’ at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC).State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday performed the bhumipoojan for the Public Plaza.The 2,828 sq m plaza, accessible from both sides of the flyover, will have a linear water body with a series of fountains in descending heights. There would be planters and flower beds besides these water bodies. Seating arrangements for the citizens, lined with shading trees, light art sculpture at the entrance of the plaza is also being planned.SVR Srinivas, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, described the project as an initiative to utilise, as well as beautify the space.“The MMRDA’s Urban Design Cell aspires to utilise the leftover space below the flyover for enhancement and beautification of the area. These leftover spaces, when converted into a recreational area, will work as an effective public space and will be a catalyst for the overall development of the city,” said Srinivas.The Kalanagar junction connects Western Express Highway, BKC and Sion-Dharavi road. The proposed Metro-2B will also be passing Kalanagar junction and will be connected to this plaza.Thackeray, while speaking to reporters, said, “We have a District Planning Committee, wherein we decided to undertake the urban beautification and enhancement of suburban Mumbai similar to the work undertaken in Worli and other areas of south Mumbai. With MMRDA’s endeavours, we wish to create more such areas to improve the surroundings in and around the BKC-Kalanagar junction.” Many spaces outside various flyovers have been virtually encroached by garages or squatters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/public-plaza-to-come-up-at-kalanagar-flyover-in-bandra-fountains-light-art-sculpture-seatings-on-cards-101635959100090.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gets ₹3,054 towards GST compensation; pending dues still over ₹19,000 crore||Even as Maharashtra received the highest chunk — ₹3,054 crore of the ₹17,000 crore — released by the Centre to states towards the goods and services tax (GST) compensation on Wednesday, the pending compensation with the Centre is still more than ₹19,000 crore. The state has been the largest contributor to GST collection in the country.The state received ₹3054 crore, its second instalment of compensation, in the current financial year. The compensation is highest among all states and union territories. Gujarat and Tamil Nadu stand in the second and third positions in the list to get the compensation of ₹1,428 and ₹1,417 crore respectively.The states had raised a demand for the compensation of losses in GST. Maharashtra had demanded ₹9,130 and ₹9,535 crore compensation for April-May and June–July, respectively in 2021. Against it, the Centre has released ₹3,946 crore in September, besides the second instalment released on Wednesday. “Besides the demand raised by the state government in the current financial year, the Centre owes ₹1,029 crore and ₹24,305 crore to us towards the pending compensation in 2019-20 and 2020-21, respectively. The total comes to ₹43,999 crore, of which, we have received ₹6,999 in two instalments, while we have raised the back-to-back loan of ₹13,782 crore, repayable by the Centre in lieu of shortfall in the GST compensation. This means the pending compensation with the Centre is ₹19,104 crore. If the compensation for the two more months — August and September — is added to it, the dues will go up to more than ₹28,000 crore,” said an official from the finance department.State’s contribution in first seven months until October has been ₹56,946 crore against its estimated GST collection of ₹13,392 crore in 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gets-3-054-towards-gst-compensation-pending-dues-still-over-19-000-crore-101635958020735.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Alternate routes likely to open for traffic post-Diwali ahead of multilevel flyover construction work at SPPU||PUNE Ahead of the multilevel flyover construction work at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk, changes in the traffic routes are likely after Diwali. The senior-level sources in the traffic division of Pune police stated that post-Diwali, gradually the alternate routes for the passage of the traffic would be undertaken. In the last week of October, a meeting of the Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (PUMTA) was held to plan the smooth passage of the traffic from the university chowk whenever the construction work of the flyover would start. The body drafted multiple measures to be undertaken by the various involved agencies. “In the meeting, the measures of smooth traffic passage were discussed. The SPPU chowk is one of the most important and busy chowks in the city. The Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) has also put forward some recommendations. There is a need for infrastructure work on the additional routes planned,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police for the city’s traffic division. A senior official from the Pune city traffic division requesting anonymity said that post-Diwali gradually the steps would be taken to open the additional routes through the area. According to the official, a formal notification of the change in the traffic routes could be issued post-Diwali. “After Diwali, the traffic division would start taking necessary steps. There is a heavy load of traffic at SPPU chowk and residents should not be inconvenienced especially during the festive season,” said the official. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on October 26 chaired a meeting with all the authorities from the various agencies included in PUMTA when a detailed plan was discussed for the traffic diversion, the opening of alternate routes, broadening of the roads and relocation of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus stops on the Ganeshkhind road that has been mired into traffic chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/alternate-routes-to-open-for-traffic-post-diwali-ahead-of-multilevel-flyover-construction-work-at-sppu-101635957240021.html
03-11-2021||Gurugram||Air quality hits ‘very poor’ level a day before Diwali||A day before Diwali, air quality plunged to the ‘very poor’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s classification, with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 330 on Wednesday, after four consecutive days of ‘poor’ air. Residents and police officials said they will ensure that the blanket ban on cracker use is followed strictly even as instances of cracker bursting were reported from across the city on Wednesday evening.On Sunday, the Gurugram district administration had issued an order enforcing the state government’s order of a blanket ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers, including green ones, in the district. The order stated, “Any person found guilty of violation of this order shall be prosecuted and punished as per law under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.”The city police have written to all residents’ welfare associations to monitor their respective areas and inform them if anyone is found violating the orders. Until now, 25 people have been booked in the district for violating the orders.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “Special teams have been formed to keep a check on the sale and use of crackers in the city. All police stations have been directed to keep a check in their areas and to take strict action against the violators.”Prior to Wednesday, Gurugram reported ‘very poor’ air quality on October 16 and 17, when the air quality dipped due to a drop in temperatures. On Wednesday, neighbouring Faridabad also recorded ‘very poor’ air quality and Manesar reported ‘poor’ quality of air, with AQIs of 337 and 282, respectively.According to the forecast of the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality in the National Capital Territory is likely to deteriorate further on Thursday but remain in the ‘very poor’ category. The air quality is likely to reach the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category on Friday and Saturday, after which it is expected to start improving marginally from Sunday due to strong winds. Over the next few days, levels of particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5) is expected to spike in the region.On Thursday and Friday, the mixing depth of pollutants is likely to remain at 2,000 metres and 1,900 metres, respectively, with ventilation indices of 8,000 m2/s on Thursday and 10,000 m2/s on Friday. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 m2/s with an average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants. On these two days, the wind speed is likely to remain between 4 kilometres per hour (kmph) and 8kmph.Residents said that they have constituted quick response teams for patrolling their respective areas along with police officials to ensure that the ban on crackers is followed.Gaurav Wahi, a member of a ‘Suraksha’ team from DLF Phase-2, said, “We have eight quick response teams within our area who will be patrolling on bikes. If any resident is found bursting crackers, we will stop them ourselves; if they do not listen to us, then police officials will be informed.”Mahesh Kumar, the president of DLF City Phase-3 residents’ body, said, “In the whole of DLF-3, there are 14 quick response teams, seven each for day and night. Along with them, a supervisor will also be on rounds. All residents are already sensitised about impacts of the bursting of crackers and are supporting us, but still, the teams will be patrolling to ensure that it is stopped completely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-hits-very-poor-level-a-day-before-diwali-101635957183594.html
03-11-2021||Gurugram||500kg consignment of firecrackers seized from truck, two arrested||Two persons, including a truck driver, were arrested for allegedly smuggling over 500 kilograms of firecrackers into the city from Rajasthan, the police said on Wednesday, marking the first major seizure of firecrackers ahead of Diwali given a blanket ban in the region.The police said that the suspects planned to deliver the firecrackers to different locations across Delhi but were intercepted before crossing the border.Acting on a tip-off, the crime investigation unit (CIA) of Sector 10, found the truck parked outside a godown in Shivaji Nagar. Although it contained groceries at the first glance, crackers were found stuffed in sacks under the eatables, the police said. The truck driver and the co-driver were arrested from the spot.Preet Pal Sagwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the consignment was to be delivered to dealers in five locations in Delhi, but the same was seized before they could exit Gurugram. “Sale of crackers was banned in the district and people were smuggling crackers from other districts and states to sell on Diwali in Delhi-NCR,” he said.The Gurugram administration banned the bursting of crackers after the state issued orders in this regard on Monday.The police said they have arrested at least 25 people in the last week who were allegedly selling firecrackers in the markets and residential areas.Sangwan said that in this instance, it was unclear whether the supplier of the firecrackers held a valid licence to sell such items, as it was from another state. “We will ask the supplier to join the investigation if required, “ he said.A case was registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 9B (1b ) and 3 of the Indian Explosive Act at Shivaji Nagar police station.On September 15, the Delhi government first announced a blanket ban on the sale, storage and use of firecrackers this Diwali. The pre-emptive ban was imposed because of the city’s deteriorating air quality over the past three years. In a separate order, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) later extended the ban till January 1, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/500kg-consignment-of-firecrackers-seized-from-truck-two-arrested-101635957181847.html
03-11-2021||Gurugram||MCG: Dues of ₹3.41 crore yet to be collected since 2017||At least 8,938 penalties issued by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) since October 2017, amounting to around ₹3.41 crore, for various offences continue to remain unpaid and unaccounted for, officials said. These account for more than 85% of all challans issued by the MCG in the past four years, they said.MCG officials have now directed their staff to launch a drive from next week to start recovering dues for violations, which range from the operation of illegal meat shops, burning garbage and erecting illegal advertisements to water wastage. Officials said that the water and sewerage connection of violators will be discontinued if they fail to pay the fines.Four years ago, the MCG’s challan system came under scrutiny, as officials started receiving complaints that the civic body staff was collecting fines for violations of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) without issuing receipts or challans for the same. To overcome the discrepancies, the MCG introduced a new policy wherein on-the-spot payments could no longer be taken by officials. Instead, the officials concerned were directed to note the mobile numbers and addresses of the violators, and the payment could only be made at MCG offices. However, in at least 85% of the cases since then, the violators have either given incorrect addresses or mobile phone numbers or have simply not turned up at the MCG offices to make the payments, with officials also failing to follow up on the matter. The matter came to light last week when deputy municipal commissioner Vijaypal Yadav held a review meeting regarding pending dues. “The non-collection of challans is a serious matter. People would stop taking the MCG seriously. From next week, the MCG will be launching a drive to recover dues from defaulters,” Yadav said.Yadav said that he has directed officials to focus on violators who owe the civic body most or those with a high number of violations.“The staff has been directed to compile a list of violators who each owe the MCG more than ₹5,000 in dues. We will first concentrate on people with heavy dues and then take action against the rest,” said Yadav. Yadav said that the MCG is anticipating people with even smaller dues to pay the fines as word of disconnecting water and sewerage services spreads.According to an official MCG document that has the breakdown of 19 types of challans and the corresponding pending dues, maximum unpaid violations are for pasting illegal advertisements, with payments for 1,848 violations yet to be made. Similarly, fines for 932 violations pertaining to polythene use and 863 violations of illegal meat shops are pending.“With on-the-spot recoveries abolished, there was little incentive for MCG officials to recover the dues. Most fines issued were of ₹500. The civic body would have spent more trying to trace an individual defaulter and getting him or her to pay the amount, hence, there was rarely any follow-up on part of officials and more than 85% fines have remained unaccounted for,” said a senior MCG official who attended last week’s review meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-dues-of-3-41-crore-yet-to-be-collected-since-2017-101635957180485.html
03-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram crime: Two snatchers suspected of 100 robberies held||The police on Tuesday arrested two snatchers who had allegedly targeted over 100 people since the start of the festive season last month, making off with over 50 gold chains and over 55 smartphones from South City, Sohna Road, Sector 14, Sector 56 and Golf course Road. The police said the suspects are repeat offenders and were part of a gang, six members of which were arrested and released on bail on October 10. The suspects were identified as Prem Sagar alias Yuvi, a resident of Chapra in Bihar, and Vikram Singh alias Vicky, of Kapashera in Delhi. The police recovered one scooter, at least 10 mobile phones and 10 gold chains from their possession. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that there are over 50 snatching gangs currently active in residential areas and that they engage in more crimes during the festival season due to the increased number of pedestrians on roads, especially near markets. “Three women were injured in South City -2, Sector 14 and Sector 56 after they (robbers) snatched their gold chains and dragged them for a few metres,” he said. Sangwan said there are 220 cases registered against unidentified snatchers and that the two of them account for at least 50 cases. “During questioning, suspects revealed that they used to conduct reconnaissance of the area and used to practise driving through congested lanes. Last Diwali also, they had snatched over 50 gold chains and mobile phones but were caught later, around Holi,” he said. The police said these suspects used to sell the gold chains to local goldsmiths for half the price and sold mobile phones in Delhi at throwaway prices. The police have identified the shopkeepers and are trying to trace them as most of them have given them the slip due to an increase in crackdowns. According to the police, the suspects bought second-hand motorbikes from Uttar Pradesh to commit the crimes and practised their escape strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-crime-two-snatchers-suspected-of-100-robberies-held-101635957119992.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||IIT Kanpur honours alumni on 62nd Foundation Day||Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IIT-K) felicitated its alumni, including railway and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, for their outstanding achievements and contributions in various fields on the 62nd Foundation Day of the institute on Tuesday evening.In all, 20 awards were presented on the occasion — 16 to prominent alumni and four to fellows of IIT-K.The awardees included eminent scientists, industry experts, politician, administrators, and technocrats, most of them pioneers in their respective fields, said IIT Kanpur director Prof Abhay Karandikar.Former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman Dr K Radhakrishnan presided over the function that was held in a hybrid mode in view of Covid restrictions. Radhkrishnan is currently chairman of the Board of Governors, IIT Kanpur.The Alumnus Award was conferred on railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw; Indigo Paints MD Hemant Jalan, Engineers India Ltd chairperson and managing director Vartika Shukla and CureFit CEO and co-founder Mukesh Bansal.This year’s Satyendra K Dubey Memorial Award was given to former Enforcement Directorate chief Karnal Singh for his contributions and exemplary service to the nation with integrity in upholding human values while in the IPS (Indian Police Service), the IIT-K director said.The other alumnus awardees included former Fresenius Kabi Oncology Ltd chairman Rakesh Bhargava, Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd director and chairman Saurabh Chandra, Moglix founder and CEO Rahul Garg, Prof Rajesh Kumar Gupta of the computer science and engineering department of the University of California.Prof Abhay Karandikar said, “Our alumni have contributed immensely at the national and global level. We are proud of their achievements, and this is a moment to celebrate their accomplishments. This occasion is an opportunity for each of us to rededicate ourselves to the ethos of IIT Kanpur.”The services award was presented to Pradeep Bhargava, COO and co-founder, GladMinds, for his contribution in facilitating alumni connect and major fundraising efforts of IIT Kanpur.Along with him, the award was also conferred on Kushal Sacheti, founder and CEO, Galaxy USA Inc, for his contribution to IIT-Kanpur as a goodwill ambassador.IIT Kanpur also formally launched two major centres of research and learning – Shivani Centre for the Nurture and Re-Integration of Hindi and Other Indian Languages at IIT Kanpur and Chandrakanta Kesavan Centre for Energy Policy and Climate Solutions.The Shivani Centre is an ambitious initiative set up with generous donation from IIT Kanpur alumnus Muktesh “Mickey” Pant, founder, Micky and Vinita Charitable Foundation, to gradually integrate students from Hindi and other Indian Language backgrounds with socio-academic milieu of the institute.This centre will also facilitate the creation of academic resources (STEM content, textbooks, references, digital tools) in languages other than English and will enable dissemination of technological tools to increase the ease-of-use for Hindi and other Indian Languages (OILs) on digital platforms.The Chandrakanta Kesavan Centre for Energy Policy and Climate Solutions has been set up with generous contribution from distinguished alumnus Sudhakar Kesavan, former chairman and CEO of ICF International Inc. It will help India in developing, adapting, and implementing technologies to reduce emissions and grow sustainably, in line with the Paris Climate Agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iit-kanpur-honours-alumni-on-62nd-foundation-day-101635957060235.html
03-11-2021||Patna||Remand home inmate dies, mob attacks police||A mob on Wednesday attacked police and damaged CCTV cameras in protest against the death of a boy lodged at the remand home for juveniles at Gaighat in Patna City.The remand home’s superintendent, Ajay Kumar, said, “A month ago, the boy was lodged here in connection with an Arms Act case. On Tuesday evening,four inmates were being released. The boy in question also came out of the gate and tried to escape after pushing police forces deputed at the gate. During the escape, he fainted and fell down on the ground. We took him to Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, where he died. The incident was recorded in CCTV camera at the gate.” After the incident, a mob laid siege to the remand home and attacked police force and damaged the CCTV footage. Some policemen were also injured in the incident, Kumar said. The boy’s father, Jitendra Kumar, said his son was fine on Tuesday morning, when he spoke to him. “But he complained about being assaulted by some inmates. I came to know about the incident around 8 pm on Tuesday evening. When I came to the NMCH, I saw my son had head injuries and was bleeding coming from the neck. He was dead by then,” he said.Child activist Krishna Deo Mishra, a former member of juvenile justice board, alleged gross negligence on the part of the remand home administration. “How it is possible that the inmate tried to escape in the presence of tight security? This is not the first incident. On October 6, an inmate had escaped from the home. Strong action should be taken against the officials concerned in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/remand-home-inmate-dies-mob-attacks-police-101635956939882.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Minors take cue from television series, kill 70-year-old woman in Pune||PUNE Two minor boys were apprehended by Pune police for robbing and killing a 70-year-old woman who knew and entertained them at her home often. The boys had allegedly watched episodes of “CID”, a famous Hindi language true-crime television series, and drawn inspiration from it, according to a statement issued by the Pune police.The victim has been identified as Shalini Baban Sonawane (70), a resident of Sayali Heights in Hingane Khurd area of Pune. She was found dead in her living room on the night of October 30.The apprehended minor boys are 16 and 14 years of age. While investigating the case, policeman Ujjav Mokashi learned from a bunch of local children that on the afternoon of October 30, two of their friends had retraced their steps in a hurry on the way to eat paani-puri.“The footage (CCTV) of the two walking in a hurry towards their home added to the suspicion and based on it they were taken into confidence and questioned. The two kept a straight face and started replying rudely. One of them was known to be habitual of stealing from his own house. After more time under questioning, the two broke down and confessed to having killed the woman,” read the statement by senior police inspector Devidas Gheware of Sinhagad road police station.The two had plotted a theft two months in advance and had stolen the key to the woman’s house for it. However, owing to her age, the woman did not leave the house much. The two then decided to rob her went to her house around 1:30pm on October 30.They entered her house and started watching TV with her before pushing her from behind and strangulating her to death. The children then fled with cash worth ₹93,000 and gold ornaments worth ₹67,500, according to the police. All the valuables have been recovered from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minors-take-cue-from-television-series-kill-70-year-old-woman-in-pune-101635956461613.html
03-11-2021||Patna||Patna, Muzaffarpur record ‘poor’ air quality before Diwali||The capital city Patna and Muzaffarpur recorded ‘poor’ air quality while Gaya recorded ‘moderate’ air quality on Wednesday, a day before Diwali.Health experts believed this Diwali is particularly sensitive in terms of air pollution as those who have recovered from Covid-19 are prone to lungs and respiratory illness, if they inhale toxic smoke.As per the bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna, based on five monitoring stations across the city, stood at 239 which was classified as poorOf the five air monitoring stations in Patna, Rajbanshi Nagar, Samanpura and Shikarpur-based stations, which recorded ‘poor’ air quality with an index value of 273, 277 and 228 respectively. Two stations at Samanpura and Danapur recorded ‘moderate’ AQI where the index value stood around 200.Similarly, the overall AQI of Muzaffarpur stood at 244 which marked ‘poor’ air quality while Gaya recorded ‘satisfactory’ air quality with a 71 index value.Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) has imposed a complete ban on bursting firecrackers in four cities including Patna, Muzaffarpur, Gaya and Vaishali.BSPCB’s chairman Ashok Ghosh appealed to the residents to avoid bursting firecrackers given public health safety.“We need to be sensitive and careful this Diwali as toxic pollutants may put Covid-19 recovered people at high health risk and respiratory distress”, he emphasised. He said, “Diwali is a festival of lights, not firecrackers. The majority of crackers are manufactured using heavy metals like arsenic, barium, cadmium, nickel and tin which emit hazardous smoke harmful to the lungs. Loud crackers produce high decibel noise which is harmful to the ears over a long exposure.”Ghosh said the board also carried out an awareness drive at schools and public places for sensitizing children and the public for not bursting firecrackers. Last year, Patna recorded ‘moderate’ air quality on pre-Diwali day with an index value of 190.City-based pulmonologist Dr Vikas Kumar, said, “Covid-19 recovered people and patients suffering from respiratory ailment are at high risk if they come in contact with toxic smoke. During fireworks, they should stay indoors and wear face masks for avoiding contact with hazardous pollutants. Long exposure to loud noise and toxicants may cause breathlessness, severe headache and high heart rate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-muzaffarpur-record-poor-air-quality-before-diwali-101635956460133.html
03-11-2021||Patna||Firecracker ban order goes up in smoke this Diwali||People continued to use firecrackers on the eve of Diwali Wednesday, despite the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB)’s blanket ban on their sale and use in four cities of Bihar. The BSPCB notified the ban last month in Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Hajipur, in light of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order that put an embargo on the sale and use of firecrackers in cities where the average air quality index (AQI) was poor, very poor and severe, as per the assessment in November 2019. Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Hajipur came under the ambit of the BSPCB ban as they were the only four cities in Bihar then that had air quality monitoring stations, and their AQI was either poor (151 or higher), very poor or severe. Green firecrackers are, however, permitted in other cities, having AQI level better than “poor”, said a BSPCB officer. “Since ours is a regulatory body and not the enforcing agency, we inform the district administration about any violation of our orders and request it to take action. The Supreme Court has made the superintendent of police and station house officer of the police station concerned, responsible for any violation of its order,” said the officer quoted above, when asked about the violation of its ban order in the state. Meanwhile, BSPCB personnel have fanned out across the state to collect samples of firecrackers and check if they conform to the “green cracker” norms, prescribed by the Supreme Court (SC). Green crackers are the invention of the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and they are similar to traditional firecrackers from sound to appearance, but when they burn, they produce up to 50% less harmful gases. The BSPCB action follows complaints that normal firecrackers were being sold under the garb of “green firecrackers”, said a BSPCB officer, refusing to be identified. “We have instructed our regional offices in Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur, Barauni and Purnia to collect samples of firecrackers. We shall send them for test to laboratories approved by the Central Pollution Control Board outside the state. Outlets selling green firecrackers, not conforming to norms, will be penalised,” said Prof Ashok Kumar Ghosh, chairman, BSPCB. As per specifications for green firecrackers, they should not contain barium nitrate and potassium nitrate and should be less in size, ash content and explosive raw materials, as compared to normal firecrackers. They are also supposed to carry Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR)-NEERI marking on them, another officer said. Four teams, comprising three members each, have been constituted in Patna, while separate teams have been constituted at the five regional offices of the BSPCB to monitor ambient air quality and noise level during Diwali. “The need for separate teams to monitor AQI level for 15 days — seven days before and seven days after the Diwali festival on November 4 — in addition to our continuous air quality monitoring stations at 11 locations, was felt because the sensors of our air quality monitoring stations do not detect the presence of heavy metals, which cause severe respiratory distress,” said Prof Ghosh. “The use of heavy metals, including strontium, lead, arsenic, cadmium, tin, barium and zinc, in firecrackers is likely to cause severe respiratory distress in Covid-19 patients or those who are gradually recovering from it, necessitating the ban,” added Prof Ghosh. The NGT had also directed that the licence for the sale of firecrackers be also cancelled in cities having poor AQI and the district administration should ensure effective implementation of the ban||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/firecracker-ban-order-goes-up-in-smoke-this-diwali-101635956290654.html
03-11-2021||Patna||Patna man, who willed his property to his pet jumbos, shot dead||A 55-year-old man, who had transferred his properties worth ₹5 crore in the name of his two elephants, was shot dead in Phulwarisharif area of Bihar’s Patna on Wednesday, police said. Mohammad Akhtar Imam (55) was shot by four persons at Murgia Chak, police said, citing eyewitness accounts. Police said the incident took place around 11am when four men came to Akhtar’s house and asked him to show his land. “As he came out of his house, they opened fire at him,” said a police officer.Hearing sounds of the gunshots, locals rushed to the spot and took Akhtar to AIIMS, where he was declared brought dead.Villagers said Akhtar owned huge tracts of land and was upset with his son, which is why he had transferred the property to his two elephants, named Moti and Rani. Uttam Kumar, station house officer of Janipur police station, said land dispute could be the reason behind the murder. “His son is lodged in Beur jail in connection with the murder of a constable in 2019. He had also attempted to murder his father. The police are investigating the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-man-who-willed-his-property-to-his-pet-jumbos-shot-dead-101635955980398.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ashu celebrates Diwali with Ludhiana MC sanitation workers||Felicitating frontline workers, food, civil supplies and consumers affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu celebrated Diwali with municipal corporation (MC) sweepers and sewermen, at his office on Wednesday. The minister distributed gifts, including blankets and sweets, among over 800 employees. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and councillors from the west constituency were present on the occassion. Ashu also hit out at former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh who had resigned from the Congress on Tuesday and said, “The party appointed him CM twice. He was asked to step down as the government was not able to perform under his leadership. He should not have left the party, which gave him so many opportunities in the past.”MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSNarcotics, phones recovered from jail inmateLudhiana: An inmate of the Ludhiana central jail was booked after 74 intoxicant pills, 115 gm charas, 11 sachets of tobacco and two mobile phones were recovered from a tiffin box belonging to him. The recovery was made during a special checking on late Tuesday night. The accused, identified as Sukhjinder Singh of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshehr, has been booked under Sections 20/22/29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, Sections 42/45/52 A (1) of the Prison Act. Industrialists’ bodies continue protest
03-11-2021||Mumbai||Speed up vaccination drive, Modi tells Aurangabad district||Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed the Aurangabad administration to speed up the Covid-19 vaccination drive during an interaction with collectors of over 40 districts across the country where the inoculation drive is slow. Eight districts in Maharashtra, including Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Buldhana, Hingoli, Nanded, Beed, Amravati and Akola, are lagging behind, with respect to the pace of inoculation drive.In these districts, around 51% to 57% eligible population have been administered the first dose, while the state’s overall average is 73.7%. As of November 2, Maharashtra had administered 98,793,874 doses, of which 67,533,015 people have got one dose. Of the target population of 91.44 million, the state has inoculated just 67.52 million people till Tuesday. 31.25 million people in the state have been fully vaccinated. On Wednesday, Modi interacted with district collectors of over 40 districts in Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, among other states with districts having low vaccination coverage.Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan gave a presentation on the best practices followed by the district to boost the vaccination numbers. According to Chavan, the prime minister appealed to him to boost the immunisation rate of the district, which currently stood at 55.12%, as Aurangabad is a tourist district.While Mumbai, Pune, Bhandara and Sindhdurga lead the vaccination drive with percentage of first dose inoculation ranging between 89 and 99%, few districts like Nandurbar, Akola, Beed, Buldhana and Amravati lag much behind with the percentage hovering between 51 and 55% for the first dose. Of the 98.53 million doses administered so far, nearly 45% are in Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nahsik and Nagpur. Thackeray took a review of the vaccination on Tuesday and appealed to the citizens to come forward and vaccinate themselves. “Vaccination tends to prevent infection and also blunts the effects of virus. Citizens should take both the doses,” said Thackeray. He asserted that citizens need to adopt to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour even though the cases may be decreasing. “Even though the cases have been coming down, still the Covid-19 threat still exist and we cannot let our guard down,” said Thackeray.Thackeray on Monday said that in wake of the drop in cases, the people are not coming forward for the vaccination. He has also directed the machinery to take up special drives for the vaccination.As part of interacting with the districts having low vaccination rate, Modi made the appeal to expedite the inoculation drive and vaccinate the population at the earliest while virtually addressing Aurangabad collector, in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.“The prime minister heard the presentation and directed us to ramp up the vaccination drive as Aurangabad is a tourist district. From this week, we will implement a drive allowing vaccinated people at the tourist spots [in the district]. Besides that, I presented the reasons for the low immunisation numbers. The reasons include vaccine hesitancy, heavy rainfall and floods in the district, etc,” Chavan told HT. The collector added that he apprised Modi about the ongoing immunisation initiatives in the district including ‘Mission Kavach Kundal’, and ‘Mann Me Hai Vishwas’, which is being implemented in the district. “The vaccination has been increased by implementing the ‘Mission Kavach Kundal Abhiyan’ under the guidance of the chief minister. Similarly, ‘Mann Mein Hai Vishwas,’ a campaign involving religious leaders of all communities, has also helped increase the numbers,” Chavan said.He added that the district administration will take up initiatives at micro level including ‘Mera Ward One Hundred Per cent Vaccination Ward’ and a drive involving children to ask their parents to get vaccinated.According to the data of the state health department, the overall average for first dose is 73.7%, 22 districts of the 35 districts in Maharashtra are below the state’s average. In terms of the second dose, 34.06% of the eligible population are fully vaccinated, while 23 districts are below the overall state average for double doses.Chief minister Thackeray took stock of the vaccination drive in the state on Tuesday and had directed officials to administer at least one dose to all the eligible population by November 30, 2021. A senior bureaucrat said that the CM has directed district administrations to step up the initiatives including more information, education and communication (IEC) drives, involving religious and community leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/speed-up-vaccination-drive-modi-tells-aurangabad-district-101635955560551.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Heavy rush at cracker markets ahead of Diwali||Despite the district administration’s appeal to residents to celebrate an eco-friendly Diwali, heavy rush was witnessed at the six firecracker markets in the city on Wednesday.Bunty, a firecracker trader in Model Town Extension, said that the response is good this year, but comparatively less than previous years as residents are going through a financial crisis. Prices of cracker have also increased due to shortage of supply and many companies have started manufacturing green crackers.Despite a ban imposed by the state government, a variety of traditional crackers were available at the markets in the absence of enforcement by police and administration.Temporary cracker markets have been established at six locations in the city including the grain market near Jalandhar Bypass, Model Town Extension, Dugri Phase 2 near Dugri police station, GLADA ground on Chandigarh Road, Chaara Mandi on Hambran Road and the ground near Lodhi Club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-heavy-rush-at-cracker-markets-ahead-of-diwali-101635955383630.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy: Former champions Uttar Pradesh look to turn over a new leaf||A new captain, new coach and a new domestic season — it all sums up the trajectory of former champions Uttar Pradesh as they begin their campaign in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy with their Elite Group E match against Chandigarh in Gurugram on Thursday. Ghaziabad’s Karan Sharma, who was the highest run-getter for the side with 168 runs in five matches last season, has been elevated as captain from vice-captain last season when the team couldn’t make it to the knockout rounds. Former Team India star Suresh Raina was the second batter to cross the 100-run mark last season for UP, whereas 17 others could not make an impression. Left-arm pacer Mohsin Khan was the highest wicket-taker for UP with five wickets. Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Shanu Saini had four and three wickets, respectively then. In the new season, both the captain and newly appointed coach Vijay Dahiya will have their task cut out for them. Uttar Pradesh have been drafted into the Elite Group E along with Hyderabad, Uttarakhand, Saurashtra, Delhi and Chandigarh. Besides playing against Chandigarh on Thursday, at the Gurugram Cricket Ground, UP will take on Saurashtra on the following day on November 5. This will be followed by their next match against Delhi on November 6, against Uttarakhand on November 8. After a day’s rest, UP will round off their league campaign in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy with the match against Hyderabad on November 9. “UP (Uttar Pradesh) has been a wonderful domestic side and I am enjoying my stint with the boys, who are capable enough to turn the table on any given day,” Dahiya was quick to react when asked for his comment ahead of the season opener on Wednesday. “I have worked with so many other teams. The talent here has been fantastic. The guys are quite talented and putting a lot of efforts on the ground,” he said. On his own experience with the Uttar Pradesh side, Vijay Dahiya said that it was an opportunity for him to work with a bunch of talented players. “I was more than keen to get down with the boys. I saw the talent at the Challenger Trophy at Kanpur for first time and I realised that by the time the Ranji Trophy starts next month, the UP team would be somewhere in the reckoning for sure.” Led by the energetic Manan Vohra, hosts Chandigarh, which topped the Plate Group last season, will have the advantage of playing on home surface, and if their key players like Ankit Kaushik, Shivam Bhambri, Sarul Kanwar, Gurinder Singh and Arpit Singh get going, the local side would be a tough nut to crack for Uttar Pradesh. Chandigarh would miss the services of medium-pacer Sandeep Sharma, who shifted from Punjab Cricket Association to UTCA this season, and is down with dengue. But the side will also have the advantage of having the services of former Ranji Trophy cricketer from Himachal Pradesh, Rajeev Nayyar, as the team’s coach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/syed-mushtaq-ali-twenty20-trophy-former-champions-uttar-pradesh-look-to-turn-over-a-new-leaf-101635955379770.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police book man for thrashing wife, locking her in room||A man has been booked after he thrashed his wife in full public view, broke her mobile phone and locked her in a room after their two-and-half-year-old son did not perform well in his interview for admission into a private school.The accused has been identified as Vishal Nayyar of Kitchlu Nagar.The FIR has been lodged based on the statement of his wife Divya Nayyar. She stated that they have been married for the past seven years and wanted to get their son admitted to a private school in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar. The interview was held on October 11 and Divya said that her son did not speak much during the session. She alleged that while they were returning home, Vishal blamed her for his poor performance and abused and thrashed her in full public view. After reaching home, he broke her phone and locked her in a room. After he left the home, her mother-in-law opened the door for her. She then went to her maternal home and filed a complaint.An FIR has been lodged at Sarabha Nagar police station and nd a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-book-man-for-thrashing-wife-locking-her-in-room-101635955021233.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||Dharavi had six zero-case days in October: BMC data||Dharavi, among India’s largest slum pockets and one of the country’s worst-affected communities during the first Covid-19 wave in 2020, recorded no new case for six days and just one fresh case each on 13 days of October, logging only 50 cases for the month, down from 66 cases in September, according to BMC data. The six zero-case days in October were on the 4th, 11th, 13th, 22nd, 25th and 31st. September had five zero-case days. Dharavi, with an estimated population of 850,000 spread over 2.4 sq km, has recorded 7150 Covid-19 cases since March 2020, and has 20 active cases until Wednesday, November 3. The highest single-day spike in October was seven on October 8. Neighbouring Dadar recorded over 200 Covid-19 cases in October, with Mahim reporting over 130 cases. Dadar’s total caseload is 10,382 with 83 active cases, while Mahim has seen 10,695 cases and has 85 active cases. In April and May 2020, when Dharavi became one of Mumbai’s first containment zones, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) rolled out Mission Dharavi to contain the spread of the infection. This included large-scale testing and contact tracing using fever camps, door-to-door campaigns, and mobile testing vans. As social distancing and home quarantine was literally impossible in Dharavi (the population density here is 354,167 people per sq km, the civic body began institutional quarantine of high risk contacts as well, apart from positive patients. Community toilets were cleaned and sanitised three to four times a day and food packets were distributed to homes as markets and shops were asked to shut down. As a result, June 2020 saw a decline in Covid-19 cases in the area. However, cases began to rise again in April 2021, coinciding with the second wave when it recorded 1460 cases. However, cases dropped to 349 in May, 70 in June, 77 in July, 47 in August, 66 in September, and 50 in October. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward with jurisdiction over Dharavi, said, “During the second wave, Dharavi recorded a new spike, and we channelled efforts to contain the spread, like restarting mobile fever camps, ramped up testing and contact tracing. Other efforts were on-going, but we did not need a strict lockdown. We have been focusing on vaccination.” At present, municipal dispensaries and a few health posts provide free testing for Dharavi’s residents. BMC roped in NGOs to help with vaccination registrations in February, March and April. India’s vaccination drive began on January 16, 2021. At present, 89,808 eligible Dharavi residents have received their first dose, with 13,322 beneficiaries being fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dharavi-had-six-zero-case-days-in-october-bmc-data-101635954480074.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Man, 3 others in custody for kidnapping, killing wife’s lover in Bavdhan||PUNE A man and three of his relatives, including a minor boy, were apprehended for kidnapping, killing and burning the body of a man to ashes for having an affair with his wife in the Bavdhan area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. The men then tried to mislead the police by planting goat meat in a gunny bag with an alleged aim to discredit the police investigation, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The deceased man has been identified as Bharat alias Bhushan Chorge (27), while the arrested men were identified as Lankesh alias Lankya Sadashiv Rajput, Arun alias Golya Kailas Rajput, both residents of Krushna Complex in Bavdhan and Sachin Tanaji Rajput, a resident of Kasaramboli in Mulshi area of Pimpri Chinchwad. The Rajputs own an illegal hooch production unit and have previous cases related to it against them. “Chorge was having an affair with Lankesh Rajput’s wife. He used to give her two missed calls when he was near her home and they would meet. On the night of October 21, the woman’s husband caught her when Chorge gave missed calls and started beating her. She ran away but Chorge reached the vicinity of their house. Rajput called his relatives and kidnapped him,” said Prakash.Chorge’s mother approached the police on October 22, a day after he went missing from their house, and a case of a missing person was registered. The police started searching for the man and learned that Chorge and Rajput had been in a fight on the night Chorge was caught near Rajput’s house.The mother then told the police that she found one of her son’s slippers near Rajput’s house. The police then discovered that the men had kidnapped Chorge, taken him to a flat in a residential building in Bavdhan and cut him to pieces.“They found Sachin Rajput while others were on the run and he told the police that the body was stuffed in two gunny bags which were near a canal in Urawade whereas the body was burning in their hooch factory. Upon testing the body parts, Hinjewadi police station officials’ team found that it was mutton and started conducting searches of Rajput’s hideouts,” said Prakash.“Some bones and a metal rod that was inserted in Chorge’s leg during a previous surgery was found in the furnace. The doctors confirmed it with the number printed on it,” said senior police inspector Balkrushna Sawant of Hinjewadi police station.The men have been arrested in a case under Sections 302, 364, 120(b), 201, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-3-others-in-custody-for-kidnapping-killing-wife-s-lover-in-bavdhan-101635953339716.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC to take up restoration work of its headquarter building||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will take up comprehensive restoration of its headquarter building at Fort. The work will include fixing the Mangalore roof tiles, checking leakages in turrets and attics, waterproofing the main dome structure, and fixing cracks in the heritage pillars of the building.While restoration work has been undertaken on the headquarters building many times in the past, it was always done in parts. A large-scale restoration project for the heritage building was also taken up 10 years ago on many internal and external parts of the building.Six months ago, BMC’s heritage department completed a structural audit of the building and had appointed Chetan Raikar, a heritage conservationist, for the task of restoration.Following the structural audit report, the heritage department had identified certain works for the building ‘suo-moto’ and drafted a comprehensive restoration plan for the building. The cost of the project is estimated to be ₹15 crore.The BMC building is a two-storey structure. However, above the second floor, as is accessible for staff, officers and visitors from public staircases and elevators, there is an attic level in some parts of the building, that is mainly used for storage or is lying vacant. The Mangalore roof tiles comprise the immediate roof of this attic floor. Over time, gaps and cracks have developed in these roof tiles, leading to rainwater seeping into the attic rooms. Pigeon nets will also be installed on all windows.A senior civic body official associated with the project said, “We don’t want to do patchwork repairs constantly. We want to do comprehensive restoration work so that we don’t have to worry about it for the next twenty five years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-take-up-restoration-work-of-its-headquarter-building-101635952079443.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Two transgender persons in custody for killing man after soliciting, robbing him in Nigdi||PIUNE Two transgender persons were remanded to police custody on Wednesday for killing a labourer by luring him with solicitation into an isolated location in the Kalbhornagar area of Nigdi, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The deceased man was identified as Basraj Bhimappa Itkal (38), a plumber labourer living in Chinchwad. The man was separated from his wife in 2010 and lived with his brother and his family in Anandnagar, Chinchwad.The two arrested were identified as Anjali Balu Jadhav (25) and Anita Shivaji Mane (26), both residents of Ekta Colony in Ganesh nagar area of Thergaon, according to the police. The two lured Itkal to the bushes by soliciting and then robbed of ₹4,000, according to the police. The money was also found in their possession.The marks on the neck led the police to believe that it was a murder and upon thorough investigation of the crime scene, the police found used as well as unused condoms on the spot. Two teams were formed under assistant police inspector Korde Amol and police sub-inspector Vijay Pawar and were monitored by assistant commissioner of police Sagar Kawade.“During our investigation, a third person had received an extra-judicial confession from two transgender persons who said that they had solicited a man and had left him unconscious and fled with his money,” said Prakash.The doctors have reserved the confirmed cause of death but they have opined that the death was caused by strangulation, according to Prakash.The man had left his house at 10pm on October 31 after telling his brother that he was visiting their sister. However, the next morning the local police called and informed the family that the man was found unconscious in the open grounds of a private company in Kalbhornagar. He was taken to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital in Pimpri and was declared dead on arrival.A case under Sections 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the two at Nigdi police station and Section 8 of the Immoral Trafficking Prevention Act was added to the case.“In the case, the victim died and the act came to light. But many others who survived their robbery do not want to come forwards. Therefore, henceforth, if anyone is found soliciting, Section 8 of ITPA will be invoked against them,” said Prakash.Livelihood provision for transgendersThe Pimpri-Chinchwad police head has claimed to begin an initiative to help train the willing members of the transgender community with vocational training and help in finding work. However, the ones who are found indulging in solicitation and robbery may be prosecuted, he said.“The problem begins at home with the family. If the family abandons a transgender child, it is a serious crime under Juvenile Justice Act. Whoever is found doing this (handing over a transgender child to transgender adults) will face action. The transgenders who are found taking babies, with or without parents’ consent, will also face action. Furthermore, if the child is found to be sexually exploited, a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act will also be registered. Alternatively, soft skills and vocational training courses for willing transgender people will be launched through the corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund,” said Prakash.The transgender community members will then be able to get jobs like plumbing, fitting, electrical fixing, industrial factory work, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-transgender-persons-in-custody-for-killing-man-after-soliciting-robbing-him-in-nigdi-101635951779653.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra prepares for 1.2 million active Covid cases in third wave||Maharashtra is preparing for an active Covid-19 caseload of 1.2 million during the peak of the anticipated third wave, according to projections made by the Centre and shared with the state. The projections are based on Maharashtra’s highest active cases recorded during the second wave and district-wise peaks recorded between March and June this year. In addition to strengthening existing jumbo Covid-19 facilities and hospitals, preparations include readying 531 oxygen generation plants and processing tenders to stock up on eight essential medicines used for Covid-19 treatment. The state’s peak active caseload – 698,354 – was recorded on April 25 this year. However, different districts peaked at different times. Considering the variation in the peaks, state officials estimate a peak active caseload of 800,000 and are preparing for a surge 1.5 times that number. “We are preparing for 1.2 million active cases in the third wave,” said N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, Maharashtra, a vertical of the union health ministry that works closely with the state. Experts, however, are divided over the nature of the third wave. For instance, virologist Dr T Jacob John of Christian Medical College, Vellore, said in a recent online conference that the worst is over for Maharashtra and a third wave is unlikely. Physician Dr Jalil Parkar of Lilavati Hospital in Bandra said with the vaccinations and caution among people, the third wave will likely be a mild one and it will not stretch the state’s healthcare infrastructure like the first two. “But if the virus mutates to something worse, we don’t know how the wave will be,” said Dr Parkar. Dr Parkar said some doctors anticipate a stronger third wave, perhaps driven by a variant that will attack the unexposed and unvaccinated population such as minors and may be dominated by re-infections and breakthrough (post-vaccination) infections. “But it’s hard to be sure,” said Parkar. “We considered all scenarios and decided to not put any existing plans and preparations on hold. However, we are not encouraging any new projects,” said Ramaswami, adding that, of the 513 oxygen generation plants, 68 were donated by the PM Cares Fund. Of the 68 plants, 65 have already been set up. The state is looking at a 70:20:10 oxygen formula for each district which includes 70% oxygen supply through liquid medical oxygen (LMO) storage tanks, 20% through oxygen generation plants and 10% through other sources such as cylinders. Ramaswami said the state has also placed orders to ensure enough stock of eight medicines commonly used for Covid-19 patients, including repurposed drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, steroids, anticoagulants, and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), among others. The state had also made a budgetary provision to procure monoclonal antibodies that have been found effective in patients with mild to moderate symptoms. However, the plan has been put on hold as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is yet to include the cocktail therapy in its treatment protocol. Infectious disease expert and state task force member Dr Om Srivastava said that a lot of thought has gone into deriving the projection of active cases. “There will obviously be talk about wastage of resources if the third wave does not occur. But it’s a wise strategy to be prepared for a disaster,” said Srivastava, who believes that a third wave is likely in December. According to Srivastava, based on the current situation, the third wave seems manageable. “But the situation might change. We didn’t anticipate a severe second wave, but it stretched each and every resource,” he said. High-burden cities such as Mumbai and Pune have been asked to stay vigilant and focus on vaccinations as well as strict implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Mumbai, for instance, had the highest active case load of 91,100 on April 11. Going by the state’s formula, Mumbai active cases may peak to 136,000 during the third wave. “We go by the projections made by the state and the Centre,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who has been managing BMC’s Covid-19 response in Mumbai. “We have kept our jumbo facilities intact, and strengthened them with paediatric beds. We also have created more facilities in the western and eastern suburbs for a worst-case scenario.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-prepares-for-1-2-million-active-covid-cases-in-third-wave-101635950819524.html
03-11-2021||Pune||PMC vax centres open on Nov 5 till 2 pm||PUNE Despite it being Diwali, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will keep 68 of its Covid-19 vaccination centres open on November 5 until 2 pm.This is to ensure beneficiaries can get vaccinated given that day may be a holiday for most. On Thursday, Saturday and Sunday, the centres will be completely shut, while on Friday it will be open for half a day. Due to the steady supply of the vaccine, the PMC has been encouraging citizens to get both shots of the jab. The civic body usually has 100 centres operational in the city, with a capacity to vaccinate 100,000 a day. Dr Suryankant Devkar, PMC’s immunisation officer said, “We have decided to keep 68 of our centres at all hospitals open. We will keep the centres open on Friday until 2pm because the civic body is functioning for half a day so that people who have a holiday can benefit and take the vaccine. The centres would be shut on Thursday, Saturday and Sunday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-vax-centres-open-on-nov-5-till-2-pm-101635950699424.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||Suicide case: BJP demands resignation of Maharashtra minister||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded the resignation of soil and water conservation minister Shankarrao Gadakh after his name cropped up in a suicide case of an employee associated with an educational institute headed by the brother of the minister. The BJP said that the youth who died was a personal assistant of the minister and he has held the minister and his two relatives responsible in an audio and video message recorded before he died by suicide. Gadakh has refuted the allegations, saying he was not his PA and he had no direct association with the person who died. He said he was ready to face any punishment if found guilty. “Of the 10 people named by the victim, seven have been booked, except three members from Gadakh family . There is a lot of pressure on police to not take any action against the minister and his family members. For a fair investigation into the suicide case, the minister either should resign or he should be sacked by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said Keshav Upadhye, state BJP spokesperson. Upadhye said that the minister, his wife and brother have been named in audio and video messages. “He was being tortured and was forced to suicide. The investigation of Gadakhs is important to ensure justice to the deceased youth. Nothing has been done in last six days. If the local police failed to book minister and his family members, we will demand the investigation by Central Bureau of Investigation,” he said. Gadakh said that he has nothing to with the case and he was ready to face any inquiry. “Why only resignation as minister, I am ready to be hanged if I have done anything wrong. He was not my PA, but was working as computer operator at Yashavantrao Chavan dental college headed by my brother Prashan Gadakh. I have nothing to do with the person deceased. Police has started investigation and have arrested four of the seven accused. There is no question of me putting any pressure on the police. In fact I am requesting the police to take out all call records of the person died and mine to check if we have any association. I do not know why he has named me and my family members in the audio,” he said. In a video, the victim’s sister said that minister and his family has nothing to do with the case. “After recording the video on October 28, he had told me that he named minister and his family member in the spur of the moment and under the influence of liquor. We have no complaint against the Gadakhs and we are not under any pressure. We want the other seven accused to get punished as they had made my brother’s life miserable. They would threat him at gun point and ask to leave Maharashtra,” she has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/suicide-case-bjp-demands-resignation-of-maharashtra-minister-101635950639555.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||100 women-only BEST buses from Saturday||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) is set to introduce its 100 dedicated air-conditioned (AC) and non-AC Tejaswini buses for women from Saturday. The new fleet will resume the women-only bus services that were discontinued during Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown.The bus services will be operated on 70 bus routes in the island city and suburban Mumbai.The BEST operates nearly 3,500 buses in the city, including buses on wet lease. Nearly 2.4 million passengers travel by BEST buses every day.The local trains services in the city were suspended for the general public on April 15 after the increase in Covid-19 cases. However, the BEST bus services were operational. However, the movement of the general public was restricted and the buses were used majorly for transportation of employees working in essential care services.The BEST resumed its bus services for the general public on June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/100-women-only-best-buses-from-saturday-101635949739210.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Pandemic takes the wind out of ‘patangbazi’ in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Amarnath Kaul and his friend Aamir Hussain, both in their sixties and residents of Old City, are preparing for the battle in the skies on Jamghat – the kite-flying festival the day after Diwali. But they are less enthusiastic this year as Covid has cast its shadow over the traditional ‘patangbazi’ in the city with no major competitions slotted for the day.“Due to corona, there will be no major competitions this year. But several private competitions will be organised either on the rooftops or away from the city limits,” said Kaul, patron of District Kite Clubs Association and eight-time national kite-tangling champion.He said, “The sale of kites, manjha and saddi has dropped considerably this year as compared to the pre-Covid era. Against the usual sale of around 4 lakh kites during Diwali, only 30% sale has been recorded due to the pandemic, rising prices of kites and cash crunch among the middle class.”Before the pandemic, over 95 lakh kites were sold annually in Lucknow, out of which 15 lakh were consumed by kite clubs of Lucknow, said kite makers. Om Prakash Agarwal, 65, of Channa Kite centre said, “I have been into the business of kite making for 45 years but never saw the sales dipping like this. Customers, who used to purchase 100 kites, are giving orders for 30-40 now. Another reason for low sales is the absence of any tournament by the kite clubs. There are around 80 registered and over 300 unregistered kite clubs, having around 21,000 members who used to assemble at various places for kite tangling. But this has not happened for the last two years due to the pandemic.”Kite making is a highly skilled job, but kite makers earn less than unskilled labour. The government must come out with a package for helping this business,” said Guru Dutt, 46, of Guddu Kite Centre in Chaupatian.However, Sanjeev Srivastava of Indira Nagar, who was there to purchase kites from Doctor Kite house in Hussaingaj, said: “Both my daughters and other family members are fond of kite flying. But this year, I have purchased only 22 kites against 60 to 70 kites in the past.”He added, “The prices of kites have increased and income has also reduced due to the pandemic.”“The tradition of kite flying on Jamghat was started by Nawab Asafuddaula for maintaining close relationship between Hindus and Muslims during his tenure. The Nawabs of Lucknow knew that the two communities will have to remain together forever and they require some common festivals. So they chose Jamghat in which Hindus and Muslims participated with similar enthusiasm, This bonhomie between the two communities has continued since then,” said Shobha Mishra, head of department, Navyug PG College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pandemic-takes-the-wind-out-of-patangbazi-in-lucknow-101635949499346.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Former sarpanch in police net in cheating case; 20 luxury cars recovered||A former sarpanch of a village in Khed was arrested and remanded to police custody for cheating over 200 people by taking their cars and mortgaging them further to people in different districts. The man cheated not only the owner but also the person he mortgaged the cars to, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad police.The arrested man has been identified as Sagar Mohan Sable (34), a resident of Sabelwadi in Khed. He landed on the police radar when a man complained against him for cheating him out of the ownership of his car after he failed to return the car.A case for cheating and criminal breach of trust was registered at Bhosari police station.A team led by police sub-inspector Prashant Sable changed their looks and pretended to be locals in Beed in order to arrest Sable.He has cheated 200-250 people by taking their cars after telling them that he has good connections with industrial companies and that he could get them good rent money. He took possession of the cars through a notarised process. He then took the cars to agents and told them that I’ll give you these cars for heavily subsidised rates. The agents further mortgaged the cars to other people and falsely told them that the cars belong to people who are now economically weak and cannot pay their debts.“He would tell the people in other districts that they can use the car for a low price until the original owner pays their debt. In rural areas, high debt is generally considered as a lost cause after a while. Under this assumption, the people would pay for the cars,” said Prakash.The police have recovered 20 cars worth ₹1,96,00,000, according to the officials. However, over the past multiple years, the man has misused 50-55 cars from Khed, 20 from Baramati and Daund, 70 from Pimpri-Chinchwad, and 70 others from other places in the state.“The former sarpanch does not have any previous cases but he does have two accomplice agents who will also be arrested. He is in police custody for five days. It is people’s fault too for trusting that the cars will be available at such a low price,” said Prakash.The police are in the process of recovering other cars which were sold in the same way. The two agents are also on the police radar along with others who may have helped him mortgage the cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-sarpanch-in-police-net-in-cheating-case-20-luxury-cars-recovered-101635949439298.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Winter likely to be normal this season: IMD||PUNE The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have forecasted that winter will be close to normal or below normal minimum temperatures this season. A detailed forecast, officials from the weather department, will be issued by the end of November, giving more clarity on how winter will be this season.Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of IMD, said that a detailed forecast for winter will be issued by November-end.“We give a detailed forecast for the winter season, that is December, January and February by November-end. Multiple factors affect the winter temperature,” said Dr Mohapatra.He added that the chill in the southern part of the country is due to snowfall in the north.“There was a western disturbance in the north by October end which led to snowfall in the northern part of India. This has led the cooler winds to travel to the southern part of India thus reducing the night temperature,” said Dr Mohapatra.Weather scientists note that La Nina is one of the components for cooler than normal temperatures during the winter. La Nina is also a major associated with above-normal rainfall during monsoon.As per the long-range forecast for November, at present La Niña conditions are prevailing over the Equatorial Pacific Ocean and neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions are prevailing over the Indian Ocean.“The latest global model forecasts indicate that the La Niña conditions are likely to prevail until March 2022 and neutral IOD conditions are likely to continue during the upcoming seasons,” said IMD officials.Speaking about the impact of La Nina on winter, Dr DS Pai, who heads climate research and services at IMD, Pune said that multiple factors affect winter.“Along with La Nina, there are other factors that affect the temperature in winter. All these factors and the detailed forecast will be issued on November end by IMD,” said Pai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/winter-likely-to-be-normal-this-season-imd-101635949079188.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 270 new Covid cases, 1 death in 24 hours||Pune: As of Wednesday, Pune district has reported 270 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,957 deaths and 3,194 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 119 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 365,649 and the death toll went up to 6,904 as one more death was reported. Pune city reported 100 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 520,987 and the death toll stood at 9,201 as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 51 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 268,786 and the toll stood at 3,503 as no more deaths were reported. The state reported that totally 1,519 patients have been discharged on Wednesday and totally 64,55,100 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery until Wednesday. The recovery rate in the state is 97.6%. Also, 1,193 new cases and 39 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Wednesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. Of 62,947,355 laboratory samples, 6,614,158 have been tested positive (10.51%) for Covid until Wednesday in Maharashtra. Currently, 187,286 people are in home quarantine and 895 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-270-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-24-hours-101635948419369.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||KDMC records a dip in Covid cases||Kalyan-Dombivli has recorded a dip in the number of Covid-19 cases, with around 20-30 positive cases daily. Earlier last week, 50-60 Covid cases were recorded daily within the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits. However, the testing has reduced to 800-1,000 tests per day, compared to 2,000-2,500 tests last month. Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “The testing has reduced as there has been a decline in the low and high-risk contacts. The positivity rate in KDMC is below 3%. The situation is under control.”On November 1, KDMC recorded 17 cases, which is the lowest; while earlier on April 4, 2020, when the pandemic hit the city, five cases were recorded in KDMC limits. The city reported 33 deaths in October. In September the total number of Covid testing carried out by the KDMC was 95,325 and a total of 1,972 positive cases were recorded, with a positivity rate of 2.06%. In October month, a total of 55,671 tests were carried out, and 1,603 positive cases were recorded. The positivity rate was 2.8%. Meanwhile, the civic body also plans to emphasise increasing vaccination among the citizens. “The only best measure to tackle the speculated third Covid wave is by vaccinating as many as citizens,” added Panpatil. The civic body has decided to hold vaccination in all its primary health care centres during November 4,5 and 6, despite the Diwali holidays. “The vaccination facility will be available at all our health care centres all three days,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kdmc-records-a-dip-in-covid-cases-101635948359195.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||318 public vaccination centres in Mumbai to remain shut till Sunday owing to Diwali||Owing to Diwali, a total of 318 public vaccination centres in the city will remain shut from November 4 to 7. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said that state and civic body-run 145 vaccination centres will remain shut for four days. However, the vaccination drive will continue at 145 private hospitals in the city.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the BMC said, “Vaccination drive at government and municipal centres in Mumbai will be closed for four days from Thursday, November 4 to Sunday, November 7. The vaccination drive will be resumed from Monday, November 8, 2021.”The BMC has, however, maintained that they have sufficient stock of vaccines and the drive is being shut owing to holidays, due to Diwali. The statement of the BMC added, “The BMC has adequate stocks of Covid vaccines. A humble appeal is being made to the citizens of Mumbai to cooperate with the BMC administration.”Further, owing to the festival season in October including Navratri, Dussehra, the vaccination had dipped drastically in October compared to September. HT had reported last week about the significant drop of 39% in inoculation in October, as compared to the previous month’s figures.According to civic body data, between September 1 and 29, over 2.6 million citizens were vaccinated, while the number dropped to 1.6 million until October 29. The data also shows that there has been no shortage of doses, as the civic body received 1.6 million doses in October against 1.7 million doses the previous month. This means that the civic body has surplus vaccine doses in stock.The BMC aims to vaccinate the entire 9.2 million adult eligible population by the end of February 2022. Currently, out of the 9.2 million eligible population, 96% are vaccinated with at least the first dose and 57% are fully vaccinated. Meanwhile, on Wednesday 30,030 citizens were vaccinated in the city taking the total count of vaccine administered to 14,292,543.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/318-public-vaccination-centres-in-mumbai-to-remain-shut-till-sunday-owing-to-diwali-101635946559057.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Will ally with uncle Shivpal’s party, give him full respect: Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Ahead of the 2022 UP Assembly polls, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday expressed his intent to forge an alliance with his politically estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L). Shivpal was trying for an alliance with the SP since before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but Akhilesh had been non-committal.“It has been the endeavour of the Samajwadi Party to stitch an alliance with smaller parties. Naturally, we are going to forge an alliance with the party of uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav as well. The SP will give him full respect,” said Akhilesh in Saifai. He is on a visit to his ancestral village for the family’s usual get-together on Diwali.“Many small parties have joined hands with us. Recently, Om Prakash Rajbhar (president of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party) held a historic programme in Mau and has allied with the SP,” he added. When asked about any merger of the PSP-L into the SP, Akhilesh said: “Alliance, not merger.”Reacting to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s statement on Monday that he should apologise for comparing Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel with Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Akhilesh said: “The BJP engages in the politics of hatred. It is always on the lookout for such chances. They do not talk about unemployment and development.” At an event in Hardoi on Sunday, Akhilesh Yadav took the name of the Father of the Nation Mahatama Gandhi, the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Deputy Prime Minister Sardar Patel and the founder of Pakistan Mohammad Ali Jinnah in the same breath for working for India’s freedom. Since then, the BJP had been attacking Akhilesh over the comment.On chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s proposed visit to Etawah on November 6, he said: “Maybe he (Yogi Adityanath) is visiting Etawah to inaugurate some of the works that our government had done. He does not have any work of his to showcase. When he comes here, ask him what significant work he did.”Shivpal and Akhilesh Yadav had fallen out in August 2016, triggering a long drawn Yadav family feud for the control of the Samajwadi Party. Eventually, Akhilesh became the national president of SP in January 2017 and Shivpal eventually floated the PSP-L before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He contested against SP’s official candidate and the then sitting MP Akshay Yadav from Firozabad. However, both lost as the BJP wrested the seat from the SP. Since the formation of PSP-L, Shivpal had openly talked about his intention to ally with the SP.Deepak Mishra, a PSP-L leader, said: “We had been saying that like-minded socialists should come together. Whenever socialists have come together, they won elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/will-ally-with-uncle-shivpal-s-party-give-him-full-respect-akhilesh-101635946259180.html
03-11-2021||Pune||More gardens reopen in Pune; Diwali cultural programmes allowed in Sarasbaug||PUNE The garden department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has reopened more gardens amid the festive season. It has also granted permission to hold Diwali cultural programmes in Sarasbaug.As per the garden department now, a total of 135 gardens have been reopened in the city. However, the operating hours in the evening have not been increased yet, despite a demand from the residents to keep them open beyond 7pm.“We had received multiple applications to hold “Diwali pahat” programmes in the gardens. So, we have given permission to conduct the programmes in 16 gardens so far. In Sarasbaug, two programmes are permitted on November 4 and November 5. The events should be conducted during the operational hours of the gardens,” said Ashok Ghorpade, head of PMC’s garden department.Earlier 110 gardens had reopened after the Covid-induced curbs were eased.“Earlier we had allowed the operations of gardens which are large and where social distancing could be followed. Now gradually other gardens are also being reopened,” said Ghorpade.The civic officials also clarified that no decision has been taken yet about the reopening of the zoo. “Zoos are closed all over the state. A decision will be taken if we receive directions from the state government,” said an official from the garden department on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-gardens-reopen-in-pune-diwali-cultural-programmes-allowed-in-sarasbaug-101635945478837.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pose and post, spread festive cheer without fake filters||The festive season is here, and it’s time to bombard our social media accounts with selfies, photos and more photos. After all, festivals are more about pose and post than anything else. Let’s admit it, it’s not just the festivals but for every click, we have that one mechanical smile and pout that makes us look happy for the rest of the world. Pictures and poses are only supposed to be happy and smiling and nothing else. Recently, I came across a photograph shared by an old PhD student of my father. The picture was taken after his viva with the examiner, so it was a joyous moment of PhD completion. It must be a 25-year-old photo with no smiling faces except the very young me and my grinning elder sister. There was a pattern where teachers were sitting in the front, and the students were standing behind. All the young chaps, who must be students and their class friends, were blank and too serious to be clicked. It was like no big deal; imagine completing a PhD today and the emotional pose and posts. Something caught my attention in that picture except my young father. Somehow, we tend to forget our parents were young too as we grow in life. To confirm my suspicion, I browsed through old family albums. Eureka! I was right, no one used to smile for photos and the poses have mostly the same pattern. The first picture I saw was my grandparent’s family photo. Dadaji was sitting on a chair with my Dadi with one child in her lap, the rest of the four children standing in shorts and staring straight at the camera with no smiles. My maternal grandparents had a similar family picture where everyone was serious. Next was my parents’ wedding album. Not in a single photo was my mother smiling, not even in her weird, shy bride poses! My father looked too serious to be getting married. My curious mind browsed childhood birthday pictures with a cap and a prominent safety pin holding a hanky in the front of my red frill frock. Of course, I was not interested in looking up or smiling but just staring at the cake and even crying in some pictures; phew! Today, my four-year-old nephew poses so well for any photo and chooses his clothes for birthdays. Looking at uncountable and unreasonable selfies and videos today, I wonder, have we rediscovered the art of smiling? No matter how shattered our lives and how much pain we are in, no one will post a picture without a big smile and a philosophical caption. A photograph today is no longer a memory. The camera doesn’t have a limitation of 36 shots. Photos were special memories at that time. They lacked the smile but had authenticity and reality without any fake filters to make it look beautiful. Technology has given us so much, but somehow it has also taken away the special occasion feel, worthy enough to be preserved and captured. The lonely selfies and fake smiles and the quest to showcase your best on social media have taken over family gatherings, the real feel and memoirs of a life well lived not just well captured. mudita.srvstv@gmail.com The writer is a Mohali-based communication professional||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pose-and-post-spread-festive-cheer-without-fake-filters-101635945058903.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||IMD warns of ‘very poor’ air quality in Delhi in next 24 hours||A senior scientist of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday warned of ‘very poor’ air quality in Delhi in the next 24 hours. The air quality is likely to deteriorate on November 5 and November 6 but remain in the ‘very poor’ category, as per IMD.RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at IMD Delhi said the weather department would monitor the air quality in the national capital between November 4 and November 5, which coincides with Diwali. Speaking to news agency ANI earlier in the day, Jenmani said Delhi witnessed smog for the first time on Wednesday. He also made a forecast that the wind speed will pick up on November 6 and 7.Meanwhile, the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed that the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi reached the ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday. The concentrations of PM 2.5 and PM 10 stood at 252 in the ‘poor’ and 131 in the ‘very poor’ category, respectively, as reported by ANI.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter to post the air quality data for the national capital, which remained in ‘very poor’ category.Earlier in the day, Delhi's environment minister Gopal Rai said bursting firecrackers is “not a matter of religion" as it affects people's lives and urged the opposition parties not to jeopardise the wellbeing of children and the elderly for political ambitions.He also appealed to the Centre to issue an advisory to Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to mandatorily stop stubble burning during the Diwali period, news agency PTI reported.The Delhi government on Monday told the high court that it will not allow any firecrackers, including ‘green crackers’, to be sold and used in the Capital in wake of Covid-19 pandemic and the deteriorating air quality.At a press conference, Rai alleged that some people of opposition parties are trying to sabotage the AAP government's fight against pollution by linking firecracker bursting to religion."Bursting of firecrackers is not a matter of religion. It is a matter of people's lives. Some people want to fulfil their political ambitions... I appeal to them with folded hands to not play with the lives of Delhi's children and the elderly."There are many other issues for politics. Please let people breathe. Diwali means diyas (lamps) not firecrackers," he said.Rai said Delhi's air quality a day before Diwali was the best in five years. "Favourable weather conditions and people's support to the government's anti-pollution campaign are reasons for best October air quality in five years," he said."I also urge the Centre to issue a mandatory advisory to Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to stop burning stubble at least during the Diwali period so that people can breathe easy after the festival," the minister said.He said more than 13,000 kg of illegal firecrackers have been seized and 33 people arrested under the anti-cracker campaign.As part of the drive to check dust pollution, a penalty of ₹1.23 lakh has been imposed on 406 construction sites found violating dust control norms.Rai said Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution that can convert stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days, has been sprayed over 1,700 acres of agricultural land in Delhi."The spraying of the bio-decomposer got delayed due to rains in October. The rest of the fields will be covered by November 20," he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imd-warns-of-very-poor-air-quality-in-delhi-in-next-24-hours-101635938365424.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal apple growers upset BJP’s applecart in Jubbal-Kotkhai||The apple-growing belt of Himachal Pradesh has been the epicentre of the hill state’s politics for decades and Tuesday’s byelection verdict that went against the ruling BJP is being seen as a vote against the crash in apple rates this season. Also read: Bypoll results: What they reveal, what they don’tHimachal Pradesh’s apple belt is spread over Shimla, Kinnaur and Kullu besides parts of Mandi and Sirmaur districts, comprising 16 assembly segments. The state’s ₹6,000-crore apple economy has 1.75 lakh families dependent on it. The problems of apple growers were at the centrestage of the campaign in Jubbal-Kotkhai, the home turf of two former chief ministers Thakur Ram Lal and Virbhadra Singh, during this byelection. All three candidates, namely Rohit Thakur of the Congress, Neelam Saraik of the BJP and Chetan Bragta, a BJP rebel-turned-Independent, wove their campaign around the apple economy. The apple growers were upset with the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government for the way it handled the market crash this time. State horticulture minister Mahendra Singh Thakur and his colleague Suresh Bhardwaj, who was the BJP campaign in-charge of Jubbal-Kotkhai, infuriated the growers with their statements over the crash. It’s no surprise that the BJP candidate had to forfeit her deposit on Tuesday. Anger boiled over, says Rohit Thakur of Congress “There has been anger among apple growers this time. The BJP government made no effort to give them relief despite adverse weather conditions that hit their crop. They have been ignored for the past three years,” said Congress candidate Rohit Thakur, who wrested the Jubbal-Kotkhai seat from the BJP. “I have 10 months (before the assembly elections). I will try to do whatever is possible. The road conditions are bad in this belt,” he said. Barring Mahender Singh Thakur, the incumbent horticulture minister who belongs to the non-apple growing area of Dharampur, the government has always appointed a horticulture minister from the core apple-growing belt, which has produced some of the foremost leaders of the state, including two former chief ministers Virbhadra Singh and Ram Lal Thakur, besides Vidya Stokes and Satyawati Parmar, the wife of former chief minister Yashwant Parmar. Satyawati was state Congress chief from 1964-69 and she was a Rajya Sabha member. JBL Khachi was another tall leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-apple-growers-upset-bjp-s-applecart-in-jubbalkotkhai-101635942959991.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Fire breaks out at spinning mill, no casualties||A major fire broke out at Kaur Sain spinning mills in Phase-8 of Focal Point around 3am on Wednesday. Though no casualty was reported, firefighting operations lasted for over seven hours. Leading fireman Rajinder Singh said the fire seems to have been caused by a short-circuit. “Labourers working in the mill managed to escape on time but material and machinery kept on the first and ground floor were completely gutted. As many as seven fire tenders were pressed into service and these had to be refilled at least 60 times. Water was arranged from a nearby factory and a hospital on the Chandigarh road,” said Singh.The mill staff refused to comment on the estimated loss in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-fire-breaks-out-at-spinning-mill-no-casualties-101635942899757.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||After delay in results, undergraduate medical aspirants await AIQ, state quota admission details||After facing weeks of delay to finally get hold of their results, undergraduate (UG) medical and dental aspirants are now worried about the slow pace at which admissions to state quota is underway. While the first round of admissions will have to start for the all-India quota (AIQ) seats, students and parents have highlighted how the state common entrance test (CET) cell has only now started the college registration process, which otherwise is completed before results for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) exams are released.“Admissions to the 15% AIQ seats will be conducted by the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC), but admissions to the 85% state quota seats are conducted by state CET cell and as yet, we have no information about seat matrix. The further this process gets delayed, the amount of time we get to pursue our education also gets curtailed,” said a UG medical aspirant. NEET UG results were announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on November 1 this year, after weeks of delay due to a stay from the Bombay high court. As per figures shared by NTA, 15.44 lakh students appeared for the NEET-UG exam held in pen-and-paper format across the country on September 12. Of the 15.44 lakh students who appeared for the exam, 8.7 lakh candidates cleared the exam. This includes 3.75 lakh male and 4.94 female candidates and 8 transgender candidates.The state CET cell on November 1 released a circular inviting medical and AYUSH course colleges to complete the registration process. This includes colleges updating college info (if any), updating intake capacity and uploading all necessary permission letters. Following this process, the CET cell then releases a seat matrix and list of registered colleges for students to choose from at the time of filling their registration and choice filling forms.“Both the all-India and state admission rounds are looking lax at present; no brochures or seat matrix has been released. Even a basic circular on online registration for students has not started as yet. Students will end up losing some precious academic time because of all this delay,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-delay-in-results-undergraduate-medical-aspirants-await-aiq-state-quota-admission-details-101635942539837.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||HP BJP’s slogans ring hollow after Pratibha’s win in Mandi||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur pulled out all stops to campaign for party candidate Brigadier Khushal Chand Thakur (retd), who was pitted against Pratibha Singh of the Congress, on his home turf of Mandi but in vain. Also read: Bypoll results: What they reveal, what they don’tThe BJP slogan of “Mandi humari thi, humari hai aur humari rahegi (Mandi is ours and will remain ours)” was countered by Pratibha Singh on social media soon after she was declared victorious. “Mandi hum sab ki hein, hum sabki thi, hum sabki rahegi (Mandi belongs to all of us),” she tweeted after winning the elections. BJP campaigners had described the wife of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh as Majboor Mahila (helpless woman), which she responded with the slogan that she’s a Majboot Mahila (strong woman). Political observers say that the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection win on Tuesday has given a psychological advantage to the opposition Congress not only in Mandi but also in the entire state that will be going to the polls next year-end. Political significance of Mandi Mandi is a central district of the state and representatives of this constituency have vied for the post of chief minister. Karam Singh Thakur, a prominent leader from Mandi, challenged then chief minister Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar’s authority in the early ’60s but could not make it to the CM’s chair. Former Union minister Sukh Ram, close to then prime minister PV Narasimha Rao made several efforts to overthrow Virbhadra Singh to become the chief minister but the scion of the Rampur Bushahr royal family didn’t let the Mandi leader succeed in his mission. It was after a struggle of five decades that Jai Ram Thakur, who hails from Tandi village of Mandi district, fulfilled the aspiration. Jai Ram Thakur was the face of the BJP not only for the Mandi parliamentary seat but for the three assembly segments, too. He tried to strike an emotional chord but it didn’t work as Pratibha defeated Kargil war veteran Brigadier Thakur by 7,490 votes. During the campaign, the BJP camp raked up regional factors to secure votes, while the Congress banked on the sympathy factor following the death of Pratibha’s husband and former CM Virbhadra Singh in July. She accused the BJP of raking up regionalism for electoral gains and chose to focus on the shortcomings in governance. Convincing lead in Seraj Of the 17 assembly segments in Mandi, the BJP was defeated in nine assembly segments. Brigadier Thakur was able to get a convincing 21,659 votes lead from his home constituency of Seraj. The leads from Karsog, Sundernagar, Balh, Mandi and Sarkhaghat were marginal. The BJP got a thin lead of 956 votes from Mandi town, represented by Sukh Ram’s son Anil Sharma. The CM’s ties with Anil are strained after his son Aashray Sharma contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on the Congress ticket against the BJP nominee, Ram Swaroop Sharma. Anil, who had joined the BJP on the eve of the 2017 assembly elections, was forced to quit the cabinet. He was sidelined by the party since then and has been lying low. Infighting also cost the BJP dear. Ajay Rana, an aide of former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, and Praveen Sharma, also a Dhumal loyalist who was denied the Vidhan Sabha ticket, were absent from the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bjp-s-slogans-ring-hollow-after-pratibha-s-win-in-mandi-101635942538582.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court grants pre-arrest bail to four trustees of Mahim temple||Arrest has far reaching consequences, not only to the person arrested but his whole family, the Mumbai sessions court observed, while granting bail to four trustees of Dadoba Jagannath Religious Charitable Trust at Mahim. “Certainly the image of arrested person gets tarnished particularly when the persons like present applicants who are ailing and very old and have not a single criminal antecedent throughout their life,” said additional sessions judge MG Deshpanade, referring to the fact that one of the trustees was aged 91 years and two others were aged 88 and 78 respectively The accused —Jaywant Desai, Padmakar Sahani, Sanjeev Paralkar and Shaila Pathare — had approached the court for anticipatory bail, apprehending arrest in connection with a case registered by Mahim police station. The case is based on complaint lodged by one Prabhakar Thakur, who alleged that the trustees misappropriated some old stone idols from the Heritage II category temple of the trust. He said the trustees changed the old idols, saying those were eroded and despite pursuing long with them, they did not inform him as to where those old idols had gone. Therefore he lodged a complaint on July 5, 2019, with the Mahim police station. The police in turn had requested the office of the charity commissioner to look into the matter. Accordingly, the charity inspector carried out an inquiry and found that the idols of Parvati Mata and Mata Shitaladevi had been kept at Madh, at the farmhouse of the trust chairman, Ganpati Bhatte, and Sanjiv Paralkar had secretly brought them back and kept them in the office behind the temple. Inspection of the idols had revealed that there was no erosion. The FIR alleged that the trustees had misappropriated two more old idols. However, advocates Rajan Shirodkar and Nihar Ghag, who represented the trustees, submitted that the FIR was an outcome of a tenancy dispute between the trust and the complainant, a tenant. Main reason for lodging the complaint was the notice issued by the trust on April 16, 2019 to the informant’s mother for vacating a tenant godown, owned by the trust. The court accepted their contentions. “The conduct of informant prima-facie speaks volumes. In my opinion all that has been agitated is nothing but tenancy dispute given the colour of criminal prosecution,” said the court while granting pre-arrest bail to the trustees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-four-trustees-of-mahim-temple-101635940258299.html
03-11-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: Nitish Kumar ‘thanks’ voters for ‘reposing their faith in JD(U)’||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar thanked voters for “reposing their faith” in Janata Dal United (JDU) in the assembly bypolls. “I've said earlier that the public is supreme. They'll decide, and they've decided. Hence I want to thank them for reposing their faith in us,” Kumar said.JD(U) retained both Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats, defeating the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) candidates. First-time candidates Aman Bhushan Hazari and Rajiv Kumar Singh won by a margin of more than 12,000 votes and 3,800 votes from Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, respectively.Kumar, who was garlanded by party workers in Patna on Wednesday, remarked that the people of Bihar have “given their verdict” by electing both representatives of JD(U).The bypolls were necessitated by the death of the two sitting JD(U) representatives, and a loss to RJD would have further eroded the strength of the party in the ruling coalition it has formed with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after last year’s assembly elections.RJD supremo Lalu Prasad had campaigned for his party’s candidates in both seats after a hiatus of six years and although his rallies attracted a huge number of people it did not translate into votes for Arun Kumar Sah and Ganesh Bharti, the RJD candidates from Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, respectively.RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav accepted his party’s defeat. “We accept the people’s verdict. The sympathy factor worked at both the places,” he said after the verdict was announced. His brother Tej Pratap Yadav, however, lashed out at state president Jagadanand Singh, besides MLC Sunil Singh, and Tejashwi’s key aide Sanjay Yadav, blaming them for the party’s defeat and demanding their expulsion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-nitish-kumar-thanks-voters-for-reposing-their-faith-in-jdu-101635937588937.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Diwali gift: Punjab CM announces ₹3,100 each for construction workers||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced an interim financial relief of ₹3,100 each for registered construction workers in the state on Diwali eve. “The financial grant of ₹3,100 is a ‘shagun’ for construction workers and their families on the joyous Festival of Lights,” Channi said. Also read: ‘Har Ghar Dastak’: Modi rolls out door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaignThe decision is aimed at mitigating the hardships faced by these workers due to loss of livelihood in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official statement said. The amount will be directly transferred into the bank accounts of the workers registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, it said. The board has nearly 3.17 lakh registered construction workers across the state, and the disbursement is likely to involve an expenditure of ₹90- ₹100 crore, the statement said. Earlier this year, another instalment of financial relief was given to registered construction workers in Punjab. Channi also asked all sarpanch and councillors to get construction workers registered so that they could benefit from welfare schemes extended by the board. The chief minister, who is also the chairman of the board, said his government was committed to helping those sections of society who did not have the means to fend for themselves. State labour minister Sangat Singh Gilzian said with improvement in the Covid situation, efforts are being made to accelerate the pace of construction activity across the state to ensure the livelihood of these workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/diwali-gift-punjab-cm-announces-3-100-each-for-construction-workers-101635936717997.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Capt Amarinder dying duck in a thunderstorm, says Sidhu||A day after Capt Amarinder Singh quit the Congress and announced the launch of the Punjab Lok Congress, state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu hit out at the former chief minister, calling him a dying duck in a thunderstorm and asked him how many seats he had won the last time he floated a political party. Also read: Punjab politics: Sidhu aides Pargat, Warring gun for Capt Amarinder“Last time when he (Amarinder) formed a party, how many seats did he get? He is a fraudulent person. He could not win his own seat and now will his father make Punjab win?” a belligerent Sidhu told reporters in his home turf of Amritsar on Wednesday. “Neither the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nor the farmer unions are willing to embrace the Captain. Who is he? Will they touch Paras (touchstone) or an empty cartridge? Whose nose was rubbed in the soil? Who was ousted? Now you are crying like a child. You went to Madam (Sonia Gandhi) with only 800 votes. Who made you president at that time?” Sidhu said, adding that “he (Capt Amarinder) is a dying duck in a thunderstorm.” Sidhu went on to allege that Captain Amarinder’s wife, Preneet Kaur, who is the Patiala Congress MP, was also not with him. “Will Preneet Kaur leave the party? Not even a councillor is with him. He never came out of his home in the last five years,” Sidhu said. Newfound bonding with CM Channi A day after meeting Congress MLAs in Chandigarh, Sidhu seemed to be on the same page with Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. “It’s been only a month since Channi has become the CM. What else should he do in such a short span? Electricity rates have been slashed. The price of sand will be fixed. Everything will be done. Whatever could have been done in one month, we have done,” he said in reply to a query about the working of the state government. Sidhu was in Amritsar to inaugurate a beautification and development project of Ram Talai temple. Suggesting steps to increase the state’s income, he said, “In 2002, Punjab had been earning ₹3,000 crore from the liquor trade, while Tamil Nadu’s income was only ₹2,500 crore. Now, Tamil Nadu is earning ₹35,000 crore every year, but Punjab is still sitting at ₹3,000 crore. I am not in favour of liquor, but it’s income should be in the state’s exchequer.” Lauding the work of state transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, the Amritsar East MLA said due to the hard work of the minister, the income of the department had gone up to ₹50 lakh a day. Says fix the rate of sand to prevent theft Sidhu said he has been fighting for Punjab and will continue to work for its people. He urged the Channi government to fix the rate of sand for construction purposes to prevent its illegal mining. “The theft of sand will stop the day its rate is fixed. Be it ₹1,000, 1,100 or 1,200, but fix it,” he said. Lashing out at the Centre for increasing fuel prices, he said the price of petrol in some countries is ₹35 to ₹40, but people in India are forced to spend ₹110. “Discussions have been held with the new CM and soon new policies will be made not for a few months, but for the next generation. A roadmap will be given. Not 500 promises, we will implement only 13 points.” On his meeting with the new Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, he said, “The state’s income will be increased and the VAT on petrol and diesel will be decreased in Punjab. It was also decided during the MLAs’ meeting on Tuesday that five to seven political functionaries will be attached to the CM’s office. They will hear the grievances of the MLAs over phone and all MLAs will stay in their respective constituencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-capt-amarinder-dying-duck-in-a-thunderstorm-says-sidhu-101635930597786.html
03-11-2021||Mumbai||What's inside hotel ‘The Lalit’? Nawab Malik teases new revelations on Sunday||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, now engaged in a war of words with former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, took to Twitter on Wednesday to extend his greetings on the occasion of Diwali, also teasing new revelations on Sunday, a day after the five-day festivities come to an end. “Happy Deepavali. May all of you have a very happy Diwali. There are many secrets inside hotel ‘The Lalit.’ Will see you all on Sunday," a rough translation of Malik's tweet, which he posted in Hindi, read. शुभ दीपावली आप सभी की दिवाली मंगलमय हो होटल 'The Lalit' मे छुपे है कई राज़...मिलते है रविवार को“If the matter comes out, it will travel far and wide. People will ask the reason behind your unnecessary sadness,” the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader posted in an earlier tweet. बात निकलेगी तो फिर दूर तलक जायेगी लोग बेवजह उदासी का सबब पूछेंगेWednesday's tweet by Malik comes amid his ongoing faceoff with Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Fadnavis, which has seen the two leaders exchange allegations and counter-allegations. While the 62-year-old Uttar Pradesh-born politician has accused the former CM of protecting drug peddlers and holding “high-end” parties at a five-star Mumbai hotel during his term as the chief minister, Fadnavis, in turn, has alleged that Malik has links to the underworld.Also Read | Nawab Malik targets Devendra Fadnavis again, links him to ‘high-end’ partiesIncidentally, the BJP leader, too, has said he will present after Diwali, evidence to prove his allegations against the state minority affairs minister.Also Read | Will give evidence of Nawab Malik's ties with underworld after Diwali: FadnavisMalik was a key figure in the recent drugs-on-cruise case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, as he levelled a series of charges at the officer, either through daily press conferences, or on Twitter.Aryan was granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 28, and walked out of jail on October 30. He was among a group of people arrested on October 2 by a Wankhede-led NCB team during a raid at the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-next-nawab-malik-teases-new-revelation-on-sunday-101635924213104.html
03-11-2021||Bangalore||Income Tax department conducts searches in Karnataka||The Income Tax Department has carried out search and seizure operations on a Karnataka group engaged in the civil construction of roads and irrigation projects. The search initiated on October 28, 2021, was conducted at various premises located in North Karnataka.As per a press release issued by the Ministry of Finance on Wednesday, the search operation revealed that the group has been suppressing its profits by booking bogus expenses in the purchase of materials, labour expenses and payment to subcontractors."Various incriminating documents including digital evidence indicating non-genuine claim of such expenses have been found and seized. Analysis of the same shows that unaccounted cash has been received by the key group person from such vendors/ suppliers of materials," read the release."It was also found that their own relatives/friends/employees were used as conduits in the name of subcontractors who neither executed any work nor did they have the capability/capacity to execute the work. The assessee group has been generating unaccounted cash from these transactions," it added.The release further informed that the search action has led to the detection of unaccounted income of more than ₹70 crore which has been admitted as undisclosed income by the assessee group.Further investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/income-tax-department-conducts-searches-in-karnataka-101635923770994.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||'Exposing lies of BJP govt': Akhilesh Yadav on farmer's suicide in Uttar Pradesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday attacked the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government over the alleged suicide of a “debt-ridden” farmer in Baghpat district. Calling the incident "heart wrenching", the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said the condition of farmers under the Bharatiya Janata Party's rule in the state is "exposing the lies" of the government.The attack by the SP leader came after a 45-year-old farmer allegedly died by suicide on Tuesday at Biharipur village. The farmer, Chaudhary Anil Kumar, was found hanging from a tree in his neighbour's field, news agency PTI reported.“The incident of suicide by a debt-ridden farmer in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh is extremely heart-wrenching! Such conditions of farmers under BJP rule are exposing all the lies of the government. After all, till when will the farmers of the state endure all this?” Yadav tweeted in Hindi, with a hashtag #Nahi_Chahiye_BJP (Don't want BJP's rule).Also read | Ahead of UP polls, SP chief Akhilesh's Jinnah remark triggers political rowThe report, quoting the farmer's relatives, said the farmer was depressed for not being able to repay his loan. The relatives of the deceased further said that he had taken a bank loan of about ₹7 lakh and ₹3 lakh from a local moneylender.Meanwhile, in another tweet, Yadav appealed to the people of Uttar Pradesh, well-wishers of farmers, workers of the SP and its allies to observe "Lakhimpur Kisan Smriti Diwas". "Light a 'Kisan smriti dweep' (light an earthen lamp in the memory of farmers and honour them," the leader said, in reference to the recent Lakhimpur Kheri violence.At least eight people died in the Lakhimpur violence, including four farmers and a local journalist, after they were allegedly mowed down by a vehicle carrying the son of Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra.On Monday, Yadav said he will not contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections slated to be held next year. Yadav is an MP from Azamgarh in eastern Uttar Pradesh. He has never contested the assembly polls in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/exposing-lies-of-bjp-govt-akhilesh-yadav-on-farmer-s-suicide-in-uttar-pradesh-101635920498224.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab politics: Sidhu aides Pargat, Warring gun for Capt Amarinder||A day after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned from the Congress, Punjab cabinet ministers Pargat Singh and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Wednesday hit out at the former chief minister for launching a political outfit and targeting party leaders. Also read: Capt Amarinder quits Cong, accuses Gandhis of ‘midnight conspiracy’ against himPargat and Warring, considered close to Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, attacked the two-time former chief minister who hurled accusations at the Gandhi family, former Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, ministers and legislators in his seven-page resignation letter in which he also announced the name of his new party, the Punjab Lok Congress. “What an irony - @capt_amarinder’s new party is neither for “Punjabis” nor for “Lok” and certainly not “Congress (sic),” Pargat tweeted, tagging former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Sidhu and the Congress party. Warring laid into Capt Amarinder over his plans for seat sharing with anti-farmer BJP. “Dear @capt_amaridner Sahab, In ur letter to Hon’ble Congress President u cited @INCPunjab chief Sardar @sherryontopp ‘Hugging’ Pak Army Chief & Pak Pm as ur reason to leave the party. As u now r ‘Seat Sharing’ with Anti Farmer BJP Here r few pictures of ur new found BumChums,” he posted on Twitter, with old photos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with then Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif. In his letter, Capt Amarinder, who was made to resign from the post of chief minister on September 18 following a long-drawn tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, four cabinet ministers and several party legislators, wrote that despite his reservations and over the unanimous advice of almost all members of Parliament from Punjab, Sidhu, whom he called an acolyte of the Pakistani deep state, was appointed as the state unit chief. “Sidhu’s only claim to fame was that he would abuse me and my government on a regular basis. I am old enough to be his father but that did not stop him from using the filthiest and most vile language against me both publicly and privately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-politics-sidhu-aides-pargat-warring-gun-for-capt-amarinder-101635913735532.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Clear sky in Delhi even as air quality remains in ‘very poor’ category||Delhi is likely to have a clear sky on Wednesday with mist in the morning, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said even as the air quality remained in the “very poor” category a day before Diwali. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was likely to be 14 and maximum 30 degrees Celsius. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was 14.5 and the maximum 29.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. The IMD said mainly clear sky is also expected on Thursday which will change to partly overcast weather for at least four days from Friday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 8 am was 302 on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 303 in the “very poor” category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Tuesday, the Union earth science ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said the overall air quality of Delhi was in the lower end of the “very poor” category. The quality was expected to improve but remain in the upper side of the “poor” range until Wednesday. “...stubble related emissions will remain marginal (<10%) in spite of higher fire count due to unfavourable wind direction. The share of stubble burning emissions is just 6%. The stubble burning induced impact in AQI is expected to increase significantly from 4th November onwards due to transport-level winds reaching Delhi from North-Westerly where large stubble burning hot spots are expected.”Also Read: “Delhiwale: Winter’s ambassador, eat itSafar said the air quality on Diwali (Thursday) will also depend on the extent of observance of the firecracker ban. “Under zero firecracker emission scenario, the level of PM2.5 is predicted to be at the in the upper end of very poor during 4-6th November. However, even if we consider 50% of additional firecracker related emissions of 2019, then AQI is predicted to degrade to the Severe category from 4th November night onwards and will remain severe until 5th November,” it said. “It is predicted to improve slightly on 6th Nov but will fluctuate between High-end of Very Poor to the Severe range. This is mainly due to the coincidence of all critical factors with a peak PM2.5 surpassing 300 ug/m3 on 5th November.”The stubble fire share in Delhi’s PM2.5 is expected to be between 20-40% from November 4 to 6 if its counts are assumed to be similar to last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-sky-in-delhi-even-as-air-quality-remains-in-very-poor-category-101635911094708.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Winter’s ambassador, eat it||It’s just another tiresome evening in the Walled City’s Chawri Bazar. The entire road from the rear of the Jama Masjid to Ashok Chaat Corner is blocked by a massive traffic jam. Gradually the twilight hour arrives, and the light envelopes the dusty bazaar in a golden hue.Against this backdrop, Aadesh Kumar is sighted with a platter filled with what seems to be freshly fallen snow. This is Old Delhi’s most fabled dessert, and surfaces only in winter. “This time I started Daulat ki Chaat on October 19,” says Mr Kumar. A street vendor, he sells spicy golgappas the rest of the year.Much legend is attached to the making of the dish. The popular fairy tale is that the “pure” Buffalo milk is whisked with cream under a full moon sky, and it is the night dew—the oas—that sets the resulting froth. Mr Kumar clarifies that “these days we use ice instead of oas.” (Probably full moon night too is dispensable.)This soft-spoken man in black mask inherited the occupation from his “papaji”, Shri Khemchand, who is selling Daulat ki Chaat some streets away in Kinari Bazar. Every morning both father and son get up at three in their home in nearby Sitaram Bazar and whisk the milk with their respective “mathni” until a great froth builds up by nine. A typical platter holds 15kgs of the dessert. The golden layer on the top, Mr Kumar reveals, is made of kesar (saffron), pistachio nuts, and almonds. Priced at ₹80 a plate, the froth is garnished for the customer at the last moment with bhoora (ground sugar) and roasted khoya (condensed milk). Served with a wooden chammach (spoon), the first sensation on tasting Daulat ki Chaat is as if one had furtively licked a slice of someone else’s prized butter. The lingering sweetness is as airy as a gossamer’s gauze.Hawked amid the flies and fumes of Chandni Chowk, Kinari Bazar and Chawri Bazar, the dessert is veiled within a fine cotton cloth. “The business is very low so far,” confides Mr Kumar as he takes off his mask, flashing a smile. The dish will disappear by Holi, in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-winter-s-ambassador-eat-it-101635898359764.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police rejig: Daresi SHO transferred to Salem Tabri||Daresi station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Davinder Singh was on Tuesday transferred to Salem Tabri. He has been replaced by inspector Amritpal Singh.Salem Tabri SHO inspector Gopal Krishan has now been posted as incharge, anti-human trafficking wing. The development comes three days after the failed robbery bid at Muthoot Fincorp’s gold loan branch in Sundar Nagar. Meanwhile, in the case, the police have come to know that the accused had assembled in Rupnagar and Chandigarh. The police have sent separate teams to Chandigarh and Rupnagar to identify their rented accommodation. According to the police, the modus operandi of the robbers was the same as the robbery bid at Muthoot Finance’s Dugri Road branch in October last year. ACP (north) Dharmpal said the police are investigating the case from all aspects. “We are trying to trace the origin of the two bikes used by the miscreants, which could give us a strong lead,” he added. He also said that the transfers were made on the administrative grounds and had nothing to do with the robbery bid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-rejig-daresi-sho-transferred-to-salem-tabri-101635895492079.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Supply shortage hits auto sales, Ludhiana dealers worried||Ludhiana This festive season is not the same for automobile agencies in Ludhiana as the production and supply of vehicles is low as compared to the demand. Most of the high-end cars and SUVs are available only on booking. According to auto dealers, shortage of semiconductor chip, which is installed in vehicles and imported from Taiwan and Indonesia, has affected the production of vehicles directly.Dealers are delivering the cars which were pre-booked. According to them, they are only getting one-third of the cars and SUVs as compared to the demand. Booking on selective models, meanwhile, has gone up in last seven to eight months.Auto dealers said the situation will remain similar till June 2022 or when the production of semiconductors will be streamlined as all cars have a semiconductor chip installed in them. An auto dealer near Dholewal said they made deliveries on Tuesday, but the vehicles were pre-booked. He added that they used to have a stock of around 100 vehicles, but nowadays they have only 30 vehicles in the inventory. Arvind Gupta, a trader, said they wanted to buy a new SUV on Dhanteras, so he approached a dealer 15 days ago to book the vehicle. The dealer told him that they would not make delivery before January 2022. Another dealer said they used to offer discounts, freebies and free insurance on vehicles to promote sale, but now, as there is a shortage of vehicles, buyers are ready to buy without any offer.Akhil Sharma, a resident of Sham Nagar, said he had booked a family car one month ago and took delivery on Dhanteras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/supply-shortage-hits-auto-sales-ludhiana-dealers-worried-101635895071571.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Poor road infra among key factors that make Ludhiana more prone to mishaps after 6pm||Roads of Ludhiana turn more vulnerable to road accidents after 6pm, shows the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for 2020, which also pointed out that about 43% of accidents were reported between 6pm and 12am. According to the data, 96 out of all 388 road mishaps were reported between 6pm and 9pm in the city, while 63 accidents took place between 9pm and 12am. The least, 12, road mishaps were reported between 12am and 3am, the report states. According to police officials, from 6pm to 9pm, roads witness more traffic as people return to their homes from work. They cited the reasons behind mishaps that occurred between 9pm and 12pm as driving under influence, lack of proper lighting on roads, speeding and poor road infrastructure. In 2020, January, July and November had witnessed a maximum of 42 road accidents each. Minimum road mishaps (6) were reported in April, as there were restrictions on movement due to lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. The number of road accidents kept on increasing after April following the relaxation in vehicular movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poor-road-infra-among-key-factors-that-make-ludhiana-more-prone-to-mishaps-after-6pm-101635894653752.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Lacklustre sales dash hopes of Ludhiana jewellers on Dhanteras||Jewellers in Ludhiana remained a disappointed lot as they did not receive the footfall they were expecting on Dhanteras. The usual scenes of buyers flooding the shops for gold and silver were missing on Tuesday. Ravneet Singh, a jeweller in the Model Town market said, “Expecting a major rush, I had ordered a lot of jewellery items from Mumbai and Surat, but unfortunately not many customers turned up. In pre-Covid times, we used to get busy from the time of opening of the shop and had to request the customers to leave around 11pm. The pandemic has highly affected the spending capacity of the buyers.” He added that most of the people came to purchase silver instead of gold. “Silver ornaments or coins were majorly in demand instead of gold this time. A customer who usually spent around ₹50,000 to buy 10gm gold on Dhanteras demanded a 2gm coin worth ₹10,000 as a shagun on the occasion. Moreover, the price of gold is also high due to less supply from Mumbai,” he said. The gold rate on Dhanteras was recorded at ₹49,400 per 10 gram and silver price was ₹67,000 per kg. A staffer of a renowned jewellery store in Ghumar Mandi, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We saw a good footfall of customers at our shop for gold jewellery, but we couldn’t sell as many heavy sets as we usually sold on Dhanteras before Covid.”Meanwhile, heavy rush was seen at crockery shops where people bought copper and steel utensils on the occasion.Ram Gopal Chaudhary, owner of one such shop at Ghumar Mandi, said people started coming in the morning to buy utensils. Items like cookers, fry pans, glasses, bowls, jugs, and plates were majorly in demand, he added. “Unlike last year, when corona crushed the business completely, buyers reached us this time on Dhanteras. I am hopeful of doing a good business till closure of the shop,” he added. Sushma Mittal, owner of another crockery store in the area said, “It is an auspicious day and thus buyers tend to purchase some metal on the occasion. We got more buyers on Sunday instead. This time, the footfall is much better as compared to the last Dhanteras but less number of people turned up as expected. A few customers even purchased a single bowl or a serving spoon of steel as a ritual.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lacklustre-sales-dash-hopes-of-ludhiana-jewellers-on-dhanteras-101635894290722.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road cave-in plays spoilsport for shopkeepers this Dhanteras||At a time when festive fervour has taken over the city and shopkeepers appear joyful after witnessing heavy rush of customers in the markets on Dhanteras, those on the main Deep Nagar road are in distress as their business took a hit following the road cave-in incident. The road has been closed due to ongoing repair works after a major portion of road caved in on October 3 wherein three persons, including two students, had a narrow escape, after they fell into the crater. Shopkeepers could be seen sitting idle outside their shops on Tuesday. Ruing losses, they slammed the civic body for the ‘slow pace’ of repair work. They said the Ludhiana municipal corporation has failed to repair the damaged portion of the road in the last six days and another stretch has further been dug for installing a new sewer line in the area. A jeweller near the cave-in site, Sanjay Sood, said, “We witness heavy rush of customers on Dhanteras as it is believed that purchasing gold and silver is auspicious on this day. But this year, not a single customer showed up at the shop till afternoon as the passage has been blocked. This is the main road of the area and a large number of residents move use this. The authorities should have repaired the road at the earliest, but they are rather delaying the work, which is condemnable. Few shopkeepers in the area are not even able to open their shops which are situated adjoining the cave-in site.”Expressing resentment, the shopkeepers said the pandemic and financial crises had taken a toll on their business last year and when they expected it to improve, the apathy of the civic body compounded their misery. A garment shop owner, Akshit Khurana, said, “Every business witnesses a boost during the festival season, but no customer has stepped into our shops for the last three to four days. One side of the road towards Deep Nagar is open, but the commuters do not enter the passage due to blockage.”The road blockade has further added to the woes of those shopkeepers who are running their business on rented accommodation. “How will the shopkeepers pay their rent and bear the household expenses if they are not even able to do business during the festival season. The authorities should pay heed to the problem, but they are bothered about other issues,” said Amrik Singh, a furniture shop owner in the area. Despite repeated attempts, comments of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal could not be elicited. However, one of the MC officials in the operations and maintenance cell said that apart from the repair works, they were also installing a new sewer line in the area to avoid any cave-in incident in the future. “The labour is working continuously at the site and the process might take around two weeks,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-cave-in-plays-spoilsport-for-shopkeepers-this-dhanteras-101635894110750.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 50-year-old woman thrashed, molested; FIR registered after one year||Four persons have been booked for thrashing a 50-year-old woman over a political rivalry, one year after the incident, police said on Tuesday. The FIR has been registered following the intervention of a court. The victim had alleged that she was also molested. The accused are Surjit Singh, his wife Dalvir Kaur and their accomplices Minta and Pinki. The complainant said the accused were her neighbours. On October 15, 2020, they had turned up outside her residence and started hurling abuses. At that time, Surjit Singh was under the influence of alcohol, she had said. When she came out to enquire, the accused started thrashing her with sticks and also molested her. The woman stated that she had lodged a complaint, but no action was taken. She had also produced footage of CCTV cameras to support her claims. She later filed a writ petition in a court, which ordered the police to register an FIR on September 21 and investigate the matter.Sub-inspector Javir Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR has been registered under sections 323, 341, 354 and 506 of the IPC. A hunt is on to nab the accused. She further said that the FIR was registered following an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-50-year-old-woman-thrashed-molested-fir-registered-after-one-year-101635893870533.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jalalabad tiffin bomb blast : Father, aide of key conspirator arrested||Ranjit Singh alias Gora of Nihanga De Jhugge village in Ferozepur, who is wanted by the Punjab Police in Jalalabad tiffin bomb blast case, was spotted in Sidhwan Bet with ammunition and explosives. The police have arrested his father and an aide for providing him shelter and helping him in hiding. The police are suspecting that they were hatching the conspiracy of executing another such crime. Jaswant Singh, father of Ranjit Singh, and Balwant Singh of Valipur Khurd village were arrested on Monday evening, while Gora, along with his another accomplice Tarlok Singh of Khurshaidpura village, are still absconding. According to the police, Ranjit Singh and Balwant had stayed in the house of Tarlok Singh. A case under sections 212 and 216 of the IPC and sections 18 and 19 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act has been registered against the accused at the Sidhwan Bet police station.Sidhwan Bet station house officer (SHO) Bikramjit Singh said that they had received information that Ranjit Singh, wanted by the police, had along with his accomplices taken shelter in Khurshaidpura village to evade his arrest. “The police also came to know that the accused was carrying ammunition and explosives with him and they were hatching conspiracy of another such incident,” he added. Following the information a raid was conducted and Jaswant, along with Balwant, were arrested. Ranjit Singh is one of the main conspirators of the Jalalabad bomb blast case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalalabad-tiffin-bomb-blast-father-aide-of-key-conspirator-arrested-101635892190046.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu BJP removes ex-MLC Randhawa for hurting religious comments||The J&K unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has removed party leader and former MLC Vikram Randhawa from all party posts, including that of the Jammu & Kashmir BJP secretary post, with immediate effect. The decision was taken following his controversial remarks on against the Muslim community. Jammu and Kashmir Police had earlier registered an FIR against Vikram Randhawa for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Kashmiri Muslims. The FIR was filed after a video of Vikram Randhawa purportedly making derogatory remarks against Muslims following the Pakistan cricket team’s win against India in the T20 World Cup match went viral on social media. The Jammu and Kashmir unit of BJP had served a show-cause notice to Randhawa, with party chief Ravinder Raina saying that his remarks were against the basic principles of the party, which believes in respecting all faiths. “Disciplinary Proceedings have been initiated against Vikram Randhwa State Secretary Jammu and Kashmir Union Territory in reference to making of reckless and defamatory remarks against particular community and women. Pending finalizing of disciplinary proceedings, disciplinary committee headed by Sunil Sethi Chairman and having S. Virenderjeet Singh as member and N. D. Rajwal as Memebr, has given interim report in view of huge impact of reckless statement of Vikram Randhawa and bad name it has brought to party and it has been recommended to immediately relieve Randhawa of all official party positions pending finalizing of disciplinary proceedings,” said a statement issued here this evening. The report has been examined by party president Ravinder Raina and it has been decided to agree with interim recommendations of disciplinary committee report. He also felt strongly that disparaging remarks have been made against Woman folk as also against Particular Community and have hurt religious sentiments of our brothers and sisters . Raina decided to take strict and strong action against Randhwa without wasting any time as party believes in respecting all religions particularly women and it is unacceptable to party that a person occupying high position in party may make statement which will hurt religious sentiments of anyone. It was also felt that very appropriately FIR has also been registered in the crime committed. It was as such decided to receive Vikram Randhawa of all official positions with immediate effect pending finalizing of disciplinary proceedings against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-bjp-removes-ex-mlc-randhawa-for-hurting-religious-comments-101635886489075.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers seeking compensation for cotton crop loss gherao Punjab minister Singla||Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) demanding adequate compensation for cotton crop damaged in the pink bollworm attack gheraoed Punjab cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla in the Sangrur district administration complex on Tuesday. The protesters questioned the minister about the Congress government’s claims of pro-farmer policies. “The farmers have staged protests in front of the residence of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and the Bathinda district administration complex demanding compensation for the cotton crop loss. But the government did not pay heed to our demands. Today, we gheraoed minister Singla and asked questions about his government’s policies,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block chief of the BKU (Ugrahan).“We demand ₹60,000 per acre compensation for the farmers and ₹30,000 for farm labourers. We will also gherao Singla when he will hold meetings in the Bhawanigarh area of the district,” he added.Singla, who is MLA from Sangrur, handed over appointment letters to kin of 23 farmers who died during the agitation against the three contentious agriculture laws.He said that the Punjab government stood by farmers and promised to give ₹5 lakh compensation and a government job to the family members who died during the struggle and the promises are being fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-seeking-compensation-for-cotton-crop-loss-gherao-punjab-minister-singla-101635885948983.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC marks anniversary of 1984 anti-Sikh riots at Golden Temple||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday organised an event in the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar to commemorate those killed on the 37th anniversary of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. A bhog (concluding) ceremony and akhand path (48-hour long uninterrupted recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) were held at Gurdwara Jhanda Bunga Sahib in the memory of the victims. It was followed by gurbani kirtan and address by Golden Temple granthi Giani Baljit Singh who termed the violence as major attack on the Sikh community.SGPC senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad and general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka said the community can never forget the tragedy that occurred in November 1984. Speaking on the sidelines of the function, SGPC president Jagir Kaur said the wounds of the government-sponsored “genocide” of Sikhs in Delhi, Kanpur and Bokaro and other cities in November 1984 have not healed even after 37 years and the community was not delivered justice since.“In November 1984, at the instigation of the then Congress government, the Sikhs were attacked. It was a cruel act against humanity, from which the Congress can never be absolved. The perpetrators of the Sikh genocide should have been punished but the Congress is backing the culprits even today,” said Kaur.Foundation stone of 1,400-room serai laid The SGPC president also laid the foundation stone of a 1,400 room serai (inn) named Sri Guru Teg Bahadar Ji Niwas near the Golden Temple.The sarai will be constructed on the site of old Hansli near Ram Talai Chowk, which is dedicated to the 400th Prakash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Sikh master. Kaur said work is underway to increase the number of serais at various places for the pilgrims arriving at the shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-marks-anniversary-of-1984-anti-sikh-riots-at-golden-temple-101635885768950.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||In or out? Drama over resignation of Punjab advocate general continues||There was more confusion over the resignation of Punjab advocate general APS Deol on Tuesday as a letter purportedly written by the state’s top law officer went viral on the social media, claiming that he had quit. The chief minister’s office, however, denied receiving any such letter and claimed that the AG had not resigned. The AG office said Deol had quit but his resignation was not accepted. “We have also received some calls (about the letter), but we don’t know if it is genuine or fake. No official communiqué has been received from the AG so far. He just attended a few meetings with CM Charanjit Singh Channi ,” said a senior government functionary at the CMO. Earlier, a message went viral on the social media, saying, ‘The AG has submitted his resignation and the additional chief secretary has been told to process his request as per norms’. The copy of the resignation letter on the social media is “signed in Deol’s name” with date November 1. The AG is learnt to have the met the chief minister late in the evening. Deol was appointed to the top post on September 27 following the departure of Atul Nanda, who stepped down as Advocate-General after the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh as chief minister of Punjab. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, along with several other party leaders in the state, had objected to APS Deol’s appointment. Sidhu has been pressing for Deol’s removal citing that the senior criminal lawyer had defended ex-DGP Sumedh Saini in cases related to police firing in Bargari sacrilege.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-or-out-drama-over-resignation-of-punjab-advocate-general-continues-101635885708846.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||69-year-old woman found murdered in Amritsar house||A 69-year-old woman was found murdered with her throat slit in her house at Mahla village in Amritsar district, police said on Tuesday. The victim, identified as Shanti Devi, was living alone at her house as her husband Kishan Lal was recently admitted to a private hospital due to ill-health. The couple’s three sons have been living separately in Amritsar city. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Kambo police station. The incident came to the light on Tuesday morning when the victim’s domestic help found the woman’s body and informed the people living nearby. “On Monday night, my mother was along at home. Some unidentified persons entered the house and killed her. Her domestic help Harpreet Kaur found her body,” said the deceased’s son Pawan Kumar. Police have started scanning the closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage in the area to ascertain the identity of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/69yearold-woman-found-murdered-in-amritsar-house-101635885408690.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi, Navjot Sidhu hold meeting with Congress MLAs||Hours after former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh resigned from the Congress, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday held a meeting with party MLAs in Chandigarh. Sidhu and Channi presented a “united face” at the meeting held at a short notice and attended by 59 legislators of the party, according to sources. Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary was also present. “All is well,” the state unit chief told reporters after the meeting. The meeting convened to discuss the party’s election strategy is being seen in political circles as an attempt by the party to keep its flock together. The Congress is wary of poaching by the former two-time CM. At the meeting, Sidhu told the party MLAs that they would work for the victory of the party. “We were to work and spend our maximum time, at least six days every week, in constituencies and not to stay put in Chandigarh,” one of the MLAs said. Another legislator said the PPCC chief told them that he was available for campaigning. “He (Sidhu) told us to inform him about our programmes just two-three days in advance and he will be there for campaign,” the MLA from Doaba said. Channi also briefed the party leaders about the welfare measures taken by his government and progress made on the poll promises.An official release later said that the ministers and MLAs rose in unison to express their gratitude to Channi for his recent “path-breaking decisions” and thanked him for his bold initiatives in terms of deciding to convene a special session of the state assembly on November 8 for termination of the three agriculture laws and the recent notification of the Union Government extending the jurisdiction of BSF. Cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhry, Vijay Inder Singla, Randeep Singh Nabha, Paragt Singh, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Punjab Congress working presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra and Pawan Goyal were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-navjot-sidhu-hold-meeting-with-congress-mlas-101635885289206.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||SC refuses to entertain Sikh devotees plea to visit Pakistan gurdwara for 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak||The Supreme Court has refused to entertain the plea by a group of pilgrims seeking to visit Gurdwara Nankana Sahib and other gurdwaras in Pakistan on the occasion of the 551st birthday of first Sikh master Guru Nanak. The petitioner Gurdwara Sahib Dasmesh Darbar had moved the top court against the October 18, 2021 communication of the Union home ministry which declined its proposal to allow a Jatha (group of people) of 55 pilgrims to visit Sikh religious places in Pakistan either from October 23, 2021, to November 1, 2021, or from November 1, 2021, to November 11, 2021. The ministry had said there have been certain restrictions on movement due to COVID-19 and asked the petitioner to consider joining the Jatha from November 17, 2021, to November 26, 2021, for visiting gurdwaras in Pakistan on the occasion of Gurpurb and asked it to send the proposal through State Government of Punjab. While refusing to interfere with the decision of the Centre, a bench of Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh noted that due to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, certain restraints were put on the persons who wish to go to Pakistan. “In our view, the aforesaid forms part of the practical administrative domain of the government to spread the visit of jathas over a period of time. It is the say of the petitioner that they are older persons and they can be accommodated. They could have made a further representation if they are so pleased. It is not as if the petitioner is not being permitted to visit but their proposal is sought through the channel of the state government for the period in question. “We are thus of the view that there is no infringement of the Constitutional right for invocation of the jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution of India which would enable us to interfere with the aforesaid process. The writ petition is dismissed accordingly,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-sikh-devotees-plea-to-visit-pakistan-gurdwara-for-guru-nanak-s-551st-birth-anniversary-101635884690623.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Poonch encounter: Local arrested from Nepal for providing logistical support to terrorists||Police have arrested a local, who was allegedly providing logistical support to terrorists hiding in the Nar Khas forests of Poonch district, where the protracted operation entered 23rd day on Tuesday. He was identified as Yasir Arafat, a resident of Bhata Dhurian. “The terror operative was detained a few days ago with two others from Kathmandu by a police team. They were trying to flee to a Gulf country on October 25,” said police sources. Ten people, including two women, were earlier detained for questioning during the operation in Bhutti Durrian forest. The operation started in Surankote forest on October 11 following the killing of five soldiers, including a junior commissioned officer, and was subsequently extended to Mendhar to neutralise the fleeing terrorists where another encounter took place on October 14, leaving four soldiers, including another JCO, dead. Pakistani terrorist Zia Mustafa, who was shifted from Kot Bhalwal central jail in Jammu to Mendhar on police remand for questioning in connection with the operation, was killed when the security forces accompanying him to identify a hideout came under fire from hiding terrorists on October 24. The questioning of Arafat revealed his links with Mustafa, who is the alleged mastermind in the March 2003 Nadimarg massacre of 24 Kashmiri Hindus, and his handlers across the border, the officials said, without giving further details. Arafat was detained by a police party from Kathmandu in Nepal along with Mohammad Noor of Gulhutta-Mendhar and Mohammad Rashid of Bhatti Durrian while they were on their way to Saudi Arabia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poonch-encounter-local-arrested-from-nepal-for-providing-logistical-support-to-terrorists-101635884689344.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||State investigation agency another repressive tools: Gupkar Alliance||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) termed the formation of a state investigation agency (SIA) an attempt to strengthen the repressive apparatus in J&K.PAGD spokesperson Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, in a statement, said, “The formation of one more agency empowered with unbridled powers is one more assault on democratic rights and civil liberties of citizens. In the name of fighting terrorism, these agencies and laws are being weaponised against citizens who hold a different viewpoint from the government.”Questioning the need to create a new security agency, the PAGD spokesman said there was no need to create another agency.“What was the need to add one more such agency, when already NIA and UAPA have created havoc among the people by gross misuse of these draconian measures,” Tarigami said.The PAGD spokesperson said J&K is a political issue and needs a political outreach. “What was required to be done was to provide relief and not any addition to such harsh measures which are bound to deepen their alienation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-investigation-agency-another-repressive-tools-gupkar-alliance-101635884208762.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi, Navjot Sidhu go on ‘patch-up’ pilgrimage to Kedarnath amid tussle||Amid their growing unease with each other, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu travelled to the Kedarnath Temple in Uttarakhand on Tuesday to put up a show of unity. The two left for the shrine in a helicopter in the morning along with All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary and Punjab Vidhan speaker Rana KP Singh. The visit was planned by the leadership, particularly Chaudhary, to try for a rapprochement between the two leaders whose tense relations got the party worried and show that all is well in the state Congress. Both leaders have not been on the same page on senior appointments and allocation of portfolios. Sidhu has been adamant on removal of advocate general APS Deol who resigned from his post on Monday. However, there is still no clarity on whether his resignation has been accepted or not by the chief minister who declined to answer questions on the issue at press conference a day ago.A senior party leader privy to developments said the shrine visit has given the message that Channi and Sidhu are ready to work together. “Their inability to resolve their differences and work together with just three months left for the elections was not sending the right message. My information is that they both vowed to work together. If this does not work, the party will have to find some other way,” he said, requesting anonymity.The Punjab leaders first reached Dehradun and met former Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and videos of their meeting at the latter’s residence were also shared on social media. After meeting them, Rawat told reporters that all is well in Punjab and everything is running very smoothly. “Whatever challenges there are will be faced. I am confident this scenario will continue. And you will see Congress will win the elections. He (Chaudhary) will take the party towards victory in the state,” he said. Though Channi and Sidhu did not respond to calls, both posted photos of their visit to the shrine. “Life is fragile, handle with prayer...At Kedarnath, the heavenly abode of Lord Shiva …. Har Har Mahadev !” Sidhu tweeted. The chief minister also tweeted, “Paid obeisance at the Kedarnath Shrine in Uttarakhand and prayed for the progress of Punjab and prosperity of its people”. However, their “unity trip” drew digs from within the Congress. Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar tweeted: “Political Pilgrims But each one trying to appease a different Deity (sic)”. “United face of Punjab Congress...but why in uttarakhand why not in Punjab (sic),” party’s Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu posted on Twitter with a photo in which Sidhu, Chaudhary, Channi and Rana KP were seen holding their hands aloft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-navjot-sidhu-go-on-patch-up-pilgrimage-to-kedarnath-amid-tussle-101635883848890.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir gets state investigative agency for speedy probe into terror cases||J&K’s home department has created a State Investigative Agency (SIA) to act as the nodal agency for the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other central agencies.NIA is currently investigating dozens of high-profile cases, pertaining to militancy, in J&K and have been conducting raids in different parts of the UT every week with the help of other security agencies operating here. Other central agencies are also conducting investigations into militancy-related cases.The J&K home department has now created a full-fledged specialised agency to coordinate with the NIA and other agencies. An order grant accord to the new agency was issued on Monday night. “Sanction is hereby accorded to the constitution of a specialised agency to be called the State Investigation Agency (SIA) for investigation and prosecution of the offences. The SIA shall be the nodal agency for coordinating with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other central agencies and shall take measures as may be necessary for speedy and effective investigation and prosecution of terrorism-related cases,” the order issued by Khalid Mehraj, special secretary to the government, read.The new agency will be headed by a director and it will be mandatory for all security agencies to bring to the notice of SIA, all cases or arrests made in connection with militancy. The head of CID wing shall be the ex-officio director of the SIA.“The CID, CIK and CID, CIJ, already notified as police stations vide notification bearing SRO-230 of 1977 dated 19.05.1977, shall also be the police stations for the purposes of registering and investigation of cases,” the order reads.The order further said that all the officers in-charge of the police stations shall mandatorily intimate the SIA immediately upon registration of terrorism-related cases, including those specified in the annexure to this government order, and also about such cases where any terrorism linkage surfaces during investigation.“Wherever, upon intimation, the National Investigation Act, 2008, the investigation is not taken up by the NIA, the DGP, J&K shall, having regard to the gravity of the offence, progress of investigation and other relevant factors, determine in consultation with the SIA whether the case is fit to be investigated by SIA & transfer the investigation of the such case at any point of time during its investigation; however, if there is a difference of opinion, the DGP shall take a decision, while recording the reasons in writing,” the order said.The order said the cases where the investigation is not transferred to the SIA, the PHQ shall ensure that the SIA is kept informed about the progress of investigation at regular intervals, preferably on fortnightly basis; where SIA is of the opinion that an offence specified in annexure this order has been committed, which is fit to be investigated by it, the SIA shall register an FIR, suo motu, while keeping the DGP, J&K informed.”“The SIA shall also be the agency for investigation and trial of offences in cases which are transferred to the state government in terms of Section 7 of the National Investigation Act, 2008,” it stated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-gets-state-investigative-agency-for-speedy-probe-into-terror-cases-101635883675393.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder quits Cong, accuses Gandhis of ‘midnight conspiracy’ against him||Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday resigned from the Congress and announced the formation of his new party, Punjab Lok Congress. In a seven-page resignation letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, the two-time ex- chief minister said the “midnight conspiracy” carried out against him at the behest of her and her children by calling a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting over his head at the dead of the night and that too through Twitter was the most “egregious” act. “It was my prerogative as the CLP leader to have called the meeting if the AICC desired it. It was only early next morning that a colleague informed me that such an outrageous act has been committed,” he wrote. He said the crude manner in which the whole operation was executed “left a very foul taste in the mouth”. Amarinder said he felt deeply hurt by her conduct and that of her children who he still loved as much as his own, having known their father, since they were in school together in 1954. “…I hope that no other senior Congressperson is subjected to the ignominy that I was put through,” the letter read. ‘Concerned about state being given in inexperienced hands’ Amarinder wrote that he was quite concerned about the inexperienced hands in which the state was given. “It is beyond my comprehension as how these inexperienced hands will handle the security situation in view of the massive influx of weapons and explosives and narcotics. We are gravely threatened by narco-terrorism that our hostile neighbour is sponsoring against us,” he said. The veteran leader was made to resign by the Congress high command on September 18 following his long-drawn tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, four cabinet ministers and several party MLAs amid fears that anti-incumbency arising from his style of functioning could hurt the party’s chances in the upcoming polls. Charanjit Singh Channi, who was among the rebel ministers, was picked by the party as the next CM of the state. ‘Rahul, Priyanka patronised Navjot Sidhu’ The veteran leader also stated that despite his reservations and over the unanimous advice of almost all the MPs from Punjab, Sidhu, an acolyte of the Pakistani deep state, was appointed as the Punjab Congress president. “Sidhu’s only claim to fame was that he would abuse me and my government on a regular basis. I am old enough to be his father but that did not stop him from using the filthiest and most vile language against me both publicly and privately,” he wrote. Amarinder said that rather than being reined in, he was patronised by Rahul and Priyanka, while she (Sonia) chose to turn a blind eye. “I told you that Sidhu is a person of unstable mind and you will one day regret this decision and it would be too late by then,” he wrote, adding, “I am sure you must be regretting it now”. ‘Cong MLAs involved in illegal sand mining’ Training his guns at his former colleagues over illegal sand mining, the former CM said that Congress MLAs and ministers, including an overwhelming number in the current government, were the offenders. “One of my enduring regrets would remain as to why I did not take some of them to task. The thought that it would embarrass the party held me back,” he wrote, declaring his intent to make public their names which were provided to him by the state government and intelligence from time to time. Besides listing his achievements during his second term, particularly the state’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, and record 92% implementation of election manifesto, he also recalled, in the letter, the circumstances in which he entered politics and his journey over 52 years of public life, including the tough stance taken by him at various critical moments in Punjab’s history. Formal launch of party, symbol later On his new party, Amarinder said the registration of the party was pending approval with the Election Commission of India. “Since I announced that I will be forming my own party, my team of lawyers is working on the process and has applied to the Election Commission for the registration,” he said. He said the Election Commission had no objection to the proposed name, Punjab Lok Congress. About the party symbol, he said the EC had given three symbols from which one was to be chosen. “We have submitted three symbols and the final one will be chosen from the set of six, three suggested by the EC and three proposed by the party,” he said, adding, “The party will be formally launched later and its policies, programmes, agenda and vision will be spelt out at the time of the launch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-quits-congress-accuses-gandhis-of-midnight-conspiracy-against-him-101635883548543.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi trying to befool people like Amarinder did: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi was trying to befool people in the same manner as his predecessor Amarinder Singh did and he does not have any intention of keeping the promises he has made. Addressing a press conference in Ludhiana, the SAD leader said, “The chief minister is indulging in political stunts just to garner votes. Channi admitted to this yesterday by saying that he only wanted consumers to get one power bill with reduced tariff. Even (Punjab Congress president) Navjot Singh Sidhu has exposed his own government saying sops were being given only for two months.”Sukhbir said Channi failed to tell how he would make good on his promise when his government’s corruption and mismanagement have virtually bankrupted the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). Asserting that the state government did not have any roadmap to meet the financial requirements of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL)., the Akali leader said the “mismanagement” would result in the closure of thermal plants, disruption of coal supply and inability to disburse salaries to employees. If the state government intended to cancel power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private thermal plants it should come out with an executive order instead of mere resolutions which would achieve nothing, he claimed.“The government should take into account the scenario of facing penalty of around ₹10,000 crore which it would have to pay if it scraps the agreements. Also, executive decisions should also be taken not to implement the three farm laws and refuse extension of the BSF jurisdiction in Punjab,” he added.Sukhbir said if the CM really feels for people, he can easily reduce the prices of petrol and diesel by bringing down the tax component.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-trying-to-befool-people-like-amarinder-did-sukhbir-badal-101635883189870.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man enters mobile store in Connaught Place, threatens to blow it up, apprehended||Panic prevailed among the employees and customers of a mobile phone showroom in central Delhi’s Connaught Place on Tuesday afternoon after a man entered the showroom and threatened to blow up the place with a bomb, the police said. No bomb or incendiary device was found on him, the police later clarified. The bomb threat also had the police in a tizzy and soon, several police officers, including the station house officer (SHO) of the Connaught Place police station, arrived at the showroom, along with the bomb squad, and initiated the necessary protocol to deal with the threat. Subsequently, the man was apprehended and taken into custody for interrogation, the police said.Police identified him as Kamal Arya, a resident of Faridabad, and said the exact reason for him staging the threat is still being ascertained. He is currently being questioned by various agencies, including the Delhi Police, and is likely to be booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act, officers privy to the matter said.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said around 4.15pm, the police received information that an unidentified man had entered a mobile phone showroom (OnePlus) in Connaught Place and was threatening to blow up the place with a bomb.“Our teams immediately swung into action and apprehended the man while following the requisite protocol to deal with bomb threats. The entire area was screened by the bomb squad as a precautionary measure. The arrested man lives in Faridabad and is originally from Almora,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-enters-mobile-store-in-connaught-place-threatens-to-blow-it-up-apprehended-101635882888486.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet approves OTS scheme to resolve issues in mining sector||The Haryana cabinet on Tuesday approved a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme to resolve issues pertaining to the mining sector in the state.In order to undertake mining in the state, a number of approvals are required from different agencies, departments and authorities.As a large number of roadblocks in mining sector were found, the state government decided to amend a section of the rules after discussions with the stakeholders in order to ensure smooth mining with bare minimum litigation, an official spokesperson said.The cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, decided to resolve at least eight issues under the OTS scheme.‘Samadhan se Vikas’The Haryana cabinet approved revised ‘Samadhan se Vikas’ scheme to enable recovery of long-pending EDC dues. The scheme was formulated to enable recovery of EDC dues and was approved by the council of ministers on July 6, 2020.An amount of ₹1,130 crore has been recovered under this policy till September 30, 2021. As of now, approximately ₹14,933 crore EDC is outstanding with the coloniser/developers. Of these outstanding dues, ₹7,965 crore is principal amount, ₹1,606 crore is interest amount and ₹5,361 crore is penal interest amount.The scheme was not extended after September 30, 2021, the spokesperson said.Tax relief to buses of NCR statesThe cabinet also exempted stage-carriage buses owned by state transport undertakings of the National Capital Region (NCR) states (Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi) from the liability of paying Motor Vehicle Tax (MVT) under reciprocal common transport agreement.It will promote seamless movement of stage carriage buses owned by the state transport undertakings of the NCR states operating in NCR districts of Haryana as per the state’s carriage permit granted by the said NCR states under the reciprocal agreement.Rate of land to be fixedThe cabinet accorded approval to a policy under which market rate of land in state will be fixed for all departments, boards, corporations, panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies.In the absence of clear guidelines, the government departments were facing difficulties in transferring their unutilised lands of minor nature, including its abandoned paths, etc to private bodies.Powers delegated to CMThe cabinet also approved the proposal of the excise and taxation department regarding delegation of power of council of ministers to the chief minister for the next six months under the Haryana Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017.Keeping in view the need for amendment of rules, tax rates and other provisions related to GST, it is necessary to delegate the powers of the council of ministers to the CM, an official spokesperson said.GMDA rulesThe cabinet gave nod to framing rules under Section 56 of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) Act, 2017.This will enable the GMDA to make appointments to the posts by direct recruitment, through deputation and promotion to 100 Group-A and 32 Group-B posts.Nod to amend service rulesIn a bid to bring uniformity in the minimum qualification for the post of pharmacist, the Haryana cabinet gave nod to amend Haryana health department pharmacists (Group-C) Service Rules, 1998. The minimum qualification for the post of pharmacist and nomenclature will be amended under these rules.Now, the academic qualification and experience for direct recruitment as pharmacy officer will be 10+2 with science (physics and chemistry), bachelors in pharmacy (four-year degree) or bachelors in pharmacy (practice) or pharma-D (six-year degree) from Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rothak or any other institution recognised by the Haryana government.The candidate must have at least six months training as pharmacist in pharmacy, injections, dressing and indoor in a recognised hospital. The candidate should be registered as a pharmacist with the Haryana State Pharmacy Council.The cabinet also gave nod to amend the Haryana Irrigation and Water Resources Department Junior Engineer and ASDE (Group C) Service Rules, 2014.In the existing rules, Beldar Class D employee having 15 years experience and eight years as Class-C along with requisite qualification are eligible for promotion to the post of JE.The department has proposed that promotion to the post of JE civil, mechanical and electrical will be made through departmental examination along with possessing requisite qualification and reduced experience of eight years and five years to Group-D and Group-C employees, respectively.VAT concession extended on aviation fuelThe Haryana cabinet has accorded approval to rationalise VAT on aviation turbine fuel (ATF).The concessional rate of 1% VAT on ATF was applicable on UDAAN flights under the regional connectivity scheme for three years from August 1, 2018.A meeting was held between the Union minister of civil aviation and the Haryana chief minister on October 13 in which it was decided to extend 1% concessional rates of VAT on all passenger flights in Haryana to boost connectivity and tourism across country.Accordingly, the cabinet on Tuesday decided to extend 1% concessional rate to all passenger flights for a period of three years. It was also decided to levy 1% concessional VAT on ATF for MRO-related activities and in adventure activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cabinet-approves-ots-scheme-to-resolve-issues-in-mining-sector-101635882649742.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two held for stabbing to death two homeless men sleeping on the footpath||Two homeless were stabbed to death in their sleep in south Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin area in the early hours of Tuesday allegedly by two men, who also live on pavements in the neighbourhood, police said. Both of them were stabbed five to six times in their neck, police said.The murder took place around 3am, allegedly over a dispute about ₹50 and also because the slain duo used to bully one of the suspects. Both suspects, Jugnu, 27, and Sonu, 28, were arrested within two hours of the crime, the police said.“Jugnu told us that the two men had borrowed ₹50 from him some days ago and were not returning it. Whenever he demanded his money back, they used to threaten and ridicule him. While the dead men lived under the Barapullah flyway, Jugnu and Sonu lived on pavements of Masjid Road in Hazrat Nizamuddin. The knife used in the crime has been recovered,” said a police officer, associated with the case.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Esha Pandey said the Hazrat Nizamuddin police station received a call early Tuesday about two persons lying on a footpath, bleeding from stab wounds to their necks. A police team reached there and rushed them to AIIMS, where they were declared brought dead. A case of murder was registered and investigation was taken up.During local inquiries, the police found four eyewitnesses at the spot. They helped the police identify the deceased as Mayur Thomas,40, and Lokesh Bahadur,40. “They were homeless and lived on footpaths. The witnesses also identified the suspects. Our teams searched the neighbourhood and arrested them within two hours of the murders,” she said.The police said all four homeless men worked as daily wagers. “On Monday night, Jugnu met the duo and asked for his money. They assaulted and humiliated him in the presence of other homeless persons. Jugnu went to his friend Sonu and told him about the incident. Sonu took a knife and around two hours later both of them returned to the footpath, where Thomas and Bahadur were sleeping. They attacked and killed them in their sleep before fleeing,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-held-for-stabbing-to-death-two-homeless-men-sleeping-on-the-footpath-101635882648463.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of Diwali, air quality of most Haryana cities deteriorates again||Ahead of Diwali, the air quality of Haryana’s Faridabad and Bahadurgarh cities has once again slipped to very poor category while residents of 10 other cities are breathing poor quality air.The air quality index (AQI) of Bahadurgarh and Faridabad was 318 and 306, respectively, whereas the AQI of Panipat, Gurugram, Rohtak, Kaithal, Hisar, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Daruhera was between 200 and 300.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, 101 to 200 moderate, 201 to 300 poor, 301 to 400 very poor, and above 400 is severe.Most of the Haryana cities have very poor and poor quality and very poor quality air causes respiratory illness on prolonged exposure and poor air quality causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.The deteriorating air quality is a cause of concern as the officials monitoring air pollution predicted strong possibility that it may get worse further by the end of this week.The air quality of most Haryana cities had improved last week and on September 25, all 20 cities of the state witnessed the air quality index below 100. But it got polluted following a jump in the incidents of stubble burning incidents as the total incidents of stubble burning has reached 3,038 by November 1.With 775 incidents of farm fire, Kaithal district is at the top, followed by Karnal (740), Kurukshetra (459), Fatehabad (393), Ambala (186), Jind (183), and Yamunanagar (113).As per the data compiled by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), maximum cases were reported from Kaithal (775), followed by Karnal (740), Kurukshetra (459), Fatehabad (393), Ambala (186), Jind (183), Yamunanagar (113), Palwal (54), Sirsa (49), and Panipat 41.Concerned over the deteriorating air quality, chairperson of the commission for air quality management in the NCR and adjoining areas, MM Kutty held a video conference with the deputy commissioners of the districts where incidents of stubble burning were reported.“During the virtual meeting Kutty asked why incidents of stubble burning were being reported in some districts every year,” said an official, who attended the video conference.The chairperson stressed on the need to keep check on stubble burning and took stock from the deputy commissioners about the steps being taken o improve the air quality in the NCR districts.Karnal reported 740 cases of farm fires this year, deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said there was considerable fall in farm fires. The number has come down to 740 against 949 of last year.He said 70 FIRs have been registered against the erring farmers and a fine of over ₹10 lakh has been imposed on 397 farmers.In Kaithal, deputy commissioner Pradeep Dahiya said a fine of ₹6.30 lakh has been imposed on 255 farmers, while in Kurukshetra, a fine of ₹4 lakh has been imposed on 254 farmers so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-diwali-air-quality-of-most-haryana-cities-deteriorates-again-101635882470235.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: City court charges man with rape and cheating of Italian woman in 2018||A city court has charged a man with the rape and cheating a 47-year Italian woman in 2018, saying there were “sufficient ingredients” for the commission of the offence by the accused.The woman had alleged that in July 2018, the accused, Abhishek Singh, a resident of Rishikesh, Uttarakhand,had sexually assaulted her and also duped her of ₹5 lakh on the pretext of “jointly setting up a yoga centre” and promising her “good returns” during the period between July 2018 and October 2018.The judge also noted that there were allegations against the accused that he induced the complainant to come to India to invest in a yoga school and for that, he represented himself as a renowned yoga guru who was in contact with the President of India and Prime Minister, by sending her his morphed pictures with these dignitaries.“….in view arguments advanced on behalf of parties, I am of the view that there sufficient ingredients for the commission offence u/s 420 (cheating)/468 (forgery)/471/506 (criminal intimidation)/376(2)(n) (rape)/354A (assault on woman) IPC 66C and 66D Act.There are allegations against the accused that from July 22, 2018 to October 16, 2018, he was involved in establishing sexual relationship with her without consent and repeatedly (on the) false promise of marriage also,” additional sessions judge Sanjay Khanagwal said.He also noted the allegation of the woman that after coming to India, he forced her to spend a lot of money under the garb of setting up a yoga school and also introduced himself as a stakeholder in the same.“Not only that, he compelled the prosecutrix to invest money in that venture but also obtained money from her under several false pretexts. Accused had also cheated the complainant by making promises of marriage so that she may invest more money in the business and also give him some money for his own use,” the judge said in the order dated October 12.The woman alleged that the accused had misled her about his marital status and despite being a married man, he made a false promise of marriage to her.The FIR in the case was registered by the President’s Office based on a Facebook post by the woman, a resident of Milan, who had claimed that she was sexually assaulted and cheated by the accused.During the pendency of the case, the woman also moved a protest petition, through her counsel Vishalakshi Goel, seeking a thorough police investigation, addition of more accused in the charge sheet, and adding of the charges of extortion and criminal conspiracy.However, the court said no specific allegations of connivance or conspiracy have been made out against the other accused named in the protest petition.The accused is currently lodged in jail and his bail plea is pending adjudication in the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-city-court-charges-man-with-rape-and-cheating-of-italian-woman-in-2018-101635882468452.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Parivar Pehchan Patra to facilitate delivery of 456 govt services: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced that the benefits of 456 government services will now be made available through Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP).Khattar said the eligible beneficiaries will not have to make frequent visits to government offices to get their work done as all information of the beneficiaries will be available through PPP.Khattar, who made 11 public welfare announcements on Monday, said the eligible beneficiaries can visit any Saral Kendra, Antyodaya Kendra or common service centre to get benefits of any welfare scheme.SDMs to be empowered for property registrationThe chief minister announced that all sub-divisional magistrates and city magistrates will be designated as sub-registrars and joint sub-registrars for the purposes of registration of instruments of transfer of properties in each district.Tehsildars and naib tehsildars will also continue to be joint sub-registrars. Khattar said this step will facilitate the general public, especially the farmers and the rural masses, to go to offices of these officers at any place within the limits of the district concerned, within which the property to which such document relates is situated.He said this step will also eliminate the inconvenience to the public due to the absence of a particular officer at the time of their visit.Categorisation of DC rates for hiring contract employeesKhattar said the DC rates for hiring personnel on contract basis will now be called Nigam rate. They will be decided by the general administration department headed by the chief secretary.Khattar said three district-wise categories have been made under which Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula and Sonepat have been included in Category-A; Panipat, Jhajjar, Palwal, Karnal, Ambala, Hisar, Rohtak, Rewari, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Jind in Category-B; and Mahendragarh, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri in Category-C.Contractors to take part in tenders through web portalThe chief minister also launched the Haryana engineering works portal https://works.haryana.gov.in with the objective of providing ease of doing business to the contractors who wanted to work with the public works, irrigation and water resources, public health engineering and urban local bodies departments.He said the contractors willing to participate in various tenders of these departments can register themselves on this portal. They will be exempted from earnest money deposit (EMD) on providing the required details for registration on the portal.The portal will be a single platform for providing necessary information to the bidders of these departments. Through this portal, startups and new entrepreneurs will be given a chance to register so that they too can move forward, he said.Cyber helpdesks at police stationsThe chief minister said as growth of use of internet for online financial transactions and for social media applications has led to an exponential increase in the incidence of cyber crime, the state government will set up cyber helpdesks at all FIR-registering police stations.This will ensure that all cyber crime are registered and investigated in a timely manner, he said.While launching biennial health check-up scheme for police personnel, the chief minister said this mandatory biennial health check-up will come to force from January 1 for police personnel who have attained the age of 35 years or more. About 3,200 police personnel are expected to benefit from this important health measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parivar-pehchan-patra-to-facilitate-delivery-of-456-govt-services-khattar-101635882289003.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP’s defeat in Ellenabad bypoll is a good sign: Charuni||Reacting to the Ellenabad bypoll results, farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said on Tuesday that it is a good sign that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Gobind Kanda faced defeat.“I don’t want to speak about who won the election as some farm leaders were in support of a contender. But it’s a good sign that the ruling BJP faced defeat,” Charuni said, during his visit to Karnal.Charuni was called by the one-member commission formed to investigate the sequence of events that led to police lathi-charge at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza on August 28.He said he had brought his written statement to submit before the commission but he could not submit it on Tuesday as later he realised that the statement required some additions.“Now, I will submit my statement on November 10,” he added. He also slammed the government over shortage of DAP fertiliser and increasing prices of fuel and LPG.Justice Som Nath Aggarwal (retd), head of the inquiry commission, had earlier said that the commission will require around four months to complete the investigation.The statements of total 35 people, including Karnal district magistrate, superintendent of police, the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, and other cops will also be recorded.The commission has already recorded the statements of six farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjps-defeat-in-ellenabad-bypoll-is-a-good-sign-charuni-101635882110754.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: INLD wins but BJP-JJP also gain||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) which scraped through on Tuesday to retain the Ellenabad assembly seat in Sirsa salvaged its reputation.The win would mean a re-entry for Abhay Singh Chautala, son of former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, in the state assembly as INLD’s sole public representative.The ruling BJP-JJP combine did give a scare to Abhay, who had quit the seat earlier this year in protest against the three central agri-marketing laws. The BJP, in particular, will be happy to finish a close second in light of the strong Opposition it has been facing from the farm unions.The assembly constituency bordering Rajasthan has traditionally been a stronghold of former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala and was the only seat won by the INLD post a split in the 2019 assembly polls.Good and bad news for INLDThere was some good and some bad news for the INLD. The party managed to increase its vote share in this bypoll by 5.63% as compared to 2019 assembly polls which should warm their hearts.But its margin of victory came down from 11,922 in 2019 to 6,739 this time (a loss of 5,183 votes). The reason for decrease in Abhay’s victory margin was primarily due to the gains the ruling BJP-JJP made in terms of vote share.The BJP’s vote share saw a 9.1% increase in the bypoll as compared to the 2019 general elections.In fact, the Congress saw a 9.7% erosion of its vote share in the bypoll which arithmetically can be co-related to the 9.1% gain made by the BJP-JJP combine.“It seems that a chunk of Congress voters, possibly the Scheduled Caste, gravitated towards the ruling alliance. The JJP candidate in 2019 got about 6,500 votes and those too added up the numbers for alliance candidate Gobind Kanda, a moneybag,” said a political analyst.The BJP-JJP candidate scored well in the urban pockets of the constituency. This was evident from the outcome of rounds 8, 9 and 10 (urban pockets) of counting, the only three rounds of total 16 where Kanda led (by about 5,195 votes).Will INLD’s win give impetus to the farm stir?Prof Ashutosh Kumar, a political scientist from the Panjab University, Chandigarh, said Chautala’s victory may encourage the farmers to dabble in electoral politics, particularly in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. “The bypoll result may have implications for western Uttar Pradesh,” Prof Kumar said.‘Silent rejection of farm protest’Prof Kumar said the fact that the BJP-JJP combine increased its vote share and unexpectedly performed well in the bypoll indicated that there were voters who may not be vocal but silently lend support to them.“One may perceive that the farm protest has a widespread appeal and support. But the lingering protest can also have a counter-productive reaction where people remain muted but express their rejection or dissatisfaction in terms of votes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypoll-inld-wins-but-bjp-jjp-also-gain-101635881928786.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Vantangiyas look forward to celebrate Diwali with UP CM||GORAKHPUR For locals in Jangl Tinkonia, one of 23 villages inhabited by the Vantangiyas in Gorakhpur, Diwali celebrations are incomplete without chief minister Yogi Adityanath who has shared a special bond with this forest dwelling community for many years as Gorakhpur MP.This time too, the locals are eagerly waiting for his arrival and are busy making preparations to welcome the CM on the occasion of Diwali on Thursday. Such is the popularity of Yogi Adityanath that even the elderly people said that they would not light ‘diyas’ if the CM doesn’t come on Diwali. “The district administration has completed all preparations for the proposed visit of the chief minister on Thursday,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, district magistrate, Gorakhpur.The Vantangiya people, who were brought here from Myanmar during colonial rule for afforestation activities, said they are grateful to Adityanath for declaring the 23 villages as ‘revenue villages’. A revenue village is a small administrative region with defined bordersAfter becoming MP in 2009, Yogi Adityanath always went to Jangl Tinkonia (in his parliamentary constituency) and celebrated Diwali with underprivileged children by distributing sweets, books and pencils among them. He continued to celebrate Diwali every year with them even after becoming chief minister.“After becoming CM in 2017, the first thing Yogiji did was to change the miserable conditions of Vantangiyas by ensuring that all basic facilities – roads, power, education and healthcare were provided to them. His government also accorded revenue village status to 23 Vantangiya villages for the first time since independence, paving way for locals to avail these facilities like any other citizen. Prior to this, the community was even deprived of their basic right to vote. This initiative has strengthened the bond between the community and Yogiji,” said BJP leader Jarnadan Singh. Under the Yogi Government, the picture of the entire village has changed – houses which remained in dark are lit up with electricity, schools are being set up for children, villages being connected with roads, health services are accessible by locals, benefits of schemes are reaching people and pucca houses have been built, he said. “The Vantangiyas had never celebrated such a joyous Diwali the way they have in the last four and a half years,” said the BJP leader. Banshu, 70, a villager, thanked the chief minister for the development work. “Whatever work you see in the village, has been done by Yogiji. Nobody else bothered in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vantangiyas-look-forward-to-celebrate-diwali-with-up-cm-101635881808348.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Pune’s air quality likely to deteriorate to very poor on Nov 5: Safar||PUNE As Diwali is here, the air quality index (AQI) is likely to deteriorate to poor on November 4 and very poor on November 5, according to officials from the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar). However, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast light rainfall from November 4 to November 6 with generally cloudy skies. Speaking about the air quality, Dr BS Murthy, director, Safar and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), said that with Diwali falling in November this year when winter is already set in, with 50% additional firecracker scenario AQI will deteriorate.“Due to the low minimum temperatures between 18 to 19 degree Celsius, the mixing layer height is likely to be low and winds are expected to be calm leading to accumulation and hence, faster deterioration. There is a likelihood of rain during Diwali period, if it drizzles then it may further deteriorate the air quality, but sufficient rain will wash away pollutants and AQI will be better,” said Murthy.He added that if no firecrackers are burned then AQI will remain in the moderate category during the entire period“Citizens should take extra precautions during the early morning hours of November 5, but it will be back to moderate levels from the next day. Most polluted areas in Pune city on November 5 are likely to be Shivajinagar and Bhosari,” said Dr Murthy.As per the weather department, the city may also experience thunderstorms and lightning along with rainfall.Speaking about the forecast, Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting at IMD PUne said that till November 3, parts of the city may experience thunderstorms and lightning with very light rainfall.“Between November 4 and November 6, the skies will be cloudy and light rainfall is forecast for the city. The day temperature will be around 30 degrees whereas night temperatures will be around 19 degrees Celsius during this time,” said Kashyapi.In the long range forecast for November rainfall published by the IMD on Tuesday, the weather department noted that there is a probability for above normal rainfall in many parts of Maharashtra for this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-air-quality-likely-to-deteriorate-to-very-poor-on-nov-5-safar-101635880489885.html
03-11-2021||Dehradun||‘May Kedarbaba forgive them’: TS Rawat on being stopped from entering Kedarnath||DEHRADUN: Former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who was prevented by priests opposed to the Char Dham Board from praying at Kedarnath shrine on Monday, said what happened in Kedarnath was not according to the values and identity of Devbhoomi Uttarakhand (land of gods).“May Kedarbaba forgive them (protesting priests),” the former chief minister and senior Uttarakhand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said on Tuesday.“Whatever happened yesterday (Monday) is not allowed by a civilised society…the kind of slogans that were raised…were not the ones that unite people…they were not right”, he told reporters here.On whether there is politics behind the Monday incident, Rawat said “There are some people who are into this due to political reasons…but some are into it due to their vested interests…and some due to mere carelessness...”. Rawat said the sentiments of crores of Hindus living across the world, who want to come to Char Dham, should be respected. “What they want should be respected. So I have said this that formation of Char Dham Board has been the most progressive decision in the 20-year history of the state”, he said “Some people will feel pain but we should care about people who come to Char Dham to pray for relieving of their pains”, he said.“It should be clearly understood that there are 51 more temples under Char Dham Devasthanam Board, apart from the four Char Dham shrines. There are issues related to the maintenance of these 51 temples. The priests and managers of these 51 temples are not opposing the Board. But their voice is not being highlighted. Only those who are protesting are being heard”, he said. Rawat said boards and trusts have been formed for the management of many temples and shrines in the country, where a lot of change has been witnessed after the formation of boards. “Such changes need to be studied. Colleges, universities and hospitals are being run by such boards and trusts”, he said.The former chief minister said two years ago Jageshwar temple trust was formed on the demand of the local people. “Now people in Purnagiri and Devidhara areas are making similar demands for temples there”, he said.Rawat compared opposition to Char Dham Board to the opposition by farmers to three farms laws. “Farmers are opposing but they are not ready to tell you what exactly they are opposing. ….similarly, here opposition to Char Dham is happening for the sake of opposition… This is not right… If the government bows now, in the coming time, it will create a lot of problems for future governments”, he said.Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Harish Rawat when asked about the incident, said he doesn’t agree with it and it should not have happened. “Baba Kedar forgives all…so in the land of Kedar Baba, all should be forgiven…But priests are angry over the delay…”.KK Kotiyal, president Char Dham Tirath Purohit Haq Haqooki Mahapanchayat said protesting priests stopped Trivendra Singh Rawat from having darshan at Kedarnath on Monday as they were very angry. “The state government promised that the stalemate over Char Dham Board will be resolved by October 30. But nothing has been done. It was Trivendra Singh Rawat whose government pushed the formation of the Char Dham Board. Those responsible for all this are not welcome here”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/may-kedarbaba-forgive-them-ts-rawat-on-being-stopped-from-entering-kedarnath-101635880488246.html
03-11-2021||Pune||PMC cancels fort building competition this year; on in PCMC||PUNE While some children have already begun the process of building the traditional mockup of forts within their housing society premises, they won’t be able to showcase their talent in the annual killa (fort) making contest usually organised by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).Although the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has anounced their Killa Bandha contest for children, PMC has decided not to hold the competition as children are vulnerable to Covid.The PCMC Smart City ‘s cultural and sports department, the Veerangana foundation, and the Sahaydri Prathisthan has planned the Swarajya Killa Banva competition. It will be held in thee parts, where participants can register on the Sarathi app until November 4, and then upload photos of their forts upto November 7.According to a PCMC official, “There are numerous forts in Maharashtra and to remember the historical value, we have organised this competition.”PMC’s gadren department who organise this competition in Pune said, “We will not be holding any fort building competition for children as they are vulnerable and not yet vaccinated. Besides, schools are yet to reopen for them to participate as a group.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-cancels-fort-building-competition-this-year-on-in-pcmc-101635880248443.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board gets ₹16 crore in online transactions||Introduced two years ago, the online payment system has helped Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) generate over ₹16 crore in online transactions.During October this year, an amount of ₹70.65 lakh was collected through 895 online transactions and ₹16.18 crore had been received through 17,326 online transactions between January 2020 and October 2021.Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said, “The board had introduced the facility of online payment for all kind of dues in October 2019 and now the allottees were not required to visit the office and could pay their dues online by visiting the website of the CHB, www.chbonline.in.”To encourage online payments, the CHB gives a monthly reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions every month. For this month, a computerised draw to decide 10 winners for October was held here on Tuesday. Among the winners, three allottees deposited ₹366, ₹472 and ₹960, respectively, but each of them got the prize of ₹1,000, said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-gets-16-crore-in-online-transactions-101635880068079.html
03-11-2021||Pune||ACI’s Airport Service Quality ranking: Lohegaon slips to 78th||PUNE The Lohegaon airport in Pune slipped to 78th rank in the Airports Council International’s (ACI) third quarter survey on Airport Service Quality. Last year Lohegaon airport was ranked 60.In 2020 it ranked 61st in the fourth quarter after ending 2019 at 74th position.ACI is ranking airports in the ‘best airport by size’ category and with 5-15 million passengers per annum in the Asia Pacific region.The survey was conducted on 33 parameters such as ground transportation to and from airport, parking facilities, value for money of parking facilities, availability of baggage carts/trolleys, waiting time in check-in queues/lines, efficiency of check-in staff , courtesy and helpfulness of check-in staff, and waiting time at passport/personal ID inspection.“Because the airport is small, the ranking might have been affected. Once the new infrastructure is ready, ranking will definitely improve. Airport authority is trying its best to give quality service,” said an aiport official on the request of anonymity.Due to infrastructure there have been a lot of complaints from regular flyers regarding delays in check-ins.Regular flyer Asmi Patel said, “Lohegaon airport is one of the busiest airports still the Airport Authority of India is not taking major steps for its development. I doubt whether the terminal work will be completed on time.”“On the airport functions 24X7 ranking will improve,” added an official from Pune airport.Aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar, former Air India Pune station in-charge said, “Ranking going down is a worry. Airport authorities, airline and airport stakeholders should work together to improve on parameters suggested by ACI.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/acis-airport-service-quality-ranking-lohegaon-slips-to-78th-101635880008151.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: RWA installs 35 convex traffic mirrors in Sector 48||With drivers complaining of poor visibility at the entrance of societies, the Sector-48 Resident Welfare Association (RWA) has installed 35 road safety convex mirrors across the sector. The sector has 23 societies, and the convex traffic mirrors were installed at all entrance points to each society, besides the hospital and the police station, which took the count to 35. Claiming that the Sector 48 residents’ body was unique in attempting to improve road safety across the sector, RWA president JJ Singh said, “We had received many complaints regarding poor visibility at the entrances of societies in Sector 48, and while there had not been any fatal accidents, we decided to be proactive and installed the convex traffic mirrors.”Each mirror cost ₹4,500 and was paid for with the RWA’s funds. “We approached the MC and the other authorities, but they did not provide us with any funds,” Singh said.The traffic police are also installing 107 convex traffic mirrors at blind spots across the city. Inaugurating the first traffic mirror of the batch at Sukhna Lake on September 17, director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan had said the mirrors with their wide-angle view provide greater visibility and prevent road mishaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhrwa-installs-35-convex-traffic-mirrors-in-sector-48-101635879828216.html
03-11-2021||Other||Drunk rickshaw driver kills two-wheeler rider in Ghorpadi||PUNE A Pune-based autorickshaw driver was arrested for causing death of a 55-year-old man while driving drunk without a permit in Ghorpadi bazaar on Monday afternoon.The deceased man was identified as Sunil Shankar Bengle (55), a resident of Tarawadevasti in Mohammadwadi, Hadapsar.The arrested man was identified as Salim Arif Shaikh (29), a resident of BT Kawade road area of Mundhwa, Pune.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Bengle’s son Akash Bengle (29).“Bengle was riding a two-wheeler,” said sub-inspector Bhushan Potawade of Wanowrie police station who is investigating the case.The rickshaw driver was rammed into Bengle near the Army public school near Ghorpadi bazaar.The rickshaw driver was arrested, found to be drunk and without a permit to ride a commercial rickshaw, according to the police.A case udner Sections 304(a) and 279 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3(1)181, 184, 195, and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drunk-rickshaw-driver-kills-two-wheeler-rider-in-ghorpadi-101635879712398.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Gold shines but auto sales dip this Dhanteras||Markets filled up for the first time since the pandemic on Tuesday on the occasion of Dhanteras. The sale of jewellery of both gold and silver picked up significantly with jewellers reporting much higher numbers than the previous year even as automobile sales remained low due to the shortage in supply.Vinod Talwar, president, Jewellers’ Association, Chandigarh, said, “Last year our sales were dismal and this year we had sold more than twice just by the evening time. The situation has improved now.”Talwar added that the rates had also climbed high on Tuesday, but this also didn’t stop people. “The rate of 24 karat gold was around ₹49,500 for 10 grams. Silver was for ₹68,000 per kg. Both prices had increased in recent days, but still people waited till Dhanteras to make their purchases.”Speaking about which jewellery was the most popular, Chandigarh Jewellers Association president Rajeev Sahdev said, “Throughout the year silver sales are more than gold, but on Dhanteras we saw more gold sales. People buy gold either in coin form or in jewellery like necklaces, pendants or mangalsutras depending on their needs. The sale of silver coins also jumped on Tuesday.”It is also considered auspicious to purchase automobiles on Dhanteras. However, this year sales remained low. Vice-president of the Federation of Chandigarh Regional Automobile Dealers Ranjeev Dahuja said, “The overall sales have dropped from around 1,000 vehicles last year to around 500 this year due to the shortage of supply. The demand, however, remains high and SUVs continue to remain most popular in Chandigarh.”Explaining the shortage, Nitin Mehan who owns Autopace Chandigarh, a Maruti Suzuki dealership, added, “There is a global shortage of semi-conductor chips which has impacted the automobile industry. Our supply has also been affected.”Due to this, there were no attractive discounts on Dhanteras and the waiting period for popular cars has reached up to 1 year.The sale of two-wheelers also remained on the lower side. Senior vice-president of Platinum Honda for the tricity Sushil Dutta said, “The fact that Dhanteras was on Tuesday also affected the sales. Around 10-15% people who had booked their two-wheelers for Tuesday rescheduled for Wednesday and Thursday as they didn’t want to buy a vehicle on a Tuesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhgold-shines-but-auto-sales-dip-this-dhanteras-101635879711759.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Motorcycle rider dies in accident; booked for causing mishap in Pune||PUNE: A motorcycle rider from Pune was booked for causing his own death and grievous injuries to his friend who was riding pillion with him in the newly-included Wadki area of Pune.The deceased man, who is also the accused in the case, was identified as Pankaj Ambadas Kolge (24), a resident of Borate Vasti in Kharadi.Kolge was riding with a man named Mahesh Hundekar (22), also a resident of Kharadi, as the pillion around 1:15am on October 15 when the incident happened.Hundekar, who sustained injury in the accident, lodged a complaint against Kolge.The now-deceased man tried to overtake a tempo while speeding on the road leading from Dive ghat towards Saswad, according to the complaint.A case was registered against the 24-year-old under Sections 279, 337, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 119/177 and 184 of Motor Vehicle Act at Lonikalbhor police station. Police sub inspector Pramod Hambir is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/motorcycle-rider-dies-in-accident-booked-for-causing-mishap-in-pune-101635879709642.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Housewife duped of ₹10.3 lakh by social media friend in Pune||PUNE: A woman from Pune was duped of ₹10.3 lakh by a person whom she befriended through social media and was then promised a gift from a foreign country.The transactions happened between April 2 and April 29, while the woman was at home in Chandan nagar. The woman is a housewife, according to police.“The man called and told her that he is sending her gifts from Spain. The man then told her that to get the gift inside the country, she has to pay some tax. So multiple transactions later, he told her that he is sending UK pounds,” said senior police inspector Sunil Jadav of Chandan nagar police station, who is investigating the case.The woman also borrowed money from her brother to pay for the accused man’s demands. However, when the brother called and started asking for the money back, the woman realised that the man was still making more demands and approached the police.A case under Sections 406, 420, 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act was regsitered at Chandan nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/housewife-duped-of-rs-10-3-lakh-by-social-media-friend-in-pune-101635879354899.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC gives nod to city bus service||Members of the Mohali municipal corporation approved the agenda of local bus service within MC limits in the house meeting held on Tuesday.Initially, there will be six buses, which will ply on eight routes within the MC limits. The cost of the ticket will be ₹10. A private company will be running the buses against the advertisement rights on the buses.The issue of local bus service was hanging fire for the past decade.City mayor Amarjeet Singh Sidhu said, “We are in talks with the Chandigarh administration to allow us one special bus, which would run for the PGIMER and drop patients in the morning as well as in the evening so that they can come back.”On the other hand, opposition councillors opposed the move saying it should not be privatised and the MC should run the buses on its own.Deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said the issue of local buses was hanging fire for the past decade and the SAD government failed to do anything and now they were opposing it. “Our main aim is to serve the poor by fixing the ticket of ₹10,” he said.Opposition councillor Manjit Singh Sethi claimed that the employees of the municipal corporation were taking bribes from rehri owners.On this, MC commissioner Kamal Garg said these were serious allegations and would be investigated.Speaking on the resolution regarding the extension of the Mohali municipal corporation’s sanitation contract, the mayor said due to the issue of recruitment of employees by the corporation, this work had been delayed a bit so the work of the old contractor company had been extended for three months. On the issue of non-issuance of experience certificates by the contractor to the sanitation employees, commissioner Kamal Garg said strict instructions had been issued to the contractor to issue experience certificates to these workers.Another resolution empowered Garg to set up an appellate authority in the case of street vendors.Simultaneously, a resolution was passed unanimously for the installation of about 100 cameras for the protection of women in Mohali. Another resolution regarding the supply of “parali” briquettes in the crematorium under the MC was also passed unanimously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-gives-nod-to-city-bus-service-101635879353814.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh withholds order of giving DC rate salary to NHM staff||Two months after the decision, the UT health department on Tuesday withheld its decision of giving salaries to the National Health Mission (NHM) employees in Chandigarh as per the DC rate and said the decision needed to be re-examined carefully.In the order, mission director, NHM, Chandigarh, said, “The aspect of pay to NHM staff as per the DC rate needs to be re-examined carefully after getting status from other UTs, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Till then the guidelines issued by the Central government for service conditions, including pay, will be strictly followed.”Meanwhile, the 178 terminated NHM employees threatened to go on an indefinite hunger strike from Wednesday to press for their demand for rolling back their termination orders and hiking their salaries on par with the DC rate without revising working conditions.The department had terminated 178 contractual NHM employees on October 28 after they missed their duties on October 27 to protest against the revised working conditions offered against a salary hike at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. “We have been protesting against the UT administration, but they are not ready to listen to our demands. The orders of termination came only in two hours. However, to press for our demands, we will go on a hunger strike from Wednesday and will continue to protest even on Diwali,” said Amit Kumar, general secretary of the NHM union, while adding that the administration was ready to give more salaries to outsourced staff but was intentionally harassing the NHM employees.Meanwhile, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Even if the NHM will take legal actions, we are ready to face it, but there is no chance of rolling back their termination orders. They have put the lives of hundreds of patients at risk by going on an unplanned strike and for us, providing patient care to the needy and saving their lives is our foremost priority. Even if we continue with their services, they may again go on strike and we cannot trust them anymore.”Around 500 NHM employees, working under the UT health department as doctors, paramedical staff and managerial employees include nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Group-4 staffers, have been working for salaries lower than the approved minimum wages since 2013. Earlier in August, over 300 NHM workers went on indefinite leave for 12 days to press for their demand for equal wages for equal work. Following the continuous protest, the UT administration had given a written assurance of salary hike and written, “The finance department has no objection to meet the additional expenditure of ₹3.92 crore annually from the state budget for paying salaries on par with the DC rate to the NHM workers.”The department then terminated 178 employees protesting against the government.The order which has been withheld on Tuesday means that around 322 NHM employees will not get a salary hike as per the DC rate and they will have to continue working at the same salaries as now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-withholds-order-of-giving-dc-rate-salary-to-nhm-staff-101635879351872.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman’s gold chain snatched in Manimajra||Two snatching incidents have been reported from different parts of Chandigarh on Monday, with no arrests so far. Sanaya, a resident of Manimajra, reported that two persons on an Activa scooter snatched her gold “mangalsutra” on Monday. She told the police that she was walking on the slip road, MHC, Manimajra, when two persons came on an Activa. One kept sitting on the Activa while the other one came down and snatched her mangalsutra. She raised the alarm, but the accused sped away. A case was registered at the Manimajra police station. Another snatching was reported by a 15-year-old resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran. He said two motorcycle-borne persons snatched his mobile phone at a market in Raipur Kalan village. A case was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-s-gold-chain-snatched-in-manimajra-101635879349349.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||One more dies of dengue in Mohali, 116 cases in tricity||With one more person succumbing to dengue in Mohali on Tuesday, the toll has gone to 32 in the district. The latest victim of the viral infection was a 65-year-old woman, a resident of Zirakpur, and was admitted at the Max Hospital in Mohali. Among the 32 deaths recorded this year, 29 took place in October and two in September and one death in November. This is the highest toll since 2018 when eight people had died. In 2019 and 2020, only one fatality each was confirmed. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, 116 more people tested positive for the mosquito-borne viral disease in the tricity with Mohali recording 75 cases, followed by 30 in Chandigarh and 11 in Panchkula. However, no death was reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula on Tuesday.Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 2,783. Chandigarh has recorded 953 cases so far of which 64 surfaced in November. Three persons have also succumbed to the disease so far this year. Manimajra, Burail, Mauli Jagran and Daria continue to be the worst-hit areas in Chandigarh. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 606, with one death so far this year.4 fresh Covid infections in tricityFour more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Tuesday, against the five cases on Monday. Two cases were reported from Panchkula while one each surfaced in Chandigarh and Mohali. Also, no death was recorded in the tricity for the 28th consecutive day here.Tricity’s active cases tally dipped to 69, with 34 patients still being infected in Chandigarh, 22 in Mohali and 13 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,355 positive cases, of which 64,501 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, the total cases recorded till date are 68,824. Among these, 67,734 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,772 includes 30, 381 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-more-dies-of-dengue-in-mohali-116-cases-in-tricity-101635879348138.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi man held for creating fake website of logistics company, duping several customers||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they arrested a 35-year-old man in connection with a case of impersonation and cheating registered last year, based on a complaint filed by the group manager of a logistics company. The arrested man and his associates had created fake websites of the company and cheated customers by making them believe that the services were provided by the original company, the police said.The arrested man, identified as Ashish Singh, earlier worked at the logistics company but lost his job last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the second arrest made by the crime branch’s cyber cell team that has been investigating the case. Earlier, the team arrested Deepak Goel, also an ex-employee of the company, said deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell, crime branch) Manoj C. During Goel’s interrogation, DCP Manoj said, police found that he would download data of the company’s customers from the official database and sell it to Singh for ₹18,000 every month. Singh went on the run after Goel’s arrest and police conducted raids at his possible hideouts.On October 31, the team received information that Singh was hiding in his village in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi. The team raided the village and arrested him. “Singh disclosed that he passed the data shared by Goel to his co-accused, one Suresh. We are looking for him,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-held-for-creating-fake-website-of-logistics-company-duping-several-customers-101635879290798.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypoll: Infighting, inflation prove BJP’s nemesis||The bypoll results in Himachal have dealt a severe blow to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ‘Mission Repeat’ campaign for the 2022 assembly elections, while the Congress has got a shot in the arm as it looks to wrest power after a hiatus of five years.The verdict is being seen as a reflection of the simmering public anger against inflation, primarily in the prices of fuel and other essential commodities. The much-hyped policies of the state government that have yielded little results and “misgovernance” are also being seen as the reason behind the debacle. The stakes for were high for chief minister Jai Ram Thakur as the polls were being seen as a precursor to the mood of the voters before the 2022 assembly elections.What went wrong for the saffron party?Though initially, it was the BJP’s own decisions that hurt it the most, in the later stages, ignoring the inflation issue cost it heavy. All eyes were set on the Mandi parliamentary seat, where the BJP had fielded Kargil war veteran Brig Khushal Thakur (retd) against former Lok Sabha member, Pratibha Singh, who is also the widow of six-time Himachal chief minister Virbhadra Singh. The seat, which is the home turf of CM Thakur, will now be used to gauge his ‘falling’ popularity graph. BJP tried to cash in on the army sentiments. Pratibha Singh was subjected to ruthless personal attacks over her statement on the armed forces, which she claimed had been tweaked by the BJP IT cell.Amid all the controversy, BJP tried to ignore the rising inflation and unemployment rates, which went on to harm its prospects.Irresponsible statements on these sensitive issues by the BJP leadership, including the chief minister and one of his ministers, contributed to saffron party’s ill-fate. Ultimately, the BJP, which had got a massive lead from all 17 assembly constituencies in Mandi parliamentary segment, lagged behind in nine this time. BJP couldn’t overtake the lead which the Congress got in the tribal districts of Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi region of Bharmour as the lower regions didn’t vote as expected by BJP.In Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai, the infighting sank the BJP ship.BJP erred in ticket distribution in all three assembly segments. In Jubbal-Kotkhai, BJP denied ticket to Chetan Bragta despite him being active in the constituency right after the demise of his father, Narinder Singh Bragta. Bragta senior’s demise had necessitated the byelection.Also, the falling prices of apple crop was a major issue in Jubbal-Kotkhai but the state BJP leadership, including the horticulture minister Mahender Singh Thakur, and urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj were reckless in their statements which irked the public.Chetan Bragta put up a stellar show but his silence on apple prices when he was in the BJP IT cell cost him dear. Also, Kotkhai belt did not vote as decisively as the party had expected. However, the BJP certainly learnt a lesson as its candidate couldn’t even touch the 3,000-mark and forfeited her deposit. In Arki, BJP again chose Rattan Pal Singh, ignoring a former two-time legislator Govind Ram Sharma, and paid the price. Though BJP claimed to have quelled the dissent, Sharma’s support base didn’t go with Singh.In Fatehpur, the saffron party committed the same mistake. It denied ticket to party vice-president Kripal Parmar, who had lost the previous elections by just 1,200 votes. The party fielded Baldev Thakur, who had rebelled against the party in the 2017 polls. A disgruntled Parmar and his supporters stayed away from the election campaign. Former MP Rajan Sushant, who contested as an independent, also harmed the party’s prospects here by polling nearly 13,000 votes. He mostly breached the BJP vote bank.Harish Thakur, head of the police science department of Himachal Pradesh University, said, “The Congress’ clean sweep in the byelections indicate public wrath against the BJP government and its failure to fulfill the promises. The anger was building up for long. The skyrocketing prices of essential commodities in the aftermath of rise in petrol and diesel prices added fuel to the fire. The ruling party needs to re-think its policies and their practical outcome.”In the Congress, in-charge for Himachal affairs, Rajiv Shukla had ensured smooth distribution of tickets while co incharge Sanjay Dutt had worked overnight to develope coordination in the faction-ridden CongressWhat the outcome means for BJP, Congress Though the election outcome will have no bearing on the stability of the government, this may fasten the exit of the incumbent chief minister. BJP leadership had reportedly at one point of time planned to replace him soon after the party changed chief ministers in Uttrakhand, Gujarat and Karnataka. However, the decision was put on hold till the by-elections.Also, the poll results set the alarms bells ringing for the BJP which was aiming to repeat the government in 2022.Congress, which has lost some big leaders including former chief minister Virbhadra Singh and former minister GS Bali, in the recent past, has got a shot in the arm.Such a massive victory will definitely galvanise the Congress cadres across the state. Pratibha Singh’s victory will also bring the focus back on Holy Lodge as in the next assembly elections, she would have a key role in allotment of ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypoll-infighting-inflation-prove-bjp-s-nemesis-101635879228595.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Deadline to apply for e-auto permits in Delhi extended to Nov 15||Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Tuesday announced that the last date for applying for an electric auto-rickshaw permit, which ended on November 1, has now been extended to November 15. The transport department, so far, has received more than 16,000 applications for 4,261 e-auto rickshaw permits. But even though 33% — more than 1,400 permits — are reserved for women, only about 500 women have applied for permits till November 1, the government data showed. “We have extended the last date to apply for an e-auto permit till November 15. I request all those who are interested to apply within the given time period, so that we can do our best to curb pollution in Delhi. The e-auto scheme is also a means of self-employment for the youth and women of the city,” said Gahlot. The transport department also organised an “E-Auto Mela (fest)” from October 25 to 31 to spread the word about the scheme. At the exhibition, people got to see and even test drive all available models of e-autos in the Indian market. Interested persons were also advised about the best possible loan financing schemes, based on individual needs and capacity. Gahlot said the Delhi government will provide a subsidy of ₹30,000 to each new e-auto. The average cost of an e-auto will be around ₹2.7 lakh and, after subsidy, it will cost about ₹1.8 lakh, more or less the same as the price of a CNG auto in Delhi. In addition, a 5% interest relief on the loan for the purchase of the e-auto will be provided by banks that are empaneled with the Delhi government for the campaign. Currently, the city has about 95,000 registered auto-rickshaws, all of which run on CNG. There is a cap of 100,000 on the number of autos that can be registered in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deadline-to-apply-for-e-auto-permits-in-delhi-extended-to-nov-15-101635879053145.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt stops subsidy for electric cars, to focus on two-wheelers||The Delhi government has stopped the subsidy on electric cars in the national capital and has no plans to extend the scheme any further, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Tuesday. Speaking to Hindustan Times, the minister said, “The electric cars segment has received the required push in Delhi. Our focus now is to tap the two-wheeler, freight and public transport segments of electric vehicles (EVs) as they constitute a major chunk of Delhi’s over 10 million registered vehicles. They also ply on the road more as compared to private cars, thereby causing more pollution.” Of the 10 million registered vehicles in Delhi, about 7.3 million are two-wheelers. On October 28, HT had reported that the Delhi government plans to only procure electric buses in the future, with an aim to increase the share of zero-emission vehicles in public transport to over 50%. According to the plan, the government will induct at least 2,300 e-buses into its fleet by the end of 2022, and upgrade all existing bus depots with EV charging infrastructure. According to the Delhi EV Policy 2020, which was notified by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government on August 7 last year, the government had mandated subsidies for only 1,000 e-cars, on a first come, first served basis. Government records, seen by HT, showed that the administration has completed disbursing the subsidy to the first 1,000 e-cars and has not extended the benefit to any new e-car registered thereafter. The first 1,000 e-cars also got waivers on road tax and registration fee, in addition to a subsidy of ₹10,000 per kWh of battery capacity, with benefits being capped at ₹1.5 lakh per vehicle. For electric two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws, rickshaws and freight vehicles, the subsidy is ₹5,000 per kWh of battery capacity, with a cap of ₹30,000 per vehicle. These segments, unlike the e-cars, have no cap on the number of vehicles that can avail of the benefits, which are also being offered on a first come, first served basis. Delhi government data further showed that between August 7, 2020, and October 27, 2021, a total of 22,805 EVs were registered in the city. The total number of incentives paid out by the Delhi government so far stood at 9,633 and the total funds utilised for the purpose amounted to ₹34.31 crore. Of the 22,805 EVs registered during the above-mentioned period, 10,997 (48.2%) were e-rickshaws, followed by 5,246 electric two-wheelers (23%) and 3,845 e-carts (16.8%). Only 1,415 were e-cars and 309 were e-cabs. Overall, a total of 121,903 EVs have been registered in the city. Transport officials said there is lesser demand for electric cars/four-wheelers as compared to other EV segments owing to a lack of options in the auto market. “There are very few e-car variants that have an affordable price tag. Things may look up from next year, as auto manufacturers Tata and Hyundai are planning to introduce electric hatchback variants,” said a senior transport official, on condition of anonymity. “Actually, a subsidy is not required for e-cars as such because those who can afford to pay around ₹15 lakh for a vehicle do not care if the cost is ₹1-2 lakh more, sans the subsidy. Our aim is to provide the subsidy to those who need it the most, and they include auto drivers, two-wheeler owners, delivery partners and so on,” said Gahlot.With the Delhi government stopping its subsidy for e-cars, there will be zero subsidies in this segment as even the Centre’s FAME-II scheme cover only electric two-wheelers, three-wheelers, four-wheeled passenger vehicles and goods carrying vehicles. It does not yet offer subsidies for electric cars meant for personal use. With fuel prices touching an all-time high across the country, there has been an increased interest in electric vehicles for personal use. At present, very few variants of e-cars are available in the market and most of them are above ₹15 lakh. Tata Nexon EV ranges from ₹13.99 lakh to ₹16.85 lakh, Mahindra E-Verito costs between ₹12.67-13.03 lakh, Hyundai Kona electric ranges from ₹23.71-23.91 lakh, MG ZS EV is between ₹20.99-24.68 lakh and Mercedes Benz EQC costs around ₹1.06 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-stops-subsidy-for-electric-cars-to-focus-on-twowheelers-101635879052103.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Protest secular, police charge sheet communal: Former JNU student Umar Khalid||Former JNU student Umar Khalid, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), on Tuesday maintained before a city court that the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest was secular and termed the charge sheet against him “communal”. Calling it a “naked form of false implication”, senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Khalid, told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that the charge sheet was a police’s “fertile imagination” and that the investigating officer was a scriptwriter who “literally wrote a novel”.“Not a single witness spoke that women were exploited, that there was a secular cover etc. In fact, you will see a number of personalities who are educated, working in different fields, associated with [anti-]CAA [movement]. Luckily, they were not accused. In fact, the shoe is on the other side. The protest was secular, the charge sheet is communal,” Pais argued.“You have a political person who speaks against the State and you want to frame him. It is a naked form of false implication. You (Delhi police) have fabricated a story to suit your narrative. This man is innocent. He has not done anything,” Pais submitted.Pais accused the police cooking up statements and using convenient call detail records to arrest his client. “No recovery, not present in Delhi, no violence attributed to me (Khalid), no traces of funding,” Pais pointed out.Khalid and several others have been booked under the UAPA, a stringent anti-terror law, for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots which had left at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.He also said that had the Delhi Police been a fair investigating agency, it would not have attributed the “tukde-tukde” phrase from some other case’s charge sheet to the present one.Dismissing allegations that Khalid directed JNU student Sharjeel Imam and others to block the roads at Shaheen Bagh, the senior counsel argued that while the prosecution equated the blockades to a terror act, “it is not an offence and has been used by students, farmers and other agitations”.Besides Khalid, JNU students Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, former AAP councilor Tahir Hussain and several others have been booked for conspiracy in fuelling the riots.Delhi Police had earlier said the bail plea had no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/protest-secular-police-charge-sheet-communal-former-jnu-student-umar-khalid-101635878868070.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Crackers or not, Diwali to plunge air into ‘very poor’ range in Delhi||If no firecrackers will go off on Diwali, the air quality in Delhi will stay in the very poor range; but may slip into the severe range if half of the crackers burst during 2019 were used, according to two scenarios projected by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) for spike in pollution expected on November, the day the festival of lights will be celebrated.To be sure, the Delhi government has imposed a complete ban on the sale, storage and use of firecrackers until January 1, 2022. Each year, bursting of crackers coupled with local and external pollution sources such as stubble fires cause a spike in air pollution on Diwali.The Safar forecasts mentioned that northwesterlies will bring in heavy load of pollutants from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana November 4 onwards, and their contribution in total pollution mix of Delhi may go up to 40%.The analysis, part of Safar’s Diwali forecast, said stubble burning coupled with likely bursting of firecrackers may push air quality in Delhi into the ‘severe’ category (average AQI of 400 or above) for the first time this winter season on the day of Diwali. It may stay in the same zone the next day too, the agency said, and added that a slight improvement can only be expected November 6 onwards. “We have identified three factors which could play a role around Diwali – number of farm fires touching 4,000 with an overall contribution of 40% on November 5, calm local winds over Delhi and the third is how many firecrackers are burst. If no firecrackers are used, Delhi’s air will be ‘very poor’, but even if some firecrackers are added, the air could be pushed to the ‘severe’ range,” said Gufran Beig, founder and project director at Safar.Environment Gopal Rai on Tuesday said that the Delhi government has given directions to increase vigilance across Delhi to check the sale, purchase and burning of firecrackers. Rai said till Tuesday, 12,957 kgs of crackers had been seized by the Delhi Police and 32 people have been booked during the anti-cracker campaign from October 27 onwards.“A special vigilance campaign would be run in the areas on Delhi’s border with other states so that people could not bring in crackers from other states and prevent illegal no purchase, sale, movement, and storage of firecrackers anywhere. In this context, instructions have been issued to Delhi Police and SDMs on behalf of the DPCC (Delhi Pollution Control Committee) today,” said Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crackers-or-not-diwali-to-plunge-air-into-very-poor-range-in-delhi-101635878809543.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fire safety: Mohali MC sets deadline for factories||After issuing notices to around 160 units for fire-safety violations at the Industrial Area, Phase 8B, the Mohali municipal corporation has now set the deadline of November 30 for them to comply with the directions or face sealing of the premises. “In September, around 160 notices were issued to industrial unit owners to get no-objection certificates from the fire department. Now we have set a deadline of November 30. We will be sealing the units that fail to comply with safety norms,” said MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg. Even in February this year, 600 notices were slapped on violators across the district, with an ultimatum of 15 days. However, eight months later, no violating structure has been sealed. In fact, the corporation has been following this exercise for the past three years, but has not penalised a single violator yet.Through a survey last year, the fire department had identified various properties, including high-rise buildings and commercial establishments that did not comply with fire-safety norms. The violations included the presence of a single entry and exit point, which could be dangerous in case of an emergency. Among other issues, fire extinguishers were missing on many floors and those available did not have an ISI mark. Hose reels, smoke detection alarm system, and illuminated exit signs were also found missing in most buildings. Meanwhile, most showrooms in markets had loose electricity wiring. At several industrial units and housing societies, there was no underground static water storage tank of 75,000-litre capacity with pump, as required under fire-safety rules. Terrace water tanks with at least 10,000-litre capacity were also found missing. The absence of a fire control room and emergency lifts with firemen switch was among other violations. A factory manufacturing cardboard boxes was gutted at the Industrial Area, Phase 8B, in March 2019, leading to the destruction of machinery and products worth crores. In March last year, a fire broke out at a multi-brand retail store in Phase 5, turning readymade clothes worth lakhs into ashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fire-safety-mohali-mc-sets-deadline-for-factories-to-comply-101635878808208.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Despite ban, crackers make their presence felt in Delhi||In spite of a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers, a black market has sprung up in various parts of the national Capital, a spot check by HT correspondents found, in what could allow people to violate the restrictions on Diwali and trigger an air pollution crisis.In at least six localities, HT’s correspondents were told by people ranging from local shop owners to auto-rickshaw drivers that they could help procure firecrackers and deliver them at the doorstep to minimise the risk of being caught. In two of these places, the people allowed the stocks to be inspected for purchase.Firecrackers have been banned in entirety by the Delhi government, and an older ban by National Green Tribunal (and endorsed by the Supreme Court) bans the sale and use of ones made with barium-based formulations in the National Capital Region (NCR). The ones without barium are known as green firecrackers, but their certification and veracity has been difficult to determine.In the week leading to Diwali, which is on Thursday, both types of firecrackers were available at multiple spots that HT visited: Kabir Nagar, Rohini, Ghazipur, Bhalswa, Tilak Nagar, and Munirka.In Kabir Nagar, an auto driver offered to get boxes of green varieties of “anar, phuljhari, and rockets” for a commission. The price quoted by the driver for two boxes each anar (flowerpots), two boxes of phuljhari (sparkles) and one box of rockets eventually came to ₹4,580 and the driver insisted on upfront payment. “I can deliver it to your house but you will have to pay the full amount in cash right away,” the driver said, asking not to be identified, before showing some samples.In Rajouri Garden, two men approached HT’s correspondents after they made enquiries about where firecrackers could be bought. The two made their way to a small grocery store where the shopkeeper said the items will be home delivered “the next day” with an option of paying later. The shopkeeper showed some samples and a handwritten rate card, but was not able to say if the firecrackers that he would deliver were of the “green” variety. The samples shown were in green packaging but did not carry any verifiable barcode comes with the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) certification for green firecrackers.“What is Diwali without a few crackers? The government has completely finished Diwali,” he said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on September 15 announced a complete ban on firecrackers till January 1, citing the annual deterioration of air quality crisis that happens during winter. On Tuesday, the air quality index entered the red ‘very poor’ zone for the first time and an analysis by government experts said that even if 50% of the amount of firecrackers burst in 2019 is used this year, air pollution levels will shoot up to ‘severe’.The ban on all firecrackers has been opposed by traders. A group of over 50 licensed firecracker sellers moved the Delhi high court against the ban on Monday, although their plea was turned down. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, while hearing the plea by traders seeking permission to sell the so-called green firecrackers in line with the NGT order, was told by the Delhi government its officials have seized over 11,000 kg of firecrackers till October 24 this year.“We are keeping a close watch on the instances sale, storage and use of crackers. But it has come to our notice that cracker bursting is being reported in some parts of the city over the last two weeks. The problem is that Delhi is a small city and because of its porous borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, it becomes easier for people to get access to these banned items. Since there are no such bans in these states, implementation of the ban in Delhi becomes a little challenging,” said a senior environment department official, asking not to be named.A seller at the Gold Star Patakha Godam in Gurugram said that the sale of green firecrackers was allowed in Haryana. “We are not doing anything illegal. Firecrackers are allowed here. If someone from Delhi is buying from here, that becomes their problem and the problem of the authorities there,” he said, asking not to be named.Delhi Police officers said that their action was largely dependent on intelligence inputs, manual checking of legal as well as illegal shops and warehouses, and of vehicles crossing in from Delhi’s borders.“We have the list of permanent as well as temporary firecracker vendors because they either hold licences or apply for one before Diwali. Keeping a vigil on them or their stocks is easy. But when people run an illegal business just during the festival, it becomes difficult. The only way we can catch such new players is either through intelligence inputs or manual checking. Checking every individual at the border is a tedious task,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named.According to police officers, all police personnel on duty across the city have been directed to enforce the ban and carry out a “massive crackdown” on people involved in the illegal sale and use of crackers.“We have held several meetings with market welfare associations and shopkeepers to update them about the guidelines on crackers and the legal actions they may face if found violating the orders. Apart from the regular policing, police personnel in plain clothes are also carrying out surprise checks,” said Sagar Singh Kalsi, deputy commissioner of police (north), adding that 17 people have been arrested in seven cases in which nearly 1,700 banned crackers have been seized by the north district police.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said Delhi cannot implement a successful firecracker ban because of close proximity and easy access in neighbouring states.“We have seen over the last few years that Delhi’s first big smog spell happens right after Diwali and this is primarily because of cracker bursting. The government has been implementing a ban but the impact will only come with large-scale public awareness and enforcement,” she said, before adding that unless a ban is implemented in NCR towns, illegal trade and firecracker bursting instances are likely to continue..Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) also agreed that the sale and purchase of firecrackers were happening discreetly in their areas.“The sale and purchase are definitely happening, but these bans should not be imposed because ultimately the religious sentiments of people are involved. What the government can do is educate people about the impact of bursting firecrackers and how it adversely affects our health. Ultimately, we are all dying breathing this polluted air. Once that awareness comes, people will stop bursting crackers themselves,” said BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWAs Joint Front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/despite-ban-crackers-make-their-presence-felt-in-delhi-101635878570750.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Niti Aayog meeting: UT admn pushes for Chandigarh Innovation Centre||The UT administration on Tuesday took up the issue of setting up the Chandigarh Innovation Centre during a meeting with the Niti Aayog.UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit chaired the meeting held to discuss various issues of the Chandigarh administration pending with central ministries. Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand, adviser Kundan Kumar and deputy adviser Dr Biswanath Bishnoi were also present. “The issue of setting up the Chandigarh Innovation Centre was raised. It is aimed to serve as a platform for collaborations between higher education, R&D institutions, industries, investors, startups and government agencies. It will lead to innovation-led growth and employment,” said a UT official, privy to the development.The idea of the CIC was mooted by the administration a couple of years ago, but it didn’t get a positive response from the Centre and the project has remained in limbo since then.During the meeting, the administrator also shared that Chandigarh has achieved most of the goals set by the Niti Aayog in the third edition of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) India Index 2020-21, whereas there are certain issues that need attention at the central level.Enhancing the rate of monthly pensions for various groups, formation of 14 more Atal tinkering labs in schools, and release of subsidy for installation of rooftop solar power projects were also discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/niti-aayog-meeting-ut-admn-pushes-for-chandigarh-innovation-centre-101635878517723.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh firemen on their toes ahead of Diwali||The fire and safety wing of the Chandigarh municipal corporation has been divided into seven zones for deployment to meet any contingency during Diwali celebrations from November 3 to 5.“A WhatsApp group will be created for close coordination between officers and duty officials and to update photographs and videos of duty during the period of deployment. First-aid kits of all fire stations as well as vehicles will be checked so as to ensure that the mandatory medicinal articles are available. All water reservoirs and tenders will be kept full round the clock,” said an MC offiical.The measures have been taken to ensure that fire-fighting vehicles and personnel reach the emergency spot within the shortest time and risk of loss and damage to life and property is minimised, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-firemen-on-their-toes-ahead-of-diwali-101635878516560.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to lift MAKA Trophy for third year in a row||Panjab University will receive Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy for best all-round performance in sports among Indian varsities for third year in a row. The ministry of youth affairs and sports announced the National Sports Awards 2021 on Tuesday. The winners will receive the awards from the President at a function at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on November 13.PU has retained the trophy since 2019, when it lifted it after a gap of 13 years. The varsity has held the trophy as many as 15 times already. Supercomputing facility inaugurated at NABIIn a boost to research and development, Union science minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday virtually inaugurated an advanced 650 terraflops supercomputing facility at National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute, Sector 81, Mohali. Set up at a cost of ₹20 crore, it will be helpful in the analysis of large scale genomics, functional genomics and structural genomics data. Pargat conducts surprise checking at DPI office Punjab higher education minister Pargat Singh on Tuesday conducted a surprise check at the director public instructions (colleges) headquarters in Mohali. The minister took stock of working of various branches and checked the staff attendance . Directing the employees to be punctual, he highlighted feedback from general public regarding inordinate delay in their works. He said such behaviour will not be tolerated at any cost. 25% work completed at Ambala science centreAryabhatta Vigyan Kendra coming up in Ambala is expected to be completed by June 2022. A day after National Council of Science Museum officials inspected the ₹36-crore project, PWD officials said 25% of the work is complete. Spread over five acres, the project includes digital adventure gallery, exhibition hall, conference hall, auditorium, fun science gallery, live weather centre and flight simulator.PGI doctor is FIMSA presidentDr Sunil K Arora, professor in the department of immunopathology and head of the department of translational and regenerative medicine at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has been elected as president of the Federation of Immunological Societies of Asia-Oceania (FIMSA) for the next three years.Tennis tourney: Amrit to take on Parmarth in boys’ finalTop seed Amrit Dhankar and Parmarth Kaushik won their respective U-14 boys’ semi-final matches to enter the finals of the All-India Tennis Association Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium, Sector 10, on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Rhoysn will play Diya girls’ finals on Wednesday. GNPS-36 cagers claim titleRiding on Kirti’s 25 points, Guru Nanak Public School, Sector 36, recorded a fine 60-52 win over Panipat Club in the final of the 1st Zirakpur basketball cash prize tournament for girls on Tuesday. Other than Kirti, Amrit performed well for the winning team scoring 25 points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-to-lift-maka-trophy-for-third-year-in-a-row-101635878513642.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three Chandigarh MC staffers suspended for gross misconduct||Chandigarh MC commissioner Anindita Mitra on Tuesday suspended three employees with immediate effect for “gross misconduct” involving issuance of coupons for setting up temporary festive stalls at the Plaza in Sector 17.An officer on special duty (OSD-2) was also charge-sheeted for lack of supervision being the in-charge.Senior assistant Sudesh Kumar, presently posted in the parking branch, was suspended for not performing the specific duty assigned to him of issuing coupons to shopkeepers of Sector 17.Clerk Yogesh Kumar and peon Simranjeet Singh, who are posted at the office of executive engineer, roads division No.3, were suspended for performing “unauthorised duty” not assigned to them and wrongly issuing coupons meant for shopkeepers to street vendors.During the suspension period, they will have to report to the office of joint commissioner.The commissioner has also charge-sheeted account officer Surinder Sharma, who is the holding the charge of OSD-2, for lack of supervision being the in-charge of issuing coupons for setting up temporary festive stalls.Meanwhile, the wrongly issued slips were withdrawn immediately and the MC enforcement wing removed all unauthorised vendors from Sector 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-chandigarh-mc-staffers-suspended-for-gross-misconduct-101635878512257.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Three workers killed in fire at furniture factory||Three workers, including two women, died while another is battling for life after a fire broke out at a three-storeyed furniture factory in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, Panchkula, on Tuesday. While the authorities pointed to suspected fire-safety violations at the unit, the owner blamed the deaths on the delay in the fire department’s response.The fire erupted at West Wood furniture factory past noon and took around 40 firemen over seven hours to bring it under control. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa confirmed the death of three factory workers. They have been identified as Mamta, 45; Sonali Devi, 30; and Avdesh Kumar, 20. Another worker whose details are not known is hospitalised with severe burn injuries.One fireman hurt tooFire officer Tarsem said they got a call regarding the blaze at 1:52pm and rushed seven fire tenders from Sector 5, Sector 20, Kalka and Barwala to the spot within minutes. Till evening, around 30 water tankers had been deployed.“Since it was a furniture factory and the entire material was combustible, it made things more difficult. The firemen had to break the glass because of which one of the men got slightly injured as well,” said the official.The fire started from the first floor and spread to the second floor. While other workers managed to escape, four were trapped. “We removed one dead body and evacuated three injured persons from the factory,” the fire officer said. However, by the evening, two of the three had succumbed to their burn injuries.Though the flames had been doused by late evening, the gutted goods were still smouldering and huge plumes of smoke were billowing from the building. Cause to be investigatedDCP Mohit Handa, who visited the spot, said: “It is too early to state the cause of fire. We are still gathering facts and our teams are still at the spot. Once the operation ends, we will turn our focus to finding out the cause behind this massive fire. Forensic teams are also present at the spot and will carry out a detailed investigation.”While the fire officer also refrained from sharing the cause behind fire, he said: “The preliminary visit to the spot shows that there are some fire-safety violations. A detailed investigation will be conducted on Wednesday.”Firemen were late: OwnerMeanwhile, West Wood owner Arjun Kakkar alleged that the fire brigade was at least an hour late in reaching the spot, which led to the death of three workers.Kakkar said the factory had all fire-fighting equipment and facilities in place, but it was not enough to control the massive blaze and a call was made to the emergency number 112 promptly.“The fire broke out at 12:30pm, whereas the first fire tender reached the spot at least 50 minutes late. By the time they reached, the fire had spread from the first to second floor. Their system is so lackadaisical that once water in the first tender got over, they started waiting for the second one before resuming the rescue operation,” he alleged.Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta also the visited the factory, where family members of the deceased pleaded him for help and justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-three-workers-killed-in-fire-at-furniture-factory-101635878510740.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||QS rankings: Panjab University lags behind CU, Shoolini, Thapar||Panjab University (PU) retained its position in the 301-350 bracket in the QS Asia University Rankings 2022 released on Tuesday. However, it is placed behind many private institutes in the region. While Chandigarh University, Mohali, and Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Solan, are placed in the 271-280 bracket, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, is in the 281-290 bracket.This year’s rankings feature over 650 institutes from across Asia. Placed in the 261-270 bracket, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, is leading in the region . IIT, Bombay, is on the top in India with rank 42, followed by IIT, Delhi, at rank 45. In 2014, PU was ranked in the 171-180 bracket, which was its best performance to date. Even last year, it was placed in the 301-350 bracket. However, the varsity’s score in international research network has gone up to 52 from 47.1 in the 2021 rankings. Meanwhile, the score in citations per paper has dipped to 35.6 from 36.4 and that in academic reputation has dropped to 14.3 from 14.9.PU alleges last-minute changeAccording to the university, its ranking was changed at the last minute. It has sought an explanation from the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) Limited. A communication sent from the varsity’s Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) to QS on Tuesday states: “We had received an email from QS team on October 6, wherein we were told that the varsity was placed in the 291-300 bracket, an improvement from the last year’s rankings...”IQAC director Ashish Jain said: “We are surprised to see this change in the ranking at the last minute. We have sought an explanation from QS.” Meanwhile, PU teachers’ body president Mritunjay Kumar said: “Rankings depend on several factors and keep changing. We have a good teaching faculty and we are hopeful that we will bounce back with better results next time.”Published annually since 2009, the QS Asia University Rankings highlight the top universities in Asia each year. The 2022 rankings are scored on 11 key indicators, including academic and employer reputations, the number of staff holding a doctorate, and the percentage of international students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/qs-rankings-panjab-university-lags-behind-cu-shoolini-thapar-101635878507913.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman falls from cycle rickshaw during snatching bid in Dilshad Garden||New Delhi: A 22-year-old woman working with a private company in Noida suffered injuries to her knees and hands as she fell from a moving cycle rickshaw while trying to fight off two bike-borne men who allegedly snatched her phone on a busy road in northeast Delhi’s Dilshad Garden on Sunday morning. The incident, which is the latest in a series of snatching cases in which the victims suffered fatal or serious injuries, is the second such crime reported in the city in the last 10 days.According to Delhi Police data, the city reported 5,108 snatching cases till August 15 this year -- 851 more than what was reported during the same period in 2020. Statistics show that at least one person became a victim of snatching every hour, and at least one robbery was reported every four hours in Delhi till August 15.On October 22, a 41-year-old woman from Darjeeling fractured her collarbone, and her 48-year-old friend and the driver of the autorickshaw they were travelling in suffered injuries after the vehicle overturned as she tried to fight off two men on a bike who snatched her phone on the Sarai Kale Khan flyover in south Delhi. In the latest case on Sunday, the woman, Lovely Gupta, left her Dilshad Garden home and boarded a cycle rickshaw to head to Jhilmil Metro station, from where she was supposed to board a Metro train to reach her office in Noida. She was near Sai Chowk in Dilshad Garden, nearly half a kilometre away from home -- when the snatchers targeted her around 7.30am.In her complaint to the station house officer (SHO), Gupta said the two men came on a bike from behind and started riding next to the rickshaw. “Suddenly, the pillion rider tried to snatch my phone. I was shocked by the sudden attack and tried to defend myself. But he pulled me by force, snatched my phone and sped away. Meanwhile, I fell on the road and yelled for help, but no one came to my aid,” said Gupta in her complaint filed on Monday, a day after the incident.Gupta’s mother, Radha, said that a gym trainer who was passing by stopped and helped her daughter. She used his phone to call the police, but left before they arrived as she had to rush to her office for an important meeting, her mother said.“My daughter also informed us about the incident using the gym trainer’s phone. When she returned home in the night, I asked her about her injuries and if she had visited any hospital. She had suffered injuries to her knees and hands. Her pair of jeans was also torn near the knees because of the fall... My daughter told me that she had taken medical attention at the office itself,” said Radha.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said that a police team reached the crime scene immediately after the call. Not finding the victim there, the police dialled the mobile number from which she had made the call and was informed that the victim had borrowed the phone.The next day, Gupta filed a complaint at the GTB Enclave police station. “We immediately converted her complaint into a first information report (FIR) and formed teams to identify and nab the suspects. We are contacting the complainant again to ask for her medical examination so that the nature of her injuries can be ascertained. Our teams are scanning the CCTV footage from near the crime scene. In one footage, the suspects are seen wearing helmets and riding a black bike,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.In her complaint, Gupta said claimed that the streets have become unsafe: “It seems such miscreants have no fear of the local police. To avoid such situations, I never walk on the road and always hire a rickshaw, but we are not safe even then. I request you to kindly take note of my complaint and do your best to get hold of these culprits and my phone so that girls like me get some sense of security.”In a series on street crimes in Delhi in March, HT reported that most snatchers in the city are unemployed, illiterate or school drop-outs. Snatching is considered a gateway crime to more serious offences.Analysis of police data shows that of the snatchers arrested in 2020, almost 43.71% (2,840) were illiterate or school drop-outs (did not clear Class 5). In fact, only 10 of the arrested had graduate degrees. The data also showed that mobile phones were the most common item snatched — at least 71% (5,655) of the cases -- followed by gold jewellery (15% cases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwoman-falls-from-cycle-rickshaw-during-snatching-bid-in-dilshad-garden-101635878448037.html
03-11-2021||Pune||Marathwada farmers seek odd jobs in Pune’s cracker industry||PUNE: With excessive rainfall and flash floods having destroyed farmlands, over 2,000 farm labourers from Marathwada have been forced to come to Pune in search of employment in its cracker selling industry. Most of them are now working as porters, cashiers and salesmen at some of the biggest cracker-selling outlets in Golibar maidan, Wanowrie and Kothrud among others.Gokul Koli, a salesman at a cracker-selling shop in Golibar maidan hails from the Latur district. “I have to look after my parents, wife and three children. I used to till the field and get paid by the farmer. But this year, my employer incurred huge losses due to the rains and relieved me from my work. There are no jobs available as I am uneducated. Through one of my contacts in Pune, I decided to visit the city and seek employment to support my family.”According to the trader community, Marathwada, which typically faces water shortage throughout the year, saw unprecedented rain at the time of withdrawal of the monsoon forcing many farmers and farm labourers to move out of the region in search of odd jobs to support their families.Farmer Atul Patil said that he used to cultivate soybean and basic pulses on his farm but the recent heavy rain destroyed his cultivation completely leading to huge losses. “One of my relatives is already working here in Pune and he helped me get the job. I will earn Rs15,000 to Rs20,000 in a month which will help me and my family,” he said.Santosh Bora - owner of Pune’s oldest cracker outlet, Bansilal Phataka mart and president of Shobhechi Daru Utpadak Kharidi Vikri Sahakari Sangh, a Pune-based umbrella organisation of firecracker outlets (registered in 1961) - has been helping distressed persons from the region. “Annually, 1,500 to 2,000 unemployed people usually come to Pune after Dussehra and work at temporary outlets set up during the festive season. But this year, over 2,000 people have come from Marathwada. Our organisation has decided to accommodate every person who arrives and has also made arrangements for food and shelter for the entire month. These people work very hard and are loyal and trustworthy. Since the local labour force is absent, we depend on them completely. Most of them are employed by traders because of their honesty and hard work,” Bora said.Sanjay Waghmare, a worker from Ausa in Latur said, “There is no work available at home and we have loans to pay and we have to support our families. The cracker traders provide all the necessary help to us and ensure that our stay is comfortable. This Diwali is an opportunity to do hard work and wipe-off debts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marathwada-farmers-seek-odd-jobs-in-pune-s-cracker-industry-101635878387996.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Traffic crawls in Delhi as people throng roads for shopping on Dhanteras||Long traffic jams were seen across the national capital on the occasion of Dhanteras on Tuesday, as commuters thronged the roads for festival shopping. Delhi traffic police officials said that on several arterial roads, vehicles moved at a snail’s pace, doubling the travel time as compared to regular days. Senior traffic police officials said that while higher traffic volume was observed in many parts of the Capital on Tuesday morning, the situation got worse in the evening. They said that the snarls were particularly bad around major markets, where haphazardly parked vehicles ate up road space. “We had anticipated higher traffic volume today (Tuesday) because of the Dhanteras festival rush, so we deployed additional traffic officials to direct vehicles. We had teams that were specially assigned for markets to ensure that there was no crowding. We were also checking illegal parking, which usually becomes a reason for traffic jams,” said a senior traffic police official.Information received from the traffic police’s control room showed that the worst affected stretches on Tuesday were Green Park, Ring Road around Lajpat Nagar, near Hyatt Hotel (around Sarojini Nagar market), Outer Ring Road near Vasant Vihar, Rajouri Garden (near the Metro station), Ashram intersection, Lala Lajpat Rai Road, Sardar Patel Marg towards Dhaula Kuan, ITO crossing, Shankar Road, Nangloi Chowk, Dwarka Link Road, Pankha Road, and Raghubir Nagar. Other areas that saw crawling traffic on Tuesday were areas near the Chattrasal Stadium, Ashok Vihar, Old Rohtak Road, Moolchand, and Mehrauli-Badarpur Road. Many commuters took to social media to complain about traffic mismanagement. They also complained about unmanned barricades placed by the Delhi Police, especially around roads leading up to markets and shopping malls, which they claimed made the traffic jams worse. “To cover a 100-metre distance from Savitri Cinema to Greater Kailash-II, it took me 45 minutes. There were no traffic policemen to be seen on the roads,” tweeted Sanjay Singh, a commuter. Another commuter, Subodh Singh also complained about traffic personnel not being seen on the roads. “Rajender Nagar crossing was totally out of control and no traffic policeman is seen,” he said. A senior traffic official said that traffic jams are expected across the city on Wednesday as well, adding that additional police personnel will be deployed to manage potential bottlenecks.“Diwali last year had many restrictions, but this time we are expecting jams to be more than usual. The restrictions on the Delhi Metro will also impact traffic on roads. However, we are doing our best to manage the situation, but we would also like to request people to not plan their shopping trips during the peak hours of the evening. If they can, they should travel after the office rush hours in the morning or before the rush starts again in the evening hours,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-crawls-in-delhi-as-people-throng-roads-for-shopping-on-dhanteras-101635878327960.html
03-11-2021||Other||Odisha students create 30 ft tall ‘robo’ out of e-waste||Students of a government Industrial Training Institute in Berhampur town of Odisha have developed a robot out of electronic wastes such as electronic toys, PCB, printer, printer cartridge, RAM, keyboard and mouse. The robot is being hailed as the tallest e-waste sculpture in the country, officials said.The 30’ ft tall ‘ROBO’ weighs 3 tonnes and has been made out of PCB, printer, printer cartridge, RAM, keyboard, mouse, monitor, mobile, CD player, TV and VCR by the trainees from electrician, electronics and painter trade of the institute. The e-waste for the robot was collected from Berhampur city.Dr Rajat Kumar Panigrahy, principal, ITI, Berhampur, said through the sculpture, students at ITI Berhampur are urging people to reconnect with Mother Earth by being responsible in the scientific management of e-waste.“As e-waste generation is very high in the current age and they comprise many toxic elements, including copper, liquid crystal, lithium, mercury, nickel, selenium, arsenic and barium, the robo is an effort to spread awareness among the people for environmental protection and proper management of e-waste. When e-waste is not properly managed, the risks of air and water pollution become significantly higher,” said Panigrahy.Last year, an open-air scrap sculpture park in the same institute made it to the Asia Book of Records with the book declaring it as the largest open-air scrap sculpture park in Asia. The scrap sculpture park in ITI Berhampur spread over 10000 square metres has 20 sculptures, ranging between 7 ft and 70 ft.Some of the exhibits in the park include Giant Guitar, Iron Man, Terminator, Dolphin, Turtle, Helicopter, Chetak, Predator, Spotted Deer, Robot, Reindeer, Lizard, Peacock, Huge Cow, King Kong, Fishing Lure, Tank, Hanging Fish and Giraffe.Last year, the Odisha government streamlined the collection of e-waste across all municipal bodies by designating Saturday as the day when e-waste would be collected. While wet and dry waste is collected on all other days, e-waste is collected on Saturdays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-students-create-30-ft-tall-robo-out-of-ewaste-101635878209196.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Jawaharlal Nehru University VC appointed 9 without authority: Delhi HC||The vice chancellor (VC) of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) does not have the authority to appoint the chairpersons of the centres or special centres, the Delhi high court has said while restraining nine people appointed by VC M Jagadesh Kumar from taking any decisions in their official capacity.“We are prima facie of the view that respondent no.2 (VC) is not vested with the power to appoint Chairpersons of Centres/Special Centres. The statute confers the power of appointment on the Executive Council. Thus, clearly the appointment of Chairpersons of Centres/Special Centres by respondent no.2 is, as is evident at this stage, prima facie, without authority,” a bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh said in an order of October 26 that was uploaded on the court website on Tuesday. The court, while hearing a plea by a professor, challenging the Executive Council’s approval to the nine professors appointed by the VC as chairpersons of different centres, also said that the VC can only exercise such powers only in ‘emergent situations’, according to the university statute. Professor Atul Sood had approached the court on September 26, challenging the September 2 approval granted by the executive council to the nine appointments made by the Vice Chancellor in July. Sood, through his counsel, Abhik Chimni, had contended that the VC did not have the powers to appoint the chairpersons of the various centres, including the Centre for Political Studies, Centre for Media Studies and Centre for Historical Studies. Appearing for the varsity, central government standing counsel Monica Arora, contended that the VC exercised his power under the statute of the university. She also argued that since, from time to time, the centres require appointment of chairperson(s), the power is exercised by the vice chancellor which is, thereafter, ratified by the Executive Council.However, the court rejected the Centre’s argument and said that the VC can exercise such powers only when immediate action is required “on account of an emergent situation”, which then is reported to the concerned authority for obtaining its approval.The court also noted that the petitioner objected to the agenda for the 296th meeting of the executive council on September 2, and informed that the council ignored a letter by petitioner raising objections to the appointment, and ratified them. The court further said that after a single bench of the high court on September 28 refused to stay the nine appointments made by the VC, the VC went ahead with the appointment of another person as chairperson of Centre of Spanish, Portuguese, Italian and Latin American Studies under the School of Language, Literature & Cultural Studies on October 8, again exercising the emergency powers vested in him.The bench restrained the chairpersons from making any decision and said, “Pending decision in the writ petition, the nine (9) chairpersons, who have been appointed…will not take any major decisions, including functions relating to convening of selection committees and/or carrying out selection(s), concerning the centres/special centres”.The court also asked the single judge, before whom the challenge to the appointment is pending, to advance the hearing of Sood’s plea and posted the matter for hearing on November 10.The JNU vice-chancellor did not respond to repeated queries, seeking a comment. The union education ministry on January 22 allowed Jagadesh Kumar, whose term was going to end on January 26, to continue in his position “until further orders”.Kumar’s tenure as JNU VC had been marked by several protests and controversies, including the 2016 sedition row, and protests on hostel fee hike which was followed by an attack on campus by a masked mob in January 2020, which had left several students and teachers injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jawaharlal-nehru-university-vc-appointed-9-without-authority-delhi-hc-101635878090028.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industrialists up in arms over rising prices of raw materials||Raising a hue and cry over rising inflation and unprecedented rise in prices of steel, nickel and other raw material, members of different industrial associations started an indefinite protest against the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) led Union government outside the office of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) on Tuesday. They demanded the formation of a regulatory commission at the national level to bring down the prices.With the assembly elections scheduled for next year, the industrialists carried placards and raised the slogans stating that they will only vote for the party which fulfils their demand. They stated that an hour-long protest will be staged outside the UCPMA office everyday till their demand is met.Representatives of industrial associations including UCPMA, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), Bicycle Research and Development Organisation (BRADO) and Sewing Machine Association participated in the protest.The industrialists stated that the prices of steel have increased by around 35% in the last two months and the skyrocketing prices of fuel and other raw materials have taken a toll on the sector. Former president of UCPMA Charanjit Vishwakarma and FICO president Gurmeet Kular stated that the industry, especially the MSME sector, will not be able to survive the frequent and unprecedented rise in prices. The industry has been demanding formation of a regulatory commission for a long time, but to no avail, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-up-in-arms-over-rising-prices-of-raw-materials-101635878030364.html
03-11-2021||Pune||RTO warns of strict action if private bus, taxi owners hike fares||PUNE Coming down hard on the proposed 12 per cent fare hike by the Pune Bus and Cars Owners’ Association, the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has warned that strict action will be take if increased fares are charged. There is no official permission for this fare hike and RTO has warned against overcharging. Last week, the association at a state-level general body meeting in Pune announced the hike. “We have not yet given authorisation or any kind of permission for the fare hike by the private bus and cars’ association. None of the passengers should be charged fares higher than the criteria of the state government. If we get any complaints regarding overcharging, then action will be taken on the bus and car owners,” said Ajit Shinde, Pune regional transport officer. At the annual general body meeting of the association last week, 500 representatives from across the state were present at Siddhi Gardens near Mhatre bridge. There are 16,000 small and big buses in Pune and 1,000 bus and car owners are who are association members. “For the last 19 months these vehicles were stopped due to the pandemic and there was no business. So already we are facing a financial crisis and top of that now the diesel hike. So to repair, maintain and sustain our vehicles this decision of a rate fare hike was taken,” said Rajan Junavane, president of the association. “Despite the Diwali festive season there is not much business, apart from that school buses and buses for the IT companies are at a standstill for the last two years. In such a difficult situation we are not left with any other option than to increase the fares,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rto-warns-of-strict-action-if-private-bus-taxi-owners-hike-fares-101635878028765.html
03-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj:Shine City additional director sent to jail||PRAYAGRAJ: The additional director of Shine City, Jaseem Khan, who was arrested by Special Task Force (STF) from near the Civil Lines bus depot on Monday, was sent to jail on Tuesday. He was arrested in a case related to duping people in the name of doubling their money by investing in real estate, RO water plants, jewellery, bitcoins and hot deals. Jaseem was handling the company’s operations in Prayagraj. Now, Economic Offence Wing (EOW) officials will question him further, said one of the officials probing the case. During questioning Jaseem told police that he joined Shine City after coming in contact with Javed Iqbal in 2014 and was later appointed as additional director. He was given responsibility to manage company’s business in Prayagraj by Rashid Naseem. He was assisted by Javed Iqbal, Shashwat Maurya and Rajesh Maurya. Shine City first lured people on pretext of investments in real estate. The company’s officials then duped people in the name of doubling their money by investing in RO water plants, jewellery, bitcoins and hot deals. He further informed that Shine City’s properties were registered in the name of Shamshad Ansari, while Sandeep Pandey of Lucknow and Amitabh Srivastava of Varanasi were also on major positions in the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagrajshine-city-additional-director-sent-to-jail-101635877968539.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||Snag at Delhi automated parking lot causes 4 platforms to collapse||Four platforms of an automated tower parking facility in Green Park collapsed on Tuesday evening, allegedly due to a technical fault, damaging two vehicles, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which runs the facility, said, adding that no one was injured in the mishap. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaikar said information was received at the Hauz Khas police station about electrically operated floor plates (that shift the cars) collapsing at the multilevel parking facility, damaging a few cars. “No injury or casualty was reported. The parking has been blocked and no entry is permitted until a complete technical inspection is carried out,” she said. While no one has been injured, the first such accident at an automated parking facility has raised questions about the safety and maintenance of these lots. Users whose vehicles got stuck inside also posed questions about the safety of their vehicles. “My vehicle is worth ₹21 lakh and it is now stuck at the facility. How can I go home and sleep? Who will guarantee the safety of our vehicles?” a parking user said, asking not to be named.South corporation officials attempted to downplay the incident and said only two vehicles sustained “minor damages”. Inderjeet Sehrawat, leader of the house, said a fault occurred in the automated facility as a result of which some of the electrical floor plates “got bent and caused minor damage to one vehicle”. “No one has been injured and the incident is being exaggerated by the Aam Aadmi Party. We will rectify the situation,” he said. A senior SDMC official from the engineering department said maintenance work was being carried out at the parking lot on Tuesday, during which a snag seems to have occurred and the empty platforms (used to move vehicles) collided. “The four platforms that collided were empty. Two cars have sustained minor damages. The operation and maintenance of the parking facility are carried out by a private operator. Prima facie, it appears that a few plates malfunctioned. There is no manual interference in the automated parking and so no one was injured. We will operationalise the lift at night,” the official said, asking not to be named. Prem Chauhan, leader of the opposition in the SDMC, said the collapse shows that corruption has taken place in the project. “Who will compensate the people whose cars were damaged? The officials concerned and BJP leaders should be held accountable,” he said. AAP MLA Somnath Bharti said the accident reflects the scale of corruption in the municipal body. “A big disaster has been averted. What would have happened if anyone was standing near the collapsed platforms? A probe should be carried out into this collapse,” he said.SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said a probe has been ordered. “The facility was opened in November 2020 and it has been operating smoothly till now. A technical problem occurred in one of the towers on the eighth floor due to which one plate fell. No one has been injured and no damage to property has occurred. Officials are present on the site and the facility will be re operationalized at night,” he said.Built with an estimated cost of ₹18.20 crore, the automated tower parking facility in Green Park consists of two towers. The first tower was inaugurated by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri in January 2020 while the second tower was opened by Union minister RK Singh in November 2020. The 17-storey facility is 39.5 metres high and is spread over an area of 878 square metres. It was the first automated tower parking facility in the city and the two towers can accommodate 136 cars at a stretch. The SDMC has planned several such automated parking projects in the areas of GK1, GK2, Amar Colony, Nizamuddin, Punjabi Bagh and Sarai Kale Khan. Three automated parking projects have been opened in Green Park, Lajpat Nagar and Adhchini. The Adhchini facility was inaugurated just nine days ago, on October 24, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/snag-at-delhi-automated-parking-lot-causes-4-platforms-to-collapse-2-cars-damaged-101635877852316.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP slams Punjab govt over rising unemployment||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday threatened to start an agitation if the Congress-led Punjab government doesn’t start disbursing unemployment allowances to the jobless youth of the state, as it had promised in the 2017 elections . Addressing a press conference at the party’s office in Gian Singh Rarewala market, the district unit of AAP demanded that the allowance be transferred into the accounts of unemployed youths starting from 2017, when the Congress government was formed in the state. AAP leaders including district president Suresh Goyal, Daljit (Bhola) Grewal and Kulwant Sidhu said that the Congress government befooled the public during the 2017 elections and have failed to perform at the ground level in the last 4.5 years. They added that the unemployed youth is being pushed towards drugs, as they don’t have jobs to make ends meet. Grewal demanded that the state government should also fix atleast 80% quota for the youth of the state in private sector jobs, as it has been done by neighbouring states. Also, the upper age limit for police recruitment exam should be removed, as the exam has been delayed for a long time and many of the applicants have now become overage, he added.Cong patronising transport mafia: AAPCiting a private bus parked near the party office, AAP leaders slammed transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring over his alleged failure in tightening the noose around transport mafia. The owner of the bus, Sukhjinder Singh, however claimed to have a valid permit and accused the AAP leaders of defaming him.AAP leader Ashok Prashar Pappi stated that private bus operators are operating without paying fees to the government and are fleecing the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-slams-punjab-govt-over-rising-unemployment-101635877849510.html
03-11-2021||Delhi||15k students enrolled under Delhi govt’s free coaching scheme this yr: Minister||Around 15,000 students have enrolled this year for coaching classes for various competitive exams at empanelled centres under a Delhi government scheme for children belonging to marginalised communities and economically backward households, said social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam.The Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas scheme -- open for students belonging to scheduled castes (SC), scheduled tribes (ST), other backward classes (OBC) and those from families with annual income less than ₹8 lakh per annum, popularly called Economically Weaker Section (EWS) -- was suspended last year in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier this year, the government issued public notices announcing that it has resumed.Under the scheme, students can avail free coaching at 46 empanelled private coaching centres -- and, under special provisions, some non-empanelled centres too -- for a wide range of competitive exams including UPSC, CDS, banking exams, medical and engineering entrances, prominent law university entrances and management school exams.In 2018, when the scheme was open only for SC/ST students, around 5,000 students enrolled. The next year witnessed enrolment of 15,000 students after the scheme was opened for OBC and EWS students, said Gautam.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s resolve to uplift the poorest of poor students gets strength... Under the Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana (scheme), meritorious students belonging to SC/ST/OBC and EWS categories receive free coaching from private institutes for competitive exams,” said the minister.He further said, “It is the dream of CM Arvind Kejriwal that even the poorest of poor kids who want to become someone prominent receive assistance and support in fulfilling their dreams. If a kid from a family earning less than ₹8 lakh per annum is talented, they will no longer have to face the hurdles of poverty, the Kejriwal government will provide them free coaching. Other than tuition fees, we will also provide a stipend of ₹2,500 to the beneficiary students so that they do not face problems in their commute.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/15k-students-enrolled-under-delhi-govt-s-free-coaching-scheme-this-yearminister-101635877247756.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||NEET 2021 results: Six candidates from Ludhiana make it to top 1,000||In a stellar showing, six medical aspirants from Ludhiana secured all-India ranks within the top 1,000 from among 16 lakh candidates, in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) UG 2021.The National Testing Agency initially sent the results to the candidates via email on Monday evening and the results were later released on its official websites, neet.nta.nic.in and ntaresults.ac.The NEET exam, which is held for admission to medical colleges across India, was conducted on September 12 and over 2,000 candidates had appeared in Ludhiana.Shreya Chopra of Ludhiana secured AIR 470, with 690 marks out of 720.Pertinently, Shivam Singla also scored the same marks, but his AIR is 509 as he scored lower in biology than Shreya.Shreya lives on the CMC campus and her parents, who are both doctors, inspired her to enter the medical field. Sharing her success mantra, she said that staying away from the phone and using it only to clear doubts with her teachers helped her stay focused. “In last two months I studied at least for 10 to 12 hours per day, but I used to take short breaks to play badminton, take walks and paint,” said Chopra.Her father Dr Sandip Chopra is a cardiologist at Fortis Hospital and mother Dr Rupali Chopra is an ophthalmologist at CMC Ludhiana.“I have not decided my stream but for now, I am hoping to get a seat in Delhi or GMCH, Chandigarh,” added Shreya. She got 91% in her Class 12 board exams. Meanwhile, Shivam, who lives in Modi Enclave, Barewal Road, has fulfilled his father’s dream. “My father couldn’t become a doctor due to inadequate financial resources. Both my parents are have government jobs. I am living my father’s dream,” shared Shivam.He said consistency and focus helped him do well. “I studied for at least six hours everyday. Since fitness is also important, I used to play cricket and badminton. Music is the best refreshment for a tired mind and I also play the guitar,” he said. Shivam procured 90% marks in Class 12.Divye Ahlawat of BRS Nagar secured AIR 546 with 687 marks. “I had divided the syllabus and focused on achieving small targets daily. I also used to play basketball and online games along with exercising. I studied consistently, but didn’t isolate myself from the outside world,” stated Divye. His father Devinder Singh is the commissioner of income tax, appeals, Ludhiana.“My father also did MBBS and my uncle is a doctor and thus I always wanted to be one. Now, I hope to get a seat in a medical college in Delhi or Chandigarh,” he added. Divye scored 97.2% in Class 12.Meanwhile, Anika Sehgal, who bagged AIR 636, was inspired by her parents Dr Ananad Sehgal and Dr Deepshikha Sehgal, who are both deputed in LudhianaAnika, who is looking forward to getting a seat in top medical colleges in Delhi, hates to be a bookworm. According to her, one should be a smart worker and should also enjoy life other than studies.“I used to study daily for five hours but I made sure that I got time to play badminton. I have recently started learning guitar,” she said. She added that preparing short notes helped her eventually during her revision. Anika got 95.2% marks in Class 12.Arnav Singla procured AIR 841 with 681 marks. Born in a family of doctors, Arnav was also inspired by his father Dr Dinesh Singla, who is a gastroenterologist and mother Dr Ruchi Singla, a gynaecologist in Ludhiana.His elder brother Anirudh is pursuing MBBS from DMCH. Arnav procured 78% marks in Class 12. “I used to watch movies on Netflix and regularly hit the gym along with the NEET preparations to relieve mental pressure,” he said. Saurish Ohri secured AIR 877 with 680 marks. Both his parents are also doctors in Ludhiana. “I remained focused in the last two years of preparing for NEET. I also want to be a surgeon like my father and hope to get a seat in GMCH, Chandigarh,” said Ohri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/neet-results-2021-six-candidates-from-ludhiana-make-it-to-top-1000-101635877009657.html
03-11-2021||Other||800gm heroin seizure in Haryana: HC grants bail, saying accused not properly informed of search procedure||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to an accused in a 800-gram heroin seizure case as the accused was not properly informed of his rights during search at the time of alleged recovery. Section 50 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) provides for the right to be searched in the presence of a gazetted officer or a magistrate. The FIR in the case was registered on January 22 at Kundli police station in Sonepat. The search in the case was done by the police party, which made the seizure and a magistrate or a gazetted officer was not involved. “No doubt, notice under Section 50 of the NDPS Act mentions the petitioner having been apprised of his rights, but the said notice is absolutely silent as to what rights were apprised to the petitioner, as also whether he was apprised of his right under Section 50 of NDPS Act, which to be searched in the presence of a magistrate or a gazetted officer. The said notice merely mentions the petitioner having been informed of his rights as also the option if he so desired to get his search conducted by a magistrate or gazetted officer,” the bench of justice BS Walia said, granting bail to the accused. The bench added that merely informing the accused that he had rights under the NDPS Act, without specifying what rights the accused had would not constitute compliance with the mandatory requirement under Section 50 sub-section (1) of the Act. “This not being complied with, and considering the strict punishment provided for an offence under the NDPS Act, the failure to comply with Section 50 of the NDPS Act renders the recovery of the illicit article suspect,” the bench added.‘NOT SEARCHED IN PRESENCE OF GAZETTED OFFICER’The court was hearing a bail plea from one Sunil. He, along with Mukdar, Arvind and Vikas were travelling in a car and 803gm of powder alleged to be heroin (commercial quantity) was seized by the Haryana Police. The accused had argued before court that since he was not informed of his right to be searched in the presence of a gazetted officer or a magistrate, there was non-compliance of Section 50 of the NDPS Act. Hence, he be granted bail.However, a consent memo was taken stating that he agreed for the search and that he was informed of the rights at the time of the search. The court had found that the accused was apprised of his rights, but the notice was silent as to what rights he was apprised of to conduct the search. The government counsel argued the petitioner was informed, of the apprehension of the police that he had some intoxicating material and that he was given option to get his search conducted by a magistrate or gazetted officer and there was due compliance with the mandate of NDPS Act. However, the court observed that in this case the requirement under Section 50 NDPS Act was not merely a technical breach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/800gm-heroin-seizure-in-haryana-not-informed-properly-of-rights-during-search-hc-grants-bail-101635876648932.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Dhanteras spreads festive cheer as markets sparkle again in Lucknow||Festival shoppers on Tuesday returned to markets in Lucknow after a year’s gap, bringing back the much-awaited business on Dhanteras day that marks the onset of the Diwali festivities.The markets in Lucknow clocked an estimated business of ₹3000 crore, which is a jump of at least 26% over last year’s figures. Bullion, utensil, automobile and clothes markets recorded the most business.From the afternoon onwards, people began pouring into the major markets like Aminabad, Hazratganj, Chowk and Bhootnath which remained packed till late into the night as people bought an array of items on the auspicious day.“The market today was so crowded that it was impossible to move at a quick pace. This made shopping tiresome but it also felt nice in a way. I hope that normalcy remains,” said Pushpa Yadav, a homemaker of Gomti Nagar Extension area who visited the Aminabad market in the afternoon. Covid-19 protocols were ignored as people focused more on shopping.The crowds brought back smiles to shopkeepers. Vinod Sharma, office bearer of the Sarafa association, said, “The bullion market sold around 20 kg of gold and around 300 kg of silver. The trade was much awaited after the slump due to Covid-19. This will boost the market and bring it back on an upward path.”The cloth market in Lucknow recorded an estimated trade of ₹300 crore. People also thronged electronics shops and vehicle showrooms. Both these markets recorded a trade of ₹500 crore in a single day. Cars, two-wheelers and commercial vehicles were booked in large numbers. Apart from big traders, local businesses also welcomed record footfall. Dinesh Kumar Rawat, owner of a general store in Sadar Bazar, said, “The market today had the Diwali fervour it lacked last year. We are thankful to the Almighty and our customers for this and hope that this will continue in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dhanteras-spreads-festive-cheer-as-markets-sparkle-again-in-lucknow-101635876229252.html
03-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram admin withdraws nod for 8 namaz sites after objections||The Gurugram district administration on Tuesday withdrew permissions for eight of the 37 designated namaz sites after representatives of Muslim groups on Monday offered to stop offering Friday prayers on government land over objections raised by residents and right-wing Hindu groups. Officials of the district administration said that they have formed a committee, comprising a subdivisional magistrate, an assistant commissioner of police and members of religious organisations and civil society groups to hold a discussion on the issue. A meeting in this regard is likely to take place on Wednesday morning and a decision on prayer sites are likely to be taken, officials said.A release issued by the district administration on Tuesday stated, “It has been decided to form a committee comprising all the stakeholders which will discuss the matter with all communities to resolve the issue. It will be ensured that local residents don’t face any trouble due to this practice. It will also be ensured that no road or public place is designated as a site for offering prayers. The committee will also take consent from locals at the time of designating a spot for offering prayers.”Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram said that all stakeholders are being engaged to resolve the matter peacefully. “Hectic discussions and meetings are being held daily with members of both Hindu and Muslim communities to resolve this issue peacefully. The proposed committee will engage with all stakeholders and finalise a solution that is acceptable to everyone. It has been agreed by both sides that ensuring peace and brotherhood in the city will remain their priority. The matter will be resolved through consensus in the next few days,” Garg said. According to a statement issued by the Gurugram police, permission for eight sites were withdrawn and a decision on the remaining sites will be taken by the committee. The eight designated sites for which permissions were withdrawn are located in Bengali Basti in Sector 49, V Block of DLF Phase-3, Surat Nagar Phase-1, outskirts of Kherki Majra village, outskirts of Daulatabad village near Dwarka Expressway, near Ramgarh village in Sector 68, near DLF Square Tower and Rampur village, in the direction of Nakhrola Road.Officials of the district administration said that the committee will ensure that namaz is offered at mosques or designated sites decided by consensus. It also directed that permission from the administration is required to offer namaz in an open or public place. They also called upon both Hindu and Muslim organisations to work in a coordinated manner to ensure peace in the city. On Monday, representatives of the Muslim groups and Haryana Waqf Board stated that they would refrain from offering namaz at sites where the public objected to the same and asked that the administration clear encroachments on 19 land parcels of the Waqf Board. Meanwhile, members of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, a Hindu organisation that has been protesting the practice, held a meeting with the district administration on Tuesday and reiterated their demand for ending the practice. “Our only submission to the district administration is that prayers should not be held in the open,” said Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal advisor of the Samiti. Mahavir Bhardwaj, the president of the Samiti, said that they will conduct Govardhan Puja and Annkoot Puja on a designated namaz site in Sector 12 on November 5. Members of civil society groups said that their constitutional rights were being violated as every citizen has a right to practice their religion freely. “I have come to know via media reports that eight spots of Juma Namaz have been cancelled by the administration. I hope that this information is incorrect as there is no basis on which administration can cancel these namaz sites. The administration must ensure that rights of citizens are protected and it does not succumb to the pressure and threats made by hatemongers in the name of religion,” Altaf Ahmad, a member of Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, said. Ahmad said that the decision taken by the Muslim Ekta Manch, a group representing Muslims in the city, on Monday to stop Friday prayers in public places is a step taken in its personal capacity, and it was not binding on all members of the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-row-admin-withdraws-permissions-for-8-sites-meeting-with-community-leaders-called-101635875990911.html
03-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri: Bail application of Union minister’s son to be heard today||The bail application of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra alias Monu in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case of October 3 will be heard at the Lakhimpur district and sessions court on Wednesday, senior prosecution officer SP Yadav said on Tuesday.Earlier, Ashish Mishra’s bail application was rejected by the court of the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) on October 13 after which he had applied in the district and sessions court on October 21. While hearing his application on October 28, the court had deferred the hearing till November 3.Yadav said the district and sessions court will hear the bail application of the key accused Ashish Mishra, as well as the bail applications of two other accused Luv Kush Rana and Ashish Pandey, on Wednesday.He said the chief judicial magistrate court has extended the judicial custody of 13 accused for another 14 days till November 16. They were arrested in connection with the first FIR for mowing down of farmers by a car. He said the court also rejected the bail plea of three accused Rinku Rana, Dharmendra and Mohit Trivedi in the case.Earlier on Monday, the CJM court rejected the bail applications of four accused Sumit Jaiswal, Satya Prakash alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht and Shishu Pal. They are among the 13 accused arrested in connection with the FIR lodged over the mowing down of the four farmers.On October 3, violence had erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikunia area during a farmers’ protest when four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a car. Four others, including a local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janta Party workers, were also killed in the violence.The minister’s son and 15 other unidentified persons had been implicated in FIR registered in connection with the mowing down of the farmers. The minister and his son have repeatedly denied Ashish Mishra’s involvement in the incident.The second FIR was lodged in connection with the killing of the four others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-bail-application-of-junior-home-minister-s-son-to-be-heard-on-wednesday-101635875448303.html
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana byelection: INLD’s Abhay Chautala retains Ellenabad seat||Indian National Lok Dal candidate Abhay Singh Chautala on Tuesday retained the INLD’s lone Ellenabad seat in the Haryana assembly by defeating his BJP rival, Gobind Kanda, by 6,739 votes. Abhay polled 65,992 votes, while Kanda got 59,253 votes and Pawan Beniwal of the Congress emerged third with 20,904 votes.This is Abhay’s fifth victory in the assembly elections and he has remained undefeated from this rural Jat-dominated seat since the 2010 byelection that was necessitated after his father OP Chautala resigned as he had won from Uchana Kalan in Jind also. This is the BJP’s second defeat in a Haryana byelection within a year. Last year, BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt was defeated by Indu Raj Narwala of the Congress in the Baroda byelection in Sonepat district. Farmer leaders backed Abhay The Ellenabad byelection was necessitated after Abhay resigned from the state assembly in support of farmers protesting against the three farm laws on January 27. This was the first byelection in Haryana after the farmers’ agitation reached Delhi’s borders. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait had extended support to Abhay at a rally recently. “With the blessings of farmers, I have secured victory from here. The BJP had adopted all methods to influence them but they went in vain. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar resign because this election was a referendum on the three farm laws,” Abhay said after he was declared winner. This assembly seat includes 35% Jat voters, a majority of whom are dependent on agriculture. Abhay said he will visit Tikri and Singhu borders to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. “If the farmers will ask me to tender my resignation again, I will do the same. The election commission has failed to take action against the ruling party leaders for violating the model code of conduct,”Chautala added.Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal lost security deposit and it seems to be a blow for party’s state chief Kumari Selja, who had inducted him into the party and fielded him in the fray ignoring senior party leader and former Darba Kalan MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal. In the last 10 days, Bharat had remained away from canvassing and had called Pawan as “weak candidate”. As per experts, internal rift was the main reason that Pawan lost his security deposit.Urban votes went to BJP: Expert A retired political science professor of Government College, Bhiwani, Anant Ram, said the results of the Ellenabad byelection are satisfactory both for the BJP and the INLD. “Before the start of the byelection, no one had expected that the BJP would give such a strong fight to the INLD. The Congress has performed poorly. The rural areas are dominated by Abhay but the urban voters have reposed faith in the BJP. So, it’s a win-win for INLD, BJP and protesting farmers. The Congress campaign revolved around state party chief Kumari Selja as the rival faction, led by former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, did not show interest,” Ram said. Overwhelmed by public support: Kanda 81.38% voter turnout was reported in Ellenabad on Saturday. In the 2019 assembly elections, the constituency recorded a polling percentage of 83.24%. BJP candidate Gobind Kanda thanked his supporters. “I’m overwhelmed with the public support. People have backed the development work initiated by the Manohar Lal Khattar government,” he said. Third bypoll victory, levels family record With this victory, Abhay has levelled the record of his father, Om Prakash Chautala, and his grandfather, the late Ch Devi Lal, who had both won three byelections in their political careers. Abhay had won the Rori byelection in 2000 and the Ellenabad byelection in 2010. Former deputy prime minister Ch Devi Lal had won the Sirsa byelection in 1959, Rori in 1974 and Meham in 1985, while OP Chautala had emerged winner from Ellenabad in 1970, Darba in 1990 and Narwana in the 1993 byelection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-byelection-inld-s-abhay-chautala-leading-in-ellenabad-101635834993507.html
