04-11-2021||Mumbai||Money laundering case: ED summons Anil Deshmukh’s son||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials have summoned former state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s son, Hrishikesh Deshmukh and asked him to be present on Friday for questioning in connection with a money laundering case in which his father is currently under arrest. Deshmukh, 71, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate after a 12-hour on Monday interrogation by officials. On Thursday, Deshmukh was was taken to JJ Hospital for a routine check up on Thursday. “He (Deshmukh) was brought to the hospital for routine check up at 12.30pm and was taken back to ED office by 1pm,” said Sanjay Surwase, superintendent at JJ Hospital. Deshmukh, who appeared before ED for the first time on Monday after skipping multiple summons for the last four months, was arrested in the early hours of Tuesday in connection with the alleged ₹100-crore extortion and money laundering case. ED filed a case against Deshmukh and others after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked him in a corruption case related to allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Singh, according to whom Deshmukh got police officers to extort over ₹100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.ED claims that the money was sent to Delhi-based Jain brothers who reportedly operated paper (bogus) companies using hawala channels. The Jain brothers reportedly diverted this money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by the Deshmukh family. ED suspects that the Jain brothers were acting on the instructions of Deshmukh’s son, Hrishikesh. Deshmukh was arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He has been remanded to ED custody till November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-ed-summons-anil-deshmukh-s-son-101636049708333.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 241 fresh Covid cases and 4 deaths||Pune district reported 241 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours on Thursday. Four deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Of these, three were reported from Pune rural. No deaths were reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and one death was reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 520,987 Covid cases and 9,202 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 268,786 cases so far and a total of 3,503 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 365,890 total cases so far and 6,907 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,155,663 Covid cases. Of these, 1,132,512 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 19,961 deaths in the district. At present, there are 3,190 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 1,163 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,456,263 in the State. The recovery rate in the state is 97.6%.Across Maharashtra, 1,141 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 36 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.Currently 186,432 people are in home quarantine and 878 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-241-fresh-covid-cases-and-4-deaths-101636048568224.html
04-11-2021||Pune||PMC starts prep for opening of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College||PUNE: With the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) planning to start a medical college in the name of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee from this academic year, the standing committee of the civic body has approved ₹1.97 crore for furniture, and over ₹62 lakh for buying various books as part of the initial purchase.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The PMC has got all the necessary permissions for starting a new medical college in the name of former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee. As admissions start this year, the PMC is setting up the necessary furniture at Baburao Sanas school.” Rasane said that staff recruitment for the medical college is in its final stage and the standing committee has approved ₹62.51 lakh for purchasing various books.Earlier on October 16, the central government gave its clearance for the PMC-run Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College to begin from this academic year. The medical college will be located at and attached to the Kamala Nehru hospital and Naidu hospital in the city. This year, a total 100 students will get admission and constitute the first batch.A central government team had previously visited the PMC and raised objections but the mayor and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar subsequently met Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in the capital to sort out various issues.Rasane said, “The PMC has established the pathological ward at Kamala Nehru hospital which spans an area of 2,200 square feet. The standing committee has already decided to run this ward with the help of Poona Medical and Relief and Research Centre.” The PMC has also approved the rates for various tests and all tests will have to be conducted at the decided rates only.After B J Medical college, the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College will be the second government-run medical college in the city. The PMC has formed a trust to run the college and is hoping that trainees from the college will serve in PMC-run hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-starts-prep-for-opening-of-atal-bihari-vajpayee-medical-college-101636047247957.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi top cop Asthana meets policemen on Diwali night; offers sweets||Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana offered sweets to police personnel who were posted in evening duty during Diwali on Thursday. Visuals shared by news agency ANI showed Asthana handing over packets of sweets to personnel at various parts of Delhi.Asthana visited C-Hexagon, India Gate and Pragati Maidan to meet police officers on duty.Police officers will keep strict vigil in the national capital on the night of Diwali. Cops have tightened security arrangements and night patrolling in various parts of the city.“Police have been deployed everywhere, both in the afternoon and at night. There is strict checking at pickets. Verification of all sorts is being done, be it of tenants, servants or SIM cards. We are keeping an eye on suspicious activities and persons,” Shweta Chauhan, the DCP, Central Delhi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Police officials will also use CCTV cameras as a part of their vigil. Chauhan said that women patrolling staff are deployed in plenty to give women confidence that ‘police is approachable.’Police have asked people to not burn crackers and follow Covid-19 protocols while celebrating Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-top-cop-asthana-meets-policemen-on-diwali-night-offers-sweets-101636046792201.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Admission process for engineering UG, PG courses begins||The admission process for the engineering undergraduate and post-graduate courses for this academic year has begun, as the state common entrance test (CET) cell has now declared its online admission schedule for students. Students can apply for the engineering and technology degree courses (BE and BTech) till November 18 and the first general merit list will be announced on November 22. As per information given by the state CET cell, there will be two admission rounds conducted online. Students need to first register online, submit an application, upload the necessary documents on the website, then verification of these documents and applications will be done before the application is confirmed. While students will be able to opt for e-scrutiny online, or by going to the nearest centres to can get their documents verified. The first round of admissions will start from November 28. The provisional allotment list for this round will be announced on December 2 and the students will know the final allotment list and allotted colleges on December 3. “However, considering the Covid-19 outbreak and at present situation, it is essential to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding for document verification. In view of this, the concept of e-Scrutiny of the documents is introduced. The candidate shall choose any one mode for document verification during the filling of the form,” said R S Jagtap, state CET cell director. Admission process for engineering courses - Online registration and upload documents - November 18 till 5 pm- Document verification, application confirmation, e-scrutiny, or scrutiny by visiting a centre - November 20 till 5 pm- Provisional general merit List announcement - November 22- Objections to the general provisional merit list, period for filing objections - November 23- 25- Final merit list announced - November 27- Announcement of vacancy details for the first round of admission - November 27Website for online registration of students – www.mahacet.org||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/admission-process-for-engineering-ug-pg-courses-begins-101636046948179.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Forest department to form committee to decide on fate of captured leopard||The forest department this week captured a female leopard in Goregaon’s Aarey Colony that was behind a recent spate of attacks on humans. In the last two months alone, nine people including a 68-year-old woman and a four-year-old child have sustained injuries after the leopard charged at them. These were the first instances of human-leopard conflict in the region since 2017.As per human-leopard conflict management guidelines given by the Union environment ministry, the additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) Maharashtra, will head a committee of experts, veterinarians and forest department officials to decide the fate of the animal after an examination of the animal, and assessing the risks associated with reintroducing it into the Aarey forest. Despite installing multiple camera traps and creating emergency response teams the leopard (officially known as C32) had eluded officials. A sub-adult female leopard aged between one-and-a-half and two years was previously captured in the early hours of October 1, but was identified to be a different animal than the female behind the recent attacks. The forest department trapped another sub-adult female leopard in a cage near Mumbai’s Aarey Colony’s dairy unit number 13 on October 15, but once again it turned out to be a different leopard.Gajendra Hire, deputy conservator of forests (Thane), who coordinated the response between experts, the forest department, citizens and volunteer organisations said, “Translocation and keeping the animal in captivity are both possible options. The animal is currently being held at Sanjay Gandhi National Park. At present it won’t be possible to comment on further course of action until a committee is formed to deliberate on the matter. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/forest-department-to-form-committee-to-decide-on-fate-of-captured-leopard-101636046047903.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Guidelines for Chhath Puja out; BJP demands allowing celebrations at beaches||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), while allowing Chhath Puja celebrations this year, on November 10, has asked devotees to perform the puja at artificial ponds. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded to allow the rituals to be carried out at beaches and seashores.The civic body has also asked the police to ensure that there is no crowding at beaches.The circular issued by the BMC states, “Keeping in mind the crowding during Chhath Puja, a mass celebration of Chhath Pooja at seashores should be avoided and the police must ensure that there is low crowding. Organisations that are asking for permissions at the ward level should construct artificial ponds at their own cost and even fill up the ponds after Chhath Puja is over. This will be the responsibility of the organisation applying for the permission.”Further, the BMC has said that there should only be 50% capacity or a maximum of 200 persons for the celebration in open areas and only 100 persons or 50% of the capacity in closed venues. The BMC has also asked organisers to thermal screen all devotees before they are allowed to take part in the celebrations.Meanwhile, BJP corporator Vinod Mishra said, “We have already taken up the issue with the BMC and demanded that they allow puja at beaches. They have also deployed the police to ensure there is no crowding. The BMC must facilitate the celebrations.”Mishra added, “Also, the BMC must create artificial ponds to avoid crowding and not put the responsibility on the organisers. This is unfair as in other festivals, celebration at the beach was allowed in a limited manner and similarly, even the Chhath Pooja should be allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/guidelines-for-chhath-puja-out-bjp-demands-allowing-celebrations-at-beaches-101636044187942.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi chokes for breath as cracker ban goes for toss in Diwali||Skies over Delhi hung heavy with smoke and its air quality inched towards “severe” category on Diwali night as people burst firecrackers in a blatant disregard to the government’s ban against it.The situation was aggravated further as the festivities were coincided with seasonal farm fires, fumes from which invade the national capital around winter.People from several parts of the city and its suburbs complained of itchy throat and watery eyes, as a layer of smog, the first episode this season, enveloped the environment, news agency PTI reported.Residents of Lajpat Nagar in south Delhi, Burari in north Delhi, Paschim Vihar in west Delhi and Shahdara in east Delhi reported incidents of firecracker bursting as early as 7pm, despite the blanket ban in the national capital till January 1, 2022.ALSO READ | Delhi's air quality remains 'very poor' amid concerns over a worsening crisisSeveral incidents of bursting of high-intensity crackers were reported from Gurugram and Faridabad.The Haryana government had also imposed a ban on Sunday on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region, while curbs were put in other parts.Experts predicted the air quality here may plunge to the severe category by midnight owing to unfavorable meteorological conditions — calm winds, low temperature and low mixing height — and a poisonous cocktail of emissions from firecrackers, stubble burning and local sources.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the “first episode of fog” in the capital reduced visibility at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and the Safdarjung Airport to the range of 600-800 metres in the morning.“It continued to remain in the poor range of 800-900 meters in smog throughout the day due to calm wind conditions,” senior IMD scientist R K Jenamani was quoted as saying by PTI.The first episode of smog coincided with the share of farm fires in Delhi's pollution increasing to the season's highest at 25%.“The PM2.5 pollution in the national capital may enter the ‘severe’ zone by midnight even if there is only 50% of firecrackers emission as compared to last year,” said Gufran Beig, the founder-project director of SAFAR.ALSO READ | Don’t link crackers with religion: Delhi environment minister Gopal RaiThe PM2.5 pollution will shoot up rapidly by Friday early morning with the AQI even crossing the 500 mark, he said.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration in Delhi-NCR stood at 243 micrograms per cubic meter at 6 pm, more than four times the safe limit of 60 micrograms per cubic meter.The national capital's 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) stood at 382 on Thursday, up from 314 on Wednesday. It was 303 on Tuesday and 281 on Monday.AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.“The extremely calm wind conditions in Delhi and 25 per cent stubble share (fire count 2,293) are two major factors today,” SAFAR said.As per SAFAR model forecasts, the stubble burning share may increase to 35 per cent on Friday and 40 per cent on Saturday with the wind direction changing to northwesterly.Northwesterly winds carry smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana towards the national capital.“Relief is expected only from the evening of November 7 but AQI will fluctuate within 'very poor' range,” the air quality forecast agency said.Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution had peaked at 42 per cent on November 5. In 2019, crop residue burning accounted for 44 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on November 1.The contribution of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 concentration was 32 per cent on Diwali day last year as compared to 19 per cent in 2019.On October 27, the Delhi government had launched the 'Patakhe Nahi Diye Jalao' campaign to create awareness against the bursting of crackers.Under the campaign, action can be taken under relevant IPC provisions and the Explosives Act against anyone found burning crackers.According to the government, more than 13,000 kg of illegal firecrackers have been seized and 33 people arrested so far under the anti-cracker campaign.Experts warned that emissions by firecrackers, if unchecked, could exacerbate already unfavourable meteorological conditions — including slow winds and below-normal temperatures, and the impact of stubble fires in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-chokes-for-breath-as-cracker-ban-goes-for-toss-in-diwali-101636042292048.html
04-11-2021||Lucknow||30 fresh Zika cases confirmed in 2 Kanpur localities, total rises to 66||KANPUR: Thirty more people tested positive for the Zika virus in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur on Thursday, the highest single-day jump in the infections since the first case of the virus was reported in the city on October 23.Kanpur chief medical officer Dr Nepal Singh said Thursday’s confirmation increases the total cases in the district to 66; 45 males and 21 females.Dr Singh said the National Institute for Virology Pune has confirmed the fresh cases. The samples were sent for testing three days ago. Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of an infected Aedes species of mosquito named Aedes aegypti. According to the World Health Organization, the Aedes mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon or evening.Also Read: Zika virus in UP: Symptoms, treatment and other things to knowUP’s first Zika virus case was reported from the Indian Air Force station area in Kanpur on October 23 when a warrant officer tested positive for the infection. Subsequently, three more cases were also discovered from the IAF station area.The health department marked an area within a two-km radius of the IAF station in an effort to localise the Zika virus.But new patients were found in the Lal Kurti, Mangla Vihar, Tiwaripur, Ompurwa, Jagaipurwa, Shyam Nagar localities, which are in the cantonment area but border the main Kanpur city.The 30 cases confirmed on Thursday have been reported from new localities such as Bhavanipur and Koyla Nagar, which are beyond the three-km radius area that the health department marked as areas of special interest.Kanpur district magistrate Vishakh G Iyer visited both the localities with health department officials. He later said seven teams were on the surveillance and they surveilled 350 houses on Thursday.Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur has the second-highest number of Zika cases so far, next only to Kerala where a total of 90 patients have been detected.On Monday when only 11 cases were reported, the Uttar Pradesh health department said it has sounded an alert across districts and intensified surveillance under its infectious disease control campaign to identify cases of infection, including Zika virus disease, in the early stages.The following day, chief minister Yogi Adityanath convened a meeting of officials where he instructed them to apply the Covid “trace, test, treat” formula to check the spread of dengue and Zika infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/30-fresh-zika-cases-confirmed-in-2-kanpur-localities-total-rises-to-66-101636043887764.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Two vehicle thieves held in Pimpri-Chinchwad; 51 two-wheelers recovered||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch has arrested two vehicle thieves involved in stealing 200 two-wheelers. They have also recovered 51 two-wheelers worth ₹36 lakh from their possession.According to the investigators, the accused have been carrying out the crime in different parts of the city and the district.The arrested have been identified as Shankar Bhimrao Jagle (20), a resident of Hargude Vasti and Santosh Shivam Ghare ( 39).Earlier, Jagle has been booked for carrying out theft and has been absconding in the case.Police sub-inspector Mangesh Bhange, the investigating officer in the case said, “CCTV footage of more than 450 spots were checked and verified during the investigation and information that the duo were not locals helped the police crack the case.”According to Bhange, Ghare was involved in a two-wheeler theft crime in 2017 and used the master key to steal the two-wheelers.“We have recovered 51 bikes worth ₹36 lakh from their possession. The thefts have been carried out in Pune city, Pimpri, Lonavla, Talegaon Dabhade and Maval. The duo sold the two-wheelers for somewhere between ₹15,000-20,000 and used the money for parties and merrymaking. We are interrogating them and they have confessed to the involved in a large number of vehicle thefts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-vehicle-thieves-held-in-pimpri-chinchwad-51-two-wheelers-recovered-101636043347800.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Pune lights up for Diwali as air quality index forecast to be very poor on Nov 5||PUNE As Diwali celebrations began in the city, air quality deteriorated on Thursday. Along with firecrackers, Pune also reported very light rainfall late on Thursday evening. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Shivajinagar reported 1.4mm of rainfall followed by Lohegaon which reported 1mm of rainfall. Bhosari, Aundh, parts of Pashan, Pimpri and other parts of the city also reported a drizzle on Thursday. As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), air quality the morning of November 5 will be very poor due to burning of firecrackers on Thursday evening and early on Friday morning. The air quality on Thursday was moderate in most parts of the city till 4 pm. Overall, the Air Quality Index (AQI) was 98 till 4pm on Thursday.Throughout the day, Shivajinagar, Kothrud, and Nigdi reported moderate air quality. Pashan, Katraj, Hadapsar, Lohegaon, Bhosari, Alandi and Bhomkar chowk had satisfactory air quality on Thursday.Dr BS Murthy, director at Safar and scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said that if it rains, the air quality is likely to deteriorate further.“Due to drizzling, we may see that the air quality has worsened by Friday morning. However, the clear picture of how bad the air quality was on Thursday will be seen on Friday morning. Winter has already set in, with a 50 per cent additional firecracker scenario, Safar predicts that AQI will deteriorate to very poor on November 5,” said Dr Murthy.As per Safar forecasts, on November 5, PM2.5 will be 125 making it very poor air quality. Overall air quality in the city will be 303 which falls in the category of very poor.On Friday, forecasts suggest that areas like Shivajinagar, Hadapsar, Alandi, Bhosari, Nigadi and Bhumkar Chowk will have very poor air quality. Kothrud and Katraj will have poor air quality and Pashan will have moderate air quality.Due to low temperatures, the minimum temperature in the city was 18-19 degrees Celsius. The mixing layer height is likely to be low and winds are expected to be calm leading to accumulation and hence, faster deterioration of air quality, added Dr Murthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-lights-up-for-diwali-as-air-quality-index-forecast-to-be-very-poor-on-nov-5-101636043287699.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||High Covid CFR is cause of concern for Maharashtra authorities||Although the state has been witnessing a steady drop in the Covid-19 cases over last more than two months, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) still remains a matter of concern for the authorities. In the last four days, 129 deaths have occurred against 4,221 number of new cases reported. In October, there were a total number of 60,222 new Covid-19 cases with 1149 deaths thus bringing the average CFR to 1.90%. In contrast, September reported a total of 85,980 new cases with 1754 deaths with the CFR of 2.04%.Experts said that a CFR of less than 1.5% indicates that a pandemic is under control. CFR measures the severity of a particular disease by defining the total number of deaths as a proportion of reported cases at a specific time. A major reason is high CFR is the deaths of senior citizens or those with comorbidities. Daily deaths reported in the state have been around 30-40 for last few weeks. Dr Om Srivastava, infectious disease expert who is also a member of the state appointed Covid-19 task force. “We are seeing an overall decline in the CFR. Ideally we should be having a CFR of less than 1.5 %.” State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that authorities want to bring the death rate to zero. “We get around 1000 Covid-19 new cases daily and the deaths we are seeing is majorly of senior citizens or those with comorbidities after infected for Covid-19 virus,” he said.Nagpur witnessed zero Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday but flooded marketplaces and various Diwali special events call for caution before the pandemic is considered an endemic in the region. This was the second time Nagpur reported zero positive cases and deaths. The first was on September 29. However, doctors and experts said festivities, which were at its peak from Tuesday, might be going to be the most crucial period during the Covid-19 pandemic. After last year’s dull Diwali due to the pandemic enthusiasm seen in people this year could prove to be dangerous, Dr Uday Bodhankar said.Nagpur was one of the worst-hit districts in the state. The cumulative CFR, the total deaths—140,345 against the case tally of 6,615,299 is 2.12 %. Maharashtra on Friday recorded 1141 cases with 32 deaths. Mumbai reported 252 new cases and six deaths taking the tally to 6,615,299 and toll to 16,265.The state carried out 100,229 tests done on Friday while the number of recoveries was 1163. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 15,062. Of them the highest are in Mumbai (4160) followed by Pune (3190) and Ahmednagar (2015).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-covid-cfr-is-cause-of-concern-for-maharashtra-authorities-101636042993609.html
04-11-2021||Pune||200 CCTVs waiting to be installed while 200 defunct in Pune||PUNE While there are over 200 non-operational close circuit televisions (CCTVs) on the one hand, there are at least 200 new CCTVs waiting to be installed on the other. Presently, there are a maximum number of CCTVs installed in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ward office.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has installed 3,424 CCTVs across the city for security purposes, especially women’s safety and security. Out of these, 3,181 CCTVs are operational. The CCTVs have been installed at chowks and on roads based on local corporators’ demands. The electrical department of the PMC is responsible for the installation and maintenance of the CCTVS. The CCTV feed is provided to local police stations for day-to-day monitoring and control of criminal activities in their respective areas.The Kasba-Vishrambaugwada ward office - which is a stronghold of BJP leaders and is represented by MLC Mukta Tilak, standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, and PMC leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar along with other local corporators - has the maximum number of CCTVs (411) under its jurisdiction. The Kothrud-Bavdhan ward office – which is represented by mayor Murlidhar Mohol and Shiv Sena leader in the PMC and senior corporator Prithviraj Sutar – has the second highest number of CCTVs (271) under its jurisdiction. The Bibwewadi ward office – which is part of the Pune cantonment state assembly constituency and is represented by Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) Sunil Kamble – has the third highest number of CCTVs (261) under its jurisdiction.Shrinivas Kandul, head of the electrical department of the PMC, said, “As per the demand of local corporators, the administration installed CCTVs at chowks, on roads and at blind spots. Local corporators make provision of funds for the installation and maintenance of CCTVs. We connect the CCTVs to local police stations for day-to-day monitoring.”“Due to demand by local corporators, there are more CCTVs in the Kasba peth-Vishrambaugwada ward office jurisdiction. The other reason is that it is a densely populated area and market place. We have got proposals for around 200 new CCTV installations in different parts of the area. However, the proposals are yet to be sanctioned by different committees,” Kandul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/200-cctvs-waiting-to-be-installed-while-200-defunct-in-pune-101636042992430.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Reduction in fuel prices would not immediately impact price of commodities: Experts||While welcoming the central government’s decision to reduce the excise duty on fuel, Mumbaikars are now looking to the state government in the hope that it would announce a reduction in Value Added Tax (VAT) to further bring down fuel prices in the city.However, experts said that this reduction would not immediately impact the price rise that several essential commodities have seen in the recent months. “It is a welcome move that the prices have been decreased on the occasion of Diwali. Fuel prices should be reduced further and the state government should also reduce VAT. Though the fuel prices are still high but at least there has been a decrease,” said Aishwarya Patel, a Vikhroli resident. Shirish Deshpande, chairman of Mumbai Grahak Panchayat(MGP) stated that decrease in prices of essential commodities was unlikely. “Once manufacturers or traders increase the price of commodities is it very difficult to reduce them unless the government comes down heavily on them. The traders keep on increasing the prices with the rise in fuel prices.”The Centre on Wednesday announced the reduction of excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 respectively. Following this, the price of petrol came down to Rs.109.98 and diesel came down to Rs.94.14 in Mumbai on Thursday, decreasing by ₹5.87 and ₹12.48 respectively. By comparison, petrol and diesel were priced at Rs.115.85 and Rs.106.62 a litre respectively on Wednesday.The decrease was more than the reduction announced by the Centre due to the cascading effect of reduction of central duty on VAT. Maharashtra levies 25% VAT on fuel and a cess of ₹10.12 and Rs3 on petrol and diesel respectively. “The state taxes are levied on the collective figure of base price and central duty on the fuel. The reduction in the central duty has resulted in the reduction in value of the VAT helping in reducing the price further than the reduction initiated by the Centre,” an official from an oil company who did not wish to be quoted said. Petrol is now being sold at the price it was sold on October 9, while diesel is now being sold at the price it was on June 11.Fuel prices in the city began increasing starting May 3, when a litre of petrol cost Rs.96.83 and a litre of diesel cost Rs.87.81. Transporters associations also expressed relief at the decrease in fuel prices. “It is a small relief to the transport fraternity which was getting trampled under the ever rising fuel prices. Our long term demands, however, are still not met. These include quarterly revision in fuel prices, uniformity of fuel prices all across the country and petroleum products to be brought under the purview of Goods and Service Tax (GST),” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress(AIMTC), said.The petrol dealers however stated that the prices have been reduced at the expense of loss to the dealers across the country. “Petrol dealers have suffered the most due to the decrease in the fuel prices. Even a small dealer has suffered a loss of nearly Rs3 lakh. This is because the petrol dealers across the country due to the approaching holidays already stored their pumps in full capacity on Thursday. There has been a drastic loss in a single day,” said Uday Lodh, president, Federation of all Maharashtra Petrol Dealers Association (FMPDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reduction-in-fuel-prices-would-not-immediately-impact-price-of-commodities-experts-101636041367531.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Festive cheer: Stamp duty and registration collections see ₹550 crore jump in October||In a heartening revival from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the state government has received a substantial jump of ₹550 crore in its collection of stamp duty and registration revenue in October. Stamp duty and registration collections reported in the month was ₹3,221 crore as against the monthly estimate of ₹2,667 crore. The rise in the collection has been attributed to the festive season, launch of new projects and the steady revival of the real estate sector after a slump for about one and half year. The budgeted estimated collection from the stamp duty and registration in financial year 2021-22 is ₹ 32,000 crore, which comes to ₹2,667 crore a month. After the major slump witnessed in April and May due to the second wave of the pandemic, the revenue receipts from the stamp duty and registration began to show an improvement. From a mere ₹ 835 crore in March, the collection went up to ₹2,640 crore in September. October however saw an even higher jump. “There is a post Covid-19 revival not only in the real estate market but even in other sectors as well. After the inventory from pre-Covid pandemic was exhausted, the builders launched new projects and entered into new development agreements, some of which are worth ₹1,200 to ₹2,000 crore, which means the duty and registration amount paid on them is high. Though the growth is across the state, it is higher in big cities like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Nashik,” said Dnyaneshar Khilari, joint inspector general of registration, Maharashtra. Another official from the revenue department said that they were seeing an improvement in revenue from banking, share market and industrial leasing as well. Real estate experts said the rise was because of the festive season and secondary sale of inventory. “Two third of the transactions in real estate markets are that of the resale of the flats possessed by the investors. They have been sold out of fear of potential further drop in the market and inability to pay off the loan taken on them. It is not true that the inventory from the pre-Covid-19 period exhausted. There are 2.81 lakh flats unsold in MMR, but yes, a few big players have succeeded in launching new projects by instilling confidence among the consumers that they will deliver on time,” said Pankaj Kapoor, Managing director, Liases Foras. Kapoor said that the new launches or the projects in big cities is also because of the state government’s decision to reduce the premium charges on fungible Floor Space Index (FSI). “The rebate will be in force till December and to take advantage of it, many big players are launching projects by registering development agreements. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation alone is expected to gain ₹8,400 crore till December from this premium,” he said. Khilari said that they expect the revenue growth to remain same in the remaining months of the financial year. “If the rally continues, we can touch up to ₹29,000 crore in the current financial year,” he said. The state government’s total revenue receipts in October was ₹23,438 crore, against ₹25,541 in September and ₹25,032 crore in August. The state government’s estimated revenue receipts in FY 21-22 is ₹3,68,987 crore against which its accumulated revenue receipts in seven months is ₹1,52,438 crore which is 41.31% of the target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/festive-cheer-stamp-duty-and-registration-collections-see-550-crore-jump-in-october-101636040707431.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Property tax hike in merged Pune villages sparks plaints about civic amenities||PUNE Property tax in villages recently merged into the Pune municipal corporation limits will increase by at least 20 per cent from 2022, despite civic amenities still having to reach residents of these “new Pune” areas.The state government merged 23 villages into the corporation limits in June 2021. PMC is now the biggest municipal corporation by area in Maharashtra, covering 516 sqkm. In 2017, the state government had merged 11 villages into the PMC. Residents are still waiting to get water supply, roads, drainage, and garbage disposal services.According to the PMC’ss property tax department, the total number of property owners due to pay property tax is 250,000 in all the merged villages.PMC has tabled aproperty tax proposal to fix property tax rates for these areas. The actual collection process will start next year. The property tax department has calculated the property tax from these properties to amount to ₹130 crore for 2022. PMC will send property tax bills in the March and April, 2022. Rajeshri Nath, a resident of Wagholi said, “We were paying property tax to the gram panchyat. It was affordable. We have a three-storied building and we paid ₹50,000 in property tax last year. After the merger, we haven’t received a property tax bill yet. We are worried. How can we pay more tax to PMC when we are not getting basic infrastructure?”Narendra Hagwane, resident of Kirkatwadi, one of the merged villages,”PMC will have to provide basic facilities such as water, drainage, roads and garbage collection. After that we will pay property tax. We want planned development from the PMC.”Abhiram Pathak, a resident of Ambegaon Budruk said, “We are part of the Pune corporation. I am living in a society. I paid around ₹6,000 in property tax last year to the gram panchayat. There will be an increase in property tax. PMC should charge us reasonably.”Abhijit Nanaware, a resident of Phursungi said, “At present, we are not getting basic facilities. We are getting water through tankers facilities. How can we pay more property tax to the PMC?” Vaibhav Kadlakh, assistant assessor and collector of the PMC property tax department said, “The department will increase property tax by 20 per cent. After five years, PMC will get ₹500 crore each year. Meanwhile, PMC will have to spend funds to develop basic infrastructure in the 23 villages. We are not getting revenue in terms of property tax immediately. We will have to wait for one year.”He added, “The tax is calculated on the basis of the state government ready reckoner rates. If the property is a new one, the ready reckoner rate is definitely more as compared to an old property. We will charge 20 per cent more on the existing property tax in the merged village areas. It is lower when compared to the existing PMC rates on property.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/property-tax-hike-in-merged-pune-villages-sparks-plaints-about-civic-amenities-101636040227470.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh taken for medical check up||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case on Monday night, was taken to JJ Hospital for a routine check up on Thursday. “He (Deshmukh) was brought to the hospital for routine check up at 12.30pm and was taken back to ED office by 1pm,” said Sanjay Surwase, superintendent at JJ Hospital. Deshmukh, 71, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate after a 12-hour on Monday interrogation by officials. Deshmukh, who appeared before ED for the first time on Monday after skipping multiple summons for the last four months, was arrested by the agency in the early hours of Tuesday in connection with the alleged ₹100-crore extortion and money laundering case. Officials said Deshmukh was arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as they claimed that the senior NCP leader was evasive during questioning and the agency will seek his custody after they produce him before a local court on Tuesday.“We cooperated in the investigation related to a case involving ₹4.5 crore... We will oppose his (Anil Deshmukh) remand when he is produced before the court today,” Inderpal Singh, the lawyer of Deshmukh had told reporters after his arrest.A holiday special court on Tuesday remanded him to ED custody till November 6. ED filed a case against Deshmukh and others after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked him in a corruption case related to allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Singh.Singh alleged, in a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was removed from the police commissioner’s post, that Deshmukh asked Waze to extort over ₹100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh denied any wrongdoing and said that Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police chief.The federal probe agency will record Deshmukh’s statement under PMLA in connection with the criminal investigation being carried out by it in the alleged ₹100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in Maharashtra police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-taken-for-medical-check-up-101636039987294.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Nov 30 deadline for submission of Pune ward structures: SEC||PUNE: With the state election commission (SEC) declaring November 30 as the deadline to submit (draft) ward structures, all aspiring candidates are eager to know the ward structures and the areas falling under them.The state election commission had fixed 58 wards for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with 57 wards to have three members each and the remaining single ward to have four members. As the state election commission had fixed the ward numbers, local authorities would need to decide the size and geographical area of each ward. As such, the face of the existing wards would change completely.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nilesh Nikam said, “During the last elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) changed ward structures as per their convenience. Now we are hoping that the ward structures will remain constant. I am eager to know the wards and their boundaries.”A senior Congress leader on condition of anonymity said, “It is most likely that all the wards will be changed. The last time, BJP broke the slums into various parts. It helped the party to decentralise votes.”A senior NCP leader who did not wish to be named said, “It is true that the ruling party structured the wards in their favour. The last time the BJP was in power but now it is the Maha Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA’s) turn. It is but natural that ward structures will be decided as per the wishes of MVA candidates.”The local election branch helmed by the municipal commissioner will need to submit the draft ward structures to the state election commission by November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nov-30-deadline-for-submission-of-pune-ward-structures-sec-101636038487152.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation waives 6-month rent due from civic-owned properties for first lockdown period||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has waived six months’ rent due from civic-owned properties for the lockdown period during the first Covid wave. This is the first civic body in the state to provide such a relief to its lessees.The civic properties include 103 stalls given to persons with disabilities, 91 shops/kiosks, three food court/canteens, two boating points, nine ponds, 22 food stalls/areas, 43 community centres/multi-purpose buildings/gymnasiums etc. These have been given on leave and licence basis for various purposes.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said “Due to the lockdown, business had been hit hard and a lot of people have had to suffer financial losses. The lessees of NMMC properties had submitted requests for waiver of rent during such time. Several private establishments too have waived or given relief in amount of the rents to be paid.“After considering the issue in detail, I have decided to completely waive the rent of the civic properties for the period April 1 to September 30, 2020. The dues to NMMC for this period are ₹54.81 lakh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-waives-6-month-rent-due-from-civic-owned-properties-for-first-lockdown-period-101636038252685.html
04-11-2021||Pune||PMC to start CBSE school at Balewadi||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to start an English-medium school based on the CBSE pattern at a corporation-owned building in Balewadi. The school will be run with the help of a private educational institute. In the first year, it will have till Classes 9 and 10 and subsequently, the Classes will be increased.PMC education officer Shivaji Daundkar said, “The PMC owned a building at Balewadi survey numbers 5 and 19. It has been decided to run the school on the CBSE pattern. All other PMC schools are based on the state board pattern. The PMC has invited proposals from various educational institutes to run this school.”The PMC will give the school building, sports ground and other basic infrastructure to the private institute while it will be the latter’s responsibility to teach the students and run the school. The condition will be that 50% of the admissions will be from the PMC wherein the corporation will not charge any fees. Of the 50% students, 30% will be from PMC state board schools while the remaining 20% will be from economically weaker classes and as recommended by the municipal commissioner. The civic body will monitor the school’s functioning and if dissatisfied, the contract with the private institute will be cancelled.The PMC’s earlier attempt at running such a school at Sahakarnagar (for the primary section only) received a good response. The corporation had tied up with various institutes for teaching students in civic schools and some corporates had even come forward at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-start-cbse-school-at-balewadi-101636038187062.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Defeat BJP to bring fuel prices down by ₹50: Shiv Sena||Rajya Sabha MP and Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said on Thursday that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will have to be electorally defeated to bring down fuel prices by ₹50. Raut’s comment came a day after the Central government reduced excise duty on fuel to bring petrol and diesel prices down by ₹5 and ₹10 respectively. The price of petrol reached a record ₹115.50 per litre in Mumbai on Monday, November 1, while diesel peaked at ₹106.62 per litre the same day.Sena’s allies in Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government – Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – said Delhi’s move to slash excise duty on fuel came after BJP lost some crucial assembly and Lok Sabha bypolls held on Saturday, October 30.Senior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram said on Thursday that “the results of the recently concluded by-elections had a by-product” in the form of a reduction in excise duties on fuel. Sena and NCP leaders added that if fuel prices have to be brought down by ₹50, “BJP has to be defeated completely.” They added that the reduction in Central taxes – effective Thursday – was “too little too late.”Central excise on one litre of petrol was reduced on Wednesday from ₹32.90 to ₹27.90, while the levy on diesel came down from ₹31.80 to ₹21.80.Maharashtra’s BJP unit, however, questioned the state government whether there will be a reciprocal reduction in state taxes. At least 10 BJP-governed states – Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Karnataka, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand – announced additional cuts in petrol and diesel prices soon after the Centre’s announcement.Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil said, “The state does not seem to have any intention of cutting value-added tax (VAT) to further reduce fuel prices. They only know how to point fingers at the Centre.” A Central government statement said it had urged states to commensurately reduce the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers.Sena spokesperson Raut questioned the ₹5 reduction in petrol price after it had crossed ₹115. “The Centre should have reduced fuel prices by at least ₹25 per litre to provide relief to people,” he said on Thursday. “They (Centre) realised that prices need to be slashed after they lost the bypolls. Even after the loss, they reduced the price by only ₹5 [for petrol]. If we have to bring prices down by ₹50, we have to completely defeat BJP… They first hiked it over ₹100 and then reduced it by a mere ₹5.”Taking a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Raut said people fill up their fuel tanks “in front of Modi’s hoardings, where he is giving them blessings… This needs to end after 2024.”NCP, too, said the BJP “got scared” after the recent bypoll results and that “fuel prices will reduce further if agitations against the unreasonable hike intensify.” NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik said, “After losing bypolls in several states, they (BJP) are scared. This is the reason excise duty on fuel has reduced immediately. Fuel prices have been reduced only because of the ‘defeat BJP agitation’. Continue this agitation, and prices will reduce further.”Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said the record fuel prices resulted in high inflation and that “97% of the population lost its purchasing power.” Londhe said on Thursday, “The petrol and diesel prices were ₹71 and ₹58 a litre respectively when crude oil prices were US$107 a barrel in 2014 during the Congress-led government. The Central excise duty was ₹3.56 and ₹9.48 a litre respectively on diesel and petrol. Today, crude oil price is around US$83 a barrel. Yes, fuel prices are at an all-time high.”BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar said that it’s time now for the state government to reduce its excise duty to give greater respite. “Shiv Sena and two other ruling parties had been making hue and cry over the fuel price rise all these days. Posters and banners were put up by Shiv Sena at various places. I am sure the party which leads the state government in Maharashtra will reduce its excise to give the respite to the people. It is time for the state government to show that its concern about the fuel rise is not fake,” he said.Malik said the MVA government is ready to implement the taxation policy of Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government on fuel prices. “If the taxation policy of the UPA is implemented, then prices will drastically reduce,” he said.Sanjay Raut said that Maharashtra government will consider bringing down the VAT on fuel. “Discussions are on,” he said. “The state government will think about it, but the larger responsibility [to reduce fuel prices] rests on the Central government. The Maharashtra government has constantly raised questions about people facing the heat of inflation. Yuva Sena recently carried out protests against the price rise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defeat-bjp-to-bring-fuel-prices-down-by-50-shiv-sena-101636038127345.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Why slope between Dattanagar chowk and Ambegaon Budruk is a ‘killer’, as per Punekars||PUNE For Suresh Chowrekar and his family, it’s been a risk to travel from this road, as he stays on the slope between Dattanagar chowk and Ambegaon Budruk area. On Wednesday, a 12-year-old boy riding a bicycle died after he crashed into the railings of a bridge over a nullah coming down the said slope. “The slope from Dattangar Chowk is very steep and vehicles come in full speed. In the last five years we have seen atleast one accident every month at this spot where the boy died yesterday. There were iron railings installed over the nullah, but two months back an autorickshaw crashed into the barricades,” said Chowrekar. This slope is of a 3km stretch and on Thursday, when HT visited the road, there were several potholes. One speed breaker, which is just before the accident spot, is large in size and locals believe it should be to shifted further down the road. There is a need for rumblers and signages telling motorises to slow down on the slope. Another resident Sharad Ghodake said, “We are afraid of traveling through this road. Our only request to save lives is that the PMC should now repair of this road, and most importantly shift the wrongly constructed speed breaker elsewhere.” In the accident that happened early on Wednesday morning, the 12-year-old boy while riding his bicycle crashed into railings and died from head injuries. He was immediately rushed to a nearby private hospital by the locals, where he was declared dead by doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/why-slope-between-dattanagar-chowk-and-ambegaon-budruk-is-a-killer-as-per-punekars-101636037887075.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body starts concretising roads in MIDC area||In an effort to give a boost to the infrastructure in the areas under Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) recently started concretising some of the roads in this area. They are spending a total of ₹229Cr for the work, a senior officer said.According to Sanjay Desai, city engineer of NMMC, they started concretising around 15km of the road near Indira Nagar and Ambedkar Nagar in Turbhe in the second week of October. So far, they have completed around 15% of the work.Secondly, the civic body started concretising around 6.90km of the road in the area behind LP Junction in Nerul last month. Apart from concretising the main road, they are also developing gutters, pavements and installing street lights there. A budget of ₹58Cr was allocated for that and so far, around 40% work has been completed.The MIDC areas in Navi Mumbai has a total of 136km road of which NMMC concretised around 86km road in the past decade.Talking about the previous projects, Desai said, “We recently completed the concretisation of Patni Road (2.5km) in Digha and the road (3.04km) that connects Mukund Chowk and Ajanta Painters along the Thane-Belapur Road. Concretisation of the road (4.70km) between Uran Phata and Turbhe police station is now under way and will be completed within a few weeks.”A senior MIDC official from Mahape said, “The business and economy of Navi Mumbai is directly related to the MIDC areas located beside the city. A huge number of Navi Mumbai residents come to work in our areas every day. Therefore, we are taking help from the civic body in terms of developing infrastructure here. We are also doing some work on our own. For example, we are in the process of concretising around 15km of road in some pockets. A budget of ₹262Cr has been allocated for that. We hope that within the next one year, all roads in the MIDC areas (in Navi Mumbai) will be concretised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-starts-concretising-roads-in-midc-area-101636037651420.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Man arrested for murder of alcoholic father in Pune||PUNE A 25-year-old man turned an accused in the case of murder of his alcoholic father after he lodged a complaint against himself at Yavat police station of Pune rural police.The deceased man has been identified as Ratansingh Noorsingh Chtodiya (59), a resident of Pargaon in Daund and a native of Keshavnagar in Bhusawal, Jalgaon.The arrested man has been identified as Ajay Ratansingh Chitodiya (25), who lived with his father. They lived in an open field owned by a private person.The younger man sold herbal medicine to earn a living.The older man was habitual of drinking and asked for money from his son often. Around 1:20 am on Wednesday, the son refused to give him money to buy more alcohol and it led to a fight between the two. The older man hit Ajay on the head with a stick and in retaliation, he did the same. The older man suffered a head injury and died, according to the police.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Yavat police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-murder-of-alcoholic-father-in-pune-101636037646877.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Two Dalit outfits file complaint, seek probe into Sameer Wankhede’s caste certificate||Two Dalit organisations have filed separate complaints with the caste validity committee, Mumbai, to probe the validity of the Scheduled Caste (SC) certificate obtained by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede. They have alleged that Wankhede used fake documents to make the certificate and if found guilty his certificate should be immediately cancelled and all benefits be withdrawn.The complaints were filed by Bhim Army and Swabhimani Republican Paksh on November 3. They were filed days after allegations against Wankhede of making a caste certificate using fake documents.Bhim Army, general secretary Ashok Kamble in his complaint to the caste validity committee said, “An SC caste certificate can be issued by the competent authority of the district where the ancestors of the concerned family are residing since 1950, hence, Wankhede’s father (Dnyandev Wankhede) made his caste validity certificate from Washim district in 2008, but in case of Sameer Wankhede, it was made in Mumbai.”“Going by his birth certificate, Sameer Wankhede is found to be a Muslim. He has admitted this by signing his ‘Nikahnama’ (marriage certificate under Islamic law) which states that he is marrying under Sharia law. It shows that right from his birth on December 14, 1979, Wankhede was a Muslim but made a SC caste certificate by misleading the competent authority,” the complaint states further.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister Nawab Malik had claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim but secured the IRS (Indian Revenue Service) job in the Scheduled Caste (SC) category using his father’s old caste, who converted to Islam before marrying Wankhede’s mother Zaheda Bano. He had also released the birth and marriage certificates of Wankhede to corroborate his claim.Wankhede and his father Dnyaneshwar have refuted the claims saying they never converted to Muslim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-dalit-outfits-file-complaint-seek-probe-into-sameer-wankhede-s-caste-certificate-101636037467567.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||More than 2,500 auto drivers penalised, fined for violations in Thane||In a sustained crackdown that is being enforced in collaboration with four agencies, the Thane Traffic Police have penalised more than 2,500 errant auto rickshaw drivers and collected fines amounting to over ₹5.50 lakh in the last 14 days.According to Thane Traffic Police officers, a meeting was held with leaders of all Thane-based auto rickshaw driver unions recently. The purpose behind the meeting was to discuss the rising number of complaints against auto rickshaw drivers, particularly those who pick up fares from outside the Thane Railway Station on the West side.During this meeting, the police had asked the union leaders to get their members to follow the rules laid down as per the Motor Vehicles Act and not violate them for any reason. Ample warning was also given about the impending crackdown.Accordingly, from October 20, the Traffic Police, along with the local police, the Railway Protection Force, the Government Railway Police and the Regional Transport Office, started taking action against any and all auto drivers found to be in violation of rules.“The offences for which we have penalised auto rickshaw drivers so far include not wearing the white uniform or auto driver’s badge, overcharging passengers, breaking the queue, not following the queue at all and entering the station premises to pick up fares instead of waiting for their turn at the auto rickshaw stand outside the station,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Balasaheb Patil, Thane City police, said. He added that over a period of 14 days, outside Thane station alone, a total of 2,622 errant auto rickshaw drivers have been penalised, with the amount collected in fines coming up to ₹5.52 lakh.According to the data obtained from the police, the most number of cases have been filed for picking up fares from spots other than the rickshaw stand, followed by offences like not wearing uniforms, not wearing badges, parking in a way that causes obstructions to traffic, parking in no parking zones and seating fares on the front seat. “The campaign will continue till we see a substantial difference in the number of violations. We are in constant touch with the auto rickshaw unions and this has been communicated to them as well,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-2-500-auto-drivers-penalised-fined-for-violations-in-thane-101636036688364.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body ropes in 50K students for its Zero Plastic campaign||More than 50,000 students have joined hands with the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) for its `Zero Plastic Starts With Me’ campaign to create awareness on curbing the use of plastic. The innovative programme conceptualised by municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, is being implemented in all the schools of Navi Mumbai. The programme is being supported by Heart Foundation, an NGO working in the educational field.Bangar said, “We have appealed to all schools in the city to participate and we are getting very encouraging responses from them. We are confident of the participation of over 50,000 students from Classes 2 to 10 in this campaign. Through the students, the awareness will reach their families and neighbours as well.”Students will have to collect non-degradable plastic waste like chocolate wrappers, wafer packets, single-use plastic bags, etc. and put them in a one-litre plastic bottle. These bottles have to be deposited with the school.Deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management), Babasaheb Rajale, said, “The student submitting the most number of bottles in each ward will be given the `Zero Plastic Waste Champion’ award. Similarly, the student who submits maximum bottles in the city will be awarded with ‘Zero Plastic Waste Navi Mumbai Champion’ title.”Each student will get a participating certificate from NMMC. The school in each ward that will submit the maximum number of bottles will be awarded as ‘Zero Plastic Waste School’. There will also be an award for the school that performs the best in the city.The plastic articles collected will be given to a recycling agency that would convert them into fuel. The plastic bottles would be given to artists to make sculptures that would be displayed in the city.Jaykar Ellis, founder president, Heart Foundation, said, “Plastic is very harmful for the environment and human life. Hence, it is important that its use is curbed on a large scale. Along with implementing the rules in place for such prevention, it is equally important that there is awareness. The next generation needs to understand it early and hence we are involving them through this campaign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-ropes-in-50k-students-for-its-zero-plastic-campaign-101636035552384.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Fuel price drops... Punekars say not good enough||PUNE: In the wake of the Union government’s decision, petrol and diesel prices in the city have dropped by ₹5 and ₹10, respectively. On Thursday, the price of petrol dropped to ₹109.5 per litre while the price of diesel came down to ₹92.5 per litre. The price of premium petrol, too, reduced to ₹113.5 per litre in Pune. However, transport operators and citizens expressed dissatisfaction saying that even these prices are too high and that further relief should be provided.Baba Shinde, director of the All India Motor Transport Congress (Maharashtra), said, “It’s good that the government thought of cutting down the excise duty and reducing fuel prices. But even ₹93 is still a pretty high price for diesel and it should be further brought down. Ideally, diesel should be in the range of ₹70 per litre as it was a few years ago. Only then transporters will get some relief. Now the Union government has reduced the taxes, I hope that the state government will also do its part by cutting down excessive taxes on fuel prices.”The continuous hike in fuel prices has put too much of a strain on the common man. Amol Bharati, who runs a small transportation business in the city, demanded more affordable rates for fuel. “Earlier, we only used to joke about petrol crossing the ₹100 mark but in the recent past, it has become a reality and we are all suffering while living with it. Not only petrol but also diesel has crossed the ₹100 mark. I just want to point out that even the reduced prices are not normal. While comparing with a litre of petrol at ₹60, ₹105 is still a very big number. Fuel prices should be brought down to this level and common people should get some relief,” Bharati said.Some citizens expressed apprehension about how long the reduced prices would remain as such. Apoorva Parakhi, a resident of the Warje area, said, “The prices have come down. But as we have been witnessing, fuel prices have recorded a hike almost on a daily basis. If that trend continues, the current relief will prove temporary. Fuel prices should not be related to the elections. People should get permanent relief and a proper mechanism should be put in place to control these prices.”Earlier, when asked whether the state government will cut taxes on fuel prices to bring relief to the common man, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said that the Union government should make the first move. Now that the Union government and other state governments have cut down taxes on fuel prices, it remains to be seen whether the state government walks the talk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fuel-price-drops-punekars-say-not-good-enough-101636035426932.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court refuses bail to Dadar-based builder held for assaulting shop owner||Mumbai sessions court has rejected the bail application of a 60-year-old city builder arrested by Dadar police for allegedly assaulting a shop owner with a hammer. The court observed that the builder “took law in his own hands and tried to dispossess the victim and his family by demolishing the wall”. The incident took place last November when the builder, Chunilal Rita, allegedly brought a hammer and started demolishing the wall of the complainant’s shop. When the complainant, Ashok Haria, intervened, he attacked him with the hammer on the head. The complainant told the police that his mother Sushilaben owns a grocery shop at Bashir Mohammed Chawl on Bhavani Shankar Road in Dadar (West) and had a dispute with the firm which is carrying out the redevelopment of the dilapidated chawl. Rita is one of the partners of the firm, which had offered the Haria family a flat on the 14th floor of the proposed building in lieu of their grocery shop. However, Haria rejected the offer, resulting in a civil litigation. On November 24, 2020, Rita came to the chawl around 10.30am and started breaking the wall of Haria’s shop with a hammer. When the complainant and her mother tried to intervene, he allegedly abused them and continued breaking the wall. When Ashok came to the spot, Rita threatened him and hit him with the hammer on head. Additional sessions judge MG Deshpande said the photographs available on record indicated that the victim was mercilessly beaten by the builder. “Though the applicant, Chunilal Rita, a resident of Dadar (West) claims to be an old person, the fact is that he had given a heavy blow of hammer on the head of the victim. Not only this, he was to give further blows, but people rescued the victim and removed the hammer from the hands of the applicant,” said the court while rejecting his bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-refuses-bail-to-dadar-based-builder-held-for-assaulting-shop-owner-101636035066829.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Korum Mall among defaulters, owes Rs8.50Cr in property tax, claims Thane civic body||With the depleting civic coffers, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is now focusing on recovering property tax from big defaulters.The property tax department has informed that one such defaulter is city-based Korum Mall, which has allegedly defaulted to the tune of ₹8.50Cr in property tax. The mall authorities, however, have denied the allegations and claimed that the amount is disputed and the matter is sub-judice.A team of civic officials were also in the mall earlier this week to inform the mall authorities to clear the amount.An officer requesting anonymity said, “The defaulted amount of over ₹8.50Cr is for both last year and the current financial year. We met the mall authorities who told us they will clear the tax in instalments as it is not possible to clear the entire amount in one go. We have asked them to give us a letter informing us when they will clear the amount.”The Mall, in its statement, said, “Korum Management has filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court seeking directions against TMC to give required benefit under law and also to allow the adjustment of excess amount already paid by the company towards property tax over the past several years. The alleged claim of property tax, if any, is disputed and the matter is pending and sub-judice with the Bombay High Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/korum-mall-among-defaulters-owes-rs8-50cr-in-property-tax-claims-thane-civic-body-101636034407662.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC to revamp precincts of Gateway of India||To provide a clear view of the heritage monument and the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, from the approach road, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will soon revamp the precincts of the Gateway of India. According to the plan approved by the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee (MHCC), the plaza building, built 15 years ago inside the premises, will be demolished and reconstructed nearby. The existing garden around the Shivaji Maharaj statue and fountain will be opened for the public. The project is likely to cost ₹20 crore.Gateway of India that overlooks the Arabian Sea, was erected to commemorate the visit of King George V and Queen Mary to Mumbai in the 20th century, which is one of the popular tourists’ sites today.Currently, the view is blocked by a plaza at the entrance.An official from the BMC said, “The new design will ensure visual access to visitors so that people can see the Gateway of India, the sea and will get a chance to see the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, which is currently lost in all the visual clutter.”The MHCC’s no-objection certificate (NOC) requires the BMC to maintain the vista of the customs building, which is a very old structure and a part of the original setting of the Gateway of India but is not a listed heritage building.The MHCC in its approval, recently stated, “The proposed structures of ticketing, security office and toilet shall be kept as narrow and as small as possible, in terms of footprint and appearance. Maximum effort shall be made to open up the view of the existing ‘Customs Building’ which is part of the original setting of the Gateway of India site.”The approval further states, “Existing garden around the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statue and fountain will be opened up for the public. It was also advised to streamline all services, light-poles, security systems, railings and dustbins in a minimal way to complement the heritage site. The civic body said that the idea is to streamline the entire surrounding without any ad-hoc placement of security tents. The eateries inside the plaza will also be shifted within the premises before the ticket counter. The civic body is likely to do away with the heavy barricading at the entrance. The committee has suggested the implementation of advanced surveillance, security technology to reduce the physical requirement of structures and manpower.The plan came into the picture after last year after the state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, in a meeting with deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar, had discussed the development and conservation of 22 tourist sites, including the Gateway of India. The tourism department led by Thackeray has also planned to hold a sound and light show at the site. As per the initial discussions, the light show will be based on different themes related to the history of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the Marathas and the freedom movement among others.Further, according to BMC officials, since the maintenance of the site and area around it is divided among various agencies, it will also write to several agencies informing them about the plan. Also, the state government in September last year constituted a committee of senior officials from the BMC, the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB), the state archaeological department, Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) and the police department owing to multiple agencies involved. The heritage structure and the 100-metre area near it come under the state archaeological department, while the jetty and boating area is under the MbPT. The area outside it falls under the BMC, which includes the plaza approach pathways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-revamp-precincts-of-gateway-of-india-101636034346694.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad: Two held for forging documents, 44 stamps seized||PUNE Two men, including one who worked at an e-Seva centre, were remanded to custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police for forging documents, said Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The two arrested have been identified as Rahul Vishwambhar Shinde and Nitin Madhav Wahalkar. They forged documents ranging from school leaving certificates, ration card, birth certificate, land documents among others. The police have seized 44 stamps with government emblems and a machine to make such stamps was also seized from the two.“These people approached people who needed such documents. They ran an e-Seva centre and knew what document was required where. Whether their customers knew that the documents were forged or not will be investigated and those in the know will also be made accused,” said Prakash.Wahalkar has a history of 19 other cheating cases against himself in Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad, according to those investigating the case. He used to work in an e-Seva centre in Anandnagar, Chinchwad called Rahul Enterprises.“Preventive action will be considered as he was found in multiple cases and has managed to get out of jail. In one other case as well, the court granted bail to a person who runs a multi-level marketing scheme as cheating is not a violent crime. All those who took these documents will also be made accused,” said Prakash.A case under Sections 465, 466, 468, 473, 474, and 420 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-two-held-for-forging-documents-44-stamps-seized-101636033626612.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||19-year-old attacks girlfriend’s father in Bhiwandi for not allowing them to talk to each other; arrested||A 19-year-old allegedly attacked his girlfriend’s father with a chopper in Bhiwandi for not allowing them to talk to each other. The 49-year-old father suffered serious injuries and has been admitted to a hospital.The injured has been identified as Mohammed Ansari, a resident of Shanti Nagar area of Bhiwandi. On Wednesday night, he was talking to his friend on the road when the accused, Arbaj Khan, came to talk to him and asked why he had issues with him talking to his daughter and niece.Ansari started shouting at him and scolded him for following, stalking and unnecessarily calling them.A Shanti Nagar police officer said, “Ansari got angry because his daughter and niece complained to him about the accused’s harassment. On the other hand, the accused claimed they were just friends and therefore he talks to them and meets them. Ansari scolded him in front of many people and asked him to get a job instead. The accused got furious and he started attacking Ansari’s head with a knife till he was in a pool of blood. Before passers-by could stop him, he fled the spot. But police formed a team to arrest him within three hours. Ansari has serious injuries on his head and is admitted to a hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/19yearold-attacks-girlfriend-s-father-in-bhiwandi-for-not-allowing-them-to-talk-to-each-other-arrested-101636031886858.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||NGO takes up cleaning of streets in Kalyan this Diwali||While Diwali is all about cleaning our homes, decorating the house with lights and lanterns, an NGO from Kalyan took up the task of cleaning the streets of Kalyan on Thursday.The Sahyog Samajik Sanstha from Kalyan (E) has taken up the task of cleaning the streets where garbage is dumped on a regular basis. On Thursday, three localities in Kalyan (E) were cleaned.A team of 10-12 from the NGO jointly took up the cleaning work and followed it by decorating the area with paintings and placing metal murals of peacock and a deer to beautify the area and ensure that the dumping activity does not continue in the future.“During the festival, we make sure our houses are cleaned and decorated. Like we clean our houses to welcome the festival, it is also necessary to keep our surroundings, which we use daily, clean. In Kalyan (E) there are several areas on the roadside where dumping activity is regular. Even if the garbage is lifted, the locals again dump waste and make the area unclean,” said Vijay Bhosle, founder of the NGO.The NGO took up the cleaning work of five roads in Kalyan (E) namely the Cow Stable at Lakshmibaug, Saket Building Chinchpada, Model College, Seven Foot Road Buddha Vihar and Dr Bhujbal Clinic on Pune Link Road. “We have placed a replica of deer and peacock at some spots to beautify the area and ensure people don’t dump waste again,” added Bhosle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ngo-takes-up-cleaning-of-streets-in-kalyan-this-diwali-101636030390782.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||HC junks Mumbai Bank’s plea challenging inquiry ordered by divisional jt registrar||The Bombay high court (HC) last week dismissed a petition filed by the Mumbai District Central Co-operative Bank (also known as Mumbai Bank), challenging an inquiry ordered by the divisional joint registrar of co-operative societies.The divisional joint registrar of Mumbai division had on September 22 appointed an inquiry officer to probe into different issues highlighted in a recent test audit report, including the expenditure incurred by the bank in the past five years on updating its computer programme, system maintenance expenditure, hardware purchases, repairs and renovation of immovable property, outstanding loans given by the bank under the corporate loan policy, loans given to co-operative housing societies, outstanding loans given by violating the area of its operation to sugar factories and other establishments and gold mortgage loan in the unproductive category.The bank had moved HC challenging the order, primarily on the ground that the divisional joint registrar ordered the inquiry on the basis of the test audit report, but without giving an opportunity to the bank to rectify the defects pointed out in the report.A single judge bench of justice Girish Kulkarni on October 28 rejected the argument and dismissed the bank’s petition, observing that sections 82 and 83 of the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies (MCS) Act, 1960 – which deal with rectification of defects pointed out by auditors and the registrar’s power to order inquiry – are independent provisions, and the opportunity of rectifying the defects highlighted in the test audit report cannot be a condition precedent for ordering the inquiry.Justice Kulkarni also said that no prejudice would be caused to the bank by the inquiry ordered under section 83, more particularly when its business involves trust and confidence of its depositors, which certainly would have a cascading effect on the public at large. “Even if such an inquiry is undertaken and on conclusion of an inquiry, there are defects which are pointed out. Clearly, section 87 of the (MCS) Act provides for an opportunity to the petitioner [the bank] to comply with the deficiencies and/or defects,” said the bench.“In these circumstances, the petitioner ought not to be concerned when an inquiry has been ordered to bring about transparency and accountability in the affairs of the petitioner, more particularly when financial irregularities and/or substantial defects are alleged to be noted in the test audit report as also in the report of the special auditor,” the court added.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator and leader of opposition in the Maharashtra legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, is currently the chairman of Mumbai Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-junks-mumbai-bank-s-plea-challenging-inquiry-ordered-by-divisional-jt-registrar-101636028886535.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane district homemaker makes Diwali special for villagers in Murbad||More than 70% population in Murbad Taluka of Thane district are farmers. Most of them have lost their crops due to unseasonal rains and are unable to enjoy the festivities this Diwali.A Good Samaritan from Murbad, homemaker Urmila Late, 42, however, has now lent a helping hand to some of them. Along with her husband, Late has distributed clothes and sweets to more than a hundred families in two of the tribal hamlets in Murbad so they do not have to get those on credit for their families.Late has been staying in Murbad post her marriage and helps her husband in the small business of selling car batteries. She saw people suffering in this taluka since the lockdown. She has used the money saved for their children’s education and travel expenses over the last two years.Late said, “Last year, many people lost their family members or jobs to the pandemic and hardly anyone celebrated Diwali. This year, when things are starting to return to normal and people are looking forward to a better celebration, due to unseasonal rains, most of them lost their crops. Very few were able to re-sow them and those too will have to wait for the yield. This year also, they will have to live on credit as most of their savings are spent on health and daily expenses.”She and her husband decided that they would fulfil the Diwali needs of these families by gifting them essential items.Late said, “We have a packet of sweets (faral) and new clothes for their families including children. We have distributed these items to two Adivasi Padas –Vanjale Vadi and Patgao – of Murbad. We have our savings for our children’s education, which we have not really used for the past three years. As all traveling expenses were also reduced, we used it for these people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-homemaker-makes-diwali-special-for-villagers-in-murbad-101636028766962.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||UGC gives Chowpatty’s 185-year-old Wilson College autonomous status||MUMBAI: The 185-year-old Wilson College in Mumbai’s Chowpatty has become the 46th institute affiliated with the University of Mumbai (MU) to be awarded the autonomous status, according to a communication by the University Grants Commission to the college management on Wednesday.“As per the decision of the standing committee constituted by UGC, in its meeting held on October 22, the competent authority has decided to grant autonomous status to Wilson College, Chowpatty, affiliated with University of Mumbai for a period of ten years from 2021-2022 to 2030-31 academic years,” the higher education regulator said in its letter.UGC grants the autonomous status, valid for 10 years, based on a college’s academic record, infrastructure, research activities, faculty and innovative teaching methods. Academic autonomy will allow Wilson College to design its own curricula and hold its exams in senior college courses. The college faculty can also design the curriculum instead of following the syllabus laid down by Mumbai University. The students will continue to get their degrees from MU.“We are thrilled to have received this honour,” said T Shiware, director education, John Wilson Education Society that runs the college.The college said it took them less than a year to get approvals for the prestigious status.“Our application went online earlier this year and while Covid-19 delayed some of the processes, UGC appointed committee visited in October this year,” Shiware added.As reported by HT, UGC recently amended its regulations for conferring autonomous status that makes it simpler for colleges to apply for autonomy. The number of colleges granted autonomous status in the city has gone up from 35 colleges in February 2020 to 45 in October 2021.“Earlier the process of autonomy was a two-step process and colleges first had to seek approval from the affiliated university before approaching UGC. But now UGC has streamlined the process, and this has encouraged more colleges to apply and achieve the autonomous status in the past one year,” said Deepak Wasave, deputy registrar, affiliation section, MU. He added that with the change in rules approved by UGC in 2018, colleges now only need affiliation confirmation from the respective university and can then directly approach UGC. “This cuts down the process time by more than half, helping more and more colleges to seek autonomy,” he said. Well-performing colleges were first encouraged to seek autonomy to help reduce the burden on MU, which has more than 800 affiliated colleges. The state education department also encouraged ‘A’ grade accredited colleges to apply for autonomy and handed over the reins of academic growth to the institutes themselves. UGC earlier said colleges that get ‘A’ grade in three consecutive National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) cycles should be awarded autonomous status. The new guidelines also said that colleges with a NAAC score of 3.51 and above shall be considered for autonomous status “without onsite visit by the expert committee” of UGC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ugc-gives-chowpatty-s-185-year-old-wilson-college-autonomous-status-101636027627927.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Cultural scene returns to Thane; theatre artistes excited to perform again||Like Pune, Thane is known as a Cultural City for its theatre and musical events. After 19 months in lockdown, most theatre and musical groups are excited to set the stage on fire this DiwaliBack are the Diwali Pahats, which were online last year, as the relaxation in the rules have been like a breath of fresh air for local residents and performing artistes. Thane’s cultural scene is getting back on track. The thrill of performing live before the audience is not found online, claimed the artistes.A week ahead of Diwali, many organisations like Swatva and Abhinay Katta started with their regular activities after 19 months of online entertainment.“To be back offline after a gap of 19 months was an amazing feeling. The connection between audience and performers was developed again through our live performances. It was for the first time in all these years that we went online due to the circumstances,” said Kiran Nakati, chairman, Abhinay Katta.This is one of the platforms in Thane that curates and performs plays in Marathi and has gone digital due to the pandemic. Located near Bhaskar Colony, an amphitheatre inside the Jijau Garden is where they perform regularly every week. This is also well-known as many popular Marathi actors have kickstarted their careers from Abhinay Katta.There used to be a crowd at Abhinay Katta and many times, popular actors would also pay a visit. However, keeping in mind the Covid protocols, a cap on the number of people to perform and the audience has been put in place. Despite this, the excitement among everyone continues.The Drum Circle, another group, also held a session two weeks back at the amphitheatre near Upvan Lake. Many onlookers joined their session impromptu.“It was not only an opportunity to meet new people but also a chance to interact with those whom we used to gel creatively until the pandemic struck. Thane’s cultural scene is getting back on track. This is a positive feeling. There are many who will initiate more such interesting concepts as many have been staying indoors in the last one-and-a-half years,” said Shripad Bhalerao, one of the founders of the Drum Circle.Drum Circle is a concept where a group of people gather at a public place and make a song of their own. Everyone gets different types of drums and percussion. If nothing, they just make use of the props available at the location or clap away.Theatres have also received a go ahead from the state government. Thane residents are always known for their affection towards Marathi theatre and theatre artistes also enjoy performing in the city.Balachandra Buge, administrator, Kashinath Ghanekar and Gadkari Rangayatan, Thane, said, “It is a pleasant feeling to hear the cheers and claps when the curtain rises. After almost 19 months of silence, although the theatre is open only to 50% capacity, the response is good. Gadkari Ragayatan is undergoing renovation, so we have not opened it yet for shows. However, Kashinath Ghanekar has already had a few plays last week and for Diwali Pahat, well-known singer-composer duo, Saleel Kulkarni and Mahesh Kale, will be performing at Ghanekar.”The theatre is well set with self-temperature check facility and sanitisers, floor markings at lobbies to maintain social distance and also inside the theatre for seating.Moreover, many parts of Thane, especially Owla, have sets of popular Marathi serials. Shooting of many movies also takes place in Thane city.“There is proximity to Mumbai. Moreover, we have provision for both urban as well as greenery to shoot. Hence, we have been receiving permission letters from various production houses since the second wave subsided. It is only from August-September that we started giving permission keeping in mind all Covid protocols,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Collector, Thane District.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cultural-scene-returns-to-thane-theatre-artistes-excited-to-perform-again-101636027508752.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Foreigner held for fraudulently diverting ₹5.43cr from Bank of Baharain and Kuwait||Mumbai The south region cyber police have arrested a 29-year-old Nigerian national who is an alleged key member of a gang that hacked into the computer system of the Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait and fraudulently withdrew an amount of ₹5.43 crore from three bank accounts.The accused, Michael Chibuzi Okonko, was arrested from Delhi on October 31 and brought to Mumbai following a complaint by Dev Narayan, senior vice-president of the bank’s Mumbai branch. According to the complaint, the bank stated that in August, it had detected unlawful transactions worth ₹5.43 crore from its customer accounts. The money was fraudulently transferred from the accounts of its three customers to multiple other bank accounts.Accordingly, a case was registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act, 2000, by the south region cyber police. Acting swiftly, the police froze ₹86 lakh, but the remaining amount was already withdrawn by the fraudsters.“On going through the details of the beneficiary bank’s account holders, investigators learnt that the amount was fraudulently diverted and credited to bank accounts of people in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Assam,” said a police officer.In Assam, the beneficiary account belonged to a woman who told the police that a person who befriended her on social media in February asked her to open the account.“The person claimed to be a doctor and told her that he wished to open a clinic in Delhi. But for opening the clinic and transferring the money he needed a bank account first. Hence, he requested her to open a bank account and link his newly procured mobile number to it and send the SIM card his address. The woman followed his instructions and opened a bank account, which was later used to transfer amount of ₹6.12 lakh of the defrauded amount,” said the officer. The cyber police identified the ATM kiosk in Delhi from where the fraud money was withdrawn. Okonko was caught on CCTV camera at the kiosk while withdrawing money. The police seized 11 mobiles phones, two hard disks, three laptops and a SIM card from him. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused allegedly committed the offence with the help of his friend. In Madhya Pradesh, an unemployed teacher was made to open a bank account for a commission of ₹10,000. Later the fraud money was diverted into his account and withdrawn by the fraudsters, said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/foreigner-held-for-fraudulently-diverting-5-43cr-from-bank-of-baharain-and-kuwait-101636026186437.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Endangered lesser florican rescued in Solapur||A female lesser florican — an endangered species of bustard — was rescued by the forest department in Solapur this week. The bird was subsequently tagged with a metal ring, bearing a unique ID number and released nearby at the Great Indian Bustard (Maldhok) Bird Sanctuary, where officials said, it will have a greater chance of survival. The lesser florican (Sypheotides indicus) is one of three bustard species endemic to India, the others being the Bengal florican and the Great Indian Bustard. Less than 270 lesser floricans are estimated to be alive in the wild. The sighting of the bird was reported on November 2 by a resident of Nannaj in Solapur North tehsil. He noticed an unusual-looking bird taking shelter near his home to escape a pack of stray dogs, chasing after it. After shooing away the dogs, he informed the nearby Maldhok Sanctuary and the forest department’s office in Nannaj. A team from the Solapur forest department and the NGO Wildlife Conservation Association (WCA) moved the bird to the district veterinary hospital as she had a small injury on her wing. After examining the bird and administering first aid, the district veterinarian’s office issued a certificate stating that she is fit to be released back into the wild. The bird was released at the bird sanctuary the same afternoon, around 2pm, in the presence of deputy forest conservator Dhairyashil Patil range officer Shubhangi Jawale, as well as WCA members. A female individual of the same species was last seen in Maharashtra in August this year when it was photographed at the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve. In the local language, the bird is known as ‘tanmor’ on ‘kharmor’, derived from the root word ‘mor’ for peacock, a forest department official explained. “Four years ago, a lesser florican was also seen near the district police headquarters in Solapur. They are an endangered species, but this sighting is important because it tells us they are still present in the area,” said the official, who did not wish to be identified.  A report by the Wildlife Institute of India in 2018 had estimated their remaining population in the wild to be not more than 264 individuals, indicating a decline of about 80% in the last two decades alone. This species is classified as ‘endangered’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and also features in Appendix 2 of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) which “includes species not necessarily threatened with extinction, but in which trade must be controlled in order to avoid utilization incompatible with their survival.” It is also protected under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife Act. Kedar Gore, wildlife biologist, director of the Corbett Foundation and member of three separate IUCN commissions, explained that the primary driver for the rapid decline in lesser florican numbers is the disappearance of grasslands and their associated ecosystems. “Forests in India are better protected, but grasslands are not even seen as having any ecological value. After hunting first drove down the numbers of these birds, their habitat has been under threat in Maharashtra mainly due to the expansion of industries in grassland areas. In Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, renewable energy projects have been established on their grasslands, which is where these birds mate. The Corbett Foundation, Bombay Natural History Society, state governments and various experts have been actively working on conservation measures, but there needs to be a wide-ranging policy to arrest the sort of land-use change which is destroying the lesser floricans’ habitat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/endangered-lesser-florican-rescued-in-solapur-101636025346063.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Nerul police seek information of Navi Mumbai civic officers responsible for demolition drive that killed one slum dweller||The Nerul police have written to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) seeking information about the officers responsible for the demolition drive in Nerul during which a hutment dweller was killed.On October 25, a NMMC officer and a JCB driver were booked after a slum dweller, identified as Bhimrao Kisan Gajbhare (38), was killed during a demolition drive in Sector 10 of Nerul.A neighbour of the deceased registered a case alleging that the civic staff allegedly did not check whether there was any occupant inside the hutment before mowing it down.“We registered the case on the same day and the autopsy report confirmed that Gajbhare died of external injuries after being mowed down by the JCB. We arrested the JCB driver and the contractor who were then released on bail. The name of the officer from NMMC who was responsible for supervising the demolition is not yet known and we have written to the corporation to decide on the responsibility,” senior police inspector Shyam Shinde from Nerul police station said.An NMMC officer said, “We are looking into the matter and would soon fix the responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nerul-police-seek-information-of-navi-mumbai-civic-officers-responsible-for-demolition-drive-that-killed-one-slum-dweller-101636025171643.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||30-year-old man arrested for killing 27-month-old baby in Raigad||The Local Crime Branch (LCB) of Raigad has arrested a 30-year-old man for killing a 27-month-old toddler from Mangaon after its parents, who are the relatives of the accused, were against his love affair.The accused, identified as Santosh Yadav, was in a relationship with a girl from his distant relative’s family. The parents of the toddler, Rudra Yadav, showed their objection towards the marriage of the accused and his girlfriend.On October 26, the accused took the toddler from home saying that he was going to buy sweets for him and never returned. On October 26 evening, the parents of the toddler approached Mangaon police and informed them about their missing toddler and that the nephew took him.“Realising the gravity of the issue, we handed over the case to LCB immediately and also dispatched around eight teams to various places like Roha, Kolad, Tala and Mahad. Nakabandi was imposed across all the places. During the search, we found the two-wheeler of the accused near Roha ST stand. In the CCTV, the toddler was nowhere to be seen and hence we suspected that he might have done something to the child,” Raigad superintendent of police, Ashok Dudhe, said.The police then started contacting people known to him in Mumbai and other parts and learnt that he was going to Silvasa.“We laid a trap in Silvasa and nabbed the accused. On his arrest, he revealed that he had strangulated and then thrashed the head of the child with a rock on Roha-Murud road and then dumped the body in the bushes near the road. We recovered the body and handed it over to the parents,” police inspector Dayanand Gawade said.The accused, a class XII pass who worked in a courier company is currently in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/30yearold-man-arrested-for-killing-27-month-old-baby-in-raigad-101636023905890.html
04-11-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Notes from a memoir on a feast for Diwali defying the plague||Food is a great unifying force. Festivals and feasts always involve the sharing and eating of food, even when it may be underemphasised compared to the other activities going on around it.Food brings out empathy. It has that magical power to make one believe that grief is temporary.Henry Woodd Nevinson was a British war correspondent during the Second Boer War and World War I, a campaigning journalist exposing slavery in Western Africa, political commentator, and suffragist. He arrived at Bombay in October 1907, as a correspondent for the “Manchester Guardian” and other papers.He spent a year in India, of which a month was spent in Pune. Nevinson’s socio-political memoir “The new spirit in India” records a feast on a Diwali night during the plague.“It was the Indian festival of Diwali, held at Poona on Guy Fawkes’ Day, and celebrated with innumerable flames, like our own thanksgiving for the protection of King and Parliament. But, in feeling, the Diwali comes nearer to Christmastide, for it has no political significance, and the flames are not lighted as defiance to the Pope of Rome, but in honour of Lakshmi, the goddess of family prosperity, who provides wealth sufficient for us, and holds a baby to the breast above her heart”, wrote Nevinson.The ceilings of the rooms in wadas and the verandahs fluttered with pink and yellow flags; the windows and doors were hung with “festoons of orange marigolds on a string”; upon the entrance pavement neat patterns in whitewash were drawn by hand-rollers; and, as the streets turned blue with the evening, the children, draped in all the gorgeous crimsons and golds their fathers could afford, lighted the tiny oil lamps on window-sill and doorstep, or threw the spurting fires under the “very noses of sacred bulls that wander for their living from shop to shop”.Nevinson observed that “other helpful powers beside Lakshmi had a share in the honour, and it were the temples of Durga and Vishnu, of Siva and Parvati, lady of the far-off mountain snow that made the sacred hill of Parvati outside the city sparkle like an illuminated birthday cake, for at least one night during the Diwali feast of brotherhood”.But the sad thing was that in the lane of Pune, many of the houses then stood dark and empty, in terror of the plague. Hardly eleven years had passed since the pestilence first appeared, imported from Hong Kong as people thought, and in those eleven years, it had killed nearly six million of India’s habitants. Within those eleven years, the inhabitants of Pune had been reduced to nearly one-third.Many families had gone to live in selected open spaces outside the city when Nevinson visited. There among rocks and withered grass, they kindled their little lamps and celebrated family joy in any hut of wicker, matting, canvas, petroleum tins, old boxes, boards, or branches which they and the Imperial Government could manage to rig up between them. Many shopkeepers had transferred their little stores of grain, sweets, and cotton to this countrified scene, and the “general effect was like a scrappy Derby Day without the races”.On the night of Lakshmipujan, Nevinson set out to meet Gopal Krishna Gokhale, the liberal political leader, and social reformer.Having crossed a bridge, to the left of which thin columns of smoke still rose from the smouldering bodies of the dead, he passed through one of those health camps, as official language fondly called them, and found before him a partly finished building of solid stone – unfinished, but with “something already monastic and grave in its straight-roofed hall and line of cloistral habitations”. It was the rising home of the “Servants of India Society”, and in front of his small house the founder and “First Member” of the Society, Gokhale, stood to receive him.On the edge of the rocky country west of Poona, close beside the Fergusson College, with which he had been so long connected, he had laid the foundation of his “Servants of India Society” two years before, and in the two-roomed cells about a dozen Knights of the Order were already living. They were men prepared, in the language of the Society’s rules “to devote their lives to the cause of the country in a religious spirit, and to promote, by all constitutional means, the national interests of the Indian people”.The object of the Society was to train the Servants as national missionaries, ready to visit any part of India at the order of the First Member and Council, in the hope of creating a deep and passionate love of the country, organising political teaching, promoting goodwill among the different races, assisting education, especially of women, and raising the people “who live below even the lowest caste”.Nevinson was dining that night with such of the Servants of India as had not gone home for the family festival. RP Paranjpye was there too – Senior Wrangler of his year, Fellow of St John’s, and then head of the Fergusson College. NC Kelkar, the editor of the “Mahratta”, and BG Tilak’s vigilant captain, who belonged to the “extremist” camp, had come as well. And a few more “Brahmans and non-Brahmans” sat with them, in a row. They did not care about the “purity” they would be sacrificing by eating beside a “carnivorous European”.That “inscrutable dispensation” was discussed amid laughter. Gokhale mentioned that the British rule had instilled into the Indian nature a love for freedom and self-assertion against authority that Indians used to lack, but “English people often possessed in enviable abundance”.Nevinson met Gokhale many times again – in Pune itself, Surat, Bombay, and London. But to Nevinson he always pictured him on that Diwali evening in the refectory where the Servants of India were gathered around him, together with friends from both the main parties of the time.Friends who did not see eye to eye on several social and political issues dined together that evening.Nevinson was allowed a table, chair, and spoon at dinner. Others sat on the floor, their backs against the walls, and in front of each of them was laid half a banana leaf, neatly studded around the edge with little piles of rice, beans, vegetables, chutney, and other condiments, laddoo, and “thin wheaten cakes”.Which when they had eaten, and drunk clean water from round brazen vessels, they washed up by burning the banana leaves, rinsed their hands, and continued the discussion over pomegranate seeds, orange cloves, and pan-leaves concealing betel-nut and various spice.Serene, modest, definite in aim and knowledge, Gokhale continued to discourse with his guests.That moonless night, Nevinson returned to the city of plague, where the oil lamps were now extinguished, and the children asleep.Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-notes-from-a-memoir-on-a-feast-for-diwali-defying-the-plague-101636023006045.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Lab assistant arrested for 11 house burglaries in Raigad||The Local Crime Branch (LCB) of Raigad has arrested a lab assistant working in Mahad College for 11 housebreaking cases. After his work as lab assistant, the accused would do a recce of the town to find the locked flats and then break into the homes during the day.The accused, identified as Sanket Anjarlekar (30), was arrested after police sub-inspector, Vikas Chavan of LCB, identified him from the description of the eyewitnesses.“The accused originally hails from Ratnagiri and our officer, Chavan, who has worked in Ratnagiri before was aware of this accused. When he learnt of the description of the accused from the witnesses, he suspected that it was him and started looking into the details of his location and it was found in Mahad. Thus we arrested him,” police inspector Dayanand Gawade from LCB said.A diploma holder, he has knowledge in carpentry work as well and could break open the latches easily. “We have recovered 46 tola gold from him and he is currently in police custody,” Gawade said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lab-assistant-arrested-for-11-house-burglaries-in-raigad-101636022706110.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||A costume guide for a safe Diwali||This Diwali, as you decorate your home with traditional diyas or aromatic candles, pay utmost attention to fire safety . This requires careful thinking on the location of the diyas and candles so as to prevent accidental contact with them. The design of the clothes that you wear for the occasion and the fabric that you choose, also play a part in keeping you safe.So to help you make the right choice, I have put together some essential information on the flammability of different kinds of fabrics and clothes, because we do not have laws such as those in the United States or Canada, to regulate the safety of clothes vis-à-vis their flammability . In fact even though we have statistics on fire mishaps in the country, we do not have any specific data on injuries and fatalities caused on account of clothes accidentally catching fire. However, media reports of such fire accidents caused from diyas and candles or while performing pooja or even during cooking, raise serious concerns. As it is, traditional Indian dresses require women to be extra cautious while going near a fire, but today, with fashion trends veering towards wide pants and flowing dresses, one needs to be extremely vigilant.The safety of your clothing in respect of its flammability hazard depends on five important factors -- the fibre used in the fabric; the fabric composition and construction ; the weight of the fabric; the finish of the fabric including its surface texture; and the design of the garment.The relative flammability of a fibre is determined on the basis of the minimum concentration of oxygen required to support combustion of the fabric, known as its “Limiting Oxygen Index” (LOI). Since the oxygen content of the atmosphere is about 21 per cent, all those fibres with an LOI of less than 21 per cent burn readily.Thus cellulose fibres like cotton and linen, with an LOI of 17-20 percent, ignite easily when in contact with a flame and burn rapidly and continue to burn even after taken away from the flame. However, tightly woven, thick and heavy cotton burns more slowly. Wool , a protein fibre, on the other hand has an LOI of 24-27 per cent and therefore will not ignite readily and burns very slowly. Natural silk, another protein fibre with an LOI of 23, also burns slowly and shrinks or curls away from the flame and is self-extinguishing. Comparative studies on heat transfer of fabrics also indicate that wool and silk generally do not cause severe burns.Polyester (LOI of 22 per cent) melts rather than catch fire and falls away from the flame. If it does catch fire, it burns slowly and self-extinguishes. However, because it melts, it causes deep localised burn injury . Acrylic, with an LOI value of 17-18 per cent is the most flammable of synthetic fibres -- it burns fast, produces considerable heat and worse, it melts and drips, causing deep and severe burns. Heavyweight acrylic is no better. Fabric structure matters too -- loosely woven fabric is generally far more combustible than a tightly woven fabric because of the presence of air in and around the yarn, fuelling combustion. Likewise, a lightweight cloth is far more flammable than a thicker, heavier one. The surface texture of the fabric also makes a difference – fabrics with raised fibre surface are more prone to catch fire and the flame can well travel quickly over the surface of the fabric. Chemical finishes can also alter the flammability of a textile, so also blends of different fibres..The design of the garment also plays an extremely important role here - trailing garments, flowing dresses and long and wide sleeves not only increase the chances of fabrics accidentally coming in contact with a source of fire, but such dresses burn faster because of the availability of more air between the skin and the garment. So do avoid such garments during the festival and tuck in all loose ends..In fact an observational study involving 224 persons who had sustained burns on account of their clothes catching fire, found that victims wearing loose, flowing garments such as sarees (41.1 per cent), salwar (22.3 per cent) and dupatta (9.8 per cent) caught fire easily and sustained more burn injuries than those who wore short, fitting dresses. The study, published in the World Journal of Plastic Surgery ( T.M.Honnegowda, 2019 ) also found that synthetic garments were involved in far more accidents (50.89 per cent) than cotton (20.53 per cent ) So by all accounts, wool is one of the best fabrics to wear during the festival of lights. Heavy and thick natural silk is also an option. Thick and tightly woven heavy cottons is not a bad idea too. But say no to loosely woven, light weight fabrics and most importantly, acrylic garments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-costume-guide-for-a-safe-diwali-101636019824794.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Woman found dead on Panjab University campus||A 59-year-old woman was found murdered at her house on the Panjab University campus in Chandigarh on Thursday morning, police said.The police added that the body of the woman with her hands and legs tied was found on the ground floor of the house. They said that she had also suffered an injury at the back of her head.The police said that the woman stayed with her husband and daughter. They added that the body was found by her husband on Thursday morning when he came down to the ground floor while their daughter was not at home.The woman was rushed to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Chandigarh’s Sector 16 area, where she was declared brought dead. The police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 11 police station. The woman’s mobile phone is missing, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-found-dead-on-panjab-university-campus-101636018685320.html
04-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP asks TMC govt to slash state tax on fuel||The West Bengal BJP on Thursday stated that the Mamata Banerjee government should reduce VAT on petrol and diesel, taking a cue from the Centre, if it was serious about being pro-people.The TMC, however, termed the Centre's decision to slash excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 per litre respectively a "mere eyewash". Describing the Centre's move as a "Diwali gift to the nation", Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari, took to Twitter, and said, "Now the WB Govt should follow suit and slash state tax to further bring down the rates."BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh tweeted that the TMC government, "which claims to be pro-people", has its task cut out to reduce VAT imposed by it on petroleum products. The party's state president, Sukanta Majumdar, also made a similar demand.Claiming that the slash in excise duty is "nothing but an eyewash", TMC state general secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, nonetheless, pointed out that the meagre reduction was announced after the rates hit the roof. "They should bring down the main price component," he tweeted.The TMC leader contended that the Centre levies higher tax on petroleum products than the state and as such the reduction in excise duty wouldn't have much bearing on the Union government's exchequer. He further alleged that the Centre gives BJP-ruled states more funds when compared to those which have opposition parties at the helm."The BJP-ruled state governments get their dues from the Centre on account of the taxes it levies, but Bengal remains deprived," Ghosh said, iterating TMC's allegation that the Union government metes out a "step-motherly treatment" to the Mamata Banerjee government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-asks-tmc-govt-to-slash-state-tax-on-fuel-101636014456275.html
04-11-2021||Patna||10 die in Bihar’s West Champaran and Gopalganj after consuming spurious liquor||A total of 10 people are believed to have died and 14 taken seriously ill after consuming spurious liquor in Bihar’s West Champaran and Gopalganj districts, officials said on Thursday. The latest deaths - six in West Champaran and four in Gopalganj - took the overall spurious liquor-related toll in the state to 15 since Tuesday. Overall, nine deaths were reported in Gopalganj alone. Confirming six deaths in West Champaran, Dakshini Telhuwa panchayat’s superintendent of police Upendra Nath Verma said, “Prima facie, these deaths look to have occurred following the consumption of poisonous substances. However, the exact cause of the death could only be known after the post mortem reports [come in].” He said the 14 people who were taken ill are undergoing treatment. Also Read: Muzaffarpur hooch tragedy: SHO, SI axed after two more deathsThe deceased in West Champaran district were identified as Bachcha Yadav, Maharaj Yadav, Hanumat Rai, Mukesh Paswan, Ram Prakash Ram and Jawahir Sahani. All were residents of Nautan block.In Gopalganj, officials said a dozen people in Kushar village allegedly consumed spurious liquor, and after falling ill, they were rushed by family members to private hospitals in Gopalganj and Motihari districts. They complained of nausea, headache, vomiting and vision problems. Naval Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate of Gopalganj, confirmed that Gopalganj recorded nine spurious liquor-related deaths since Tuesday. Of the four deaths in the district reported on Thursday, he said, “Two persons died while they were undergoing treatment, while two others died when they were being taken to hospital. The [official] cause of the deaths can be known only after post mortem reports arrive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/10-die-in-bihar-s-west-champaran-and-gopalganj-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-101636011904866.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 pandemic: 19 districts in Maharashtra have less than 50 active cases||Nineteen of Maharashtra’s 36 districts now have under 50 active Covid-19 cases, officials said on Wednesday even as Mumbai (4,186), Pune (3,194), Ahmednagar (2,087), Thane (1,690), Raigad (672), and Nashik (583) accounted for 82.1% of the state’s active coronavirus caseload of 15,119.Jalgaon, Nandurbar, Dhule, Latur, Washim, Bhandara, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal, Wardha, Buldhana, Jalgaon, Amravati, Akola, Chandrapur, Jalna, Hingoli, Nanded, and Parbhani have under 50 active cases. Nandurbar and Dhule have only one active case each.State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate said, “We have effectively controlled the spread of the [Covid-19] virus. We focused on these districts when cases surged during the second wave, but we have seen effective results of those efforts. We ramped up tests and provided timely hospital intervention.”Also Read: In Kerala, people with single dose of Covid-19 vaccine to be allowed in cinema hallsIshwar Gilada, the secretary-general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said the districts with lower caseload have less population compared to Mumbai, Pune, and Nashik. “A significant proportion of the population may have developed antibodies. Urban pockets have dense population areas; hence infections are more.”Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 1,193 Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths. Mumbai reported 319 cases and five fatalities, taking the toll to 16,259.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-pandemic-19-districts-in-maharashtra-have-less-than-50-active-cases-101635996304091.html
04-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh slashes VAT on petrol and diesel||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday slashed Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to bring down their prices. The move came as the Centre reduced excise duty by ₹5 per litre on petrol and ₹10 a litre on diesel amid spiralling fuel prices while urging states to further bring down the rates.A state official said the reduction in the levies will overall bring down the fuel prices by ₹12 per litre in Uttar Pradesh.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath earlier indicated the reduction at a meeting on VAT on October 28. The state government imposed a VAT of 26.8% or ₹18.74 per litre, whichever was higher, on petrol and 48% or ₹10.41 per litre, whichever was higher, on diesel.No additional details about the new rates of VAT were available till late Wednesday. People aware of the matter said the rates have been brought down by ₹7 per litre on petrol and ₹2 per litre on diesel.VAT is a major source of revenue for the government, which earned ₹2200.4 crore, about 106% of the target of ₹2060.43 crore, through it in September. The earning was ₹1,653 crore in September 2020.The government earned ₹12137.27 crore as VAT in the first six months of 2021-2022, or 39% of the annual target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-slashes-vat-on-petrol-and-diesel-101635995463648.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||New Delhi wakes up to an air quality of ‘very poor’ category on Diwali morning||Residents of New Delhi woke up on Diwali morning to an air quality of “very poor” category, recording an air quality index (AQI) of 334 at 7am on Thursday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. On Wednesday, the average AQI was only slightly better at 314, also in the “very poor” category.The Capital city’s AQI is expected to cross 350 and be at the higher end of the “very poor” category later on Thursday, agencies forecast. While the bursting of firecrackers will not be a major contributing factor to the worsening air quality, since it is expected to be under control, stubble burning is likely to have an impact as it could pick up from Thursday. Also Read: 51% cut in stubble burning incidents this seasonIts contribution to the AQI is expected to range from 20-40 until Saturday. An increase in wind speed may give New Delhi welcome relief from Friday night onwards, with winds of 20-30 km/hr likely on Saturday and Sunday, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. CPCB data shows New Delhi recorded its most polluted Diwali on October 31, 2016 when the AQI had touched 431, which falls in the “severe” category.Last year on Diwali, despite a blanket ban on firecrackers, an AQI of 414 - “severe” – was recorded, making it the second most polluted Diwali in six years.However, Diwali was marked much later last year, on November 14, by when the impact of stubble burning was at its peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-wakes-up-to-an-air-quality-of-very-poor-category-on-diwali-morning-101635994803982.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The place of the ‘kalaigar’||The stone floor is pockmarked with a couple of craters filled with smouldering coals. A handful of blackened steel chalnis (strainers) are flung about the place. Then there’s a stack of what appears to be dinner crockery traditional to Walled City dastarkhwans: bowls (called ghauri), katoras, chamchas, bhagonas, and jugs. Their metallic surface is sparkling with a mirror-like shine.This is a coppersmith’s workshop in Old Delhi’s Matia Mahal Bazar. “We call ourselves kalaigar,” says Faisal Qureshi. It is afternoon, and he is working with younger brother, Muhammed Faizan. “We bring out the shine in your bartan.” says Mr Qureshi in a modest tone, explaining that they accomplish this feat by applying a coat of tin on copper vessels. Wearing a check lungi and a shirt—its long sleeves rolled up to his elbows—Mr Qureshi calls himself a third generation kalaigar. “I inherited this profession from my father, Muhammed Irfan, who inherited it from his father, Haji Sharifuddin, whose father, Haji Nasiruddin, ran a meat shop.” The 80-year- old landmark is called Haji Kalaiwale.In his late 30s, Mr Qureshi is patiently responding to queries even though he is busy at work. Using a tong, he lifts off a jug from fire and plunges it into a tub filled with water. A hissing sound follows.Otherwise the workshop is snuggled in silence and darkness, in contrast to the chaos of the street outside. A biker passes by, his left arm holding a metal lunch box that is shining as brilliantly as the vessels in Mr Qureshi’s workshop. Perhaps it was given a kalaigar treatment in his place. Mr Qureshi smiles non-committally. “There are 3-4 more kalaigari shops in Old Delhi, apart from a few kalaigars who travel on bicycles.”Joining the conversation, Mr Qureshi’s brother reveals conspiratorially that their home is upstairs, “just above the dukaan.”In his 30s, Mr Qureshi says he never felt the urge to break away from his family vocation. “I might have considered it if there were no demand for such work… but we are constantly busy…. customers come from as far as Gurugram and Greater Noida.” Meanwhile Mr Qureshi’s nephew, the young school-going Hammad, is sitting by the entrance, playing a video game on the mobile. “He will be the fourth generation kalaigar,” says Mr Qureshi. The boy blushes.The “dukaan” shares its wall with Zam Zam Perfumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-place-of-the-kalaigar-101635982546320.html
04-11-2021||Other||CPI (M) seeks arrest of BJP leader for hate speech||Jammu CPI (M) leader MY Tarigami on Wednesday demanded the arrest of BJP leader and former MLC Vikram Randhawa. He also raised questions over government inaction against him, even as stringent laws were in place to tackle such utterances. “Even after exhorting his supporters to beat up Kashmiris and skin them alive, which is an open call to violence, he has not been even arrested. In contrast, students who had reportedly cheered for Pakistan over a cricket match victory have been charged with sedition and put behind bars,” said Tarigami in a press release.On Tuesday, the J&K unit of the BJP removed Randhawa from all party posts, including that of the state secretary of the party, with immediate effect. Police have registered a case against him under Section 295-A and 505(2) of the IPC. He was seen making remarks about the way Muslims pray and about the triple Talaq. Though Randhawa has tendered an apology, his controversial remarks have not gone down well with the civil society in the UT. In May, Randhawa had tendered unconditional apology before Union minister Jitendra Singh after the latter had slapped ₹1 crore defamation suit in a Delhi court. At that time Randhawa, who is president of Stone Crushers Association in Jammu, had accused Jitendra of aiding illegal mining from the Tawi riverbed. He had also accused the then district mineral officer Ankur Sachdeva, Jammu divisional commissioner, and SSP Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cpi-m-seeks-arrest-of-bjp-leader-for-hate-speech-101635971521773.html
04-11-2021||Other||Fatehpur bypoll a shot in the arm for Congress, leadership challenges remain||Dharamshala The result of the bypolls for Fatehpur assembly segment has come as a shot in the arm for opposition Congress in politically significant Kangra as it would not only galvanise its cadre, but also indicates the voting patterns in future elections.The bypoll outcome assumes significance as it depicts how a resourceful party like the BJP, despite being in power and putting in all its might, failed to wrest the seat. Alarm bells are certainly on for the BJP, with the win boosting the morale of the Congress, which is staring at a leadership crisis in Kangra. The Fatehpur seat was vacated due to the death of former Congress minister Sujan Singh Pathania in February this year. His son Bhawani Singh Pathania, who quit as a top executive in a banking and insurance company, not only won but also extended the lead for Congress.It is a popular saying in Himachal that the ‘Road to Shimla’ goes through Kangra. Merged in Himachal in 1966, Kangra sends the highest 15 legislators to the assembly.For the past five decades, the party winning the maximum seats in Kangra forms the state government. It is also true, however, that no one from Kangra except Shanta Kumar, has ever become the CM; with infighting the reasons. In 2017, BJP won 12 seats in Kangra and formed the government; in 2012, Congress won 10 seats and ruled the state.LEADERSHIP CRISIS A CHALLENGEDespite the spectacular victory, the Congress cannot afford to be overjoyed, as it stares at a leadership crisis after the death of former minister GS Bali. The question staring hard at the Congress is who will over take the reins of the party.After Bali, former minister Sudhir Sharma was a big Congress face and was seen as a future party leader from Kangra. His re-emergence remains a puzzle, after the self-created crisis of 2019, when he refused to contest the bypoll? Given the vacuum, however, the party will like him to take over. Age is not on the side of former MP Chander Kumar. The future, however, appears bright for Palampur legislator Ashish Butail; he has proved his political acumen in the Palampur municipal corporation elections, which the Congress won with a thumping majority. However, state politics is a different and he is yet an inexperienced hand here. District party president Ajay Mahajan doesn’t hold sway like his father late Sat Mahajan while former union minister Chandresh Kumari and former state party chief Viplove Thakur have almost given up electoral politics.Priyabhishek Sharma, a political analyst says, Kangra will again hold the key for the government. “Yes, the Congress stares at a leadership crisis but it may overcome the challenge and win Kangra with proper election management in 2022,” he said.Sharma added election results were a rejection of the BJP polices, so that the Congress will definitely have an edge and cash in on anti-incumbency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fatehpur-bypoll-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-congress-leadership-challenges-remain-101635970861418.html
04-11-2021||Other||Parts of Srinagar without mobile net for hours a day, complain residents||Srinagar For over 15 days, mobile internet remains suspended for hours in parts of Srinagar, disrupting work and business. Locals say Old City Srinagar is the worst-hit and the crisis started after 11 civilian killings by suspected militants in October in Srinagar and south Kashmir districts. Even the speed of broadband internet has been slowed, residents claim.“It is as if the authorities are rationing the mobile internet like distributing government rice. For two weeks now, there is no mobile internet from 7am to 10:30pm every day,” said Sajid Ahmad, 38, a resident of Rainawari. “I also have fibre connection whose speed has reduced drastically. When we played Pakistan in the T20 World Cup match, internet was restored even later than midnight,” he said.Ahmad said that he works from home for a private company which is established outside the valley and his work was suffering. “My mail hardly loads and I am forced to do my official work through Whatsapp at odd hours. It is so embarrassing and also affects one’s appraisal,” he said, adding college students are also suffering, with some even shifting to areas where the mobile internet is normal. Besides Rainawari, areas in the heart of the Old City like Nawhatta complain of no service during the day. A shopkeeper of Nawhatta, who provides online recharge and billing services, said that his business was suffering due to the internet ban.“The internet gets snapped from 7am to 11:30am and then again from 3:30pm to 10:45pm every day. We don’t know how they do it but it affects not only us but even students who are not able to attend online classes. My business is down 70%,” said the shopkeeper, not willing to be named. A field employee of the power department said he was suffering for want of mobile internet in a large area of old city stretching from Makhdoom Sahib to Khanyar and Bohri Kadal, and extending to Eidgah belt. “No internet causes a lot of communication issues, while routine shutting down and resumption of power grids and stations,” he said. Rafiq Ahmad, a resident of Khushal Sar, also complained of the unreliable internet. Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz Asad said, “You should speak to telecom companies or security people. Nobody has brought it to my attention so far.”Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said he was not in headquarters. IGP Vijay Kumar did not respond to a call from HT. The IGP, however, acknowledged the suspension of internet of ‘some towers’ in a tweet on October 21. His tweet read, “Seizing some bikes and shutting down of internet of some towers is purely related to terror violences. It has nothing to do with the visit of the honourable HM (home minister),” he had said. The Union home minister had visited on October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parts-of-srinagar-without-mobile-net-for-hours-a-day-complain-residents-101635969661374.html
04-11-2021||Other||SMVDSB sportspersons excel||Jammu Four Judokas hailing from Katra and trained at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi’s sports complex have been selected for cadet and sub-junior All India Judo Championship to be held at Chandigarh from November 6-14. All had recently won gold in the UT Level Judo championship organised by the Jammu and Kashmir Judo Association in Jammu. These Judokas have been trained under the guidance of coach Danish Sharma at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board’s Sports Complex at Katra. In another event, athletes of SMVDSB, Katra came-up with flying colours in J&K UT Masters Athletics Annual Championship 2020-21 held at MA Stadium, Jammu on October 31 organized by J&K Masters Athletic Association. The team won three gold, two silver and one bronze medal in events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smvdsb-sportspersons-excel-101635969181345.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||US lawmaker seeks justice for victims of 1984 anti-Sikh riots||A US lawmaker has remembered the victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in India, calling for justice and accountability for the families affected by the massacre. “Madam speaker, I rise to recognise the November 1984 anti-Sikh riots in India, also known as the Sikh massacre,” Congressman from Pennsylvania, Brendan Boyle said on the floor of the US House of Representatives on Tuesday.The anti-Sikh riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on 31 October, 1984, by her two Sikh bodyguards.Boyle said today there are more than half-a-million Sikhs in the United States, who began coming here 130 years ago.“The massacre against the Sikhs began in the capital territory of Delhi and a number of other Indian cities on November 1, 1984, following the assassination of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi,” he said.“The first Sikh life was taken early that morning. The violence that lasted three days resulted in thousands upon thousands of casualties in the Sikh community. In the aftermath of the massacre, it was reported that nearly 20,000 were forced to flee, leading to countless displaced people,” Boyle said.“Madam speaker, remembering the Sikh massacre is a pivotal and historic step in the fight for justice and accountability for the families of all those victims,” said the Congressman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/us-lawmaker-seeks-justice-for-victims-of-1984-anti-sikh-riots-101635968941748.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||51% cut in stubble burning incidents this season||New DelhiIncidents of stubble burning have come down by over 51% this season so far compared to the corresponding period last year, according to the Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).The panel said enforcement agencies have inspected 8,575 sites in Punjab, Haryana and NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh and an environmental compensation of around ₹58 lakh has been imposed for crop residue burning.“Paddy residue burning events in Punjab, Haryana, NCR districts of UP and Rajasthan and Delhi have come down from 43,918 in 2020 to 21,364 in 2021 during the period from September 15 to November 2,” it said in a statement.The reduction in fire counts is 51.35% in the current year compared to the corresponding period last year. Between October 27 and November 2 this year, only 12,853 farm fires have been recorded as against 23,628 cases in the corresponding period of 2020 -- a reduction of 10,775 cases (45.6%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/51-cut-in-stubble-burning-incidents-this-season-101635968761202.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sonia accepts Amarinder Singh’s resignation from Congress||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday accepted former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation from the party.He had sent resignation from the Congress on Tuesday, accusing Sonia and her two children, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, of a “midnight conspiracy” against him. He also announced the formation his separate party, Punjab Lok Congress.“Hon’able Congress president has accepted the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh from the primary membership of Indian National Congress,” AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal tweeted. Capt Amarinder had resigned from the CM’s post on September 18 following a long-drawn tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu, four ministers and some MLAs. Charanjit Singh Channi, who was among the rebel ministers, was picked by the party as the next CM of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonia-accepts-amarinder-singh-s-resignation-from-congress-101635968641114.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shortage of DAP, equipment: Farmers gherao Punjab agriculture minister’s residence||Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ugarahan) on Wednesday staged a protest outside the residence of agriculture minister Randeep Singh in Nabha against shortage of DAP (di-ammonium phosphate) fertiliser and urea and the failure of state government on providing farm equipment on subsidised rates.State secretary of the union Jagtar Singh said farmers from four districts, including Patiala, Barnala, Sangrur and Malerkotla, gathered at Nabha to demonstrate against agriculture minister.“The minister is making false claims of providing farm equipment before the upcoming rabi season,” he said.He added that as many as 62,265 farmers applied for nearly 1.7 lakh equipment, of which the government has approved 10,297 applications and provided only 10,091 farm tools on subsidised rates.“The farmers get 80% subsidy on agricultural equipment. The Centre has sanctioned ₹306 crore as subsidy but the state government has spent only ₹106 crore so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shortage-of-dap-equipment-farmers-gherao-punjab-agriculture-minister-s-residence-101635968401331.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||2015 bir theft case: SIT to grill dera chief in Rohtak jail on Nov 8||The Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases will visit Sunaria jail in Rohtak on November 8 to question rape and murder convict Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh for his alleged role in the theft of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015. People familiar with the development said the SIT will also question Ram Rahim to ascertain the whereabouts of three absconding members of dera’s national committee, who are key link in sacrilege cases. SIT head Surinder Pal Singh Parmar sent a communication to the district magistrate, Rohtak, informing that on the direction of the Punjab and Haryana high court, the members of the SIT will visit Sunaria Jail, Rohtak, for interrogating Ram Rahim on November 8. “You are requested to intimate the jail authorities accordingly so that the order of the high court may be complied with meticulously,” the letter reads. The probe team has already prepared a questionnaire on the basis of evidence on record to interrogate the dera chief. Last week, a Faridkot court issued production warrants against Ram Rahim in a case of sacrilege wherein a “bir” (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. But the Punjab and Haryana high court directed Punjab Police to grill Ram Rahim in Rohtak jail itself, if it so desired, and directed the jail authorities to make arrangements for the SIT to question dera head. In July 2020, after the arrest of seven dera followers, the SIT led by former inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra had named Ram Rahim and dera’s three national committee members—Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri— as accused in the case. The “bir” was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of that “bir” were found scattered in front of a gurdwara in the adjoining Bargari village, leading to statewide protests and death of two Sikh protesters in police firing. In its chargesheet, the SIT claimed that it was Ram Rahim who ordered to carry out sacrilege to avenge insult of sect followers by a Sikh preacher. The dera head is lodged in Sunaria jail of Rohtak since August 25, 2017. In 2017, he was awarded 20-year jail term for the rape of two disciples. Subsequently, he has been convicted in murder cases of a journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati and Ranjit Singh, a former dera manager, in which life sentence has been awarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-bir-theft-case-sit-to-grill-dera-chief-in-rohtak-jail-on-nov-8-101635968222536.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Moga food safety officer suspended at midnight hours after sample collection drive||The Punjab health department suspended at midnight Moga food safety officer Dr Jatinder Singh after he carried out a drive of collecting samples of sweets on the deputy commissioner’s directions. No reason was cited for the suspension, it is learnt. Deputy commissioner Harish Nayar had directed Dr Jatinder and Moga tehsildar Karan Gupta to collect samples with the help of police after receiving a tip-off that adulterated and substandard sweets were being sold in Moga. The DC had said in an order that it was essential to curb the malpractice since it might affect the health of people. The food safety officer alleged that he was suspended due to political pressure. The shopkeepers who were against the sample collection drive requested a political leader to get the drive stopped, he said. “The political leader verbally recommended my suspension to the state health department. We started the drive around 3:30pm that lasted for about four hours. A total of 8 samples were collected. But around midnight, I received order of my suspension on WhatsApp with no reason mentioned. In the morning, I came to know that a political leader from Moga had recommended my suspension on the shopkeepers’ request seeking to discontinue the drive.” “I only did what the administration asked me to do. I have explained to the health department that I was just acting on the DC’s order,” he added. Deputy commissioner Harish Nayar said he was not aware about the suspension order. Moga civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa said, “We were not informed about the reasons for Dr Jatinder’s suspension by the department.”Commissioner (food and drugs administration) Kumar Rahul, who issued the order of Dr Jatinder’s suspension, did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-food-safety-officer-suspended-at-midnight-hours-after-sample-collection-drive-101635968161057.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege cases: Punjab DGP reconstitutes SIT||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota has reconstituted the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases by appointing Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar as its new member. AIG, counter intelligence, Rajinder Singh Sohal and commandant of 27th battalion, PAP, Jalandhar, Opinderjit Singh Ghuman have been dropped from the probe team. The order reads that in the interest of administrative exigencies, the SIT has been re-constituted. “Batala SSP Mukhwinder Singh (who replaces Ghuman), DSP Lakhbir Singh and inspector Dalbir Singh will be the members of the SIT headed by inspector general of police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar,” he added. After the retirement of Khatra in April, Parmar, in a letter to director bureau of investigation recommended that DIG Gurpreet Singh Bhullar may be nominated as a member of the SIT. The profiles of eight DIG-rank officials — Babu Lal Meena, Baljot Singh Rathore, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Hardial Singh Mann, Harbaj Singh, Gurpreet Singh Toor, Surjit Singh and Gurpreet Singh Gill — were scrutinised for nomination as a new member. However, Bhullar’s name was not forwarded at that time. Last month, the DGP formed a four-member team for a “special operation”’ for tracing three absconding members of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee, who are accused in sacrilege cases of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015. The orders were withdrawn after a day following backlash. The decision to form a new team caused consternation among officers as it was being seen as an attempt to undermine the power of the SIT led by Parmar. DIG Gurpreet Singh Bhullar was asked to supervise that team, while AIG Rajinder Singh Sohal was among the other four members. But now, Sohal has been dropped from the team. The SIT is probing three FIRs registered in connection with sacrilege incidents, including theft of a “bir” (a copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015, putting up of derogatory posters at Bargari village on September 25, 2015, and torn pages of the “bir” found scattered at Bargari on October 12, 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-cases-punjab-dgp-reconstitutes-sit-101635968042703.html
04-11-2021||Lucknow||State not expected to acquire land of people without paying compensation: Allahabad high court||PRAYAGRAJ Emphasising that the state was not expected to acquire land of people without paying compensation, the Allahabad high court sought personal affidavits of additional chief secretaries of government departments concerned in Uttar Pradesh regarding grievances of people, who demanded compensation for their land acquired by the state government.The court also directed all district magistrates to specify details of such applications filed to seek compensation and as to what actions had been taken on such applications. This petition will be heard next on February 25, 2022.Hearing the writ petitions filed by Jeet Narayan Yadav and two others, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Piyush Agrawal fixed December 3, 2021 as the next date of hearing.The three petitioners had submitted that their land had been taken but no compensation was paid to them.Taking a serious note of it, the court observed, “We regularly hear such matters where either the land is acquired, and possession thereof has been taken but no compensation has been paid or cases where possession has been taken without acquisition of land and without payment of compensation.”It was pointed out before the court that in such cases, mainly the land is acquired by either the revenue department, public works department or the irrigation department.In view of this, the court directed the additional chief secretaries of the revenue department, PWD and the irrigation department to get the list of such cases pending in this court prepared along with the issues raised therein.They were also asked to apprise the court as to what steps had been taken to resolve the grievances of the petitioners.The court directed these additional chief secretaries to file personal affidavits on the instant petition by the next date of hearing – December 3, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/state-not-expected-to-acquire-land-of-people-without-paying-compensation-allahabad-high-court-101635968041168.html
04-11-2021||Other||Four of a family killed in Unnao road mishap||Lucknow : Four members of a family were killed after they were hit from behind by a speeding vehicle on Lucknow-Kanpur road under Gangaghat police station in Unnao district on Wednesday evening, police officials said. The accident occurred when the deceased alighted from their car to buy some fruits from a road side stall. However, the truck driver fled from the spot, they said. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Shivnarayan Gupta, 45, Vijay Gupta, 40, Balram Gupta, 56, and Ramesh Gupta 35, all residents of Hasanganj in Lucknow. “The deceased were on their way to Kanpur for some business work. They stopped their vehicle on the highway to buy some fruits from a road side stall when a speeding truck hit them from behind. They were rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared them brought dead,” said Dinesh Tripathi, SP, Unnao .“A case has been registered against the driver and owner of the truck at Gangaghat police station of Unnao and a police team has been formed to investigate the matter. The traffic on the Lucknow-Kanpur highway was affected for over an hour due to the mishap. Additional police force was deployed to clear the traffic jam,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-of-a-family-killed-in-unnao-road-mishap-101635967921221.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||CTU to roll out electric buses from November 13 in Chandigarh||In a major step towards environment friendly mass public transport system, the first batch of electric buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will be rolled out from November 13. Around 12 buses are expected to start initially, and by mid-December, 28 more electric buses will be available for the city commuters. “The buses will be run on express routes, which are the most used or connect key locations. We are in the process of finalising these routes,” said a senior UT official. “The commuters will be able to travel in these new green buses at the existing rates for other buses.” The Centre has sanctioned 80 electric buses for Chandigarh. UT adviser Dharam Pal said: “We will soon float tenders for the second lot of 40 electric buses. We expect that all 80 buses will become operational by early next year.” For the first lot of 40 buses, an agreement has been signed with M/s Ashok Leyland for 10 years. The model of the contract is gross cost contract and scope of operator/company includes the procurement of buses, installation of an adequate number of chargers for charging of buses along with LT charging infra up to transformer, maintenance of buses and providing driver for 10 years. The fare collection will be done by the authority. Notably, the CTU received the first electric bus in August this year. After it was run on a trial basis for nearly 20 days on the PGI-Manimajra route via Madhya Marg. Though the full run was planned by September with the transport department suggesting some improvements in the bus to the manufacturer, the start was delayed. The delivery of all 40 buses from the manufacturer was scheduled for October, but it was also delayed. Speaking about the features of the new buses, the official said, “These air-conditioned buses have a seating capacity of 35 and standing space for 20 passengers. These will be equipped with passenger information screens at the front, rear, side and inside saloon areas as well as pneumatically controlled passenger doors. These buses will be integrated with the intelligent transport system recently introduced in the city by the transport department.” The transport department plans to replace all 358 diesel buses in the tricity with electric buses by 2027-2028.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ctu-to-roll-out-electric-buses-from-november-13-in-chandigarh-101635967876748.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Diwali gift: Chandigarh set to slash VAT on petrol, diesel by ₹7||Following the Centre’s announcement of excise cut on petrol and diesel sales, the Chandigarh administration is also set to give additional relief to the city residents.The administration is like to reduce the state value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by ₹7. Earlier in the day, the Union government decided to reduce excise duty on petrol by ₹5 and on diesel by ₹10.“Centre had also urged the states to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel. Following it, the administration has decided to reduce the state VAT by ₹7,” said a senior UT official, who did not wish to be named. At the time of filing of this news report, it is learnt, the administration was processing the official order on the reduction in VAT. The order was expected late at night or early Thursday morning.In Chandigarh, petrol was priced at ₹105.94 per litre and diesel was available for ₹98.16 per litre on Wednesday. Petrol had breached the ₹100 mark on October 10 after successive hikes in fuel prices. At the beginning of the year, petrol was available for ₹81 and diesel for ₹74.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/diwali-gift-chandigarh-set-to-slash-vat-on-petrol-diesel-by-7-101635967873061.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU to hold inter-zonal youth and heritage fest in December||Panjab University (PU) will hold its annual inter-zonal youth and heritage festival from December 13 to 18 at AS College, Khanna. The event had not been held last year in view of the pandemic and only small competitions were organised later.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Wednesday released the logo of this year’s youth and heritage festival which will be held under the theme “Love and respect the nature”. The festival will be held by the department of youth welfare in different zones of the university.Before the inter-zonal festival, the zonal festivals will begin around 10 November and will be held for over a month. The students who have excelled in the 12 zones of nearly 200 affiliated colleges of PU will participate in this mega six-day youth festival.Raj Kumar said, “Youth festival will bring positivity among the youth. Globally, the human race has been going through a pandemic and all of us have realised the importance of nature in our lives.”Over the past few months, the university’s department of youth welfare had been in continuous consultation with colleges over holding the festival this year. Several meetings at various zones were held to chalk out the plan.PU youth welfare director Nirmal Jaura, said, “All the Covid protocol will be followed during the festival and we have also issued instructions.”The zonal youth festival is usually held in September and October, with various cultural and academic competitions held in PU’s 12 zones. The winners then participate in the inter-zonal youth festival.Participation in the festival is open to students of all affiliated colleges, constituent colleges and university teaching departments who are below 25 years of age on the first day of July in the relevant session. A student can participate in a maximum of three times at the undergraduate level and two times at the postgraduate level.The competitions include group shabad, bhajans, classical music (vocal), classical dance, group dance, debate, handwriting, poem-writing, short story writing, essay writing and rangoli. Also, contests are held in phulkari, bagh, cross-stitch, knitting, crochet work, pakhi designing, mehndi designing, bhangra, giddha, quiz, skit, mimicry, miming, poem recitation and a one-act play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-to-hold-inter-zonal-youth-and-heritage-fest-in-december-101635967871909.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali district records Covid death after one month||Mohali on Wednesday reported one death due to Covid-19, taking the district’s toll to 1,069 since the outbreak last March. The previous death was reported on October 4. Also, two fresh cases surfaced, taking the count to 68,826. As many as 67,735 patients have recovered so far, including one discharged on Wednesday.Meanwhile, both Panchkula and Chandigarh reported one new case each. The active caseload in the tricity stands at 68, with 33 patients in Chandigarh, 22 in Mohali and 13 in Panchkula. Chandigarh has reported 65,356 cases, of which 64,503 have been cured and 820 patients have died. In Panchkula, 30,773 cases have surfaced so far. While 30,382 patients have been cured, 378 have succumbed to the virus.113 new dengue cases in tricityMohali also registered 70 fresh dengue cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 2,853 this year. The district has registered 32 deaths since September, with 29 taking place in October alone. Meanwhile, the total number of new cases stood at 113 in the tricity, with 29 in Chandigarh and 14 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has recorded 982 cases and three deaths this year. In Panchkula, 620 cases have surfaced and one patients has died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-district-records-covid-death-after-one-month-101635967870685.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Diwali: Two-hour window to burst green crackers in Panchkula||Following in the footsteps of Mohali, the Panchkula administration has allowed only a two-hour window for bursting green crackers on Diwali. Panchkula district magistrate Vinay Pratap Singh, who issued the orders on Wednesday, said residents can burst green crackers from 8pm to 10pm on Thursday. He said the sale and use of other fire crackers is banned in compliance with a letter issued by the State Disaster Management Authority, Haryana, adding that area-wise teams have been constituted to enforce the order. In Mohali, too, following the Punjab government’s directions, residents are allowed to burst only green crackers for two hours, 8pm to 10pm, on Diwali. The administration has issued just 40 temporary licences for the sale of crackers across the district.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh administration on October 12 imposed a banket ban on the sale and use of crackers after extensive consultation with health and environment experts, and has refused to give any relaxation despite petitions from cracker traders.2,750 cops to enforce orders across tricityAround 2,750 police personnel in addition to administrative officials will keep vigil to enforce these orders across the tricity. Residents can also call on 112 for reporting any violation.The Panchkula district magistrate said that air pollution poses serious environmental risks with adverse effects on the health of people, particularly vulnerable sections like children, elderly and people with pre-existing respiratory illnesses. As many as 1,000 cops will enforce the orders across the district. The district magistrate said violators will be booked under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 188 (non-compliance of prohibitory order) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In Chandigarh, too, anyone caught selling or bursting crackers will be booked under Section 188 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. Section 51 of the Act provides for a jail term of two years in case anyone gets hurt and one year for mere violation, while Section 188 entails a jail term up to three months. To ensure strict compliance, different teams of Chandigarh Police, comprising over 600 cops, have been deployed. About 42 floating nakas will be set up in different parts of the city from 4pm till late at night. In Mohali, the district police have intensified patrolling, especially on the routes leading to religious places and markets. As many as 1,150 cops in uniform as well as civvies will be on duty, and the violators will be booked under Section 188 of the IPC, said senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal. Day before Diwali, air quality turns very poor Air Quality Index (AQI) went up to 318 at the monitoring station in Sector 22, Chandigarh, around Wednesday noon. It stayed the “very poor” bracket for about two hours before falling into 100s once again. As the AQI at the other continuous ambient air quality monitoring station in Sector 25 remained under 100 (satisfactory) throughout the day, the officials are calling the spike at Sector 22 an “anomaly”.Ruling out the role of stubble burning, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee member secretary Debendra Dalai said: “Since the AQI went back into 100s in just a couple of hours, it was most likely an anomaly. Any spike due to stubble burning or temperature changes would have kept the AQI high throughout the day.” Dalai said the AQI on an average was a bit higher on Wednesday due to vehicular movement amid festive rush. The Chandigarh administration has imposed a blanket ban on the sale and use of crackers to combat pollution.According to government agencies, an AQI within the range of 0-50 is regarded as good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101-200 is moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is severe. If “very poor”, the polluted air can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.Meanwhile, clear and dry weather is likely to continue in the city, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 30-31°C and minimum temperature around 13°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/diwali-two-hour-window-to-burst-green-crackers-in-panchkula-101635967869343.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fire at Panchkula factory: Owner booked for negligence||A day after three workers died in a blaze at a furniture factory in Panchkula, police on Wednesday booked its owner for negligence. The case was registered against the West Wood owner under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code. Conviction under Section 304A can lead to imprisonment up to two years.The FIR was registered around 9pm, more than 30 hours after fire broke out at the three-storeyed factory at the Industrial Area, Phase 2, Panchkula. Also read: Kin of Panchkula factory fire victims await bodiesRam Malik, in-charge of the police post, said the FIR was delayed as police were awaiting statements from the victims’ families, who were “reluctant”.Three workers identified as Mamta, 45, Sonali Devi, 30, and Avdesh Kumar, 20, had died on Tuesday while another worker suffered severe burn injuries. He was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in a critical condition on Wednesday.Mamta’s husband, Rana, stated in the police complaint that there were no fire-safety arrangements, such as exit signs, in the building, due to which her wife got trapped and died.After the fire, West Wood owner Arjun Kakkar had alleged that the fire brigade was at least an hour late in reaching the spot, which led to the death of three workers. Claiming that the factory had all fire-fighting equipment and facilities in place, he had said that it was not enough to control the massive blaze and a call was made to the emergency number 112 promptly.DC marks inquiryMeanwhile, Panchkula deputy commissioner Vinay Partap Singh said that a magisterial inquiry has been marked into the fire incident. Panchkula subdivisional magistrate will conduct the inquiry to look into the cause behind the blaze, the status of fire-safety no-objection certificate (NOC) and fire-fighting equipment in place at the unit.The official has been given two weeks to submit the report.Families get reliefThe Haryana government has announced ₹2 lakh compensation for families of the three workers killed in the fire. The injured worker will get ₹50,000.Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta made this announcement on Wednesday. He said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given the relevant orders.The fire started from the first floor of the factory around 12:30pm on Tuesday and spread to the second floor. While other workers managed to escape, four were trapped. Rescue workers removed one dead body and evacuated three injured persons. However, by the evening, two of the three had succumbed to their burn injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fire-at-panchkula-factory-owner-booked-for-negligence-101635967867969.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales: University, college teachers in Punjab to resume protest from Nov 8||The Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO) has decided to resume its stir from November 8, claiming that the Punjab government was silent on the implementation of UGC pay scales and withdrawal of the decision of delinking teachers’ grades from UGC pay scales.Last month, PFUUCTO suspended its agitation after its members met the higher education and languages minister Pargat Singh. They said that minister agreed to their demands and assured the delegation to follow them up with the chief minister.General Secretary, PFUCTO, Jagwant Singh said at a meeting with the minister and principal secretary, higher education, Krishan Kumar on October 19, they were assured that appropriate action towards the acceptance of their demands would follow soon, after consultations with the finance department.In a communiqué, the PFUCTO said they have decided to hold three-hour dharnas in all colleges and universities across Punjab and Chandigarh on November 8. On November 11, the teachers plan to protest in the form of candle marches across different cities. And, these will be followed by dharnas in front of residences of ministers of Punjab on November 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-university-college-teachers-in-punjab-to-resume-protest-from-nov-8-101635967866852.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board to auction 159 properties||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will put another 159 commercial and residential properties on auction from November 10.Of these, 113 are commercial and 27 are residential leasehold properties, and the remaining 19 are residential freehold units. The reserve prices will be the same as in the previous tender finalised on October 19.The residential freehold properties are available in Sectors 38W, 49, 51 and 63. The most expensive are three-bedroom flats in Sector 63, with the reserve price of ₹86.24 lakh. At ₹23.44 lakh, the lowest reserve price is of economical weaker section (EWS) flats in Sector 63.The online bidding will begin at 10am on November 10 and end at 10am on November 30, following which the e-bids will be opened the same morning.In the last seven months, the CHB has sold 150 properties for ₹104.52 crore. A major chunk of these successful sales were 104 residential freehold properties, which generated a revenue of ₹81 crore.Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said, “The e-tender process is open for all citizens of India as well as NRIs/PIOs above 18 years of age. The persons already having any property (residential or commercial) can also participate.”The built-up dwelling units will be allotted to the highest eligible bidder, quoting above the reserve price. The GST will not be applicable on the consideration/premium of the unit. However, in case of allotment on leasehold basis, GST will be applicable on lease money/ground rent payable annually.“All willing participants may visit the CHB website (www.chbonline.in) to understand and download the detailed procedure,” said Garg. In order to submit e-bids, every prospective bidder is required to get registered at etenders.chd.nic.in. A valid e-mail id, mobile number and digital signature are the basic requirements to participate in the process. Stickers have been pasted at each of the built-up unit for better identification, and site offices have been provided at different sectors to facilitate inspection by the prospective bidders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-to-auction-159-properties-101635967865338.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine: Over 2 lakh fail to turn up for second jab in Mohali||In Mohali, around 25% of people have failed to turn up for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, which was due in September this year.The vaccination drive has slowed down amid a dip in Covid-19 cases in the Mohali district. While the health department has inoculated 100% of the targeted population with the first dose, only 53% have been fully vaccinated.The total eligible population of Mohali is 7,46,119 according to the growth estimates based on the 2011 census. However, as many as 8,72,096 people, including migrants and those from neighbouring cities, have got the first dose. In comparison, only 4,02,222 have got the second jab.Around 2,12,801 people, whose second dose was due in September, have not come for the second dose even after repeated reminders.Dr Girish Dogra, district immunisation officer, Mohali, said, “Around 25 % of people had not turned up for the second dose. Our staff is making calls to them, but they are making all sorts of excuses and even saying only one dose is enough. Some are saying they will come after Diwali.”Deputy commissioner, Mohali, Isha Kalia, said, “We are roping in NGOs and other organisations who held the camps for the first dose and now we will ask them to organise camps for the second dose also. We will be accelerating our drive after Diwali. We are hopeful that by November-end, it will reach at least 80% and 100% by December-end,” she said.Last month 82 Covid-19 cases and three deaths were reported. The vaccine is being administered at 22 government sites and four private sites in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-over-2-lakh-fail-to-turn-up-for-second-jab-in-mohali-101635967864157.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of Panchkula factory fire victims await bodies||More than 24 hours have passed, but the family of three factory workers, who died in a massive fire that broke out at a three-storeyed furniture factory in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, Panchkula, on Tuesday, are still awaiting the body of their loved ones till late at night.The three workers of the West Wood furniture factory, who succumbed to burn injuries, have been identified as Mamta, 45; Sonali Devi, 30; and Avdesh Kumar, 20. Another worker whose condition is critical was shifted to the PGIMER on Wednesday.While the authorities pointed to suspected fire-safety violations at the unit, the owner blamed the deaths on the delay in the fire department’s response.Also read: Factory owner booked for negligence that led to three deathsAmong this blame game, it’s the poor families who have been left to suffer. First, they lost their family members and now they had to wait an entire day to get the bodies.At 9 pm, which is over 30 hours after the death of her mother, a teenage girl dressed in school uniform was seen sitting in a pitch-dark area outside the police post. “Please give me my mother’s body. I have to take her to our native village for the cremation,” pleaded Neha, who hasn’t eaten anything since morning.Sonali Devi, who has left behind two children and a husband, was working in the factory for over 2 years. On the day of the fire incident, she was cleaning the furniture.Her father Sat Narayan said: “We are running from the pillar to post since morning. In the hospital, they ask us to get some documents from the police. Here the police are not giving us anything in writing. I only want my wife’s body and if someone can arrange a van so that I can take the body to the village.”Inderjeet Rana, the husband of deceased Mamta, said: “I am a diabetic patient and remain unwell. I have lost my wife and we are being harassed since 6 am. No one is listening to us. They have not registered any case yet. I want nothing but the body of my wife.”Till late in the evening, no FIR was registered despite action being sought by some family members.In-charge of the Sector 19 police post, Panchkula, Ram Malik said: “There is no unanimity in the statement of three families. One wants action, whereas another wants to compromise. No one is giving anything in writing. How can we register a case?”The FIR was finally registered around 9 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-of-panchkula-factory-fire-victims-await-bodies-101635967862090.html
04-11-2021||Other||Bahraich’s POCSO Court hands death penalty for rape and murder of minor||The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court handed death sentence to a person in connection with the rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl, here in Bahraich on Tuesday. The court also awarded 20-year rigorous imprisonment to co-accused in the case.Special district government council Sant Pratap Singh said it was the second death sentence awarded by the court in Bahraich within two months. Singh said the court, in its 123-page judgment, found the crime to be ‘rarest of the rare case’ and thus awarded death sentence to one of the main offenders.Giving details about the case, the additional superintendent of police (rural) Asokh Kumar said a 12-year-old girl, a resident of Rehuwa village, was found murdered on April 10, 2021. An FIR was lodged under sections 364, 376 and 302 of the IPC based on a complaint made by the victim’s father Santosh Singh against unidentified persons on April 11, 2021. During the investigation, two persons Phool Chand Kannaujiya, 32, and Roshan Lal, 30, were convicted for the rape and murder of the minor girl.Additional Sessions Judge Nitin Pandey awarded death sentence to Phool Chand Kannaujiya, and 20-year rigorous imprisonment to co-accused Roshan Lal added special district government council. Earlier on August 16, the court had awarded capital punishment to one Parshuram, a resident of Patrahiya village, for rape and murder of a one-and-half-year-old girl under Nanpara Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bahraichs-pocso-court-hands-death-penalty-for-rape-and-murder-of-minor-101635967801188.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||80% decline in farm fires in Ambala this year||Even as neighbouring Punjab is recording higher stubble burning cases of 2021 in recent days, Ambala district recorded almost an 80% fall in farm fires this year.As per the data available, the cases fell from 702 between 15 September and 30 October last year to just 146 in the same period this year. The decline is significant as the other rice-producing districts of the region are way behind.For instance, Karnal witnessed a mere 24% decline in cases, Kaithal saw 29% fall and 47% fire incidents decreased in Kurukshetra. However, Yamunanagar performed well with a decline of 75% fire cases of kharif crop this year. Deputy commissioner Vikram said due to concentrated efforts that started in June, much before the cultivation season, the target was achieved easily. “As many as 499 awareness camps were held at village level to sensitise 20,000 farmers and a large Kisan Mela was organised at Behbalpur village on October 6 to educate farmers about ill-effects of burning stubble. Providing in situ and ex situ stubble management is also among steps taken,” the officer said.A team headed by an SDM was also constituted in each sub-division to look into the stubble burning cases. “The team reaches the AFL spot to douse the fire and take appropriate action. This also led to a feeling among the villagers that the vigil is strong,” the DC said.The administration marked nine villages in the red zone, where more than six cases were reported last year and 89 villages were designated in the yellow zone, where the fire incidents reported were between one and five.Hitesh Kumar, SDM (City), under whose jurisdiction most villages were in the red zone, said special camps and programmes were organised in these villages so that numbers of fire incidence come down to zero.“Eleven officials of the agriculture department from other districts were sent to these villages to inform farmers and make availability of the appropriate machinery to the farmers,” he said.The efforts were also appreciated by several farmers in the district who are against stubble burning. Naveen Kumar, a peasant from Mullana village in Barara sub-division, who will use the in situ management on 2.5 acres of his crop, said his fellow villagers were also benefiting from the initiatives and were also scared that anyone could complain to the police if they burn stubble.His counterpart in Bhanokheri, a village under the red zone, Dimple, also agrees but believes that the subsidised amount should reach farmers at the earliest.The administration has so far collected a total fine of ₹1,07,500, where 41 farmers were challaned at ₹2,500 per two acres and beyond, but no FIR was lodged against any of them.Girish Nagpal, deputy director of agriculture, said till October 30, 146 satellite locations were identified by HARSAC, Hisar, and six physically, while no fire was found at 110 sites during field verification.The decline in cases is evident with the AQI levels dropping from the “poor” to “moderate” category this year. The average air quality levels of October 2020 remained at 226.13, while in the same period this year, the levels were recorded at halfway mark at just 133.Other than fewer fire cases, this was also possible due to irregular rainfall several times in the month, Nitin Mehta, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/80-decline-in-farm-fires-in-ambala-this-year-101635967741055.html
04-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Judge’s wife duped of ₹49,500 by Delhi based agency||PRAYAGRAJ: Wife of an Allahabad High Court judge was duped of ₹49,500 on pretext of providing domestic help by an online agency based in Delhi. On complaint of the judge’s son, Civil Lines police has lodged an FIR against company’s director and two women, said police. According to the complaint, the judge’s wife contacted a Delhi-based company for providing a maid for domestic works. The agency sent photographs and details of women who were available as domestic helps. After one of the women was selected, the agency said that at present she was in Mumbai. On October 13, two women reached the residence of the judge. One of them stayed at the house for work while other left after taking ₹20,000 as advance. The rest of the amount ₹29,500 was paid on October 15 online. It is alleged that the woman who stayed back as domestic help left home on pretext of buying medicine, but did not returned back. The agency authorities also did not reply when they were asked about the woman and the fraud, following which an FIR was lodged against Vijay Vishnu Sharma, Jyoti Sahni and a woman at Civil Lines police station. SP (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said that further investigation was being carried out in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-judge-s-wife-duped-of-rs-49-500-by-delhi-based-agency-101635967622907.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Barnala jail officials inscribed ‘terrorist’ on his back, alleges murder convict||A murder convict lodged in the Barnala jail on Wednesday claimed in a Mansa court that the jail superintendent along with other officials inscribed ‘attwadi’ (terrorist) on his back with a heated iron rod and thrashed him. During an appearance in the court of Mansa judicial magistrate in a drug recovery case, Karamjit Singh of Patiala district’s Balamgarh village submitted an application claiming torture in the jail. He alleged that jail superintendent Balbir Singh along with constable Jagroop Singh and other jail staff inscribed ‘attwadi’ on his back on Tuesday. “I was punished for raising my voice against the jail authorities for violating basic rights of inmates,” he claimed. Poor quality food is provided to the inmates in the jail, he said. “No doctor or pharmacist is available in the prison during night and inmates have to wait for long hours in case of medical emergency. The products at jail canteen are sold at higher rates and VIP treatment is provided to some inmates after taking bribes,” he said seeking action against the jail officials. He also showed the inscribed mark on his back to the judicial magistrate who forwarded the matter to the Barnala chief judicial magistrate. Barnala jail superintendent Balbir Singh said no such incident took place in the prison. “This is a completely false allegation. This has been done under a conspiracy by Karamjit who got the word inscribed with the help of other inmates. Besides his conviction, he is facing trial in 11 more cases, including that of murder and attempt to murder. He was upset after we put his aides in separate barracks. Why would we inscribe something on his back and take him to the court next day?” he asked. ‘Conduct a thorough probe’ Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Wednesday issued an order to conduct a thorough probe into the alleged Barnala jail incident. Randhawa, who also holds the prison portfolio, directed additional director general of police (jails) PK Sinha to get medical examination of the prisoner done.Sinha said DIG Ferozepur range Tajinder Singh Maur has been appointed as the investigating officer for the case and will visit the jail on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barnala-jail-officials-inscribed-terrorist-on-his-back-alleges-murder-convict-101635967561375.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Randhawa seeks report on recruitment of non-Punjabis in Punjab Police||Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randahwa has sought a detailed report from the director general of police (DGP) on alleged recruitment of non-Punjabis in the state police ignoring the rules.The directive came after reports in the media about recruitment of people from other states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Rajasthan into the Punjab Police. Randhawa, who is also the state home minister, has asked director general of police (DGP) Iqbalpreet Singh Sahota to furnish all facts pertaining to the matter. According to an official statement, Randhawa said this is a serious issue and needs immediate action. He asked the report to be submitted within seven days. The Punjab government will go to the bottom of this case and “severest of severe” action will be taken if any violation of law is found to have taken place, Randhawa said, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/randhawa-seeks-report-on-recruitment-of-non-punjabis-in-punjab-police-101635967328183.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers say Parmal varieties more profitable due to assured MSP||Haryana farmers who had grown premium paddy variety, Basmati are staring at financial losses after a sudden fall in prices in the open market.The prices of aromatic Basmati in the mandis have come down to around ₹3,600-3,800 per quintal against last year’s ₹4,500-5,000 per quintal. The premium Basmati varieties were grown in Kaithal, Karnal and Kurukshetra districts and harvesting is at its peak.Farmers said they are not selling their produce as they expect a rise in the prices after Diwali.“I have harvested my crop on three acre and harvesting is still on. I have not sold it yet because at this price, I will not be able to get any profit,” said farmer Raghubir Singh of Karnal’s Nilokheri.Another farmer Krishan Kumar, who has nearly 30 acre Basmati crop in Sakra village of Kaithal district, said, “There is no stability in the prices of Basmati since the past couple of years. The prices keep fluctuating and causing huge losses to farmers.”Parmal more remunerative than BasmatiGovernment agencies procure only Parmal varieties on the minimum support price (MSP) while the long-grained Basmati varieties are purchased by private traders. There is no stability in the prices of Basmati varieties.Farmers said those who had grown Parmal varieties have earned more profit as they could sell their produce on MSP of ₹1,960 per quintal. Even early and high-yielding varieties of Basmati, including Pusa 1509 and Pusa 1121, also fetched good prices and were sold at around ₹3,000 per quintal.“The average yield of Parmal varieties remain above 30 per quintal and farmers earn well but the yield of premium Basmati remains 12-14 quintal and at the present price, farmers will not be able to get ₹50,000 per acre,” said rice trader Praveen Kumar.Need pricing policyPeople associated with the rice industry have blamed the lack of a proper pricing mechanism for the Basmati varieties for their losses. They said due to lack of pricing policy for Basmati, farmers are left with no choice but to sell their produce at the prices fixed by private traders.Former president of the All-India Rice Exporters Association, Vijay Setia said the fluctuating acreage of Basmati varieties caused instability of prices.“Last year, prices of Basmati varieties were good. Following this, farmers had shown interest in traditional Basmati cultivation this year. That is why, this year, the prices had crashed as traders cannot purchase beyond their stock limits and demand,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmers-say-parmal-varieties-more-profitable-due-to-assured-msp-101635967326963.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Violent protest erupts at Bathinda refinery after worker’s death , 6 vehicles set ablaze||A violent protest broke out at the Guru Gobind Singh Refinery at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda district on Wednesday after the death of a carpenter, with an angry crowd of hundreds of workers burning six vehicles, including two police patrol cars. Abhishek (23) of Sirsa district in Haryana died after a heavy object fell on him and another worker at an under-construction building on the refinery premises in the afternoon. The second worker, Jaskaran Singh who sustained critical injuries, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Both were hired by an outsourcing private company, which is carrying out construction work at the refinery. The protesting workers alleged that safety measures were not followed by the private firm due to which the carpenter died. Later, when the Talwandi Sabo and Raman station house officers (SHOs) rushed to the spot, their vehicles were set on fire. Heavy police force was rushed to the spot. After bringing the situation under control, the district police carried out a flag march in the area near refinery. Senior superintendent of police Ajay Maluja said, “Two workers fell from an under construction building inside the refinery. Abhishek died on the spot, while Jaskaran is undergoing treatment at a hospital, where his condition is critical. Six vehicles, including vehicles of the Raman and Talwandi Sabo SHOs were set on fire by the crowd,” he said. “There were no serious injuries to the cops. Two guards of the refinery received minor injuries. We have started investigation into the matter and are identifying people involved in the violent protest. An FIR will be lodged against them,” he added. An official spokesperson of the refinery said, “The safety of the workers was the responsibility of the outsourced private firm carrying out the construction work. Due action will be taken by the refinery authorities for the negligence. The refinery will provide compensation to the family of the deceased and medical assistance to the injured worker.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/violent-protest-erupts-at-bathinda-refinery-after-worker-s-death-6-vehicles-set-ablaze-101635967204024.html
04-11-2021||Other||J&K starts distribution of ₹5 cr relief to 12,000 apple orchard owners in Shopian||Srinagar The Jammu and Kashmir government has started distribution of nearly ₹5 crore as compensation to 12,000 farmers in south Kashmir’s Shopian, the worst-hit district due to the untimely snow on October 23 and October 24. The government had declared this as a ‘national disaster’, as it had struck two-three weeks before normal. “We have started providing compensation to affected farmers. Over 12,000 families or parties would be compensated in the worst-hit district,” Shopian additional deputy commissioner, Mushtaq Ahmed Simnani, told HT. On Tuesday, the government had claimed that it was for the first time in the district when farmers would get crop damage compensation well on time. “After assessing damages all across the district, a detailed report with a compensation component was submitted for its early release,” the government said in a release, adding that Simnani emphasised upon revenue and other officers to work in coordination with the horticulture department. “He asked them to speed up their activities so that the process of compensation is geared up on a war-footing basis and the farmers will be able to get the compensation of their damaged crops,” the statement said.Last week, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had announced farmers who suffered losses in the recent snowfall will be provided assistance. The early snowfall in Kashmir on October 22 and 23 put thousands of farmers in misery as the snow damaged fruit laden apple orchards, particularly in the Pir Panjal region of Shopian and Kulgam in south Kashmir. Farmers says 40-50% of their crop was still hanging on the trees, when the snow hit Horticulture director Ajaz Ahmad Bhat who visited apple orchards in south Kashmir had said on Sunday that their initial analysis estimated around 30% of fruit crop had been damaged.Before the snow, the horticulture department had issued an advisory to fruit growers in Kashmir, asking them to speed up apple harvest. Farmers, however, could not speed up harvesting owing to political turmoil in the region. Thousands of non-locals laborers, which have been an important labour component for the Kashmir farmers, have left the valley after a series of attacks by suspected militants left 11 civilians dead, including five non-local labourers and street vendors.Kashmir is India’s largest apple grower with an average annual production of nearly 2,200 metric tonne. The apple industry fetches a revenue of nearly ₹1,300 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-starts-distribution-of-rs-5-cr-relief-to-12-000-apple-orchard-owners-in-shopian-101635967201099.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Sikhs seek law allowing them to carry kirpan in public places||Peshawar Sikhs in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) say they are not allowed the carry a “kirpan” (Sikh article of faith) in public. They are distraught over the lack of a law on “kirpan” as it is curtailed due to security concerns, while Pakistan’s constitution guarantees freedom of religion, reported The Express Tribune.Adult Sikhs usually carry a 4 to 5-inch kirpan, kept in a sheath, which can be worn under or over the clothing. The “kirpan” amongst other things symbolises the struggle against injustice and is an integral part of the religion.The Sikh community of the province has been pushing for legislation to be allowed permission to carry the kirpan when they visit government offices, enter the court or police station, and during air travel, reported The Express Tribune.Ranjeett Singh, a minority member of the provincial assembly, has been the most vocal about such legislation ever since he was not allowed to carry the steel sword in the provincial assembly.Ranjeett, while talking to The Express Tribune, said: “When I enter the assembly, I am often asked to leave my sword outside due to which it has to be kept in my car or briefcase.” He said that being told to not carry the sword was hurtful to his religious sentiments.The provincial lawmaker is not alone. Baba Gurpal Singh, a Sikh social worker from Peshawar and a minister for minority affairs in the youth assembly, KP, shares his pain over the curtailment on kirpan.“Guru made five things obligatory for us and to not be allowed to do one is distressing,” he said.Gurpal, narrating a story about the freedom to carry the sword in other countries, said, “A few years back, I went to Malaysia and visited their parliament there but no one even asked whether I was wearing a kirpan or not.”He implored that it was high time legislation was enacted so that the 45,000 Sikhs in the province were not deprived of their religious freedom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khyber-pakhtunkhwa-sikhs-seek-law-allowing-them-to-carry-kirpan-in-public-places-101635967142705.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fake birth, death certificates: Two arrested from Bihar||The Haryana Police have arrested two persons from Bihar on charges of issuing fake birth and death certificates by hacking the official website.A police spokesperson said the accused have been identified as Santosh and Mantosh, both residents of Bardauni Badi of Samastipur in Bihar. Both were arrested from their village by a team of cyber crime police station, Karnal range.The spokesperson said two laptops, mobile phones, one CPU and an ATM card were recovered from their possession.During interrogation, it was revealed that around 800 fake birth and death certificates were issued by the accused by hacking the government websites of Haryana, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh.The spokesperson added that the accused had hacked the email password of the birth and death certificate registration unit of Karnal civil hospital and fake online birth and death certificates were issued by uploading signatures.A case was registered against the unknown accused under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the IT Act at cyber crime police station, Karnal. The spokesperson said the accused used to charge huge amounts for issuing fake certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-birth-death-certificates-two-arrested-from-bihar-101635967023302.html
04-11-2021||Kolkata||Driver sacked for theft in 2018 arrested for murder of 91-yr-old Kolkata woman||KOLKATA: Renuka Chaudhury, 91, found dead by her son in their south Kolkata apartment was killed by the family’s driver sacked in 2018 on suspicion of theft, said police officers involved in the probe after arresting the man within hours of the crime.Renuka Chaudhury was found dead by her son in her ninth-floor apartment in Ganga Yamuna residential complex in south Kolkata’s affluent locality of Shakespeare Sarani on Tuesday morning. The jewellery she was wearing was found missing when her son found her dead.The murder suspect was arrested from Dankuni in Hooghly district on Tuesday night. He was identified as the family’s ex-employee, Dudhkumar Dhal. Scrutiny of footage captured on security cameras installed inside the complex showed Dhal leaving the premises in the early hours of Tuesday. It is suspected that he scaled the boundary wall at the rear of the building, police said.Renuka Chowdhury used to live with her son, Abhay Chaudhury, who is a chartered accountant and a bachelor.Post mortem examination indicated that the nonagenarian was smothered around midnight on Monday. There were stains of blood in her nostrils and mouth, said a police officer who did not want to be named.Dhal worked as a driver for the family, and was sacked in 2018 on suspicion of theft, Abhay Chaudhury told the police.“Dhal came to our apartment on Sunday and wanted to meet my mother, apparently to exchange pleasantries. He said he thought of visiting us as he had come to Kolkata. He came again on Monday morning,” Abhay Chaudhury told the media.“I left the apartment on Monday morning for a meeting. There was no one around when I returned. I had my dinner and went to bed. I suspect that Dhal was hiding inside the house,” said Chaudhury. The investigators, too, suspect that Dhal did not leave the apartment on Monday and was hiding somewhere inside Renuka Chaudhury’s bedroom.He was remanded in police custody for interrogation when he was produced before a Kolkata court on Wednesday afternoon.Joint commissioner of police (crime) Murlidhar Sharma and deputy commissioner of police (south division) Akash Magharia visited the crime scene. “The investigation is on,” Magharia told the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/driver-sacked-for-theft-in-2018-arrested-for-murder-of-91-yr-old-kolkata-woman-101635967021017.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh has no right to claim confidentiality of documents in FEMA violation case: I-T dept to HC||The income tax department has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh “has no right in statute or equity” to claim privilege or confidentiality over the documents which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) wanted to go through in a Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) violation case. “ ..Merely because the documents for which inspection is sought may pertain to the petitioner does not ipso fact mean that his substantive right stands to get affected... no right or liability of the petitioner will be affected by the order permitting ED to inspect court files,” the I-T department says in an affidavit filed in the HC, adding that both the trial court and then revisional court have rightly treated the application for inspection as a matter between the court and the ED. The response came on a plea of the former CM and his son Raninder Singh that they filed on September 8 challenging the Ludhiana court order allowing the ED to inspect files pertaining to income tax cases against them in a Ludhiana court. The high court on September 8 had stayed the September 2 order observing that the I-T department’s complaint is based on information received under the convention with the French government and there are restrictions on the sharing of the same. So prima facie, the ED would not be entitled to the information in view of the apparent legal bar, it had observed. On Amarinder’s argument that there is an agreement with France as per which information on income tax could only be shared with persons or authorities involved in the assessment or collection of taxes and not with any other party, the I-T department said the treaties referred by him do not create any vested right in his favour and that the issue was not raised in the revisional court and cannot be raised for the first time in the high court. The department has also referred to the high court rules on inspection of court records. The revisional court had identified the rules on the basis of which inspection of court files could be allowed, the department said. The department had filed criminal complaints against Amarinder and his son in 2016 in a Ludhiana court, saying the two were beneficiaries of foreign assets maintained and controlled through business entities and also of foreign bank accounts maintained with a bank in Geneva. The department had also alleged that they made false statements. The department accused them of tax evasion and allegedly amassing wealth in other countries. It was in this case that the ED had moved an application seeking inspection of files in a FEMA violation case being probed by the agency. The matter has been adjourned for January 19. The ED is yet to respond to the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-singh-has-no-right-to-claim-confidentiality-of-documents-in-fema-violation-case-i-t-dept-to-hc-101635966844312.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rajasthan man held with 12 illegal pistols in Panipat||The Panipat police have busted a gang involved in arms smuggling by arresting a man with 12 countrymade illegal pistols.Police said the accused has been identified as Pukhraj, of Bharatpur in Rajasthan.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said a team of the crime investigation agency had arrested the accused with the pistols near Panipat bus stand.During the interrogation, the accused had said that he had brought these weapons from Jalgaun in Maharashtra, the SP said, adding that he had also admitted that he had supplied around 40 illegal weapons to many people in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.The SP said efforts are being made to arrest other members of the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rajasthan-man-held-with-12-illegal-pistols-in-panipat-101635966781074.html
04-11-2021||Other||Pak refuses airspace use for Srinagar-Sharjah flight; route gets longer by 45 minutes||Srinagar Pakistan has refused to allow its airspace to be used for Srinagar-Sharjah international flight, inaugurated by Union home minister Amit Shah on October 23, forcing the airline concerned, Go First, to use a longer route. Political leaders have criticised the development. An official of GO First airline said that from Tuesday the airline changed its route to avoid the Pakistani air space.“It is true that we have to avoid the airspace of Pakistan now. It has increased the time of the flight by around 45 minutes. Earlier it took around 3 hours 30 minutes; now we take 4 hours 15 minutes for the journey,” said an official of the airline. “It will obviously increase costs, but for the time being we are in the wait-and-watch mode,” the official added. At the inauguration, Shah had said that he hoped that the flight would help in boosting tourism and bring more investment in the UT.Srinagar International Airport director Kuldeep Singh said that the flight was having good response from people. “People are enthusiastic over this flight and mostly the airline has a full occupancy. We are following all Covid protocols,” he said, refusing to comment on the refusal of airspace by Pakistan and the use of a longer route.While official sources said that since the inauguration, there were four flights –to and fro – every week. But now there is a new schedule as per the director. “According to the new schedule, a flight will be leaving for Sharjah everyday and back,” he added.Former J&K chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah termed the airspace refusal by Pakistan unfortunate.“ Very unfortunate. Pakistan did the same thing with the Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-2010. I had hoped that @GoFirstairways being permitted to overfly Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations, but alas that wasn’t to be,” he said in a tweet.People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti criticised the Centre for not doing the groundwork before the start of the flight. “Puzzling that the Government of India (GOI) didn’t even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar. Only PR extravaganza without any groundwork,” she said.It was in 2009, when the first international flight took off from Srinagar Airport to Dubai after being inaugurated by UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi. But the optimism did not last long as all international flights were grounded owing to various reasons, including objections by Pakistan over using its airspace.After the Srinagar-Sharjah flight’s inauguration, Omar had flagged the issue of how Pakistan had refused to allow its airspace in the past.“Regarding the Srinagar-Sharjah flight that has been announced today - has Pakistan had a change of heart & allowed flights originating from Srinagar to use its airspace? If not then this flight will die the way the Srinagar-Dubai flight died during UPA2,” he said on October 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-refuses-airspace-use-for-srinagar-sharjah-flight-route-gets-longer-by-45-minutes-101635966601037.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||2000 Jassi killing: Cross-examination of victim’s husband Mithu concludes in Sangrur court||The cross-examination of Sukhwinder Singh, alias Mithu, the husband of Canadian citizen Jaswinder Kaur aka Jassi, who was murdered in June 2000 in an alleged incident of honour killing, was concluded in a Sangrur court on Wednesday.Jassi had married Mithu against the wishes of her parents in 1999. The court has convicted seven of the 12 persons booked by the police in the case. Jassi’s mother Malkiat Kaur Sidhu and uncle Surjit Singh Badesha, who were declared proclaimed offenders (POs) in 2003, were extradited from Canada in 2019. Malkiat Kaur’s counsel Simrandeep Sandhu said that Mithu’s cross-examination was completed in the court of additional district and sessions judge Smriti Dhir.“We argued that the incident did not happen in the way the prosecution was claiming it to be. We also tried to debunk the conspiracy theory,” said Sandhu.Mithu’s counsel Raj Kumar Goyal said the defense had nothing concrete to argue in the court. “The next hearing has been fixed on November 22 when other witnesses will appear in the court,” said Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2000-jassi-killing-cross-examination-of-victim-s-husband-mithu-concludes-in-sangrur-court-101635966420896.html
04-11-2021||Other||UP Board exams: Now, Class 9 students to answer multiple choice questions on OMR sheets||PRAYAGRAJ: The UP Board has decided to conduct half-yearly and annual exams of Class 9 students in line with the changes made as per the new National Education Policy (NEP)-2020. Now, Class 9 students will answer the multiple-choice questions (MCQ) on OMR sheets while they will answer the descriptive questions as usual on answer-sheets, informed UP Board officials. This system has been made effective from 2021-22 academic sessions, said UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla while confirming the move. According the officials, now the question paper of 70 marks for the written examination has been divided into two parts. “The first part of the question paper will have multiple-choice questions of 20 marks which students will have to answer on the OMR sheet. While the second part will have descriptive questions of 50 marks which students will have to answer on conventional answer sheets,” they said. In these question papers, questions related to higher-order thinking skills will also be included, they further said. UP Board secretary has already sent instructions in this regard to all the district inspectors of schools (DIOSs) on November 2. According to the annual calendar released by the Up Board on August 14, the half-yearly examinations will be held in November and the annual examinations will be held in February 2022. UP Board secretary said that all DIOSs have been instructed to convene a formal meeting of principals of the UP Board affiliated schools in their respective districts, to ensure that the half yearly, annual and pre-board exams are held in accordance with the annual calendar of the board. A sample OMR sheet has also been sent along with the missive to the DIOSs in this regard, he added. UP Board officials, however, made it clear that no changes have been done in marks distribution for the half yearly and annual/pre-board exams of class 11 and class 12, and these would be conducted as done last year. The change is just for class 9, they clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-exams-now-class-9-students-to-answer-multiple-choice-questions-on-omr-sheets-101635966301002.html
04-11-2021||Lucknow||Deepotsav in Lucknow: Gomti’s banks bedecked in brilliance of 1 lakh diyas||The Jhulelal Vatika on the banks of the River Gomti was bathed in the light from more than one lakh cow dung diyas as part of Vikas Deepotsav organised by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC), on Wednesday evening .The first lamp was lit by chief guest minister of urban development Ashutosh Tandon on the stage of Vikas Deepotsav. The diyas were lit on both sides of the River Gomti by officials and employees of LMC along with the citizens of the city. The beauty and grandeur of both the banks was a sight to behold as the diyas lit up a large area.The arti of River Gomti was performed by Ashutosh Tandon and mayor Sanyukta Bhatia. More than 2,500 litres of oil, more than 20 kg of camphor and around 10 kg of cotton was also used for lighting the cow dung diyas.Speaking on the occasion, minister Tandon said, “This Deepotsav is being organised on the occasion of Diwali to ensure global recognition to Swadeshi products and to pomote the sales of street vendors.”Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “Last year, we decided to make diyas from cow dung produced by cows in Kanha Upvan, for the first time. Now this experiment is successful, we hope that cow dung diyas will dominate the market in the days to come.”A number of people watching Depotsav were seen capturing the historic moment in their mobile phone cameras.District magistrate Abhishek Prakash, municipal commissioner Ajay Kumar Dwivedi, additional municipal commissioner Abhay Pandey, additional municipal commissioner Pankaj Singh, leader of BJP in LMC house Rajneesh Gupta ‘Bobby’ were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deepotsav-in-lucknow-gomti-s-banks-bedecked-in-brilliance-of-1-lakh-diyas-101635965225453.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Anticipating Diwali injuries, Delhi hospitals reserve beds, staff||Hospitals across Delhi have earmarked beds, kept staff on standby, and added counters to receive people with burn injuries, expecting an increase in such cases on Diwali, which will be celebrated on Thursday.Doctors said that there could be a higher number of burn cases this year as compared to last year.“Last year, there were very few burn cases, most likely because of Covid-19. There was a high number of Covid-19 cases being reported in November. However, this year we expect the number of burn cases to be higher than last year. Each year, we treat around 40 Diwali-related burn injuries,” said a senior doctor from Lok Nayak Hospital. The hospital has earmarked 40 beds in the emergency department for burn injuries.At Safdarjung Hospital, the entire burn unit as well as additional nurses have been asked to report for duty on Thursday. “We have created four additional counters to receive burn emergency cases,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.At All India Institute of Medical Sciences across the road, doctors from the surgical department have been posted to the emergency department for Diwali night. “We have posted more people from the surgery department to the emergency department to take care of burn patients. In addition, we have also stocked up on medicines and consumables needed for treating burn cases. We have to be prepared even though the number of burn injuries has reduced over the years, especially after the Supreme Court’s cracker ban,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.He added that since the Supreme Court’s order in 2017, which banned the use and sale of toxic crackers, the four major government hospitals that receive the highest number of burn patients in the national Capital--Lok Nayak Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital and GTB Hospital--have seen a 51% decline in the number of burn cases even before the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/anticipating-diwali-injuries-delhi-hospitals-reserve-beds-staff-101635964981031.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Don’t link crackers with religion: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai||Equating bursting crackers with playing with the lives of people, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday asked political parties to not weaken the government’s fight against air pollution by linking firecrackers with religion.The minister said each and every citizen had the right to breathe clean air, and asked residents to support the fight against pollution by only lighting diyas during the festival. He also asked people to join the Delhi government for its Diwali celebration at the Thyagaraj stadium on Thursday. “There are many issues to do politics on and the people of Delhi have given the opportunity to everyone, to do politics on work. But my request is to let people breathe,” said Rai, adding that the whole of Delhi had fought the fight against air pollution together, due to which the air in October this year was the cleanest in the last few years. “If we were to look at the pollution statistics of the past five years, it is for the first time that pollution levels are this low a day before Diwali. According to the criteria of the air quality index, the month of October saw an average AQI of 284 in 2017, 269 in 2018, 234 in 2019, and 265 in 2020. But this past month, in 2021, the average AQI was 173. There are two reasons for this reduction – first the weather, secondly the people of Delhi for helping the government fight against pollution,” Rai said. The environment minister also asked the Central government on Wednesday to issue an advisory banning stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh: “At least on the occasion of Diwali, the practice could be stopped so people could celebrate the festival in a relatively cleaner air.”Referring to the government’s anti-firecracker campaign, Rai said so far, more than 13,000 kgs of firecrackers had been seized from markets and individuals, with 33 people arrested so far. “Diwali is a festival of happiness, but people are still bursting crackers in secrecy. Even last year, we observed that many people had secretly distributed firecrackers due to their stubbornness. I appeal to everyone that in this fight for Delhi, if everyone has fought together and the weather has favoured us enough to have the lowest pollution levels in five years, please cooperate in making it a clean Diwali too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-link-crackers-with-religion-delhi-environment-minister-gopal-rai-101635964806830.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Many call for resuming physical classes as DU declares open book exams||With Delhi University preparing to conduct another round of open-book examination (OBE), starting November 30, students and teachers once again highlighted the need to resume in-person classes and exams at the earliest. Teachers said OBE raised concerns of dilution of course work assessment and it was time to go back to the usual exam mechanisms, in view of the improved Covid-19 situation in Delhi. According to the exam notification issued last week, DU will conduct the open book examination for third, fifth and seventh semester students from November 30.Abha Dev Habib, who teaches physics at Miranda House, said teachers were unhappy with the decision to conduct an open book examination and have approached the registrar with suggestions of holding in-person exams. Habib said offline exams could have been announced for third-year students followed by second-year students. “Had proctored exams been announced, students could have focused more on studies. The third-year undergraduate students have appeared for only one in-person exam — the first semester exams before the pandemic. We are looking at a very diluted degree course for students in the absence of proctored exams. The absence of exams has eroded the whole idea of education. Students are finding refuge in OBE and not studying,” said Habib. She said examinations for school students in the senior grades were also taking place in in-person, but the same mode was not being adopted for college students. “With a diluted degree, employment chances of students will be affected. Students should wake up to this reality and insist on pen and paper exams,” said Habib. She said the continued closure of colleges was unfortunate and despite suspension of in-person classes for a prolonged period of time, there was no blueprint on the resumption of in-person teaching. Arshed Aziz, 23, a final-year postgraduate student of sociology at Delhi School of Economics, said there were apprehensions that the absence of exams would hurt the future academic and employment prospects of students. “There is a popular consensus that if we don’t give offline exams, our degree will not be valued. We will not be considered for higher education opportunities,” said Aziz. He said online exams were fraught with challenges of connectivity issues and communication gaps, which hindered the whole test process. “In my department, around 12 students did not receive the results of the second-semester exams which were held online,” said Aziz. Other students said resumption of offline exams did not make sense at a time when they were completing the semester in the online mode. Nitika Dabas, 20, a final year student of BSc Zoology at Ramjas College, said students were not prepared for an offline exam as yet. “While we understand the importance of both in-person classes and exams, conducting offline exams for a semester that was taught online will not be fair to students. There are students who don’t have access to the internet and could not attend classes regularly,” said Dabas. She said most students were waiting for in-person classes, but the university has not given any directions regarding that. “We are worried about the impact that the absence of offline exams will have on jobs. We don’t even have much practical experience. It is a bit frightening since we are aiming for a research degree in the future,” said Dabas.DU’s dean of colleges Balaram Pani said the university was awaiting guidelines from the government and would aim to restart in-person classes and exams from the next semester. “Right now, the semester was taught online. If exams are conducted in-person, students living outside Delhi would face difficulties with regards to accommodation,. For the next semester, we can hold the semester sessions and exams offline,” said Pani||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/many-call-for-resuming-physical-classes-as-du-declares-open-book-exams-101635964805594.html
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Govt schoolteacher in Ludhiana held for molesting at least 20 students||An English teacher of Government Middle School, Boothgarh Jattan village, has been arrested for allegedly molesting around 20 girl students. The matter came to light after a Class-6 girl, who was allegedly molested last week, told the other girls about the incident, following which, they revealed that they too had been sexually assaulted by the teacher. The accused allegedly used to call them on the pretext of extra classes or by asking them to get him a glass of water and then assault them.The FIR has been lodged on the statement of the grandmother of the girl who was molested last week. The woman said that her 10-year-old granddaughter had been molested by the teacher. When she went to the school to complain, the principal told her that the teacher had already left for the day and that she should come the next week. On Monday when she went to the school again, the parents of the other girls also reached there. It was later found that the teacher had been threatening the girls to keep mum by stating that he would get them expelled from the school if they revealed the incident to anyone. Assistant sub-inspector Raghbir Singh, the investigating officer, said police arrested the accused within hours of the complaint. The accused has been booked under Sections 354 (assaults or uses criminal force to any woman), 354-A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-schoolteacher-in-ludhiana-held-for-molesting-at-least-20-students-101635964744335.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Crackdown in Capital on crackers as AQI stays in red zone||The air quality in the national capital worsened on Wednesday, stoking fears of a severe uptick in pollution levels on Diwali day amid concerns that widespread violations of the firecracker ban may plunge Delhi into a health emergency, even as Delhi Police flying squads fanned out across the city to crack down on the sale and use of crackers.The average 24-hour air quality index (AQI) at 4pm was 314 on Wednesday, up from 303 a day earlier, with both readings in the “very poor” range.Experts warned that emissions by firecrackers, if unchecked, could exacerbate already unfavourable meteorological conditions — including slow winds and below-normal temperatures, and the impact of stubble fires in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab.On Wednesday alone, police teams across the city seized around 1,200 kg of firecrackers smuggled in from Dehradun and Gurugram, among others, and arrested at least six people for storing and selling the contraband. However, it was not immediately clear if there have been any arrests yet for bursting crackers in Delhi.“Around 4.30pm on Wednesday, you could see a cloud of smoke and dust circling over northwest India, including Delhi, and Pakistan. Expect air quality to get worse in the region. The forecast says that the level of PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) is likely to remain in the 120-250ug/m3 range,” said Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association. In India, the acceptable 24-hour exposure to PM 2.5 is 60ug/m3. An AQI between 301 and 400 is considered “very poor”, and one between 401 and 500 is “severe” — the point at which the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) pollution gauges max out. The city’s AQI breached the 300-mark on Tuesday for the first time this season.In the backdrop of these warnings, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and senior Delhi Police officers held a series of meetings to minimise the sale and use of firecrackers in the city.The Delhi government in September this year — as it did in 2020 — ordered a blanket ban on the sale, use, and storage of all firecrackers till January 1 next year, citing their severe health effects, especially amid the pandemic and the toxic pollution levels. The ban goes a step further than a Supreme Court verdict in 2017 that banned all traditional crackers across the country but permitted barium salt-free “green crackers”.CPCB data shows that Delhi recorded its most polluted Diwali day (October 31) in 2016, when the AQI touched 431 (up from 404 the previous day). Last year, despite a complete ban on firecrackers, an AQI of 414 (up from 339 a day earlier) made it the second most polluted Diwali in six years amid widespread violations. To be sure, Diwali was celebrated later than usual last year — November 14 — a time when stubble fires are at their peak.In a meeting with the sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region on Wednesday, representatives of the central weather office pointed out that while Delhi is likely to receive easterly winds till November 4, they will mostly be sluggish till Saturday and not conducive to disperse pollutants in the city’s air. After that, winds are likely to switch direction and blow in from the northwest, bringing in toxic smoke from stubble fires in the farmlands of Haryana and Punjab.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), however, predicted that pollution levels are unlikely to hit “severe” levels yet based on weather conditions.“The AQI is likely to deteriorate marginally on November 4, and is likely to reach the upper limits of the ‘very poor’ category on November 5 and 6. Around this time, the winds will switch to northwesterly, which will also bring smoke from stubble fires from Punjab and Haryana. Even with higher emissions, the model predictions do not indicate the air quality reaching the severe zone. Strong winds are forecasted for November 7,” VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research department, told the CAQM’s sub-committee.Prashant Gargava, chairperson of the CAQM sub-committee on the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) and member-secretary of the CPCB, said the panel has not suggested any additional measures to curb pollution levels, since they are not expected to hit severe levels. The sub-committee has, however, asked agencies to implement measures listed under Grap’s “very poor” category, which was implemented on October 28.And even as the district deputy commissioners of police (DCP) and DPCC coordinate their efforts to tackle the pollution menace, the police are also working with sub-divisional magistrates and sharing information on the illegal sale of firecrackers. HT on Wednesday reported that a black market for firecrackers had sprung up in the Capital, which could allow people to evade the restrictions.Delhi Police officers said they had a two-pronged approach to crack down on cracker-bursting this Diwali season: To coordinate with residents across the city and inform them about the guidelines of the ban, and to have in place flying squads within a police station’s jurisdiction to spot violations and prosecute violators. “One team will work as a flying squad to act on any information where people are violating the ban on crackers. The strength of the team will depend on the population of the police station area. They will be especially active in the evening,” said a senior police officer, who asked not to be named.Meanwhile, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai urged people to not link religion and cracker-bursting.““There are many issues to play politics with... but my request is to let people breathe,” said Rai.BS Vohra, president of the East Delhi RWA Joint Front — an umbrella body of resident welfare groups — said that the police and other agencies need to build awareness among residents. “Change has to be behavioural; if that doesn’t happen then these bans won’t be successful. Along with penalising, the police needs to work on sensitising people and tell them the impact of cracker-bursting,” he said. Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said, “Police are prepared and made all arrangements to implement the order. Detailed guidelines to follow the orders have already been issued.”Last year on Diwali, the police seized at least 1,206kg of firecrackers and arrested 850 for their store or use. This year, in the run-up to Diwali, police have seized over 3,000kg of smuggled firecrackers and arrested at least 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crackdown-in-capital-on-crackers-as-aqi-stays-in-red-zone-101635964740833.html
04-11-2021||Noida||Man held for opening fire at neighbour over children’s dispute in Greater Noida||A 45-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly opening fire at his neighbour, who allegedly slapped the former’s son, in Sector Beta 2 on Tuesday afternoon. The suspect was identified as Vijay Pal, a resident of Senior Citizen Society in Greater Noida. Police said Pal works as an advocate in the Allahabad high court. Anil Kumar, station house officer of Sector Beta 2 police station, said on Tuesday evening, Pal’s 11-year-old son was on his way to a tuition class when he spotted a 10-year-old boy in his neighbourhood bursting firecrackers. “Pal’s son told the younger boy that his firecrackers were small. The younger boy took offence at his comments and this led to an argument between the two,” said Kumar. Police said Pal’s son allegedly slapped the younger boy, who went home and informed his parents about the incident. The younger boy, along with his parents, went to Pal’s home and complained to him about his son’s behaviour. After they left, Pal scolded his son and asked him to behave himself. Pal’s son suspected that the neighbourhood boy and his family must have complained about him to his father. On Wednesday morning, Pal’s son visited the younger boy at his home and asked why he complained to his father about the incident. Police said, this time the younger boy’s father, Girish Kumar, allegedly slapped him. “Pal’s son returned home and told his father that he was beaten up by Girish Kumar,” said the SHO. Pal took out his licensed revolver and visited Girish Kumar’s home. “After a heated argument with Girish Kumar, he opened fire and Girish Kumar narrowly escaped being hit. Girish Kumar alerted police about the incident, following which police reached the spot and arrested Pal,” said SHO Kumar. Police said they retrieved a gun and three live cartridges from Pal’s possession. A case has been registered against Pal under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to jail,” said SHO Kumar. Police have also recommended cancelling Pal’s weapon licence for its misuse. A separate case under Section 30 (punishment for contravention of licence or rule) of the Arms Act has been registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-opening-fire-at-neighbour-over-children-s-dispute-in-greater-noida-101635964680769.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Dengue deaths likely to go up as 9 cases still pending panel review||The dengue death toll in the national capital is likely to go up further as nine cases of suspected dengue deaths, of Delhi residents, are still pending investigation before the death audit committee, a senior municipal public health official said on Wednesday. So far, Delhi has declared six confirmed dengue deaths — the highest since 2017 when the disease claimed 10 lives. Of these, five were declared on Monday (November 1), the weekly report released by the city’s municipal authorities showed. Delhi reported 531 new cases of dengue during the week ending October 30, taking the Capital’s dengue tally to 1,537 this year. Of these, 1,196 cases were reported in October, while 531 were registered in the last week alone, the weekly report further showed.A senior official, who is part of the audit panel, said the committee has to analyse nine cases of suspected dengue deaths of Delhi residents, and 10 of those who had arrived in Delhi from neighbouring states. Once a dengue or malaria related death is reported by a hospital, the nine-member committee audits all case documents to ascertain whether it was the vector borne infection that caused the death, and also to find out if the origin of the disease was Delhi. “The committee will take a look at other aspects such as co-morbidities before attributing the deaths to vector borne diseases. For example, if a patient is severely ill due to other conditions and the main cause of death is not dengue, then the death is not attributed to the mosquito-borne disease. The number of dengue deaths is likely to go up as several such cases have been sent to the committee,” the municipal official said, on condition of anonymity.There was only one dengue death in Delhi last year, two in 2019 and four in 2018, according to official data. In 2015, a major dengue outbreak had killed 60 people. With the rise in dengue cases and higher number of deaths, the leader of the house in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Inderjeet Sehrawat said special focus is now being given to areas with a high number of cases. “A three-day long fogging and anti-mosquito drive is being undertaken in every neighbourhood that has a high incidence of dengue/malaria cases,” Sehrawat said. Apart from Delhi’s tally of 1,537 so far, there are another 1,257 dengue cases, wherein the infection was acquired from other states. Some of these patients have their addresses missing, according to the weekly report issued by the three municipal corporations on Monday. “A large number of dengue patients from western Uttar Pradesh (UP) districts are coming in Delhi for treatment,” the official quoted above said. East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said intensive fogging and larvicide spraying drives are being carried out in hot spots where there is a high incidence of dengue cases. “A separate ward with 160 beds has been set up in Swami Dayanand hospital to treat dengue patients as we are getting a large number of cases from western UP,” he said. EDMC has identified 16 hot spots and they include Maujpur, Dharampura, Nand Nagri, West Karawal Nagar and Timarpur, among others. The SDMC has prepared a list of 27 such vulnerable hot spots. Under the Najafgarh zone, the vulnerable spots include Palam Village, Dwarka’s Sector 23 and 12, Raj Nagar, Rangpuri Pahari, and Mahipalpur village; in the south zone, the hot spots include Gautam Nagar, Hauz Rani, Malviya Nagar, Dakhsinpuri, Sangam Vihar and Pushpa Vihar. “Under the west zone, the hot spots identified by the SDMC are Uttam Nagar (Jiwan Park, Pankha Road and Mohan Garden), Mahavir Enclave, R-Block Raghubir Nagar, Madipur JJ colony and AB block Janakpuri,” a public health official from the civic body said, not wishing to be named. The hot spots under the central zone include Jaitpur, Ali Vihar, parts of Badarpur, Govindpuri and Tughlaqabad extension, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhidengue-deaths-likely-to-go-up-as-9-cases-still-pending-panel-review-101635964442139.html
04-11-2021||Other||Stanford list of world’s top 2% scientists: Eight AU researchers figure on US varsity’s list||In an acknowledgment of the high standard of research being undertaken at the Allahabad University (AU), the Stanford University (USA) has included eight scientists from the institution to its annual list of top 2% scientists in the world. The list was released by the university recently.Out of eight scientists who figure on the list are three from AU’s department of biochemistry including Prof SI Rizvi, Prof Bechan Sharma and Prof Abhay Pandey, two from department of Botany including Prof SM Prasad and Prof DK Chauhan and one each from the department of Material Science (Prof Ravindra Dhar), K Banerjee Centre of Oceanography (assistant professor Sudhir Singh) and department of Chemistry (Prof MC Chattopadhya), AU officials said.The report was prepared by Prof John PA Loannidis of Stanford University and his team and published by Elsevier. In all, 3,352 Indian researchers found a place in this list that represents the valuable impact of India on the global research platform, said AU’s dean, research and development, Prof SI Rizvi while confirming the development.Prof Rizvi added that the inclusion of eight faculty members on the coveted list is a big achievement for AU which is grappling with a huge number of vacant faculty positions.The University is preparing an environment conducive to research, and the researchers are being given high class facilities to carry out their work in cutting edge research areas. To give impetus to research the university has instituted two prestigious awards: the Dronacharya award to be given to a faculty member of the rank of assistant professor) and MN Saha award for the best research scholar in Science and Humanities. The two awards will be announced during the convocation in front of the education minister, said Rizvi.Despite the decrease in the strength of faculty members, the research output of the university is exemplary. Data from SCOPUS shows that the citation impact of research papers published from Allahabad University is 0.99. The world average value is 1. This data shows that the quality of research at Allahabad University is at par with world standards.The number of research papers published (indexed in Scopus) from Allahabad University during the period 2016-20 is 1,728, and the H-index of the University is 39 which is very good, informed the dean, research and development.The recent achievement of Allahabad University scientists will certainly be inspiration to young faculty members and research scholars, added Prof Rizvi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stanford-list-of-world-s-top-2-scientists-eight-au-researchers-figure-on-us-varsity-s-list-101635964440877.html
04-11-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad get second best pre-Diwali air in four years||The prolonged monsoon and its late withdrawal from northern India have helped Ghaziabad and Noida record the second best pre-Diwali air quality in the past four years. This year, the average monthly air quality index (AQI) before Diwali is 230.27 for Ghaziabad and 200 in Noida, the figures from the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), showed.According to the state pollution control board, the month preceding Diwali was the cleanest in 2019 in the past four years. Data from the UPPCB showed that the average AQI for the month preceding Diwali was 198.6 in Ghaziabad and 193.57 in Noida in 2019.Both cities experienced its worst pre-Diwali month in 2020 when the monthly average AQI stood to 354.93 in Ghaziabad and 343.03 in Noida, the highest in the four years since 2018. “The pollution levels this year have increased a bit as compared to the monthly average AQI before Diwali in 2019. Diwali was celebrated on October 27 in 2019, right after the monsoon withdrawal. Hence, stubble burning was not at its peak and AQI readings were better in the run-up to Diwali that year,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer for UPPCB, (Ghaziabad), who is also officiating for Noida.  “This year, the pre-Diwali period in Ghaziabad and Noida region is the second best in the last four years. For the past couple of days, stubble burning has increased and so has the emission from vehicles as markets have opened up after permission was granted for festivities following a drop in Covid-19 cases. All these factors have led to a minor rise in pollution as compared to 2019,” said Sharma. When it comes to air quality, Noida has fared better than Ghaziabad during the one month preceding Diwali in all four years. An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. As pollution levels continue to rise in Ghaziabad, the city emerged as the most polluted city in the country for the third consecutive day on Wednesday according to the AQI figures released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 353 (very poor) on Wednesday, with the primary pollutant being particulate matter (PM)2.5, which are fine particles with a diameter less than 2.5 micrometres. This is mostly the result of stubble burning and vehicular pollution. The AQI for Greater Noida stood at 286 under the “poor” category. Noida too had “very poor” air on Wednesday with an AQI reading of 327. The PM2.5 was the primary pollutant at two monitoring stations in Greater Noida and at three monitoring stations in Noida on Wednesday. Environmentalists said the economic activity during the festive season started late this year. Thus, it is leading to a rise in AQI in the region. “Rise in pollution in Ghaziabad and Noida is largely due to meteorological factors and also due to higher vehicular emissions during the festive season. The enforcement lacks sting. If the average of pre-Diwali AQI is second best in past four years, it is not due to enforcement but due to prolonged monsoon which ended just last month,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. “In the coming days, the level of pollution is likely to rise as bursting of crackers has already started in localities despite the administration not issuing any licences for firecrackers. The post-Diwali period will reveal the true picture of air pollution, hence the enforcement agencies need to act now,” said Sushil Raghav, a city-based environmentalist.According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), the AQI of Delhi will start deteriorating from November 4 to touch the upper end of “very poor” range on November 4. “As per the Safar sensitivity simulation, stubble share on November 4 is predicted to increase to 20% and will touch a peak of 35-40% on November 5 and 6, if fire counts are considered same as today (3500-4000)... In addition, very calm local Delhi wind condition with little ventilation is expected for next three days. Under zero firecracker emission scenario, the level of PM2.5 is predicted to be at the upper end of ‘very poor’ during November 4-6,” the forecast said. It predicted that if 50% of additional fire cracker load of 2019 is considered, then AQI is predicted to enter “severe” category during November 4-6. “It is predicted to improve slightly on November 6 evening onwards but will fluctuate between high-end of ‘very poor’ to the ‘severe’ range. This is mainly due to coinciding of all three critical factors with a peak PM2.5 surpassing AQI value of 500+ on November 5,” the forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-get-second-best-pre-diwali-air-in-four-years-101635964382713.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||At least 1,100 kilos of crackers seized on the eve of Diwali||At least 1,100 kilograms of firecrackers, which were smuggled into the city from parts of Uttarakhand and Haryana, were seized from across the city, over the past 24 hours, by different teams of the Delhi Police. In the first major seizure of crackers this year, a joint team of the Delhi Police and the Delhi government on Wednesday seized 879 kilos of firecrackers from a godown in north Delhi’s Sadar Bazar, one of the biggest wholesale markets for crackers in the national capital. Police also seized an additional 294 kilos from Karkardooma and 32 kilos of crackers from Babarpur in north-east Delhi on Wednesday.The sale, storage and bursting of firecrackers have been banned in the national capital to keep air pollution under check and prevent it from deteriorating further. A day before Diwali, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI), as recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), was 314, in the “very poor” category. Over the past one week, police have seized more than 3,000 kilos of firecrackers from different parts of the city. Most of the contraband has been smuggled in from states where there is no ban on the sale or storage of crackers, police said, adding that some shopkeepers were also trying to sell crackers that they had stocked last year. In 2020, licences were issued to several retailers after which they had stocked up on firecrackers. But just days before Diwali, the government imposed a ban on the sale of firecrackers, leaving retailers holding on to stocks that they could no longer sell. In at least three instances this year, police have arrested shopkeepers for trying to sell this year-old stock to customers. In places such as Sadar Bazar, Chandni Chowk and Bara Hindu Rao, where there are wholesale markets for firecrackers, police are conducting frequent surprise checks and even sending police personnel as decoy customers. Police are also randomly stopping shoppers for bag checks. On Monday, seven such shoppers were caught with 77 kilos of firecrackers. Speaking about the seizure of 879 kilos of crackers from a godown in Sadar Bazar, deputy commissioner of police(DCP), north district, Sagar Singh Kalsi said the arrested suspect, Mohammed Izaj, sells toys from a pavement in Sadar Bazar. “ He is originally from Bihar and was working as a labourer initially. Later, he started selling toys from the footpath. He came in contact with a Hisar resident, who promised him easy money by selling crackers. He also took a room on rent to store the crackers, which he had purchased from Hisar, Haryana, and ferried to Delhi in two different vehicles.”Because of the blanket ban on crackers, Delhi Police is filing cases under the more stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Explosives Act. In the second case, four persons were arrested from Arya Nagar village near Karkardooma for allegedly smuggling 294 kilos of firecrackers and trying to sell them in Delhi. Police said the four men, including a 53-year-old shopkeeper, bought the firecrackers from Gurugram, Haryana, and were planning to sell them in the city.Another shopkeeper was arrested from Babarpur in north-east Delhi for allegedly smuggling in 32 kilos of the contraband from Dehradun, Uttarakhand. DCP (north-east district) Sanjay Kumar Sain said police have arrested suspect Amit Mittal,36, in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-1-100-kilos-of-crackers-seized-on-the-eve-of-diwali-101635964331165.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Crackers or not, air quality in Delhi likely to continue downward slide: IMD||Slow winds, a change in the wind direction, drop in temperatures and high humidity -- weather conditions conducive for slow dispersal of pollutants -- will ensure very poor air quality in Delhi on the occasion of Diwali on Thursday even if people do not burst firecrackers, weather scientists have said.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), from Thursday, the wind direction will change to northwesterly which will bring more particulate pollutants from the farm fires in Punjab and Haryana. On Wednesday, the overall contribution of a total of 3,271 stubble fires to the pollution in Delhi was recorded at 8%. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth science, this contribution may go up to 40% on Thursday.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said temperatures are currently staying near normal, and will remain in the same range for the next few days, but calm wind conditions are expected on both November 4 and 5. There will be high humidity too. Jenamani, however, predicted that things may improve Friday night onwards. “Relief is likely only from the night of November 5 and the morning of November 6 onwards. Wind speeds will pick up and touch 30 km/hr and help disperse pollutants,” Jenamani said.On Wednesday, ahead of Diwali, a meeting of the sub-committee on the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) was also held during the day, with experts warning of air quality deteriorating to the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category between November 4 and 6. However, no fresh directions were issued.Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said forecasts by Safar, Urban emissions and Delhi’s new air quality decision support system (developed by IITM) all suggest air quality will be in the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category on Diwali, even if crackers were not used.“If people burst firecrackers, we may see ‘severe’ air -- levels of air pollution which especially impact the health of children, elderly, and those with existing health problems. Delhi’s forecasting systems have a clear message for all of us. If we want to protect the health of our family and neighbours, we must refrain from using firecrackers,” said Ganguly.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, air quality in Delhi last month remained uncharacteristically decent till October 26. However, from October 27, the air quality stayed in the poor zone till November 1. On November 2, the city recorded AQI in the very poor zone for the first time since the last 146 days. On November 3, the air stayed in the same zone, indicating it may worsen further.To be sure, the Delhi government has imposed a complete ban on sale, storage and use of firecrackers with teams being formed to ensure that people do not violate the rules on Diwali.On the eve of Diwali on Wednesday, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai urged the citizens to shun firecrackers, asked political parties not to link cracker bursting with religious traditions and appealed to the Centre to issue and advisory to the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to stop stubble burning.Polluted Diwali, a normCPCB data shows Delhi recorded its most polluted Diwali day in 2016, when the AQI touched 431 (severe) on October 31. In 2020, despite a complete ban on firecrackers, an AQI of 414 (severe) on Diwali day made it the second most polluted Diwali in the last six years. Last year, Diwali was celebrated on November 14.Around the festival, the impact of smoke from farm stubble burning is usually at its peak, the effect of which is amplified by the low temperatures and emissions from firecrackers.Over the last two years, weather has come to Delhi’s rescue during Diwali. While pollution levels have spiked on Diwali night and the day after, strong winds and rain have helped disperse the cracker smoke.In 2020, despite recording the worst pollution spike on and post-Diwali because of an increase in cracker bursting, heavy rain and strong winds the day after, helped clear the pollution levels in the city. On November 14, Diwali day, the AQI hit 414. A day later, it increased further to 435. But by November 17, the AQI had improved to 171.“A western disturbance crossed the national capital on Diwali night last year, which led to an increase in the wind speeds. Though the impact was not seen immediately in the next day’s data because it is a 24-hour average, the AQI in the next few days reached the moderate level,” a senior Met official said.In 2019 too, high wind speeds helped disperse the cracker emissions quicker than it had in 2018, environment experts pointed out. That year, Diwali was celebrated on October 27.“The dispersion of pollutants was as fast as the build-up. This is because of the stronger winds compared to 2018 ,” an analysis by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) that year said.While there was a complete ban on firecrackers last year, only green crackers were allowed in 2018 and 2019 – with violations being reported in both years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crackers-or-not-air-quality-in-delhi-likely-to-continue-downward-slideimd-101635964140755.html
04-11-2021||Noida||Noida authority forms panel to ensure completion of 13 projects by this year||The Noida authority has formed a committee which will monitor the ongoing projects and expedite the works to ensure the projects are completed within the stipulated deadline. The deadline for completing most of the projects are in November and December, said officials. “The committee will regularly monitor the ongoing projects and fast-track the works,” said Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority. Deputy general manager S P Singh, who is heading the Noida traffic cell, has been made head of the committee. The committee will conduct inspection and find out the reasons for which projects are getting delayed. “If they find that some technical or other issues are delaying the project, they can seek help of top officials and resolve the issue,” said Tyagi. At least 13 important projects in Noida are in the advanced stages of work and the authority’s priority is to deliver these projects by November or December end. One of the major projects includes an underpass being constructed at a traffic intersection of Sectors 71/72 and 51/52 at an estimated budget of ₹59.33 crore. Noida authority officials said it will provide much needed relief to thousands of commuters, who face congestion at this point since the work was started and the traffic was diverted into a service lane.Other projects included a mini stadium in Sarrafabad for ₹54.16 crore, development work in the industrial Sectors 145, 151, 158 at ₹39.59 crore, an entry gate at Noida-Greater Noida border for ₹4.99 crore, and an entry gate between Sector 157 and 159 for ₹1.6 crore. All these projects are expected to be completed by November end. Apart from this, the authority has also decided to complete seven projects, estimated to be around ₹463 crore, by December end before the model code of conduct comes into effect in view of the state assembly elections in 2022, said officials. These projects include a bus terminal in Sector 82 for ₹204 crore, three underpasses on Noida Expressway for ₹204 crore, resurfacing on Noida Expressway for ₹ 61.54 crore, a cow shelter near Sectora 15-A for ₹7.12 crore and an entry gate at Kalindi Kunj Delhi-Noida border estimated to cost ₹ 2.72 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-forms-panel-to-ensure-completion-of-13-projects-by-this-year-101635963963603.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Day after platforms collapse, SDMC repairs auto parking lot, cops file FIR||A day after a section of platforms in the city’s first automated parking lot at Green Park collapsed, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation claimed its technical team repaired them on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police registered an FIR to investigate the negligence which led to the accident.Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker confirmed police have registered a case under sections 326 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code. “We have filed the FIR suo motu and have started a probe,” she said. Four platforms in the Green Park facility allegedly malfunctioned due to a technical fault during a maintenance operation around 5.30pm on Tuesday, leading to minor damage to at least two vehicles and the facility temporarily halting operations.SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan has ordered a probe to investigate the reasons behind the malfunction. He said that if the private company operating the facility is found to be at fault then it will be blacklisted. Suryan said that the parking lot has been fully functional for the last 11 months. “The operation and maintenance of the entire parking facility have been the responsibility of the agency which constructed the whole parking lot for the past five years. During the upkeep and maintenance of the parking lot on the evening of November 2, an empty pallet of one tower got displaced from its position. The empty panel struck a lift and fell onto two other empty pallets. Since the parking system is fully mechanical, no loss of property or human life was reported. Our technical team reached the parking lot and made the parking facility operational,” he said.HT, on Wednesday afternoon, witnessed Delhi Police at the site, while some users waited to retrieve their stranded vehicles.Users said the accident negatively impacted the perception of the automated facility. Rajender Gaur, who was waiting to retrieve his vehicle from the lot, said that no one would be willing to risk using the automated parking lot even if there was a minor risk to the safety of their vehicles. “My relative was visiting the Green Park market on Tuesday when the incident took place. He informed me. I have been waiting to retrieve my vehicle since this morning. Such accidents do not inspire confidence,” he remarked.Atul Goel, the president of URJA (United Residents’ Joint Action)-- a collective body of residents’ welfare associations-- said that the automated parking units have been functional in the western countries for a long time and the accident reflects poor maintenance or lack of regulatory framework.“Either there has been negligence, or safety norms have not been followed, or the quality has been compromised in operations. This is not a small thing. There is already a trust deficit with the agencies and unless a proper third-party independent audit mechanism is set up, such projects will remain under-utilised,” Goel said.SDMC has so far opened three such automated units during the last year at Green Park, Lajpat Nagar, and Adchini, while several more such facilities are in the pipeline at GK-1, GK-2, Amar Colony, Nizamuddin, Punjabi Bagh, and Sarai Kale Khan.Dr S Velmurugan, chief scientist, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) said that automated parking systems are a proven trusted technology and the accident could have happened due to poor workmanship or maintenance-related issues. “It will make people apprehensive about using such facilities. Such snags or mechanical failures can be detected if the facility is frequently monitored and monthly audits are carried out. There should be third-party audits on a monthly basis or independent electrical engineers should be made part of the auditing team,” he added.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture, said that people usually prefer surface parking despite a higher parking cost, and accidents like the one in Green Park can be a setback to the safety perception of automated facilities. “This accident seems like the first of its kind in Delhi. The technology has been in use for a long time in developed countries. Only a probe will indicate whether a mechanical or structural fault caused the accident. A thorough safety audit and safety assessment should be carried out and a fail-safe backup mechanism should be put in place to avoid a repetition in the future. Already, studies have shown that the occupancy of multilevel parking lots is low and people prefer to park on the surface,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-repairs-green-park-automated-parking-lot-cops-register-fir-101635963901947.html
04-11-2021||Noida||Eight CCTV cameras installed at Noida-Ghaziabad border||The Gautam Budh Nagar police have installed eight CCTV cameras at Tigri roundabout, which connects Greater Noida West to Ghaziabad’s Vijay Nagar, to keep a tab on any suspicious movement in the border area, officials said on Wednesday.The night vision cameras will help in crime prevention, the officials said, adding that a control room that will work 24x7 has been set up. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that thousands of vehicles pass through the Tigri border every day from Greater Noida West to Ghaziabad and vice versa. “The cameras have been installed in a way that they clearly capture the vehicles in all four directions. The cameras can catch the vehicles’ registration numbers at night also. We have also set up a control room where four police personnel monitor the area in shifts,” he said.Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station, said there are instances when thieves and other criminals commit crime in Noida and flee to Ghaziabad. “These cameras will play an important role in identifying such suspicious persons. We have also installed loudspeakers at the spot which can be used for public announcement, when needed,” she said. Residents said that the move is important for their safety. “The Tigri roundabout is about 1.5km from Gaur City. The Noida police and Ghaziabad police have their check posts near the roundabout. However, there are instances when incidents take place and the two district police pass the buck on each other. The CCTV cameras will facilitate the process and also help screen the suspicious persons and vehicles,” said Amarjeet Rathore, a resident of Gaur City in Greater Noida West. The district police also started a police check post in industrial area in Ecotech 3 on Wednesday. Chander said that the check post is set up at Akash Beban Chowk. “This will play an important role in the safety of industrial sites in the neighbourhood,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/eight-cctv-cameras-installed-at-noida-ghaziabad-border-101635963840983.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Farm fires till Nov 2 half of those reported last year: CAQM||The incidents of farm fires in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi reported between September 15 and November 2, just about halved this year compared to the same period last year, according to the data provided by the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM).The data shows that 21,364 stubble burning instances were reported between the period this year compared to 43,918 fires -- a drop of 51.35%. Correspondingly, the contribution of farm fires to the overall pollution in Delhi has stayed up to 20% this year so far, even though experts have warned that it may see a spike soon.If the CAQM data is juxtaposed with the average air quality data provided by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), it can be seen that Delhi’s AQI has stayed mostly in the moderate and satisfactory zone between September 15 and October 26. To be sure, this included three poor air days on 16, 17 and 20 October; and an unprecedented good air day on October 18. However, since October 27, the air quality stayed in poor or very poor zone.Farm fires are a major contributor of the particulate pollutants to Delhi’s air during the winters when thousands of farmers across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh set the stubble on fire after harvesting the paddy.“To curb and abate air pollution from stubble burning, the commission has prepared a detailed framework and pursuant to that, action plans have been finalised by the government of Punjab, NCR state governments and the government of Delhi,” the CAQM said on Wednesday.The commission also pointed out that this season, the major hot spots of paddy residue burning in the state of Punjab were Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Firozpur, Patiala, Ludhiana and Kapurthala. In Haryana, maximum stubble fires were reported from Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Ambala and Jind.“This season, 8,575 fields where stubble burning was reported, have so far been inspected by the state enforcement agencies and officials of the respective states and environmental compensation (EC) of about Rs. 58,05,000 has been imposed on violators,” the statement by CAQM said.It added, “Concerted efforts are being taken by the state governments, departments and various other stakeholders towards better in-situ management of crop residue through the use of CRM (crop residue management) machinery, PUSA bio-decomposers and facilitating various options for ex-situ utilization of paddy straw, besides large number of IEC (information, education and communication) activities, educational campaigns, awareness camps and publicity through print, electronic and social media.”The CAQM said that the air quality in Delhi was comparatively better this time compared to last year. “The hazy layer is fog and not smog as is being mistaken. There is comparatively less smoke and pollution share in the air now,” the statement said.Environment experts said that while the efforts of the commission and the government agencies were in the right direction, it was also important to note that this year because of a late monsoon withdrawal the stubble fires started late and the spike has only started from October-end.“Between September 1 and November 2, over 18,747 and 4,842 farm fires were spotted in Punjab and Haryana. Yesterday (Tuesday) alone, more than 2,500 farm fires were reported in Punjab and Haryana. As we are in peak stubble burning window, fires are likely to go up to 3000-4000 per day in the coming days. While the current share of stubble burning on Delhi’s particulate levels is less than 10%, it is expected to reach 35-45% on November 5 on account of northwesterly winds,” LS Kurinji, programme associate, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).She added, “Furthermore, since Diwali coincides with the peak stubble burning window this year, forecasts suggest that the additional load from firecrackers could further deteriorate the air quality in Delhi NCR. Taking cues from these forecasts, cities in the Indo-Gangetic Plain should execute pre-emptive measures controlling emissions from local sources in advance to avert severe air quality conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farm-fires-till-nov-2-half-of-those-reported-last-year-caqm-101635963722155.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Man steals ₹4.5 lakh from employer, tries to flee Delhi, nabbed||A man who stole around ₹4.5 lakh from his employer was arrested from Anand Vihar bus terminal on his way out of the city. Deputy commissioner of police (south west) Gaurav Sharma said police have recovered around ₹4.40 lakh from his possession, while the suspect , later identified as Prabhakar Saket, bought shoes and clothes with the remaining money. Saket was fleeing to his village in Rewa, Madhya Pradesh, at the time of his arrest, police said. DCP Sharma said Saket’s employer, Bhupinder Kumar, filed a complaint against him, alleging that the man had stolen around ₹4.5 lakh from him. Kumar said he had kept the money inside the car and parked it at Manglapuri. He said his employer Saket, who worked as his driver for the last six years, went missing along with the cash.“On the basis of technical surveillance and with the help of the complainant, police successfully nabbed the accused from Anand Vihar bus terminal while he was trying to flee Delhi with the stolen amount. The accused Prabhakar Saket was working as a driver for the last six years,” said DCP Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-steals-4-5-lakh-from-employer-tries-to-flee-delhi-nabbed-101635963063853.html
04-11-2021||Kolkata||JMB operative arrested near Kolkata specialised in forging ID cards: Official||KOLKATA: A suspected operative of the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) was nabbed on Tuesday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from South 24 Parganas district’s Subhasgram village about 30 kilometres south of Kolkata, officers aware of the developments said.The man, identified as Abdul Mannan and suspected to be a Bangladeshi national, was arrested from a one-room accommodation he rented in a slum area two years ago. His neighbours told NIA officers that they had no reason to suspect that Mannan could be working for terrorists. He used to leave in the morning and return at night, the neighbours said.The NIA did not make any official statement on Abdul Mannan’s arrest till Wednesday evening. Officers said he used to provide forged Indian identity cards and documents to JMB sleeper cell members of whom three were arrested in July this year from Haridevpur in the southern outskirts of the state capital by the special task force (STF) of the Kolkata Police. The three JMB members, Naziur Rahman Pavel, Mekail Khan and Rabiul Islam, are Bangladeshi nationals. “They were living in a rented room in Haridevpur after illegally entering India. Naziur Rahman was the local leader of the group,” said an officer who did not want to be identified. The JMB operatives were working for Ansar Ali Hriday, who was jailed in Bangladesh two years ago on charges of committing robberies to raise funds for terror activities. He was siphoning part of the money to India to run his private business, the STF found during the probe. These intelligence inputs were shared with NIA.Lalu Sen alias Rahul Sen, the alleged Indian link of Ansar Ali Hriday, was also arrested in July. Although Ansar Ali’s whereabouts are not known to security agencies, interrogation of the suspects has exposed a well-organised cell which the JMB refers to as markaz, which, in Arabic, means centre.Investigation revealed that Ali used to send money to India through hawala operators apparently keeping other JMB leaders in Bangladesh in the dark. This money was invested in several businesses that have Indian partners, the agencies have found.“Ali also runs a human trafficking racket that has sent Bangladeshi men to several European countries. For this, the JMB needed forged documents such as Aadhaar cards. Mannan is suspected to be one of the key players in this forgery. He may have had other roles also,” an officer said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/jmb-operative-arrested-near-kolkata-specialised-in-forging-id-cards-official-101635961860436.html
04-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects Sam D’Souza’s pre-arrest bail plea||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail application of Sam D’Souza who claims to have only facilitated the meeting between panch witness Kiran Gosavi and Pooja Dadlani, the manager of Shah Rukh Khan, to help release Aryan Khan in the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) cruise drug bust case. D’Souza had approached the HC, apprehending his arrest by the special investigation team (SIT) of the Mumbai Police. The SIT has been set up to probe the allegation of extortion against NCB officers and others. In his application moved before the vacation bench of justice SP Tavade, D’Souza through advocate Arun Rajput has stated that as he is the only earning member of the family he should be served a notice of three working days before any coercive action is taken against him. While the bench asked Rajput to state his client’s case and keep the late hour in mind, Rajput tried to tell the court that his client was not arraigned as an accused by the SIT in its probe as Aryan and others had got bail and there were allegations against NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The court then observed that as D’souza had not approached the sessions court first, his application was rejected. Sam D’Souza has stated in his application that both Gosavi and Prabhakar Sail, the bodyguard of Gosavi, are frauds and the main conspirators in the alleged extortion case against NCB officers being investigated by the Mumbai Police SIT. The application stated that when he realised that Gosavi and Sail were frauds, he ensured that an amount of Rs50 lakh which Dadlani had allegedly paid was returned to her through her husband. D’Souza has further stated that Wankhede had no role in the alleged deal attributed between him and Gosavi by Sail. In an affidavit filed last month, Sail alleged Gosavi had asked D’souza over the phone to strike a deal of Rs25 crore with Dadlani for releasing Aryan Khan. Sail had alleged in the affidavit that the duo had agreed to settle the deal at Rs18 crore, of which Rs8 crore would be paid to Wankhede. In the ABA, D’Souza has stated that Sunil Patil had called him and told him that two persons, Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali, would call him for contacts with the NCB. Thereafter, Gosavi called him on October 1 and said that he was leaving from Ahmedabad for Mumbai and the next day Gosavi said that he had contacted NCB officers. D’souza has further stated that on October 2, he was at Taj Presidency at Fort when Patil called him and informed him that some influential person had been arrested for drugs and wanted D’Souza to verify the name of the person. The application stated that he then went to Green Gate with an associate in a Toyota Innova Crysta car but did not know who the influential person was. There Gosavi and Bhanushali thanked him for helping them connect to NCB officials and also informed him that the influential person arrested was Aryan Khan. The application further stateD that Gosavi informed D’Souza that Aryan was innocent and did not have any drugs in his possession and as he wanted to help Aryan, D’Souza should contact Dadlani. Thereafter, D’souza contacted Dadlani through a mutual friend, a hotelier and met her at Lower Parel in the early hours of October 3. When Dadlani who was along with her husband said she was the decision maker, D’Souza introduced Gosavi and Dadlani. “Kiran Gosavi showed her a list in which Aryan Khan’s name was not present and said that he can help Aryan get out of this situation. Gosavi and Dadlani were discussing and we were asked to stay away because they were confidential and scared to speak in public and hence, we were not part of any discussion that happened between them,” claimED the application of D’Souza. The application further states that on October 3 when he saw the viral photo of Gosavi with Aryan and news reports stated that Gosavi was a fraud he called Patil who told him that Giosavi had taken ₹50 lakh from Dadlani through Sail. “The applicant saw that Kiran had saved mobile no. as SW2, thereby showing that he was connected with top NCB officials. However, the Truecaller pop up showed the name of Prabhakar Sail... After coming to know that Kiran Gosavi was a fraud, the applicant’s only motive was to recover the money and save his image... Therefore, he connected Sunil Patil and Kiran Gosavi and recovered the money and return it to Pooja Dadlani, through her husband,” the application stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-sam-d-souza-s-pre-arrest-bail-plea-101635959460930.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal, cabinet colleagues to participate in Diwali rituals||On the eve of Diwali on Wednesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the citizens to strictly follow Covid discipline -- wear a mask and avoid crowded places -- while observing festivities, and reminded them that it was during this time last year that the number of Covid cases spiked. Kejriwal said that he has seen pictures of people flouting norms in crowded markets. He said that the Covid pandemic is still not over and dengue is on the rise, and stressed the need to practise utmost care and preventive behaviour.“Diwali is the time when happiness and zeal galore all over the country. Covid cases have been low and people are flocking the markets. But, several people are not following norms and not wearing masks,” Kejriwal said.“I have seen pictures from markets where norms are being flouted. I fold my hands before the people of Delhi and make an earnest request -- please wear masks, please follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. It was at this time last year, when Covid cases boomed and badly affected the festivities,” the chief minister said.Kejriwal appealed to the people to step out only when necessary to curb the spread of the viral disease. “Please don’t be irresponsible. I am not asking this for any personal gains. It is you who will fall sick, it is you whose families will be under threat. Covid is a very lethal disease and we need to treat it in that manner itself. Please only step out of your homes when necessary and please wear a mask when you do so,” he said.Asking people to stay indoors, Kejriwal urged people to join him and his cabinet of ministers on the live telecast of Diwali Puja from the Thyagaraj Stadium where the state government has built a temporary structure resembling the under-construction Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.“Tomorrow (Thursday), we will be celebrating Diwali. Let us celebrate it together once again. At 7 pm, I will be participating in the rituals with my cabinet ministers and the event will be broadcast live on several TV channels. I request you to join us from your homes,” said Kejriwal at an online briefing.Kejriwal visited Ayodhya last week, and his ministerial colleagues participated in Diwali rituals at the Akshardham Temple last year. The rituals were live-streamed to discourage people from stepping out for community celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh, the ruling Aam Aadmi Party’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge, in September held a “Tiranga yatra (Tricolour march)” in Ayodhya while calling for Ram Rajya that they equated with true nationalism and communal harmony.The two offered prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi Temple and the Hanuman Garhi Temple besides meeting several seers in Ayodhya.The Bharatiya Janata Party, Samajwadi Party, and the Bahujan Samaj Party earlier also kick-started their campaigns ahead of the 2022 polls in Uttar Pradesh from Ayodhya. The Supreme Court in 2019 paved the way for the construction of the Ram temple at the disputed site where the demolished Babri Masjid once stood.Also Read: Will offer free pilgrimage if voted in, says Arvind KejriwalKejriwal also warned people over increasing cases of dengue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-cabinet-colleagues-to-participate-in-diwali-rituals-101635926937159.html
04-11-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal govt working on website for Delhi markets to showcase and sell products||The Delhi government is working on creating a virtual marketplace for registered traders, entrepreneurs and professionals to display their products and services, and reach a wider audience, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday.He further said that the platform, which will enable both business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B) transactions, and also organise virtual exhibitions, is expected to be launched in August 2022. “On the occasion of Diwali, we have a great announcement for traders, entrepreneurs, professionals and industrialists in Delhi. We will soon launch a web portal named ‘Dilli Bazaar’, aimed at increasing economic activities which help the business sector, and also generate more revenue for the government,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.Elaborating on the project, he said it will work like a virtually mapped version of Delhi’s markets, through which people can browse through registered shops and the products and services they offer, without physically visiting them. “Imagine sitting at your homes and going through all products and varieties at shops located in real markets such as Lajpat Nagar and Khan Market. One can do that from anywhere in the world. Even a trader based in US or UK will be able to, say, order 200 pieces of a product from a shop in Hauz Khas, without visiting the shop and checking out its articles in person,” said Kejriwal. The chief minister said people will also be able to search for products on the portal without opting for the virtual market mode; in that case, it will work just like any e-retail website. The portal will also help in organising exhibitions, said Kejriwal.“It is a slightly complicated system and will need good amount of work. We have started the work and are planning to launch it in August 2022,” Kejriwal added.In a statement issued later in the day, the chief minister’s office said, “Delhi will have its own e-marketplace, in which every small and big entrepreneur can have their own e-commerce store. ’Dilli Bazaar’... will give a global online identity to every trader, businessperson, professional, service provider and shopkeeper of Delhi. Through the portal, shoppers will be able to go on virtual walkthroughs of Delhi’s markets, buy any product they like from their home itself.”“From Lajpat Nagar and Sarojini Nagar markets to local DDA markets -- every shop in Delhi will be able to sell its products online through the portal... Startups will benefit greatly from the exposure. Delhi’s GDP, tax revenues and economic activities will see a monumental rise after the launch of ‘Dilli Bazaar’ portal. Global business will come to Delhi. Someone sitting in America too will be able to buy from the smallest of the businesses of Delhi,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-govt-working-on-website-for-delhi-markets-to-showcase-and-sell-products-101635925256744.html
