05-11-2021||Gurugram||Blanket ban, police checks fail to dissuade Gurugram’s firecracker enthusiasts||A blanket ban and stringent checks of firecracker sales failed to dissuade Gurugram’s residents, as cracker bursting was reported from across the city till late Thursday.Even as the state government banned the sale and use of firecrackers in 14 districts in the National Capital Region (NCR), residents of DLF Phase-1, South City, Tigra, Sector 50, Sohna Road and Sector 56, among other areas, alleged that action taken by police was lax and they got a response only after making multiple calls to the police stations concerned or the control room. “I have seen crackers being burst on Diwali, but this time, the situation was alarming and it seemed like people were bursting crackers to make some kind of a point. It started from early evening and went on till after midnight. I called the police control room and the station house officer concerned several times, but I did not get a proper response. Around 10.30pm, I called the emergency number 112 as I was having respiratory problems, but I did not get a response. The festival turned into a health hazard for the elderly and sick,” Parimal Bardhan, a 75-year-old resident of H Block in DLF Phase-1, said. Ruchika Sethi, a resident of Sector 50, said she made several calls to the police to stop bursting of crackers near her locality but to no avail. “On Diwali day, it did not seem like there was a ban on bursting of crackers at all. From 8.30pm to around 10.30pm, I kept calling the police officials, who were also busy on rounds, but bursting of crackers did not stop. On Friday morning, the officials inspected the area and admonished residents against whom complaints were made. After that, bursting of crackers reduced significantly in and around the society. However, firecrackers are being incessantly burst in neighbouring Tigra village today (Friday) evening.” The police officials said that they had formed 29 teams who were on rounds across the city, but that they did not book anyone on the day of the festival. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “We had formed 29 teams who were continuously patrolling the city. There might have been a delay in attending to the complaints of residents as we were getting a lot of calls and teams were being immediately sent to the spots. We received at least 244 calls from residential areas across Gurugram on Thursday regarding bursting of crackers.” Health experts also raised concerns about the increased pollution levels during Diwali. Dr Manoj Goel, director of pulmonology at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said, “As usual, this Diwali also, the air quality is becoming poor. There is already a rise in number of respiratory cases like viral pneumonia, asthma and COPD [chronic obstructive pulmonary disease] attacks and chest infections. They present with breathing difficulty, cough, fever, increased sputum and sleep disturbances. People should wear masks, continue preventive therapies and consider vaccination for flu and pneumonia after consulting a doctor. They should restrict outdoor activities to a minimum.”Dr Ashutosh Shukla, senior director for internal medicine and medical advisor, Max Hospital, said, “People need to be extra vigilant over the next few days as these high air pollution levels will take around a week to clear. On high pollution days, the best thing you can do to reduce your exposure to air pollution is to avoid main roads and busy streets when possible. Wearing face masks has become a routine amid the pandemic, and is also helpful in avoiding effects of pollution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/blanket-ban-police-checks-fail-to-dissuade-gurugram-s-firecracker-enthusiasts-101636136358926.html
05-11-2021||Gurugram||Cracker bursting, stubble fires drag down Gurugram’s air quality||An increase in stubble burning and extensive use of firecrackers, despite a ban in the National Capital Region, on Diwali dragged down the air quality in the city to the ‘severe’ levels of the Central Pollution Control Board’s classification, with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 472 on Friday. This was also the worst air quality recorded around Diwali since 2016, as per the CPCB data.On Thursday, Gurugram’s AQI was 395 (‘very poor’), which was already on the brink of ‘severe’ levels, also the worst reading recorded on Diwali since 2016, according to the data. The air quality in the city started deteriorating on Thursday evening, with levels of particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5) increasing and reaching severe levels of concentration after 9pm.Officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) attributed the spike in pollution to the bursting of crackers in the city, while experts pointed to an increase in stubble fires.Despite a complete ban on the sale and use of all kinds of crackers in 14 Haryana districts located in the National Capital Region (NCR), there was widespread use of crackers not only in the city but also in neighbouring Delhi and NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh.S Narayanan, member-secretary of HSPCB, said, “Along with unfavourable weather conditions, the spike in air pollution levels is mostly due to bursting of crackers across the region. I am yet to get the complete report on how many challans were issued for bursting of crackers and the exact impact, but looking at the 24-hour average, it can be concluded that this is due to bursting of crackers. In the past 24 hours, increase in farm fires in the state have also been marginal, with around 100 cases increasing, but the change of air quality today (Friday) is quite steep compared to Thursday; so it is mainly crackers that have contributed to it.”The official said that on Thursday, the state recorded 228 farm fires and on Friday, there were 331 cases of farm fires.A weather bulletin issued on Friday evening by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR stated, “The contribution from firecrackers, biomass burning and unfavourable weather conditions brought AQI in severe category.”The air quality, however, is likely to improve on Saturday and Sunday, due to a prediction of strong winds, and remain in the ‘very poor’ category, with PM 2.5 as the primary pollutant. The contribution of biomass burning is also likely to increase as winds will be westerly from Friday onwards.Experts said that the bursting of crackers intensified the accumulation of pollutants in the lower levels of the atmosphere.Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, said, “Cracker bursting intensified the PM2.5 accumulation at the lower atmosphere in night hours, which lead to peak values of PM2.5 crossing 1,000 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) mark at most of the locations in the National Capital Region. But as the relative index AQI has a maximum limit of 500, which means whether it’s 501 or 50,001, the air is hazardous. Smog was also visible in the morning and poor wind allowed particles to stay afloat in the breathing space, as dispersion is not fast. These toxic compounds can cause severe health hazards.”Meanwhile, Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer for HSPCB for Gurugram (north) said that two additional sensors were installed in sectors 48 and 25 for monitoring air quality levels seven days before and after Diwali.“To understand the exact impact of different factors, such as vehicular emissions and dust, two additional sensors have also been set up where we are monitoring all the parameters. This year, we saw that with decrease in temperature and wind speed late evening around 11pm, the air quality index levels started increasing. The pollution levels were higher during the night hours compared to day hours on Thursday,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cracker-bursting-stubble-fires-drag-down-gurugram-s-air-quality-101636136357371.html
05-11-2021||Gurugram||DTCP pulls up property owners running commercial activities in residential areas||To curb commercial activities from residential properties in private colonies, the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Wednesday issued show cause notices to 29 property owners in sectors 82-83, asking them to stop the practice as it is against the rules and also causing problems for residents. DTCP officials said that they had received complaints from residents of Vatika India Next colony that shops, property dealer offices, clinics and similar establishments were being run from residential properties. A survey was conducted last week, following which 29 such commercial establishments were identified, officials said on Friday. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said, “We found that people were operating clinics, property dealing offices, hardware shops and similar establishments. We have asked them to close these establishments; otherwise, action would be taken against them.” DTCP officials said that they will be conducting a survey of all private colonies in sectors 81 to 95 to ensure that illegal commercial activities and encroachments are identified and stopped. “Such activities put pressure on infrastructure, such as electricity, and cause traffic jams. Action has been taken in colonies located in sectors 1 to 57,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner. In another development, officials said that a building in DLF Phase-2, where violations were carried out, was sealed on Wednesday. DTCP officials said that changes to the structure were carried out by the owner after obtaining occupancy certificate.“The owner of the house had made rooms in stilts and extended the cupboards in the balconies of the floors. All these were raised in violations of the sanctions granted. The walls were removed from the stilts and the cupboard demolished using Hilti machines,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-pulls-up-property-owners-running-commercial-activities-in-residential-areas-101636136297538.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two months, police lodge FIR for burglary at mobile phone shop||Two months on, the Moti Nagar police have lodge an FIR in a theft case at a mobile phone shop in Fauji Colony. The shop owner had filed a complaint on September 12 and submitted CCTV footage with the police, where the unidentified burglar was captured.The owner of the shop, Pappu Kumar of Ram Nagar, said that on September 12, he had locked the shop and left for lunch at around 1pm. When he returned an hour later, he found that it had been broke into and ransacked. Eight mobile phones, ₹15,000 and a laptop had been stolen. He added that a CCTV camera installed at a nearby shop had captured the accused entering the shop and then leaving with a bag. He then fled on a bike.Pappu added that he immediately sounded the police and also provided the footage. After making rounds of the police stations for two months, an FIR was finally lodged.Sub-inspector Sulakhan Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR has been lodged under Sections 454 (house trespassing) and 380 (theft) of Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused.He added that Kumar had not filed a written complaints for many days and they registered the case when he did so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-months-police-lodge-fir-for-burglary-at-mobile-phone-shop-101636135697961.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man booked for raping 20-year-old tenant||The Jodhewal police have booked a man for raping his 20-year-old tenant on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Gaurav of Amrit Vihar Colony, Kailash Nagar.The complainant stated that she lives with her family in a rented accommodation owned by the accused. On Wednesday, when she was alone at home, Gaurav entered the house and started touching her inappropriately. Thereafter, he raped her and left after threatening her to keep mum.She narrated the incident to her family members when they returned home and an FIR was lodged.ASI Vijay Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-booked-for-raping-20-year-old-tenant-101636135277118.html
05-11-2021||Pune||Centre should release GST compensation so state govts can reduce VAT on fuel: Sharad Pawar||After the Central government reduced the excise duty on petrol and diesel, NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday demanded the release of GST compensation to the states so that state governments can reduce value-added tax (VAT) on fuel.Speaking to reporters here today, Pawar said, "If the Centre disburses the GST compensation to all the states, then it is possible for the state governments to reduce the VAT on petrol and diesel and implement other welfare schemes."Pawar's remarks came after the Finance Ministry on Wednesday announced a ₹5 per litre cut in excise duty on petrol and a ₹10 per litre cut in excise duty on diesel. Amid record-high fuel prices, this is the first cut in central excise duties in over three years.The NCP chief also confirmed that Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar's driver and other staff have been tested positive for Covid-19."As a precautionary step, the doctors have asked Ajit Pawar to remain in home isolation for a few days," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-should-release-gst-compensation-so-state-govts-can-reduce-vat-on-fuel-sharad-pawar-101636134768487.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: 42 cases reported from Ludhiana district in last 48 hours||As many as 42 cases of dengue were reported from the district in the last 48 hours. With this, the total count of confirmed cases has reached 1,377, while 3,395 people are suspected to have contracted the infection.Of the 42 new cases, 25 cases were reported on Thursday and 17 on Friday. Of these, cases were reported from areas of Ludhiana city like Bahadur Ke Road, Civil Lines, Gill Road, Durgapuri, Haibowal Kalan, Nimwala Chowk, Shimlapuri, Rajguru Nagar, SBS Nagar and BRS Nagar. Meanwhile, one case each was reported from Sahnewal and Sudhar.Meanwhile, seven fresh Covid infections emerged in the past two days. Three cases were reported on Thursday and four cases on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-42-cases-reported-from-ludhiana-district-in-last-48-hours-101636134436514.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Kin of road mishap victims stage protest during Manpreet Badal’s event||Relatives of seven road mishap victims staged a protest outside Vishwakarma temple in Ludhiana’s Millarganj during a state-level function to commemorate birth anniversary of Lord Vishwakarma on Friday. They were demanding action against the accused and financial help for the treatment of the victims. As finance and taxation minister Manpreet Singh Badal was the chief guest at the function, police did not allow the families to reach the venue. The protesters alleged that Congress workers had also manhandled them for agitating. Prahlad Kumar, a relative of the victim, stated that a Hyundai i20 car had hit a three-wheeler with seven passengers, including two children and the driver, outside Basti Jodhewal police station on October 31. In the mishap all occupants of the three-wheeler had suffered injuries, he added. Kumar added that two occupants of the car, who were in inebriated condition, had also thrashed one of the injured Vijay Kumar, when he tried to make a call to his relatives, and broke his mobile phone. When the victim resisted, the accused deliberately hit him with their car, he said. Vijay has suffered multiple fractures in his legs and arms, the protesting relative added. The Daresi police had registered an FIR three days after the incident when a protest was staged by the victims’ relatives, Kumar said. Later, the accused was released on bail, he added. Kumar said the victims were rushed to a private hospital and were unable to bear their medical expenses as most of them were labourers.Related story on p2||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-kin-of-road-mishap-victims-stage-protest-during-manpreet-badal-s-event-101636134376665.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Relatives of road accident victims block road for 2 hours during protest||Two days after a speeding car crushed two men to death and injured another two others, the kin of the victims staged a protest and blocked traffic on the Khanna-Malerkotla Road for two hours on Thursday, seeking the arrest of the accused. Hours later, police arrested the accused, identified as Mandeep Singh of Karodian village, Khanna. They protesters alleged that the sarpanch and some shopkeepers had helped the accused escape from the spot. The deceased have been identified as Boota Singh of Isru village and Nirbhay Singh, a vegetable vendor. The FIR has been lodged based on the complaint of Varinder Singh, Boota Singh’s son. Varinder stated that his father had stopped to buy some vegetables from Nirbhay’s stall, when the car hit them and two women getting off from a bus, who suffered injuries. He added that his father died on the spot and Nirbhay was referred to a government hospital in Chandigarh, where he died during treatment. ASI Pargat Singh, who is investigating the case, said that Mandeep has been booked under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-relatives-of-road-accident-victims-block-road-for-2-hours-during-protest-101636134197019.html
05-11-2021||Kolkata||Mentoring Mamata Banerjee and much more, Subrata Mukherjee was man for all seasons||As the Indian tricolour flew at half-mast across West Bengal and the police offered a gun salute, veteran politician and Trinamool Congress (TMC) minister Subrata Mukherjee, 75, was cremated in Kolkata on Friday evening. Even as politicians cutting across parties and Mukherjee’s fans and followers - to whom he was ‘Subrata Da’ or, simply ‘Dada’ (elder brother) – lamented the end of a chapter in Bengal’s Congress-era politics, those who knew the veteran closely during his five-decade-long career had recollections of an ever-smiling person who lived beyond parties and regiments, loved sweets and sports and believed in ghost stories. Despite holding the still unbroken record of becoming Bengal’s youngest minister at the age of 26 in 1972, Mukherjee never lost relevance because he remained grounded, his colleagues said. For most people, Mukherjee, who is survived by his wife Chhandabani, was a wonder because the son of a teacher from South 24 Parganas district came to Kolkata’s Bangabasi College to study anthropology in the 1960s when politics adopted him and pushed his career to the pinnacle. “Bengal was going through political turbulence at that time. The Naxalites were rising. Subrata Da became a close follower of the prolific Congress student front leader Priya Ranjan Dasmunsi. They toured every district and strengthened the student units. This helped the Congress come to power in 1972. Dasmunsi died in 2017 after a prolonged illness. We have lost the second architect of that success,” said author and college professor Nirbed Roy, who, like Mukherjee, left the Congress and joined TMC. Dasmunsi and Mukherjee were both known to be close to Indira Gandhi because of their leadership role in Bengal. In 1972, chief minister Siddhartha Shankar Ray, who was often described as the architect of the Emergency, appointed Mukherjee deputy minister in as many as 11 departments, including home and information. Mukherjee was also entrusted with the crucial task of vetting reports that the Bengal media published during the Emergency. While he criticised the Emergency later in life, Mukherjee acknowledged that he came to know the media better during those years. “People often don’t realise how important the role of the media is in our society,” Mukherjee told HT a few years ago. “Indira Gandhi was very affectionate towards me. I travelled with her many times. She hated liars and those who she suspected of stealing party funds,” Mukherjee said during an interview to a television channel earlier this year. Dasmunsi and Mukherjee also played a significant role in mentoring Mamata Banerjee and helped her rise as a youth Congress leader, said Congress and TMC veterans. In 1984, when nobody in the Congress was ready to challenge CPI(M)’s Somnath Chatterjee at the Jadavpur Lok Sabha constituency, Mukherjee proposed Banerjee’s name. She wrested the seat and, at 29, became the youngest member the Parliament had seen till then. Mamata Banerjee broke away from the Congress and formed the TMC in 1998. In 1999, Mukherjee joined her after the Indian National Trade Union Congress, of which he was a national general secretary for 30 years, denied him a second nomination to the International Labour Organisation (ILO). He was elected mayor of Kolkata in 2000 and was soon recognized as one of the best civic administrators the city had seen. He increased revenue generation and solved water logging problems that persisted for decades. “Darkness descended on the night of lights,” murmured the Bengal chief minister at Kolkata’s SSKM hospital on Thursday night when Mukherjee died while Kolkata was celebrating Diwali. She stayed away from the funeral on Friday, saying she could not bear the sight of Mukherjee’s lifeless body. Mukherjee wrested an assembly seat for the first time in 1971, contesting the Ballygunge bypoll. He won the seat again in 1972. Defeated in 1977, when the nation rejected the Congress, Mukherjee made a comeback from Kolkata’s Jorabagan in 1982 and represented it thrice. In 1996, he shifted to the Chowringhee seat and emerged a winner. He won the seat again in 2001, this time for the TMC. Mukherjee had his differences with Mamata Banerjee as well. He left the TMC in 2005 and returned to the Congress but could not win the Chowringhee assembly and Bankura Lok sabha seats in 2006 and 2009 respectively. He returned to the TMC and never looked back although he could not win the Bankura seat in 2019 when the BJP wrested 18 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal, creating a record. To the masses, Mukherjee, apart from being a politician for all seasons, was a colourful, dhoti-clad gentleman who held the Ekdalia Evergreen Club community Durga puja in south Kolkata and the famous Mohun Bagan football club close to the heart. “Strangely, he was afraid of ghosts and used to sleep with the lights on,” said TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee. Mukherjee was never hesitant to experiment. Ignoring his signature husky voice, he agreed to act in the lead opposite actress Moon Moon Sen in a 14-part television serial, Chowdhury Pharmaceuticals, in 1989 that was pulled off the air by Doordarshan because officials found the episodes meandering from the sanctioned script. “I have lost a dear friend,” Sen, the actor-turned TMC leader, said on Friday. Incidentally, she wrested the Bankura Lok Sabha seat from the CPI(M)’s Basudeb Acharia in 2014, a feat Mukherjee failed to achieve a decade ago. Mukherjee took oath as a minister for the last time on May 1 after winning his Ballygunge seat by around 72,000 votes, which, again, was a record. Mamata Banerjee put him in charge of four departments, including panchayat and rural development. On May 9, Raj Bhawan said Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar accorded prosecution sanction to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against TMC legislator Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee, minister Firhad Hakim and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee. On May 17, Mukherjee was arrested along with the others. “He could not accept the arrest. He used to tell how deeply it hurt him. The episode probably affected his health as well,” said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. Couldn’t Subrata Mukherjee be the chief minister of West Bengal, people often asked. “I never aspired for the post because by default I was always the second man in the leadership strata. I love to work in the field. Dasmunsi was my mentor but unlike him, I did not leave the Congress. With Mamata, I always shared a different relationship. So, when the Congress was almost folding up in Bengal, I joined her,” Mukherjee said in an interview after winning the Ballygunge seat six months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mentoring-mamata-banerjee-and-much-more-subrata-mukherjee-was-man-for-all-seasons-101636134138462.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will move resolution against Tytler in Vidhan Sabha: Sukhbir||Attacking the Congress for appointing Jagdish Tytler, whose name had earlier figured in connection with the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, as one of the 37 permanent invitees to the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said that his party will move a resolution in the forthcoming special assembly session on November 8, demanding action against the Gandhi family. Sukhbir, along with Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Jagir Kaur, reached Ludhiana to attend a ceremony at Gurdwara Sri Singh Sabha, Dugri. Addressing a press conference along with the victims of the 1984 riots, Sukhbir said that SAD MLAs will propose the resolution, which hopefully would be passed unanimously. “I am surprised that even when it is clear that Gandhi family had orchestrated the attack on Sikhs and their properties in November 1984, no action had been taken against them even after 37 years. Tytler, who is a key accused in the anti-Sikh riots, should immediately be put behind bars,” he added. Taking a dig at Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, the SAD president said that he should clear his stance on Tytler’s appointment to a top Congress panel. “They should tell the people of Punjab why they supported his appointment. I urge all the Sikhs in the state to boycott the Congress,” he added. The SAD chief further said that the Punjab CM should follow the pattern of other states and the Centre and slash VAT on petrol and diesel by ₹10 per litre. He said that since the CM claimed that Punjab treasury is full, he should not have any problem in effecting an immediate reduction in state VAT on petrol and diesel prices.Badal further claimed that if brought to power, the SAD-BSP government would form a welfare board to address the grievances of the victims of the anti-Sikh riots. Meanwhile, commenting on Punjab transport minister Raja Warring, Sukhbir said he was acting in a vindictive manner against Akali leaders and he won’t take action against any buses owned by Congress leaders. Badal, meanwhile, appointed Ludhiana-based industrialist Gurmeet Singh Kular as his adviser on the industrial affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-move-resolution-against-tytler-in-vidhan-sabha-sukhbir-101636134076731.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industrialists continue protest against soaring prices of raw material||Industrialists on Friday continued their protest against the central government over rising prices of industrial raw material for the fourth day in a row outside the UCPMA office on Gill Road. Representatives of industrial associations like UCPMA, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association and Bicycle Research And Development Organisation (BRADO) participated in the hour long protest.They raised slogans against the Centre and demanded the formation of a regulatory body at the national level to control the prices. “We are definitely going to vote for the political party who will solve our issue, which concerns the entire industrial sector in Ludhiana. The district is an industrial hub and generates huge employment opportunities for the youth and thus the government should pay heed to us,” said Manjinder Sachdeva, general secretary of UCPMA.He added that due to inflation, many people are losing their jobs. “With prices of the raw material increasing, we have to increase our cost too, which largely affects our business. At times, when we close the deal quoting a certain rate, we incur losses as the central government increases the price of steel, nickel, paint, fuel and other raw material” stated Sachdeva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-continue-protest-against-soaring-prices-of-raw-material-101636133958007.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Woman suffering from toothache dies after getting injection in Ludhiana||A woman suffering from toothache died soon after she was administered an injection at a clinic in Moti Nagar, police said. After the incident, the accused fled from his clinic.The Moti Nagar police had on Thursday booked the doctor for causing death due to negligence following the complaint of the woman’s husband. The accused has been identified as Subhash Kumar, who has a clinic in Deep Nagar. Complainant Arjan of Deep Nagar said his wife Kusumwati, 31, was suffering from toothache. “Subhash, who runs his clinic near our house, prescribed some medicines to her on November 1. We visited the doctor again after the pain was not managed,” he added. Arjan said the accused administered an injection to his wife soon after which she collapsed. “He asked me to take her to some hospital and fled from the clinic,” he added. The complainant said he rushed his wife to a hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. He alleged that the accused was not qualified and had no degree to practise as a doctor. ASI Rajesh Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Section 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-suffering-from-toothache-dies-after-getting-injection-in-ludhiana-101636133897641.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 27 land in hospitals with burns on Diwali||As many as 27 persons suffered burns while bursting crackers on the occasion of Diwali in the city. Six among them had reported to the ER with eye injuries, officials said. While 12 injured were rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), as many as 15 patients with minor injuries received treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).However, no case of burn or eye injury caused due to burning of crackers was reported at the civil hospital, said senior medical officer (SMO) Amarjit Kaur. According to public relations officer of CMCH, out of the 12 patients rushed to the hospital with burn injuries, six had suffered eye injuries. The official said that nine patients were minor.The spokesperson of DMCH said 15 patients with minor injuries were rushed to the emergency room of the hospital last night and all of them were sent back home after administering first aid. All the injured who reported at hospital after suffering burn injuries were in the age group of 12 to 20 years, the spokesperson said. SMO Amarjit Kaur, meanwhile, distributed fruits and sweets among patients at the civil hospital and greeted them on the occasion of Diwali. Meanwhile, despite restrictions on bursting crackers after 10pm, city residents gave two hoots to the orders issued by joint commissioner of police J Elanchezhian and carried on with the fireworks till about 2am in several parts of the city on Diwali night.The PCR was flooded with complaints from concerned residents. As per information, at least 200 complaints regarding the bursting of crackers beyond the permitted time (8pm to 10pm) were received on Thursday night, though no FIR has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-27-land-in-hospitals-with-burns-on-diwali-101636133596610.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||AQI plummets as smoke chokes Ludhiana on Diwali||The bursting of crackers turned the city into a gas chamber and did more damage than the stubble burning, indicates the air quality index (AQI) that turned from bad to worse on Diwali.Despite strict guidelines from the authorities to control pollution and limit the timing of bursting of crackers, the pollution level remained on the higher side on Diwali as compared to last year. In 2019 and 2020, Diwali saw the maximum AQI at 263 and 346 points, whereas this year the maximum AQI level crossed over 400 points, showed an air quality website, though the Central Pollution Control Board website showed the peak pollution level at 293 points.The pollution level began to worsen from 3pm on Thursday when the AQI was recorded at 259 points. However, the density of particulate matter in the air reached 280 points at 8pm. The air quality deteriorated further and crossed over 300 points as the clock struck 10 and reached an alarming level at the midnight. Senior citizens and those suffering from allergies experienced \runny nose and watery eyes while many complained of breathing discomfort. While AQI level was 300 at 10am on Friday, the pollution level improved marginally and was logged at 295 at 1pm.On October 28, 2019, the AQI was 306 points at 7am. However, the AQI was recorded at 346 on the day of Diwali last year. According Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of department of climate change and agricultural metrology at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), they were now waiting for some western disturbance or strong wind speed, otherwise suspended particulate matter will keep hanging in the air. “We now need to wait for any western disturbance that could bring rain and settle the suspended particulate matter,” she said. Gagnish Singh Khurana, an RTI activist based in the city, claimed that Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System (CAAQMS) installed at PAU, Ludhiana, showed varying readings throughout the night of Diwali. “It is pertinent to mention here that there are three available methods of observing AQI. First being PAU website, then CPCB website and third one is Purple Air, where one can select Ludhiana and PAU monitoring stations and easily observe the AQI prevalent in Ludhiana at a given time,” he added. Khurana claimed that the data were being displayed differently at the websites mentioned above.As pert the AQI standards, the air quality between 0-50 is considered ‘good’, 51-100 ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’, and 401-500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aqi-plummets-as-smoke-chokes-ludhiana-on-diwali-101636133356373.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 43 distress calls keep firefighters on their toes on Diwali||Forty-three distress calls kept the firefighters of Ludhiana busy on Diwali. At least 11 incidents of fire at fabric and hosiery factories in Shivpuri, Kali Sarak, Focal Point, Azad Nagar, Dhuri Line, Rama Road, and Upkar Nagar were reported on Thursday evening, officials said. Other than these, seven calls were received pertaining to fire in residential areas and a few incidents were witnessed at vacant plots, garbage dumps, shops and houses. Though no casualty was reported according to the officials, goods and machinery worth lakhs were gutted.In one such major fire accident at a hosiery factory located in Santokh Nagar’s Street 9, Shivpuri, entire stock of goods, including jackets and sweatshirts, kept on the ground floor was gutted after a sky cracker landed on them through the grilles of a ventilator around 8.30pm. The furniture of the shop along with a shed in the factory and heavy machinery perished in the fire. “We have lost our complete stock which was ready for sale for the winter season. Everything placed on the ground floor has been destroyed. We were already struggling with finances amid the Covid pandemic and now this fire has left us devastated,” said Parvesh Tyagi, brother of the owner. He added that children were bursting crackers on the street outside his factory. Meanwhile, MC zonal commissioner Jasdev Sekhon said that fire department teams did well to control the situation, but the narrow lanes of the area and cars parked in the passage caused a lot of trouble for the fire tenders to reach the spot. In another similar case, a fire broke out at Adi Knit Fab factory located on Kali Sarak, where goods worth lakhs were gutted. Rajinder Singh, leading fireman in Ludhiana, said it took around two hours to douse the violent flames. “The reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained, but it took four fire tenders to douse the blaze,” said the fireman. Additional fire officer Swaran Chand said the fire team received the first call at 7.30pm related to a fire in a shop at Dana Mandi and the last distress call was made at 4.30 am.“Since our teams were already deputed at the prime locations in the district, we managed to control the situation in time. At least 150 fire tenders were used to extinguish the flames on Diwali, Chand said. The Ludhiana fire department that is equipped with 17 big fire tenders, four small fire tenders and four motorbikes to control the blaze, is struggling with shortage of staff. Electrician dies of power shockAn electrician was electrocuted to death while installing LED lights at a house in Iqbalganj area on the occasion of Diwali, police said on Friday. The victim has been identified as Ajay Kumar, 23, of Kutbewal in Jalandhar.ASI Sahib Singh, who is investigating the case, said that Ajay used to install Diwali lights on houses. “Some of the families of Iqbalganj area had called on him to decorate their houses with fancy lights,” he added. However, while installing lights, he suffered an electric shock and died at the spot. The victim was unmarried, the ASI said. The cop added that the police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The Division Number 3 police have handed over the victim’s body to his family members after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-43-distress-calls-keep-firefighters-on-their-toes-on-diwali-101636133176508.html
05-11-2021||Other||Putting Punjab on a high-growth path, says CM Channi||Phagwara Vowing to enhance Punjab’s glory, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said that the state will soon be transformed into the ‘Golden Sparrow of India’. The CM paid obeisance at the Lord Vishwakarma Temple in Phagwara on Friday, where the management presented him with a robe of honour (siropa). Channi also visited a charitable hospital that the organisation runs, and announced ₹2 crore for the Lord Vishwakarma temple, adding that a hi-tech ambulance will be provided to the hospital as well. Addressing the gathering, Channi said, “A mechanism is being evolved to put the state on the trajectory of high economic growth. My government is the government of the common man.” He added, “We have, already, initiated several path-breaking initiatives including cheap power, Basera scheme, ownership rights to people living within Lal Lakeer; other decisions for the benefit of the common man are also under discussion.” Paying rich tributes to the Lord Vishwakarma, the CM felicitated the technocrats and labourers of the state and claimed that Lord Vishwakarma was the founder of engineering, architecture and technology. “The industrial and infrastructure growth across the globe that we observe today is only due to the blessings of Lord Vishwakarma,” Channi claimed, appealing to the state’s youth to improve upon their professional skills to avail optimum job opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/putting-punjab-on-a-high-growth-path-says-cmchanni-101636133116376.html
05-11-2021||Jaipur||Cabinet expansion on cards in Rajasthan, CM likely to visit Delhi||With bypolls getting over, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is preparing for a cabinet expansion and making political appointments. To discuss the matter with the party high command, Gehlot would be going to Delhi by early next week, officials said. Cabinet rejig and appointments had taken a backseat after the announcement of dates for assembly bypolls in October end. But now that the polls are over and Congress came winning on both the seat, Gehlot is focused on the long-pending appointments and a cabinet expansion. At present, Rajasthan has 21 ministers, including the chief minister. The state with 200 assembly constituencies can appoint a maximum of 30 ministers. A senior leader familiar with the development said, “The CM has done his homework for the appointments and expansion – now a final discussion would be done and the announcements will be made. Gehlot would be going to Delhi in the coming two-three days and with his return, the list will be out.” He said a cabinet expansion with induction of around 8-9 MLAs is expected, which would include a minor rejig in the current ministry. Health minister Raghu Sharma and revenue minister Harish Choudhary have been made incharge of Gujarat and Punjab by the AICC which has started rumours that they might be set free from the cabinet. The leader continued that the long-pending appointments, especially related to state level will be announced following the expansion. There are over 50 boards and commissions where the chairperson will be appointed. “After the expansion, the announcements of the appointments would also start,” he said. On October 16, after the Congress Working Committee meeting, Gehlot met senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, AICC general secretary Ajay Maken and KC Venugopal at Rahul Gandhi’s residence amid talks of a rejig in the cabinet. Maken, who is the incharge of Rajasthan, has already stated that the roadmap of expansion and organizational rejig is prepared and only got delayed as Gehlot was unwell. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cabinet-expansion-on-cards-in-rajasthan-cm-likely-to-visit-delhi-101636131737195.html
05-11-2021||Dehradun||Nainital man upset at sister-in-law refusing to give money throws acid at her||HALDWANI: A 29-year-old man was arrested on Friday for allegedly throwing acid at his sister-in-law after she refused to give him money for his daughter’s treatment a few days earlier, a Nainital police officer said.The suspect has been identified by police as Phulwa Singh. His sister-in-law Lajwati, 42, is being treated for severe burns. It is not clear if she can see again.Inspector Pramod Pathak, station house officer of Banbhoolpura in Nainital district’s Haldwani city said the incident took place on Wednesday night when the acid attack survivor, a labourer, went to see her son, Locket, because he was unwell.The accused, who lives in the vicinity, also reached Lajwati’s son’s house in time to catch her at the gate. Phulwa Singh spoke with her for a bit and tried to get her to drink from the glass that he brought along. But she refused.He did try to get her to drink from the glass again as he walked Lajwati to her house. But she wouldn’t relent since she wasn’t sure what he was giving her. “It was then that he threw the acid from the glass at her face and fled the spot leaving Lajwati screaming in pain,” said Pathak.Local residents took her to the hospital where she is being treated.When her son Locket reached the hospital, she told him that a few days back, Phulwa Singh asked her for money for his daughter’s treatment who was down with jaundice. But she and her husband, Phulwa’s elder brother, refused. “He was angry with both of them since then and committed the ghastly act before being nabbed on Friday,” said Pathak.A formal police complaint was lodged by her son the following day.Phulwa Singh was produced before the local court which later sent him to jail, the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/nainital-man-upset-at-sister-in-law-refusing-to-give-money-throws-acid-at-her-101636131496273.html
05-11-2021||Other||ATM alarm system lands robbers in police net||PATNAThree robbers trying to dismantle an ATM and loot cash in Patna early Thursday morning were caught in the act and arrested, thanks to the security alarm system that alerted the bank headquarter in Navi Mumbai, police said. The robbers had targeted an Indusland Bank ATM at Alpana market under Patliputra police station area, police said.According to a police officer, as soon as the miscreants started cutting the ATM machine with the help of tools, the alarm was activated and an alert sent to the bank headquarter, where a surveillance team promptly informed the Patna police. S K Sahi, station house officer of Patliputra police station, said those arrested have been identified as Shatrughan Kumar, Abhishek Kumar and Sunny Kumar, residents of Gosai Tola in Patna. “Two of them were inside the ATM while the third stood guard outside,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/atm-alarm-system-lands-robbers-in-police-net-101636130178549.html
05-11-2021||Other||Bihar hooch deaths: 6 more die, toll at 24||BETTIAHThe death toll in two suspected cases of hooch deaths in Bihar over the last two days climbed to 24 on Friday with six fresh casualties, four from West Champaran and two from Gopalganj districts, prompting a crackdown in which 24 people have been arrested and five detained, while four policemen have been suspended. Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar since April 2016. West Champaran and Gopalganj have recorded 13 and 11 deaths, respectively, in the twin hooch tragedies around Dipawali, an official said. West Champaran’s superintendent of police (SP) Upendra Nath Verma confirmed four more deaths in the district took place after the ninth death reported late Thursday evening. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to reach any conclusion. Prima facie, these deaths appear to have occurred due to the consumption of poisonous substances,” he said, adding that nine others who had taken ill after consumption of alleged hooch in the district were undergoing treatment. In Gopalganj, four people were under treatment after consumption of suspected hooch. A station house officer (SHO) and a police chowkidar have been suspended in West Champaran following the incident, SP Verma said, adding that three persons have been arrested and five others detained for questioning. West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar said, “Medical teams have been deployed for check-ups and raids are going to arrest the other accused.” This is the second such incident in West Champaran since July this year. At least 16 people died and four others lost eye sight due to consumption of spurious liquor in villages of Lauriya and Ramnagar block in July this year. In Gopalganj, officials said over a dozen villagers complained of nausea, headache, vomiting and vision issues in Kushar village of the district after allegedly consuming spurious liquor, and were rushed by their kin to private hospitals in Gopalganj and Motihari. “The SHO (Shashi Ranjan Kumar) of Mohammadpur police station and a chowkidar have been suspended,” said Anand Kumar, superintendent of police (SP), Gopalganj. In all, 20 people have been arrested in the Gopalganj case, he said. In a related development, a joint team of Gopalganj police and excise department conducted raids on 63 locations and seized 572 litres of liquor, both countrymade and Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL). The Gopalganj district administration has prepared the list of suspected liquor consumers across the district. “With the help of chowkidar and police officials, all the suspected liquor consumers have been identified and a list has been prepared. Those found drunk would be arrested,” said Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate (DM), Gopalganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-hooch-deaths-6-more-die-toll-at-24-101636130177709.html
05-11-2021||Other||Special land survey in Bihar to be completed by Dec 2023||PATNAThe ongoing special survey for updating land records being carried out in a phased manner across Bihar will be completed by December 2023, state’s revenue and land reforms department informed chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday.The comprehensive survey is being conducted after an aerial survey to reduce land dispute cases, update records of transfers of ownership and better upkeep of land records. The CM was chairing a review meeting on initiatives being taken by the revenue and land reforms department, which was attended by revenue and land reforms department minister Ram Surat Kumar, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, additional chief secretary (revenue and land reforms) Vivek Kumar Singh and other officials. As per an official press release, the ACS (revenue and land reforms department) briefed the CM on the status of the special survey underway in different parts of the state. The special survey work under phase-1 started in September 2020 at 5228 villages, 207 camps spread over 89 circles in 20 districts while under phase-2, work started in July 2021 at 4,668 villages, 197 camps in 90 circles spread over 20 districts. “Under phase -3, survey will start in around 10,000 villages in 114 circles covering 18 districts,” the ACS said during his presentation. In Bihar, the last cadastral survey, a process to ascertain land boundaries of through manual survey, was held 1911, during the British rule. In the last one century, a few revisional surveys have been held. During thr review meeting, the chief minister recounted how maximum number of complaints received during his early days of “Janata ke durbar mein Mukhyamantri” in 2006 after coming to power were related to land dispute cases, which prompted his government to make new legislation and also carry out the special survey. He said 60% of the crime incidents are related to land disputes. Consolidation of land holdingsThe revenue and land reforms department has started giving a push to the land consolidation exercise, a process where land holdings of a person scattered in different places could be readjusted to make a consolidated land holding for the land owner. This can be done when there is consensus among residents of any village with other villages to opt for exchange of land parcels to make it one consolidated land tract by mutual agreement and valuation of land. Revenue and land reforms minister Ram Surat Kumar said a software was being developed through the help of IIT-Roorkee, which would help in accurate measurement of the land to be exchanged among different parties and their valuation as per circle rate. The minister said the use of the software would minimise the role of amins (officials who assist in survey work) and also weed out manipulation in identifying the land and its plot size to be readjusted. The practice of land consolidation was prevalent in 1970s in Bihar, with a large number of villagers opting for exchange of their small land parcels to make a big land holding in the vicinity of their villages. Land consolidation also helps increase agricultural yield of crops and income of farmers. “We are keen on popularising land consolidation process as it is good for farming. We will give it momentum once the survey work gets completed in phases as updation of land records is required. The work is going on,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/special-land-survey-in-bihar-to-be-completed-by-dec-2023-101636130176961.html
05-11-2021||Other||CM vows action, says will review after Chhath||PATNAUnder fire for hooch deaths, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar Friday warned of strict action against those involved in sale or consumption of liquor and said he would review the situation after the festival of Chhath. “It is for people to see and judge. If you indulge in such activities, the result is before you. We will take action. Some people are doing bad work by making spurious liquor. Raids are on and I am going to review the entire scenario once the Chhath festival is over,” Kumar said. Minister for excise and prohibition, Sunil Kumar, acknowledged 21 deaths occurred due consumption of spurious liquor. “We are not trying to hide anything. Whatever the truth, it is presented before the media,” he said. The minister said the state government is enforcing prohibition laws with all seriousness and more than 700 employees of excise department have been suspended for laxity in enforcing the law.The Opposition, meanwhile, alleged a nexus between the liquor mafia and officials. Leader of opposition in state assembly, RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said liquor smugglers were calling the shots in Bihar government. “More than 50 deaths have occurred due to spurious liquor in the last three days only under the rule of those who harp on prohibition. Instead of acting tough on mafias, smugglers and erring officials, CM is himself threatening to teach a hard lesson to drinkers,” said Yadav. Congress spokesperson Asit Nath Tiwary demanded immediate expulsion of the excise ministerHowever, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM (S), which is a constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), saw a conspiracy hatched by opposition parties in the wake of their defeat in recently concluded assemvly by-elections. HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said, “The opposition is unnerved by their defeat in bypolls and is bent upon maligning the reputation of the government. We are also identifying the officials who are involved in such nefarious designs of opposition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-vows-action-says-will-review-after-chhath-101636130175410.html
05-11-2021||Other||Air quality in Bihar worsens after Diwali, but better than Delhi||PATNADespite the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) ban on firecrackers, residents of Patna continued to burst crackers, which brought down the air quality in several cities on Thursday late evening and Friday.According to a bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Friday, Muzaffarpur recorded “very poor” air quality, with air quality index (AQI) of 306, which was the worst in the state, followed by Patna and Hajipur which recorded “poor” air quality with index value 268 and 248 respectively. Gaya recorded cleaner air with “satisfactory” air quality. National capital Delhi recorded “severe” air quality, with index value of 462.On Diwali, Patna’s AQI hovered between 240 to 270 9 pm onwards.Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) is conducting 14-day special monitoring in Patna to assess air and noise pollution before and after Diwali from October 28 to November 7 and analysis report will be released by November 10, said an official.BSPCB’s chairman Ashok Ghosh said, “AQI in the state seems better in comparison to last year’s Diwali. Overall AQI remained ‘poor’ in Patna on Diwali for two years in a row but index value stood at 233 this year which was 276 last year.” “Ban imposed on crackers bursting remained ineffective in the state as fireworks sight and sound were visible commonly. Muzaffarpur’s worst AQI indicates high rate of cracker bursting while the state capital may have witnessed comparatively lower cracker bursting”, he said.Ghosh said Bihar’s air quality, however, is much better than Delhi and adjoining regions post-Diwali due to meteorological conditions.“Weather transition has accelerated in northern region but it’s slow in Bihar. This can be one of the major factors for vast difference in air quality of Delhi and Bihar. Air quality is likely to deteriorate in coming days after onset of winter season,” he said.Ankita Jyoti, senior programme officer at Centre of Environment and Energy Development (CEED), said, “There is hardly any improvement in air quality of the state from last year during Diwali festivities. Though overall air quality of Patna is categorised ‘poor’ but several air monitoring stations in recorded ‘severe’ air quality for long hours on Diwali and post Diwali.”“Ban on crackers were totally ineffective as crackers were easily accessible locally. We need to bring behavioural change in public by regular sensitisation before imposing ban as several people burst crackers just to flout the norms. We need to aware masses about hazardous impact of firecrackers and their impact on environment,” she said. Graphics:Patna’s AQI on Diwali in past years:Year Category AQI2021 Poor 2332020 Poor 2762019 Very poor 3452018 Severe 431(Data Source: BSPCB)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-quality-in-bihar-worsens-after-diwali-but-better-than-delhi-101636130176191.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Just the beginning’, says Nawab Malik as NCB’s Delhi team takes over Aryan Khan case||Maharashtra cabinet minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCB) leader Nawab Malik took to Twitter on Friday moments after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) transferred six cases, including the Mumbai cruise drugs bust case, from its Mumbai zonal unit headed by Sameer Wankhede, to claim that “this is just the beginning” and more work would have to be done to “clean this system”."Sameer Wankhede removed from 5 cases including the Aryan Khan case. There are 26 cases in all that need to be probed. This is just the beginning... a lot more has to be done to clean this system and we will do it," Malik wrote on the microblogging platform.
05-11-2021||Lucknow||Gaikwad continues his good run with the willow||Fearless batting seems to have become a habit for young batter Ruturaj Gaikwad, whose good run with the willow continued even on Friday as he stroked his second half-century to help Maharashtra win their first game (against Punjab) in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy here. Having scored a 30-ball 51, laced with eight boundaries and a six against Tamil Nadu in the opening match of the Elite Group A on Thursday, Gaikwad was on song on Friday and his 54-ball 80, which contained eight boundaries and three mighty sixes, remained a treat to watch. The batter, who scored 419 runs for the side last season and remained the second highest run getter in the tournament behind Devdutt Padikkal (580 runs) got down to business from the very second ball of the innings. He cut, drove and pulled at ease against all the six bowlers of Punjab. With a crashing four through the covers on a full-pitched delivery off pacer Sanvir Singh, on the very second ball of the innings, Gaikwad, who scored the most runs in the IPL in the 14th season and won the Orange Cap, made his intentions very clear on the red soil pitch of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium. Before hitting Siddharth Kaul’s over pitched delivery on the leg side for another cracking boundary, Gaikwad pulled Arshdeep Singh’s slower one for a boundary in the fine leg region. He didn’t allow spinners Abhishek Sharma and Mayank Markandey to settle, hitting powerful sixes, including the one in the extra cover area, which also helped the batter complete his 15th fifty in this format of the game in the 60th encounter. By the time Gaikwad, who added 85 runs for the second-wicket with Naushad Shaikh (23, 23b, 1x4) and 48 runs for the third wicket with Azim Kazi (28*, 26b, 2x4), offered a straight catch to substitute Karan Kaila off Kaul at point in the 17th over, Maharashtra were within distance to win the 138-run chase. Earlier, Punjab never got going, as barring opener Shubhman Gill (44, 39b, 3x4, 1x6) and stylish Gurkeerat Mann(41, 32b, 2x4, 2x6), others kept struggling against a disciplined Maharashtra bowling attack. Both Divyang Hinganekar (2/17) and Asha Palkar (2/30) kept bowling on right spots to keep Punjab batters in check before restricting them for 137/6. Meanwhile on the B Ground, defending champions Tamil Nadu scored their second consecutive win in the tournament, defeating Odisha in a one-run thriller. BRIEF SCORES Punjab 137/6 in 20 overs (S Gill 44, G Mann 41, D Hinganekar2/17, A Palkar 2/30) lost to Maharashtra 138/3 in 17.3 overs (R Gaikwad 80, A Kazi 28*, A Sharma 1/13). Tamil Nadu 165/5 in 20 overs (N Jagadeesan 37, B Sudharsan 28, B Aparajith 44*, M Mohammed 27*, A Raut 2/25) beat Odisha 164/6 in 20 overs (S Senapati 67, G Poddar 29, A Raut 38*, T Natarajan 2/38).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gaikwad-continues-his-good-run-with-the-willow-101636129276049.html
05-11-2021||Lucknow||Rinku Singh, the most successful batter for UP this season||Rinku Singh’s willow talked, yet again, as he hit another half-century in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy, in Gurugram, on Friday, but couldn’t save former champions Uttar Pradesh from facing a thrilling two-run defeat against Saurashtra in an Elite Group E match.Left-hander Rinku, who scored a half-century in February this year against Karnataka in a Vijay Hazare Trophy tie in Bengaluru, hit an unbeaten 57 to help UP win against Chandigarh by 22 runs in the opening game on Thursday.On Friday too, Singh did his best, striking an unbeaten 63, which came off 41 balls with the help of three fours and four sixes, but failed to push Uttar Pradesh achieve the 147-run target as his side finished at 145/8 in the stipulated 20 overs.Facing a quality bowling attack with India discard Jayadev Unadkat leading from the front with 2/35, Uttar Pradesh batters never found the going easy and except Singh. A crucial run out of all-rounder Saurabh Kumar (20, 15b, 1x4, 1x6) in the 18th over changed Uttar Pradesh’s fortunes.Uttar Pradesh’s wickets fell at regular intervals. Opener Abhishek Goswami was trapped in front of the wicket on the very first ball of the innings by Unadkat and by the time the six-over power play could come to an end, two more batters Madhav Kaushik and skipper Karan Sharma were back in the pavilion, scoring identical 13 runs.India’s captain at the Under-19 World Cup in 2019, Priyam Garg, once again failed with willow. After scoring just nine in the game against Chandigarh on Thursday, Garg could score just 10 in 13 balls with the help of one boundary before being stumped by Sheldon Jackson of DA Jadeja. Former UP skipper Akshdeep Nath tried to accelerate the run-scoring, striking run-a-ball 19 with two fours, but his innings was cut short by Unadkat, who forced the batter for an easy catch to Parth Bhut.Saurashtra batters were on target from the very first ball, for after being invited to bat first on the easy surface of Gurugram Cricket Ground, they raced to 51/0 in just 30 balls. Openers Himalaya (23, 22b, 5x4) and Vishvarajsinh Jadeja (26, 20b, 2x4, 1x6) laid a solid foundation, stitching together 53 runs for the first wicket. Thereafter, Prerak Mankad (34*, 30b, 3x4) and Samarth Vyas (29, 28b, 2x4, 2x6) kept the scoreboard ticking and helped the side post a challenging 147/7 in 20 overs.Pacers Mohsin Khan (2/31) and Shivam Mavi (2/32) bowled well, whereas left-arm orthodox spinner Shivam Sharma bagged 2/20. Uttar Pradesh now play Delhi in Lahli on Saturday.BRIEF SCORESSaurashtra 147/7 in 20 overs (P Mankad 34*, S Vyas 29, V Jadeja 26, Himalaya B 23, S Sharma 2/20, M Khan 2/31, S Mavi 3/32) beat Uttar Pradesh 145/8 in 20 overs (R Singh 63*, S Kumar 20, DA Jadeja 2/24, J Unadkat 2/350.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rinku-singh-the-most-successful-batter-for-up-this-season-101636127296013.html
05-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: AIIMS director warns against severe cases of Covid, worsening lung ailments||The director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, Randeep Guleria, on Saturday cautioned against severe cases of Covid-19 due to rising air pollution as the national capital’s air quality reached dangerous levels. Urging people to wear masks to protect themselves from both Covid and pollution, Guleria said bad air can also have a major impact on respiratory health, especially on people with lung diseases and asthma.“Pollution can lead to more severe cases of Covid. Should wear a mask as it will help in protection from both Covid-19 and pollution. It has a huge effect on respiratory health especially on people with lung diseases, asthma as their disease worsens,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Pollution has a huge effect on respiratory health especially on ppl with lung diseases, asthma as their disease worsens. Pollution can also lead to more severe cases of Covid. Should wear mask as it'll help in protection from both Covid & pollution: Dr Randeep Guleria, AIIMS Dir pic.twitter.com/T02hYub3kuThe AIIMS director also talked about the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) emergency use listing of Covaxin calling it a “proud moment for our country”. “We've got approval for a made in India vaccine. Earlier India was a vaccine manufacturing hub but in the last 18 months, we've shown that we can do a lot of high-quality research also,” Guleria said.Delhi witnessed a record rise in air quality index (AQI), which rose to 462, on Friday evening, the highest since 2016. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) blamed opposition parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for encouraging people to burst crackers despite a blanket ban being put in place by the government.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai also accused Opposition parties of giving a “religious colour” to the issue of a cracker ban. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier urged people to not burst firecrackers till January 1.The BJP, however, hit back at AAP, alleging that Delhi’s pollution levels were in the “hazardous zone” before Diwali and the current predicament is not due to bursting firecrackers."Delhi's AQI was in a hazardous zone even before the crackers came out. Anyone suggesting otherwise is trying to make Arvind Kejriwal look good, who has unleashed a diabolical campaign to dissuade Delhiites from bursting crackers. Poor air quality is a result of anything BUT Diwali," BJP’s national IT in-charge Amit Malviya wrote in a tweet on Friday.Air quality in the national capital was expected to drop rapidly as stubble burning in the neighbouring states coincided with Diwali. Around 9pm on Thursday the national capital’s AQI dropped to ‘severe’ for the first time this year.An analysis done by Hindustan Times suggested that air quality will marginally improve from Sunday evening and fluctuate within the ‘very poor’ range. It also found firecrackers to be the major contributing factor in deterioration of air quality in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-aiims-director-warns-against-severe-cases-of-covid-worsening-lung-ailments-101636124802243.html
05-11-2021||Other||UP women’s participation in MGNREGS: Backed by govt, training Mahila Mates set to attract rural workforce||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh took a significant step to amend the dismal fact of being among the worst-performing states as far as women’s participation in the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) goes. The UP rural development department, aiming for higher women’s participation in MGNREGS, has trained 18,000 Mahila Mates and deployed 3,010 on job sites.Mahila Mates are women assistants for management and supervision of MGNREGS jobs and job sites.So, how is UP the worst performer? And how would Mahila Mates make a difference?During the Covid-19 pandemic in 2019-20, Uttar Pradesh had employed a whopping 1.11 crore people under the MGNREGA, but the workforce was male-dominated.“The state had generated only 32.52% of women person-days of the 30.55 crore person-days of work generated in the year. At the 28th position, UP was the lowest in the country with only J&K and Lakshadweep ranking lower on the women’s employment index under the MGNREGS. But then we decided to bring in a change. Mahila Mates was one of the top ideas for this”, said Yogesh Kumar, additional commissioner, MGNREGS, UP.In March, this year, the rural development department announced that it will appoint Mahila Mates on job sites. By June, the appointment process was completed, and till now 18,000 Mahila Mates who were selected have been trained. Of these, 3,010 have begun working on their respective job sites.“We believe that the Mahila Mate concept will go a long way in increasing women’s participation in the rural employment scheme. First of all, these 18,000 Mahila Mates are getting direct employment in the scheme. Secondly, once the women in villages know that job sites are being managed by women, it will inspire women in villages to opt for work under the scheme because job sites headed by women will change the social structure of a job site and address the hesitancy among prospective women workers. We had observed that men-dominated worksites do make women shy from participating in work even if they wanted to,” he said.He said that apart from Mahila Mates, the department is also introducing a few more women-friendly factors in MGNREGS such as creating an all-women worksites and women-specific work projects.The rural development department had ordered that all job sites with less than 40 workers will have a Mahila Mate to supervise the site and work there. Sites with more than 40 workers will have two Mahila Mates.To make the appointment fast and smooth, the department had selected the Mahila Mates from existing women SHGs (self-help groups) in the panchayats.Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu were the top-ranking states offering women work under MGNREGS with 91.41%, 87.04%, and 84.88% women person-days respectively last year.During these times of pandemic, with a focus on employment generation under MGNREGS, UP had registered a whopping 87% increase in person-days generated in 2019-20 against the previous year. But women’s share remained unchanged in the last five years.“Yes, over the last five years, women’s participation in the MGNREGS has consistently been low and lower than the national average,” said Yogesh Kumar.The national average in 2019-20 had been 52% women person-days, UP’s was 32.52%. “Now we aim for 34 to 38%,” said Kumar.He said: “Socio-cultural set-up and physical intensive works are inhibiting factors behind the low participation. Women do not like to work at male-dominated worksites and on physically gruelling jobs. So, we have decided to introduce all-women worksites and women-specific works--such as plantation, gardening, nutrition gardens, nurseries or organic cultivations.”All the Mahila Mates that were selected have been trained in how to do their work--making muster roll, record attendance, making a layout for work, measuring of work done, or how to update the work demand, and how to encourage women to work. The department will also promote horticulture, floriculture, vegetable cultivation, animal husbandry, and fisheries under convergence of MGNREGS and the Rural livelihood mission as these jobs are not as physically intensive and also interest women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-women-s-participation-in-mgnregs-backed-by-govt-training-mahila-mates-set-to-attract-rural-workforce-101636125135546.html
05-11-2021||Other||Mathura: Five dead in Yamuna E-way mishap; CM Yogi condoles deaths||AGRA Chief minister Yogi Adityanath mourned the death of five people in a road accident on the Yamuna Expressway, in the wee hours of Friday. The accident occurred at 71 Milestone on the Expressway connecting Agra with NOIDA when a bus jumped the divider and smashed into a car on the other side of the road, killing the bus driver and four people in the car. In his condolence message, chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the deaths and directed local authorities to provide all possible help to relatives of those deceased and treatment to those injured in the accident. “The accident took place at about 4 am on Friday on Yamuna Expressway connecting Agra with NOIDA. It appears that the driver of the empty bus fell asleep while driving and the uncontrolled bus struck the divider and crossed it. The bus struck the car coming from the opposite direction leaving five dead,” said Sirish Chand, the superintendent of police, rural, Mathura. Those killed were identified as Gaurav Yadav, Guddu Yadav, Premlata Yadav and Nikki Yadav all four in the car while Aryan Yadav also in the car was injured and is undergoing treatment at a hospital in NOIDA. The bus driver Balwinder from Pathankot also died in the accident. Those in the car were from Ghaziabad district in Uttar Pradesh and were going towards Agra when the accident took place. Mathura Police reached the spot and arranged for the removal of damaged bus and car to allow traffic movement on the 165-kilometer-long Yamuna Expressway. Concern has been repeatedly raised on fatal accidents on this high speed track and many of the accidents in the wee hours of the day are caused by this untimely nap by sleep starved drivers driving at high speed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mathura-five-dead-in-yamuna-e-way-mishap-cm-yogi-condoles-deaths-101636124595551.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||Kiran Gosavi, NCB witness in Aryan Khan drugs-on-cruise case, sent to police custody till Nov 8||The Pune court on Friday sent Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness in the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise raid that involves Bollywood star Shah Rukh’s son Aryan Khan, to police custody till November 8. He was sent to police custody till November 5.Gosavi, allegedly on the run, was arrested on October 28 in a cheating case from 2018 when he had allegedly duped one Chinmay Deshmukh of ₹18 lakh under the pretext of giving him a job in Malaysia.News agency ANI reported that Gosavi had promised to convert Deshmukh’s tourist visa to a regular one once the latter landed in Malaysia. He then had to return to India following the expiry of his tourist visa.By October 29, four additional cheating complaints were filed against Gosavi and a fresh first information report (FIR) was slapped against him at a police station in Pune.In most of the other cheating cases filed against Gosavi, similar to Deshmukh, the victims were duped of lakhs on the assurance of getting jobs overseas.Days after Gosavi came to limelight as his selfie with Aryan at the NCB office went viral, his former bodyguard/aide Prabhakar Sail alleged that he had taken ₹50 lakh from an individual after the raid at the Goa-bound Cordellia ship.Sail, who is also a witness in the case, further said he overheard Gosavi talking to one Sam D’Souza about settling Aryan’s case at ₹18 crore of which ₹8 crore would be given to NCB’s Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede.The NCB has commenced a probe into Sail’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kiran-gosavi-ncb-witness-in-aryan-khan-case-sent-to-police-custody-till-nov-8-101636123935334.html
05-11-2021||Other||Lucknow: Air quality in UP cities worsens after Diwali celebrations||Lucknow Pollution levels in major cities of the state entered the severe zone on Friday, a day after Diwali, AQI (Air Quality Index) data of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) read.West UP cities including Meerut recorded AQI of 435, Firozabad 449, Ghaziabad 470, Greater Noida 464, Baghpat 437 and Bulandshahar 444 and Vrindavan in Mathura 448 all recorded AQI above 400, which is considered severe for it can affect individuals with pre existing health conditions.The state capital recorded AQI 278, Kanpur 321. AQI above 200 is considered poor while that above 300 is considered very poor.Bursting of crackers across the cities during the Diwali, despite a ban, also contributed to the spike in AQI, according to UPPCB officials.All these cities reflected a spike of around 100 points in the AQI numbers in 48 hours.This is for the first time this season the overall AQI of most UP cities entered the severe zone, and it is set to only worsen due to weather conditions that have trapped the pollution caused by crackers, human activities and a rise in farm fires in neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.Ajay Sharma, member secretary of the UPPCB, said, “The air quality in UP cities depleted because of increase in human activities during the festive season. However, we have managed to control the AQI of the state capital by implementing multi-pronged measures. Such measures will also be implemented in other major cities in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-air-quality-in-up-cities-worsens-after-diwali-celebrations-101636123998559.html
05-11-2021||City||Delhi declares public holiday on November 10 on account of Chhath Puja||The Delhi government on Friday declared November 10 as a public holiday this year on account of Chhath Puja. The government said that Chhath Puja is an important festival for the people of Delhi and, accordingly, it has decided to declare next Wednesday as a public holiday, reported news agency ANI.The announcement comes days after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed the Chhath celebration at designated public places. The authority had initially banned celebrations in public places for the second consecutive year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The permission followed intense politics over the Chhath celebration, with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manoj Tiwari targeting Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal over the ban. Kejriwal later wrote to LG Anil Baikal, requesting him to allow Chhath Puja celebrations at public places. Also Read | Delhi: Organisers to arrange ponds for Chhath festivities, Yamuna out of boundsIn a letter to Baijal, the Delhi chief minister said that the Covid-19 situation has been under control in the national capital and the festival should be allowed to be conducted with Covid protocols in place."For the last three months, the Covid-19 situation is under control in Delhi. I believe, that we should allow the festival of Chhath Puja to be conducted with Covid-19 protocols in place," Kejriwal wrote.Chhath is a four-day-long Hindu festival that is primarily celebrated by the people belonging Bihar, Jharkhand, and Eastern Uttar Pradesh. This year, it will begin on November 8 with Nahay Khay and conclude on November 11 with Usha Arghya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-declares-november-10-as-public-holiday-this-year-on-account-of-chhath-puja-101636122097077.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||J&K slashes VAT on fuel price; LG Sinha calls it Modi’s ‘Deepawali gift’||Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday reduced Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by ₹7. “PM @narendramodi has given a great Deepawali gift by announcing a reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel,” the office of Lt Governor of J&K tweeted from its official account. “In addition, J&K admin has decided to reduce an additional Rs.7 on petrol & Diesel, thereby reducing the petrol price by ₹12/litre and diesel by Rs.17/litre in UT from today,” it added. On Wednesday, the BJP government reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel to bring down the prices of the two petroleum products which had been seeing an upward trend. The relief to consumers came on the eve of Diwali. The finance ministry said that excise duty on petrol will come down by ₹5 and that on diesel by ₹10 and it will be effective from Thursday. It urged the states “to commensurately reduce” VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-slashes-vat-on-fuel-price-lg-sinha-calls-it-modi-s-deepawali-gift-101636120994920.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Air pollution down by 18% in Punjab this Diwali||The air quality index (AQI) in Punjab this Diwali was better than last year with cities across the state recording an 18% reduction in pollutants. Also read: Air quality deteriorates to ‘severe category’ across Haryana after DiwaliThe average AQI of Punjab this Diwali was 268 (poor) as compare to 328 (very poor) in 2020. Jalandhar worst hit, Patiala shows improvementAccording to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), Jalandhar recorded very poor AQI this time as the ban on firecrackers that was imposed in the district because of poor air quality, went up in smoke with residents flouting it. Last Diwali, the AQI of Jalandhar, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala remained in the very poor category. However, this Diwali, the AQI of only two cities of Amritsar and Jalandhar was in the very poor category. The maximum AQI reduction was observed in Patiala by 27.8% and the minimum was observed in Jalandhar by 0.3%). Punjab saw an average AQI reduction of 18.3% as compared to last year. People adhered to time limit to burst crackers “People followed the time limit fixed for bursting firecrackers. The PPCB thanks people of Punjab for following the advisory and using green crackers this Diwali, resulting in overall improvement in air quality as compared to last year,” PPCB secretary Krunesh Garg said. Six stations were set up in the state to observe the Diwali AQI in real time. The PPCB allowed the window from 8pm to 10pm to burst crackers and urged people to let off only green crackers. There was ban on selling firecrackers in Jalandhar and Mandi Gobindgarh. City Diwali 2020 AQI value Diwali 2021 AQI %age reduction Amritsar 386 303 21.5 Jalandhar 328 327 0.3 Ludhiana 376 289 23.1 Khanna 281 227 19.2 Mandi Gobindgarh 262 220 16 Patiala 334 241 27 Average 328 268 18.3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-pollution-down-by-18-in-punjab-this-diwali-101636119974940.html
05-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi records worst Diwali since 2016, air quality jumps above 450||The national capital recorded its worst Diwali since 2016 with the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) spiking to a reading of 462 (severe) on Friday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily 4 pm bulletin – a sharp spike from a reading of 382 (very poor) on Diwali day. The last time Delhi had a higher AQI the day-after Diwali was in 2016 when it touched 445 (severe) the very next day.CPCB data shows last year, despite the ban on firecrackers being violated, Delhi’s AQI touched a high of 414 (severe), while it touched 390 (very poor) the day after Diwali in 2018. Experts say firecrackers are not the only contributing factor at the moment as meteorological conditions and a spike in farm fires have played a key role.Professor Sachchida N Tripathi from the civil engineering department at IIT Kanpur, who is also a member of the steering committee for the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), says the average PM 2.5 concentration began rising in the last week of October and has shown a steady increase, owing to an increase in farm fires. This, aided by low temperatures, helped trap pollutants over Delhi. “The AQI was already on the rise and if you combine a day of farm fires and firecrackers, there is bound to be a sharp increase in pollution levels,” said Tripathi, stating wind speed is low at the moment, which is keeping ‘haze’ intact.According to the CPCB, an AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and beyond 400 is ‘severe’, with the index capping off at an upper limit of 500.In 2016, Delhi did not have a firecracker ban in place, however, Diwali occurred on October 30, nearly a week earlier. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy says late rains have played a key role this year, pushing the stubble burning period to a short window in November. CPCB data shows this October, with an average AQI of just 173, is the cleanest in the last seven years. “October saw late rains and a late withdrawal of monsoon. Farmers were unable to burn stubble residue then and now you are suddenly seeing a spike in farm fire events. This has coincided with Diwali, creating this season’s first smog event,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-worst-diwali-since-2016-air-quality-jumps-above-450-101636119736306.html
05-11-2021||Other||‘Winning people is more important than winning elections’: Goa Congress president||Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar spoke to HT about the party’s ability to bounce back from setbacks, the threats faced from rivals and its plans for the upcoming elections. Here are the excerpts from the interview. Q: You have been reduced to four members in the Goa Legislative Assembly. The big question facing your party is can the Congress bounce back?A: Congress has the inbuilt capacity to bounce back and in the past, we have proved it. In 2000, we were reduced to four. A breakaway group led by MLA Francisco Sardinha (present Congress MP from South Goa) split from the party and Sardinha became CM with the support of the BJP. We bounced back and now after these ten people left (the ten that merged with the BJP) we have taken a bold stand for the first time that they will not be taken back as per the wishes of the people of Goa. Our agenda is simple. Winning people is more important than winning elections. The moment you win the people, winning elections becomes easy. I know I had a lot of pressure… somewhere you have to be firm. Our partymen stood by us. Our Delhi leadership stood by us and we are here now. Q: Many of these leaders who left were brought up by the Congress party. Today, almost 90% of the present BJP legislators had a past association or were members of the Congress. Do you think this trend of the Congress grooming leaders, only to have them hijacked by other parties, is a blot on the party? A: The moment your personal greed clashes with your party ideology and the interest of Goa, when you compromise for money, such people cannot be trusted. And that’s why we’ve built a new team. We have brought many youngsters, new faces. We are building them very strong. Even now, some of our members have left (to the TMC). We want to build a very clean Congress and in the process, I feel all these people, whoever wants money, or has greed for money, today or tomorrow, they will leave. It’s better to leave today and we provide that opportunity to others. Nobody is indispensable. Q: How much of a dent do you think parties like TMC, AAP, which have been primarily working in areas where the Congress is strong? A: Nehru ji said, people of Goa are very wise. Why did he say this? He felt that Goans were wise, they will not be carried away and I’m confident that this time also they will not be carried away with TMC’s poster or hoarding campaign. The last time the AAP tried, they projected themselves to be (winning) 35% (of the vote share). They didn’t succeed. Goans are very wise. Unless you serve them, they don’t accept anybody. We had to struggle for 18 years after coming to Goa. People didn’t accept us for 18 years. Only after we started serving them, working for them, did people start believing in us. And that was the same for all the parties. So, you just cannot come overnight and put-up hoardings, and buy people from here and there. A party cannot be built on that.Q: Last time the Congress was not able to form the government, that is now being used as a stick to beat the Congress withA: Last time we never had the chance… the Governor was biased. The BJP converted Raj Bhavan into BJP bhavan. They used her (former Governor Mridula Sinha) to suppress the people’s mandate. As they laid down the principle or precedent that the single largest party is invited to form the government. This was bypassed. Why was it bypassed? Why was the single largest party not invited to form the government? If we failed, then they could have invited the BJP. Try to understand the background. The people of Goa defeated the BJP and you (Governor) have imposed on them the same party against their wishes by using Raj Bhavan, by using the home ministry and by using money power. It was not our mistake. If we had 21, we would have immediately gone and staked a claim. They didn’t have a majority. They bought the number by horse-trading. Actually, we are the victims. We are not the culprits. But the BJP has conveniently made us the culprits when we are the victims. It was our chance to serve the people of Goa who were was robbed. Your house is robbed and you are blamed. It is the same mentality of the BJP when the CM blamed the girl’s parents (for a crime against a girl who was out late at night). They are the victims and the CM made them the culprits by blaming them. This is the BJP culture. Q: Congress has said it is willing to form an alliance against the BJP softening its earlier stance. What prompted this decision? A: We had a discussion in Delhi where our leader Rahul Gandhi and others were present. We explained the present situation in Goa and how we can defeat the BJP and definitely we will move ahead getting those parties who are willing to come on board together. All those options are being exploited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/winning-people-is-more-important-than-winning-elections-goa-congress-president-101636118596356.html
05-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi left to pick up Diwali pieces as capital reports highest average AQI at 462 since 2016||A day after Diwali, Delhi recorded the highest average air quality index (AQI) at 462 in five years. Last year, the AQI on the following day of Diwali was recorded at 435.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in the national capital had imposed a blanket ban on bursting firecrackers, including green ones, on Diwali and till January 1. However, the prohibition was openly violated by the citizens of the city.On Thursday, around 9pm, the air quality of Delhi dipped to “severe” category for the first time this season. The AQI started increasing as the night rolled on and so did the bursting of firecrackers. By early Friday morning, the Janpath area – located in the central part of the capital, recorded an air quality index in the “hazardous” category, news agency ANI reported. The particulate matter (PM) 2.5 concentration was recorded at 655.07 and as per government standards, exceeding the 380-mark is deemed as “severe”.Hindustan Times reported earlier in the day that the PM 2.5 levels over the previous 24 hours in Delhi was also the highest in three years as the capital faced a double whammy of firecracker bursting as well as stubble burning, an analysis of the Union earth science ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) revealed.However, the analysis also showed that the PM 2.5 concentrations in this year’s Diwali was “much less” compared to those recorded in 2018.The air quality in several places of Delhi continue to remain in the “severe” category, according to data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The AQI in Anand Vihar was recorded at 467 at 6pm on Friday, at 443 in Chandni Chowk, at 481 in Jahangirpuri, at 457 in NSIT Dwarka, and at 465 in Sirifort, among other stations.Meanwhile, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that “some people had intentionally” asked the citizens of the capital to burst firecrackers during Diwali. “The Delhi Government has already made several appeals to the people regarding the pollution condition, but opposition parties just for the sake of politics encouraged people to burn firecrackers, which now resulted in deteriorated conditions,” he told reporters on Friday, according to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/day-after-diwali-delhi-s-aqi-touches-five-year-high-at-462-101636117434157.html
05-11-2021||Bhopal||MP plans to vaccination entire adult population by year-end via mega drives||In a bid to achieve the target of Covid-19 vaccination of the entire eligible population in Madhya Pradesh by the end of this year, the state government has decided to conduct mega inoculation drives on four days, with the first one scheduled to be held on November 10, an official said. In order to make this campaign - ‘Covid Vaccination Maha Abhiyan’ - successful, government officers and employees of all departments have been given the responsibility of identifying those people who are yet to get either both the doses or the second jab of anti-coronavirus vaccines, he said. The drives will be conducted on November 10, 17, 24 and December 4. This will be in addition to the regular vaccination programmes conducted throughout the week, he said. "The government has instructed the authorities to adopt innovative ways and strategy for achieving the target of 100 per cent vaccination. They have been asked to make systematic efforts so that no person remains unvaccinated in the state," the official said.ASHA workers, self-help groups, village panchayat secretaries, rozgar sahayaks (employment assistants), kotwars and patwaris (local revenue officers), teachers, sales representatives of government fair price shops, MNREGA workers, members of the cooperative institutions and forest guards, among others, have been entrusted the responsibility of identifying unvaccinated people and their eligible family members, he added. Department-wise responsibilities have been given to ensure 100 per cent vaccination of eligible persons with both the doses. School and college students have been given the responsibility to make their families aware and motivated to get the second dose of the vaccine, according to him. The responsibility of ensuring the vaccination of pregnant women and lactating mothers has been given to the anganwadi and ASHA workers of the Women and Child Development Department. Similarly, inoculation of labourers and their families by self-help groups will be ensured by the employees of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and Rural Livelihood Mission. Vaccination of persons living in remote forest areas will be ensured by forest guards and forest committees, while the transport department will cooperate in increasing public awareness about vaccination through bus stops and vehicles, he said. NCC cadets and scout guides will motivate the families that are against vaccination to get themselves inoculated. As part of the plan, the district collectors will review the progress of Covid-19 vaccinations on a daily basis, the official said. "The concerned district collectors, district panchayat's chief executive officers and chief medical and health officers will visit such places, where the vaccination coverage is low, and ensure necessary action to achieve the 100 per cent target," he added. Till Thursday, 7,13,39,290 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-plans-to-vaccination-entire-adult-population-by-year-end-via-mega-drives-101636115961861.html
05-11-2021||Other||Karnataka CM slams Congress for not reducing fuel prices in states ruled by them, allies||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday criticised the Congress party over its stand on Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government’s decision to reduce taxes on fuel. He said the party is neither appreciating Centre’s move nor trying to follow suit in states it rules.“Congress-ruled states and those by their allies have refused to reduce their taxes on petrol and diesel. This shows their anti-people approach. The Congress party here (Karnataka) should clarify if this is the party’s stand. Their governments never reduced it by ₹7. Since Congress-ruled states have not done this, they have no right to talk about it,” Bommai said.The statements come a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government and all other BJP ruled states announced tax cuts.Excise duty on petrol and diesel was reduced by ₹10 and petrol by ₹5, respectively.The Bommai government, in a statement on Thursday, said that diesel was cheaper by ₹19 in Karnataka as a result of cuts both at the centre and state.“Karnataka is the first state to reduce sales tax on petrol and diesel. Diesel prices were reduced from ₹104.50 on 3.11.21 to ₹85.03. Reduction of ₹19.47. Petrol prices were reduced from ₹113.93 on 3.11.21 to ₹100.63. Reduction of ₹13.30,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement.“Karnataka’s share of KST on petrol is reduced from 35% to 25.9% and that on diesel has been reduced from 24% to 14.34% by the virtue of today’s (Thursday’s) notification,” it added.The Congress in Karnataka said that the BJP was forced to reduce prices after it suffered setbacks in the October 30 bypolls across the country and the state.In Karnataka, the BJP lost to the Congress in Hanagal, stealing a victory in Bommai’s home district of Haveri.“Elections will be conducted for Taluk & Zilla Panchayats and BBMP in the coming days.People should remember the lesson taught by @narendramodi & cast their vote against@BJP4India,” Siddaramaiah said in a tweet on Thursday.Bommai said that Congress was criticising it for the sake of it.“They (Congress) say that we lost Hanagal and we (BJP) reduced prices. If I (the government) did it before the elections, they would say that it was done only for the sake of elections. Those who criticise will do it no matter what we do,” Bommai said.He even said that there has been no government or chief minister in the past who has reduced fuel prices by ₹7 in the state.Bommai also said that it was left to the centre to decide on any reduction in cooking gas.“Cooking gas cylinder has reached 1000, food & cooking oil prices are constantly increasing.Voters have to continue to vote against @BJP4India for the above prices also to be reduced,” Siddaramaiah posted on Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-cm-slams-congress-for-not-reducing-fuel-prices-in-states-ruled-by-them-allies-101636115956582.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal likely to complete second phase of vaccination by November-end: CM||Himachal Pradesh is likely to complete the second phase of vaccination by November-end, chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur said on Friday. He said this during a visit to the vaccination centre at Tandon Club, Kangra, which has vaccinated over 37,000 people so far, the highest achieved by any centre in Kangra.The CM said over 11.84 lakh doses were administered in the first phase of vaccination drive in Kangra while in the second leg of the campaign, more than 7.55 lakh people have been given the jabs. He said Himachal had become the first state in the country to vaccinate 100% of the adult population with the first dose, and he hoped that the state can achieve the distinction for the second dose as well and complete vaccination by November-end. “Hard and difficult geographical terrains such as Bara Bangahal and Malana have also been successfully vaccinated through air service and permission of the local deity. No obstacle could hamper the process of development and welfare in the state,” he said. Condoles GS Bali’s familyLater, the CM met the family members of former minister and Congress leader GS Bali, who passed away last week after a kidney transplant. He expressed condolences to the bereaved family members and remembered Bali’s contributions to the state. He said that Bali was a dynamic and philanthropic personality, who worked to mitigate the sufferings of people.He also visited MLA Pawan Kajal’s residence at Sohara near Kangra. Kajal lost his mother a couple of days back. He condoled the death and prayed for the departed soul. The CM was accompanied by industry minister Bikram Thakur, MLA Arun Mehra, state finance commission Satpal Satti, local leaders DC Nipun Jindal, SP Khushal Sharma and other senior officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-likely-to-complete-second-phase-of-vaccination-by-november-end-cm-101636115894425.html
05-11-2021||Patna||Bihar liquor deaths: RJD leader says Nitish Kumar govt involved in 'syndicate’||Amid an uproar over deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor in Bihar’s West Champaran district, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha on Friday said that a syndicate is running in the state of which the Nitish Kumar-led government is also a part.“This is a liquor syndicate, which has been run from the villages to the state capital. The liquor ban is just a drama. There are officials and bureaucrats in the system who are running this liquor syndicate,” Jha told news agency ANI.He added that if people are losing their lives in the state and consuming the spurious liquor then it is the “failure of the state government”.“There is no full stop on the ban, the officials of the state government are involved in this,” Jha was quoted as saying.On Friday, the death toll due to the suspected spurious liquor consumption shot up to 12 with six more people losing their lives due to related complications.Superintendent of police (SP) Upendra Nath Verma told Hindustan Times his department is awaiting the post-mortem reports of the latest deceased persons to reach any conclusion. “Prima facie, these deaths appear to have occurred due to the consumption of poisonous substances,” he said.The tragedy was reported for the first time on Thursday when 10 people passed away in West Champaran and Gopalganj districts. While six fatalities were reported from West Champaran, as many as four lives were lost in Gopalganj district.Meanwhile, four persons, including two women, have been arrested and five others have been detained, West Champaran district officials said. Verma said a local station house officer (SHO) Manish Kumar and one chowkidar were suspended owing to the incident.On Friday, Bihar minister Janak Chamar said a conspiracy is underway under the pretext of spurious liquor. “Those who consume it are poor. When action is taken and raids are done, the weak are nabbed…Unfortunate,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Last month, five people died and several others fell ill after consuming spurious liquor in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district.The government, led by Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) had banned manufacture, sale and consumption of all forms of liquor in the state in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-liquor-deaths-rjd-leader-says-nitish-kumar-govt-involved-in-syndicate-101636113711855.html
05-11-2021||Other||BJP Rajya Sabha MP faces protesting farmers’ wrath in Hisar||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra on Friday faced farmers’ ire at Hisar’s Narnaund town in Haryana where he had gone to inaugurate a community centre (dharamshala). The MP reportedly called the protesters “jobless alcoholics from villages”. Hundreds of farmers gathered near the venue carrying black flags and chanted slogans against the MP. In a scuffle between the Haryana police and farmers protesting against the centre’s three contentious farm laws, the windshield of the MP’s car was also smashed, officials said.The MP accused the farmers of smashing the windshield of his car while the protesters blamed the police. In this entire incident, a farmer identified as Kuldeep Singh of Satrod Khurd village in Hisar district sustained injuries and the protesters rushed him to a nearby hospital where his condition is said to be critical. Few policemen also got injured.A heavy police force was deployed to prevent the farmers from reaching the area but police failed to stop the huge crowd. The farmers also faced heat from the attendees supporting Jangra and both sides chanted slogans against each other, officials said. The Narnaund police have booked three farmers identified as Harsh Deep Gill, Kailash and Sudhir of the district and 20 others under sections 147, 149, 148, 341, 186, 353, 427 and 120-B of the Indian penal code (IPC) for vandalising Jangra’s car. The farmers have launched an indefinite dharna outside the Narnaund police station demanding withdrawal of cases.Farm leader Vikas Sisar, said they were protesting peacefully against MP Jangra and some of his attendees provoked the farmers.“ The people accompanying the MP had thrashed our protestors in which he got injured and is undergoing treatment at Hisar hospital. We have pitched tents at the police station and a large number of farmers will reach here at 11 am to gherao it,” he added.Hansi SP Nitika Gehlout said the farmers protested the MP’s visit and his car’s windshield was damaged in the scuffle.“ We have not resorted to lathi-charge and a protester fell unconscious following which he was rushed to Jindal hospital in Hisar. He was suffering from illness,” the SP added. On Thursday also, the BJP MP faced a similar protest in Rohtak where he had gone to attend a Diwali program. In a purported audio clip that went viral, the MP was allegedly heard saying, “bad elements have been protesting against the government and the recent killing of an innocent Nihang at Singhu border has exposed them. The farmers are not protesting but only bad elements. I have been frequently visiting Delhi and most of the tents at protest sites are empty and this issue will be resolved soon”.Reacting over the incident, Jangra said the incident took place when he was on his way to another function when some miscreants threw sticks on his car, damaging his windshield.“I have spoken to Hansi SP and Haryana Director General of police in this regard. This was a clear murder attempt and police told me that two persons have been detained. I have demanded strict action against the detainees. I had gone to attend social functions when the incident took place. Will they (farmers) protest social functions too?After my car was vandalised, I had to cancel two other social programmes,” the MP added.After the incident, the farmers staged a dharna outside Narnaund police station while other groups blocked the Hisar-Rohtak national highway near Ramayana toll plaza, chanting slogans against the BJP MP, state government and administration.BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni also reached the Narnaund police station and demanded the release of the two farmers.“ We will go back after the police to cancel the FIRs registered against farmers . Jangra has been trying to divide the people on caste lines and he has been using abusive language against the protesters. We have started indefinite dharna at Narnaund police station,” Charuni added.Hansi police PRO Subhash said two detained farmers have been released and the senior police officials are holding meetings with Charuni and other farm leaders to end the dharna.“ We are hoping that the dharna will be lifted after the meeting,” the Hansi Police PRO added.Meanwhile, in a separate incident, former BJP minister, Manish Grover, Rohtak Mayor Man Mohan Goyal and other senior leaders of the BJP were kept hostage at a temple in Kaloi village in Rohtak. The BJP leaders had gone to hear the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech from Kedarnath temple where he had gone to perform ‘aarti’ at the shrine.The farmers protesting against three farm laws locked the main entrance gate of the Shiva temple at Kiloi village and took BJP leaders hostage. A heavy police force was also deployed to maintain law and order and both sides were at loggerheads. After the situation got tense, additional forces from Jhajjar, Sonepat and Jind were called at Kaloi village to keep peace in the village.The farmers claimed that the hours-long stand-off situation ended after BJP leaders climbed on the terrace and apologised. BJP leader Manish Grover, after leaving the temple, said people from some social organization met them and urged them to waive at protesters to end the deadlock.“We did not apologise to anyone. We will continue to visit the shrine,” he added. A spokesperson of the district administration said that the issue has been resolved and was a result of some misunderstanding. According to the spokesperson, after coming out of the Shiv Temple, former minister Manish Grover said that the dispute had arisen due to a misunderstanding. He further elaborated that as soon as the villagers understood the reality, the matter was resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-rajya-sabha-mp-faces-protesting-farmers-wrath-in-hisar-101636111394024.html
05-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi air pollution: Oppn ‘encouraged’ people to burst crackers, says minister||Delhi environment minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Gopal Rai on Friday hit out at opposition parties for “encouraging” citizens to burst firecrackers on Diwali leading to the deterioration in the national capital’s air quality despite the government’s best efforts.Delhi’s air quality deteriorated rapidly after Diwali as the average air quality index (AQI), rose to 462, the highest since 2016, a day after Diwali. The national capital’s AQI breached the ‘severe’ category around 9pm on Thursday for the first time this year.“Some people had intentionally asked people to burst firecrackers during Diwali. The Delhi Government has already made several appeals to the people regarding the pollution condition, but opposition parties just for the sake of politics encouraged people to burn firecrackers, which now resulted in deteriorated conditions," Rai told reporters on Friday.Rai alleged that even though citizens mostly resisted bursting crackers, some partook in the activity on Diwali after adding “religious colour” to the issue. "Most of the citizens of Delhi didn't burn crackers on Diwali but yes several people after giving religious colour into it, intentionally burned the firecrackers,” Rai saidChief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a complete ban on firecrackers till January 1, citing the deteriorating air quality in the national capital during winter. Kejriwal’s order was met with resistance from traders’ body which took the matter to Delhi high court but the plea was ultimately turned down.However, experts had cautioned that the ban might not be able to help Delhi’s AQI as people had easy access to crackers being sold in the markets of neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.Stubble burning is also at its peak in the neighbouring states, which adds to the deteriorating air quality. "According to NASA pictures, there are almost 3,500 stubble burning incidents taking place in neighbouring states," Rai said acknowledging the impact of stubble fires on Delhi’s AQI.An AQI of 401 is categorised as ‘severe’. The level of PM 2.5, a common air pollutant, rose to record levels in the last 24 hours, due to a combination of stubble burning and bursting of firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-pollution-oppn-encouraged-people-to-burst-crackers-says-minister-101636110956647.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu targets Punjab CM on delay in justice in sacrilege, drug cases||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday announced that he has taken back his resignation as Punjab Congress president. Stepping up his attack on the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government, Sidhu told reporters in Chandigarh: “The day the new advocate general (AG) is appointed, I will go to the Punjab Congress office. The day the panel for the appointment of a new DGP comes, I will go to the Punjab Congress office. It is not a question of ego. These (appointments to the two posts) are the means to achieve the goal in two most important cases.” Also read: 3,032 blazes in just one day: Punjab sees sharp rise in number of farm firesRaising the issue of former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini’s lawyer, APS Deol, in the 2015 sacrilege cases being appointed as the advocate general by the Channi government, he said: “These are questions raised by the people of Punjab.” He said that all he was asking was what the Channi government had done in the past 50 days for ensuring justice in the sacrilege cases and making reports in the drug cases public. “What is happening? I have been asking these questions from day one and raising these issues regularly.” Sidhu went a step further and said: “After three special investigation teams (SITs), seven first information reports (FIRs), two commissions and six years of the sacrilege cases, are these the only officers you could find? If you cannot make the special task force (STF) report public, give it to the party (Congress), I will do it. The high command has no issues with making the report public.” He said that he was not a partner in anyone’s misdeeds and stood with Punjab. “I have been seeking accountability from the first cabinet in 2017,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-targets-punjab-cm-on-delay-in-justice-in-sacrilege-drug-cases-101636110253991.html
05-11-2021||Lucknow||Woman dies during house fire in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly||A woman died after she got trapped inside a house that was on fire in the Kila area here while trying to save her son, police said on Friday.The fire had broken out at the house and godown of tent businessman Pankaj Arora on Thursday night, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Ravindra Kumar said.Arora, his wife Alka and their eight-year-old daughter were able to come out of the burning house, but the woman went back in to rescue her two-year-old son, the police said.Even though the child was rescued by the neighbours, the woman got trapped inside and could not be saved, the ASP said.An investigation is underway, and police are trying to ascertain the cause of the fire, Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-dies-during-house-fire-in-uttar-pradesh-s-bareilly-101636109290269.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||3,032 blazes in just one day: Punjab sees sharp rise in number of farm fires||With nearly 70% of paddy harvest completed in Punjab, the hinterland of the state is seeing a sharp rise in the number of farm fires, with 3,032 separate blazes reported on Thursday.Of the total number of farm fires reported this year, 55% was reported in the last five days alone. A total of 23,465 farm fires have been reported so far. It is nearly half the 44,086 farm fires that were reported for the same period, until November 4, last year. On November 4, 2020, 4,908 farm fires were reported in the state, while on the same day in 2019, 5,953 farm fires were recorded. While some farmers are exploring alternatives ways to handle the post-harvest straw, most medium and marginal farmer are burning it to clear their farms for sowing wheat. Also Read: Crackers or not, air quality in Delhi likely to continue downward slide: IMDAn official of Punjab’s Agriculture Department called for the need to develop a mechanism to give the farmers incentives to avoid burning their straw. “If the government wants to end this practice, it should implement a Supreme Court’s judgment on this, and give ₹100 per quintal as incentive to hand over the straw. It will help… because farmers can’t spend extra amount of money due to high input costs to clear their fields using machinery,” said Jugraj Singh, a farm leader from Samana in Punjab. Ludhiana, with 292 active fire events, reported the highest number of farm fires on Thursday, followed by Sangrur (283), Barnala (237) and Ferozpur (278).Punjab’s Pollution Control Board has decided to send expert teams to various parts of the state to issue challans to farmers for burning straw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3032-blazes-in-just-one-day-punjab-sees-sharp-rise-in-number-of-farm-fires-101636107853596.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar says Maha deputy CM Ajit Pawar showing Covid-19 symptoms||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said there were indications of Maharashtra deputy chief minister and his nephew, Ajit Pawar, having symptoms of Covid-19. The NCP chief said this in response to a question about the deputy CM’s absence in the family’s Diwali get-together, during a press meet earlier in the day.“His tests were done today morning and the results are yet to come. As a precaution, we decided not to take any risk and, hence, he decided not to attend the event,” news agency PTI quoted Sharad Pawar as saying.Also read | Ajit Pawar: A political force not far from financial controversyHe further said some members of Ajit Pawar’s house staff and drivers tested positive for Covid-19 earlier.The NCP supremo, however, hailed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ruling coalition of which his party is an alliance partner, for the reducing number of infections.“Last year, due to Covid-19, we had to follow certain norms, but now the danger of Covid-19 is slowly declining in the country. As far as Maharashtra is concerned, the state government took some important decisions, as a result of which, we are witnessing that the number of coronavirus patients is declining,” he said, during his family’s Diwali celebrations at his residence in Baramati, Pune. The Pawar family did not celebrate the festival last year due to Covid-19 norms.Watch | Maha Dy CM Ajit Pawar faces income tax heat; assets worth ₹1,000 crore seized“We are coming out of danger… I am sure we will go back to normal and will be able to compensate for the losses incurred during the pandemic and we will be able to revive the economy… I wish a warm Diwali to all the people and I am sure that we will be able to start again with new hope,” he added.On Tuesday, the Income Tax department (I-T) had attached properties worth over ₹1,000 crore allegedly linked to Ajit Pawar in Maharashtra, Delhi and Goa.Meanwhile, in Maharashtra, the number of daily Covid-19 infections and on Thursday the state saw 1,141 new cases and 32 deaths. The cumulative caseload there stood at 66,15,299 and the death toll reached 1,40,345.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-says-maha-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-showing-covid-19-symptoms-101636104544485.html
05-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka withdraws night curfew imposed due to Covid-19||The Karnataka government on Friday issued an order announcing that the night curfew imposed in the state due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has been withdrawn with immediate effect. The night curfew was initially imposed in an order dated July 3 and was extended multiple times in a bid to contain the virus.“Night curfew which is being imposed from 10 pm to 5 am is herewith withdrawn,” the order read.The government has allowed horse racing but only fully vaccinated people will be allowed to enter the racecourse premises. It also said that the number of patrons will be strictly according to the seating capacity of the venue and the SOPs issued by the health department must be followed.“Horse racing is permitted to resume strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department. Number of racing patrons attending horse racing shall be strictly as per the seating capacity of the venue and only fully vaccinated people with Covid-19 vaccine will be allowed entry into such premises,” the order further stated.The decision to remove the night curfew and further ease restrictions imposed due to Covid-19 was taken after a sustained decline in fresh infections and high vaccination coverage. Karnataka has reported 29,89,275 confirmed Covid cases so far, of which 8,267 are active. While 38,095 lives were lost due to Covid-19, as per the government data, 29,42,884 have recovered from the infection. Over 6.58 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the state, according to the state government's data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-withdraws-night-curfew-imposed-due-to-covid19-101636103081557.html
05-11-2021||Lucknow||Zika virus outbreak in Kanpur: 30 more test positive as caseload reaches 66||The number of people infected with the Zika virus in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur rose to 66 after 30 more people tested positive for the infection, according to a report on Friday. The city saw its first Zika virus case on October 23 after an officer of the Indian Air Force (IAF) tested positive.“Thirty more people have tested positive for Zika virus in Kanpur,” news agency PTI quoted district magistrate Vishak G Ayyar as saying on Friday.The samples from various areas nearby the IAF station hangars, where the first case was detected, were sent for testing to the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow and 30 of them came back positive, the official added. However, there was no mention of the number of samples collected.Of the 66 people infected so far, 45 are men and 21 women, according to the report. Further, to tackle the transmission of the disease, sanitisation programmes including anti-larvae spraying, identifying fever patients and screening for seriously ill people and pregnant women are being undertaken, the report also showed.“We advise the local people not to panic regarding the sudden spurt in Zika virus cases,” Ayyar also said.He also noted that the Zika virus is mosquito-borne and getting rid of the insects was the safe way out of the disease. While state health officials have been directed to increase surveillance and ensure door-to-door sampling and testing for the disease, the areas around the hangars of the IAF stations have also been kept under high alert.On Wednesday, 25 people tested positive for the disease and the tally stood at 36, news agency ANI reported citing Kanpur’s chief medical officer Dr Nepal Singh. “The health department is testing and sampling 400 to 500 people for the Zika virus while door-to-door sampling is also underway,” he said that day.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the state health department to step up activities in the control of the disease such as strict surveillance, frequent and extensive door-to-door sanitisation and fogging drives to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zika-virus-outbreak-in-kanpur-30-more-test-positive-as-caseload-reaches-66-101636099305663.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||On bail in drugs-on-cruise case, Aryan Khan appears before NCB||Aryan Khan on Friday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to mark his presence before the agency—one of the conditions set by the Bombay high court while granting bail to the 23-year-old who was arrested, along with several others, in the drugs-on-cruise case last month.Aryan Khan has to appear before the investigating officer of NCB every Friday between 11am and 2pm and join the investigation as and when called.Aryan Khan was released from Mumbai's Arthur Road prison on October 30 after spending 22 days in jail as the Bombay high court granted him bail. The high court’s five-page bail order listed 14 bail conditions, including surrendering of passport, no influencing of witnesses or contacting co-accused and presenting themselves in the NCB office every week.Also read | CCTV footage confirms SRK's manager visited Lower Parel after Aryan was detainedThe Bombay high court said that if any of these conditions is violated, then the NCB is entitled to apply for the cancellation of his bail straightaway.The high court said Aryan Khan should not indulge in activity similar to what they are charged with. He should not establish contact with any co-accused or any other person directly or indirectly involved in similar activities as alleged against them, through any mode of communication, the court has ordered.He cannot make any statement regarding the proceedings pending before the special NDPS court to any media, including social media. He will have to surrender his passports and cannot leave the country without the permission of the special NDPS court.Also read |  ₹50 lakh taken from SRK for Aryan's release was returned later: New claimIf he has to leave Mumbai, he should inform about the itinerary to the investigating officer. He cannot make any attempt to tamper evidence, influence witnesses - neither personally, nor through anyone.A team led by NCB zonal chief Sameer Wankhede conducted searches on a holiday cruise anchored at the International Cruise Terminal in Mumbai and seized multiple drugs from a number of persons on October 2. Wankhede said that 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), and  ₹1.33 lakh in cash were recovered from the ship.Though no drugs were recovered from Aryan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant, who was with him at the time, was arrested for possessing 6 grams of charas in a plastic pouch in his shoe.Aryan Khan spent three weeks in jail after a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act sent him to judicial remand accepting the NCB’s charge that he was indulging in “illicit drug activities on a regular basis”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/on-bail-in-drugs-on-cruise-case-aryan-khan-appears-before-ncb-101636094651304.html
05-11-2021||Bhopal||3 die as mini bus catches fire after hitting stationary truck in Madhya Pradesh||A girl and two others were charred to death, while their four co-passengers suffered burn injuries on Friday morning as the mini bus carrying them caught fire after hitting a stationary container truck in Barkheda area of Madhya Pradesh's Guna district, police said.The four injured passengers, including a 12-year-old boy, have been admitted to the district hospital, Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) Munish Rajoria told PTI. "The bus with 28 people on board was heading to Mathura in Uttar Pradesh from Indore in Madhya Pradesh when it met with the accident on National Highway 46," he added. "All the occupants of the mini bus were going on a pilgrimage to Mathura when their vehicle rammed into the rear side of a stationary container truck parked by the roadside between 5 am and 6 am at Barkheda in Chachoda tehsil, located around 40 km from Guna district headquarters," he said. The collision caused an explosion and led to a blaze that engulfed the mini bus, the SDOP said. People nearby rushed to the rescue of the occupants of the vehicle and pulled them out, Rajoria said. However, Durga (13) and Madho (20), both from Indore, and Rohit, who hailed from Khargone district of MP, got trapped in the burning vehicle and died, he added. Police are investigating the accident, the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/3-die-as-mini-bus-catches-fire-after-hitting-stationary-truck-in-madhya-pradesh-101636094168911.html
05-11-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata’s air quality deteriorates as city celebrates Kali Puja||Kolkata’s air quality deteriorated in the early hours of Friday even as the Supreme Court had allowed only bursting of green crackers for two hours in Bengal during Kali Puja celebrated a day earlier.Police arrested 88 people and seized around 219 kilograms of banned fireworks on Thursday till 8pm. But the actual celebration started after 8pm.The levels of particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5) reached hazardous levels after midnight in most places across the city. In Jadavpur, Ballygunge, Jorasanko, Bidhannagar, and Rabindra Sarobar, the PM2.5 and PM10 levels remained hazardous for two to three hours before it came down to very poor and poor levels.Also Read: Delhi’s air quality drops to ‘severe’ as Capital marks Diwali with firecrackersPM2.5 is just around 30 times finer than the thickness of human hair and can reach up to the lungs. High levels of PM cause an itchy throat and cough in the short run. In the long, they can trigger diseases like asthma, bronchitis, lung damage, and heart diseases.“Since September 10, we have seized more than 7,000 kilograms of banned fireworks and crackers. Around 150 persons have been arrested till around Thursday evening,” said a police officer in Kolkata.The government had allowed the bursting of only green crackers for two hours during Kali Puja and Chhath Puja. But the Calcutta high court imposed a blanket ban on the sale, purchase, and usage of firecrackers, including green crackers in the state. Later, the Supreme Court set aside the high court’s order while allowing green crackers.The bursting of firecrackers in Kolkata started in the early evening and continued till late in the night. Till around midnight, the State Pollution Control Board received around 40 complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkatas-air-quality-deteriorates-as-city-celebrates-kali-puja-101636092312595.html
05-11-2021||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot urges Centre to reduce excise duty further on petrol, diesel||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday urged the Centre to reduce the Excise Duty further on petrol and diesel in order to bring down the inflation."With the reduction of Excise Duty by the Center, the VAT of the states is automatically reduced in the same proportion, yet we demand that the Center should reduce the Excise Duty more to reduce the inflation," tweeted the chief minister.Gehlot said the reduction of VAT on petrol by ₹1.8 per litre and on diesel by ₹2.6 per litre will lead to a loss of state revenue worth ₹1,800 crore every year.Gehlot urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reduce the Excise Duty further to provide relief to people from inflation. He said the Rajasthan government is ready to bear the loss of revenue for the welfare of the people.In relief to consumers, the Finance Ministry on Wednesday announced a ₹5 per litre cut in excise duty on petrol and a ₹10 per litre cut in excise duty on diesel. Amid record-high fuel prices, this is the first cut in central excise duties in over three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-urges-centre-to-reduce-excise-duty-further-on-petrol-diesel-101636089757179.html
05-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi fire dept gets 152 calls on Diwali till 12am, 25% less than last year||As New Delhi celebrated Diwali on Thursday with firecrackers, the Capital’s fire department received a total of 152 calls until midnight in connection with fire-related incidents. Another 36 calls came in between midnight and the early hours of Friday, said officials, who however pointed out that only four of the calls were suspected to be related to firecrackers. New Delhi’s fire department, however, said it has seen a drop in fire-related calls by around 25% over the previous year, with 205 calls received until midnight during Diwali in 2020. Atul Garg, the director of the Delhi Fire Service (DFS), said that out of all the fire-related calls, only four were suspected to be firecracker-related instances. Also Read: Delhi’s air quality drops to ‘severe’ as Capital marks Diwali with firecrackers“Fire calls have reduced this year by around 25%. Only four calls are so far suspected to be due to firecrackers, while 35 were fires arising out of waste burning. Some of these calls also included bird and animal rescues,” he said. Fire department data shows that in 2019, 245 calls were received until midnight on Diwali. Atul Garg said that among the major fire-related calls received on Diwali was a blaze at a factory in Nilothi in west Delhi, and it was likely not related to firecrackers. For this year’s Diwali, nearly 2,800 personnel of the DFS were deployed across the Capital and 30 fire posts were set up in addition to the existing 64 fire stations in the city, Garg had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-s-fire-department-gets-152-calls-on-diwali-over-fire-related-incidents-101636087331833.html
05-11-2021||Chandigarh||After Centre, BJP-ruled Haryana, Himachal cut fuel rates further||In a major relief to the common man, BJP-ruled Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have cut fuel rates by reducing the value-added tax (VAT) after the Centre reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel on Diwali eve. “Due to the reduction in VAT rates by the state government, the prices of both petrol and diesel have been reduced by ₹12 per litre,” Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar tweeted. Also read: PM Modi unveils Shankaracharya’s statue at KedarnathHaryana additional chief secretary, excise and taxation, Anurag Rastogi said that the reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel meant a per litre decrease of ₹7 in petrol and ₹2 in diesel. “Thus, the total decrease is ₹12 per litre each for petrol and diesel,” he said. Before reduction in taxes a litre of petrol cost ₹106.94, while it now costs ₹94.93 a litre. Similarly, a litre of diesel cost ₹98.60 till Diwali eve and is now available for ₹86.57 per litre .A notification issued by neighbouring Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday said that VAT on petrol and diesel has been cut by 7.5% and 8%, respectively. “Petrol will be cheaper by ₹12 and diesel by ₹17 per litre in the state,” chief minister Jai Ram Thakur tweeted. Before the cut, petrol cost ₹101.88 a litre, while now it costs ₹95.97. A litre of diesel cost ₹88.64 earlier and now costs ₹80.54 per litre. The Centre had reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel on Diwali eve to bring down the prices of the two petroleum products that had crossed the ₹100 per litre mark. Inflation hit BJP campaign in byelections VAT rates differ from state to state, leading to differential rates of fuel. The Centre had urged the states to slash VAT rates to provide relief. The opposition and public had hit out at the central and state governments during the recent byelections, where inflation and infighting plagued the BJP campaign. Region fuel rate check before and after Diwali PUNJAB Petrol (per litre): Before ₹112.14 After ₹106.20 Diesel (per litre): Before ₹101.66 After ₹89.83 HARYANA Petrol: Before ₹106.94 After ₹94.93 Diesel: Before ₹98.60 After ₹86.57 CHANDIGARH Petrol: Before ₹105.24 After ₹94.23 Diesel: Before ₹98.16 After ₹80.90 HIMACHAL Petrol: Before ₹101.88 After ₹95.97 Diesel: Before ₹88.64 After ₹80.54 J&KPetrol: Before ₹113 After ₹100.29Diesel: Before ₹102 After ₹90.30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-centre-bjp-ruled-haryana-himachal-cut-fuel-rates-further-101636086911686.html
05-11-2021||Patna||24 die in Bihar after consuming suspected spurious liquor||At least 24 people have died and several others fell ill after consuming suspected spurious liquor in Gopalganj and West Champaran districts of Bihar, where total prohibition is in place, in the last two days. Eight persons died on Thursday after allegedly consuming hooch in Telhua village at Bettiah, the headquarters of West Champaran district, while the toll in another incident of consumption of suspected spurious liquor in Gopalganj climbed to 16 on Thursday with six more deaths being confirmed by the district authorities. The administrations of both districts have not confirmed the cause of the deaths so far. The Telhua hooch tragedy is the third incident such incident in north Bihar in the last ten days. Bihar minister Janak Ram rushed to Gopalganj. He later told reporters “I have visited the houses of persons who died allegedly because of consuming spurious liquor. It could be a conspiracy to defame the NDA government.” Gopalganj superintendent of police Anand Kumar said, “Some people have died under mysterious circumstances in Muhammadpur village in the district in the last two days. The cause of their death cannot be confirmed as autopsy reports are still awaited. Three teams are probing the case.” Some of the bodies have been cremated by their families, the local police said. They said that four persons died on Thursday when they were undergoing treatment and another two on way to the hospital. Prima facie these deaths appear to have occured due to the consumption of some poisonous substance and the police have registered a case. Four persons have been arrested in connection with the incident which took place between Tuesday and Wednesday, the police said. Over 20 persons, mostly belonging to scheduled castes, had allegedly consumed spurious liquor being sold by local traders in the area and have been identified by the police. The dead in West Champaran have been identified as residents of wards 2, 3 and 4 of Telhua village. In this incident too the district administration is yet to confirm the reason for their death. West Champran superintendent of police Upendra Nath Verma said that investigation into the case is on and senior officials of the district administration and police are camping at Telhua. Villagers claimed that all the victims had consumed liquor at Chamartoli area of Telhua village on Wednesday evening. “After consuming liquor, the condition of eight of them deteriorated and they were taken to the nearby hospital where they died today”. There are reports that some more villagers who too consumed liquor, have been admitted to different hospitals in the area. Eight persons died since October 28 in a hooch tragedy at Rupauli village in Muzaffarpur district and four are undergoing treatment in different hospitals in Muzaffarpur, officials said. From January till October 31 this year, around 70 people have died and many others lost their sight after consuming alleged spurious liquor in Nawada, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan and Rohtas districts, they said. Nitish Kumar on Monday told reporters in the sidelines of his weekly outreach programme that the ban on alcohol is in the interest of the society. “We introduced prohibition in the state since alcohol is a dirty thing. The ill-effects of liquor get multiplied when consumed in an adulterated form. I know that majority of people are in favour of the liquor ban in the state. There are only a handful of people who violate it”. The Nitish Kumar government had on April 5, 2016 banned the manufacture, trade, storage, transportation, sale and consumption of liquor in the state. The chief minister appealed to the people to cooperate in the mission as "liquor is bad for health and society". Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav alleged that the state government has failed to stop the sale and supply of spurious liquor in the dry state. “Police is disposing of the bodies of the dead without conducting the post-mortem of the dead. Is Nitish Kumar who is making tall claims on prohibition, not responsible for these deaths?” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/24-die-in-bihar-after-consuming-suspected-spurious-liquor-101636086145943.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||Country's first rooftop drive-in theatre to open in Mumbai today||Akshay Kumar's Sooryavanshi will be the first movie to be screened at the country's first rooftop drive-in movie theatre, which will open on Friday in Maharashtra’s Mumbai. The drive-in theatre, which can accommodate around 290 cars, will open at Mumbai’s Jio World Drive mall in partnership with Reliance Retail and will be operated and managed by the multiplex chain PVR Ltd.With the world still adjusting to the new normal after the coronavirus pandemic, the drive-in theatre is being seen as relatively a safer open space for movie buffs. “People crave relatively safer open spaces. The movies are there, of course, but the environment of nice weather, open sky and food become a very critical component. It's all here," Darshan Mehta, CEO of Jio World Drive, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."Normally, when you go abroad, you have suburban drive-ins, where there are large patches of land and people just open their bonnets, turn their cars around, and put out their lounge chairs" Ajay Bijli, chairperson and managing director for PVR Ltd, said according to PTI. “This is a unique opportunity...The city will be taken by storm.”With its launch in Sri Lanka, PVR now operates a portfolio of 855 screens across 178 cinemas in 72 cities in India and Sri Lanka.Here is all you need to know about the drive-in theatre:The ticket price for each car is set to cost around ₹1,200 and only four people will be permitted inside one vehicle.The Jio Drive-in boasts of "one of the biggest cinema screens in the country" with 24m x 10m as dimensions.A facility of food and beverage will also be made available at the venue.Jio Drive-In Theatre is powered by Christie RGB Laser Projection. It will bring sound enhancement by broadcasting the soundtrack over FM signal through the car’s sound system.Only those who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and have exhausted a period of 14 days from their second shot will be allowed to enter the mall complex.For an added sense of safety, all employees of the mall and the drive-in have been fully vaccinated, Mehta, CEO of Jio World Drive, informed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/countrys-first-rooftop-drive-in-theatre-to-open-in-mumbai-today-101636082730451.html
05-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality drops to ‘severe’ as Capital marks Diwali with firecrackers||New Delhi’s air quality dropped to the “severe” category on Thursday - at around 9pm - for the first time this season as the Capital celebrated Diwali with people flouting a ban on firecrackers. While New Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 382, which is “very poor”, according to a 4pm bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), calm wind conditions and contribution from stubble burning, which touched a season high of 25% on Thursday, further deteriorated the air quality. By evening, emissions from firecrackers began to be added to New Delhi’s air as the city’s PM 2.5 concentration levels spiked to over 33 times of what is deemed the safe limit. CPCB data showed the 24-hour average AQI touched “severe” at 9pm, gradually rising each hour as a smoky haze enveloped the Capital. The AQI was 404 at 9pm, and then it rose to an average of 422 by midnight, 428 by 2am, 444 by 6am, 446 by 7am, and 451 by 8am on Friday.On Friday, New Delhi’s AQI shot up to 462 - which is in the “severe” category - at 11am. It is predicted that the AQI could rise further.Also Read: Delhi’s air quality recorded in ‘hazardous’ category in some places after DiwaliThe CPCB uses a 24-hour rolling average to ascertain the air quality index of the last 24 hours. The CPCB classifies an AQI of 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”.Agencies had forecast New Delhi’s air to reach the higher end of the “very poor” category on Diwali, even without firecrackers, as the wind direction changed to northwesterly in the last 24 hours. It meant contribution from stubble burning, which dropped to just 8% on Wednesday, was up at a season-high share of 25% on Thursday. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), run by the ministry of earth sciences, had said in its Diwali forecast that if even 50% of the firecracker load from 2019 was burst this year, the air quality would plunge to “severe” category and would remain in that range on Friday as well. As per SAFAR’s model, the share of stubble burning is expected to touch 35% on Friday and 40% on Saturday. “The extremely calm wind conditions in Delhi, combined with a 25% stubble share (from 2,293 fire counts) are two major factors today,” said SAFAR in its forecast on Thursday. “Relief is expected only from the evening of Saturday, but the AQI will still fluctuate within the ‘very poor’ range.”Okhla Phase 2 in southeast Delhi saw the biggest hourly spike in PM 2.5 concentration on Diwali day as it touched 1,984 micrograms per cubic metre - over 33 times the national standard of 60 micrograms and nearly 397 times the new World Health Organization standard of 5 micrograms. It was followed by Ashok Vihar in north Delhi, where the hourly PM 2.5 concentration touched 1,957 micrograms. As per the fire department, around 152 fire-related calls were received on Diwali till midnight, after which, about 36 more calls came in. New Delhi also saw the season’s first shallow fog spell on Thursday morning, which helps trap pollutants, along with a layer of haze, combining to form “smog” on Friday morning. On Thursday, visibility at both Palam and Safdarjung had dropped to 500 metres - dropping a further 200 metres on Friday morning. RK Jenamani, a scientist at the Indian Meteorological department (IMD) said, “Fog conditions this morning (Friday) have intensified in Delhi NCR… with visibility levels of 200-500 metres reported at its two airports – Safdarjung and Palam till 5.30am. The IGI Palam airport recorded a drop in visibility towards the city side to 200 metres.” The IMD said wind speeds are expected to pick up only from Saturday and may reach 40kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-drops-to-severe-as-capital-marks-diwali-with-firecrackers-101636083851260.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||CFR still a concern in Maharashtra despite steady drop in Covid cases||The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) for Covid-19 continues to be a matter of concern for health authorities in Maharashtra even though the state has seen a steady drop in daily cases over the last two months, officials said.In the last four days, 129 Covid-19 deaths were recorded alongside 4,221 new cases. In October, Maharashtra recorded 60,222 Covid-19 cases and 1,149 deaths, registering an average CFR of 1.9%. Back in September, a total of 85,980 cases were confirmed with 1,754 deaths, taking the CFR to 2.04%.Experts say a CFR of less than 1.5% indicates that the Covid-19 pandemic is under control. The CFR measures the severity of a disease by calculating the number of deaths as a proportion of the number of cases at any given point of time. Experts say the CFR turns out to be high when there are relatively more deaths of senior citizens or those with comorbidities.Also Read: Many call for resuming physical classes as DU declares open book examsMaharashtra has been reporting 30-40 daily Covid-19 deaths over the last few weeks.Dr Om Srivastava, infectious disease expert who is a member of the state-appointed Covid-19 task force, said, “We are seeing an overall decline in the CFR. [But] ideally, we should be having a CFR of less than 1.5 %.”State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said authorities want to bring the Covid-related death rate to zero. “We get around 1,000 new Covid-19 cases daily and the deaths we are seeing is mostly of senior citizens or those with comorbidities getting infected with the Covid-19 virus,” he said.Nagpur witnessed zero positive cases on Thursday, but authorities are calling for caution due to crowded marketplaces and Diwali gatherings during the festive season.It marked the second time Nagpur reported zero daily cases and deaths from Covid-19 after September 29.Doctors and experts said gatherings related to festivities, which were at their peak since Tuesday, could be crucial in the fight against the disease.After last year’s muted Diwali celebrations, the enthusiasm seen among the people this year could prove to be dangerous, warned Dr Uday Bodhankar said.Nagpur was one of the worst-hit districts in the state in terms of CFR. Its cumulative CFR - with 140,345 deaths and 6,615,299 cases - was 2.12 %. Maharashtra on Friday recorded 1,141 cases and 32 deaths. The city of Mumbai reported 252 new cases and six deaths, taking its total tally to 6,615,299 infections and 16,265 fatalities.The state carried out 100,229 tests as reported on Friday, while the number of recoveries stood at 1,163. The total number of active cases in Maharashtra was 15,062. Of them, the highest was in Mumbai (4,160), followed by Pune (3,190) and Ahmednagar (2,015).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cfr-still-a-concern-in-maharashtra-despite-steady-drop-in-cases-101636081571284.html
05-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality recorded in ‘hazardous’ category in some places after Diwali, no improvement until Sunday||The air quality in Delhi was recorded in the “hazardous” category at Janpath in the city early on Friday, a day after the celebrations of Diwali. The particulate matter (PM) 2.5 concentration was recorded at 655.07 in Janpath on Friday morning, according to news agency ANI. As per government standards, PM 2.5 concentrations over 380 are marked as “severe.”The Delhi government’s complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers, including green crackers, on the day of Diwali, went for a toss after the people were seen celebrating the festival by bursting crackers on the streets, according to several news reports.The bursting of crackers further aggravated the degrading air quality in the city, amid the increased contribution from farm fires and stubble burning, the ANI report showed.Also read | Delhi chokes for breath as cracker ban goes for toss in DiwaliSeveral people in the national capital reportedly complained of itchy throat and watery eyes after a thick blanket of smog shrouded the Delhi skies, the report also showed.“The overall air quality of Delhi is plunged into the upper end of very poor category... It will continue to fall now and may enter at the edge of the "very poor" to "severe" category by tonight,” the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research’s (SAFAR) air quality forecast for Delhi during Diwali this year showed.“If firecrackers are burned even 50 per cent of last year then PM2.5 will enter 'severe' category by midnight and shoot up rapidly by today early morning with AQI even crossing 500,” it further said.Watch | Delhi’s air quality ‘hazardous’ as firecrackers rattle NCR on DiwaliThe two major factors contributing to the pollution on Friday were the extremely calm wind conditions in Delhi combined with a 25 per cent stubble share (2,293 fire count), SAFAR noted.According to the SAFAR model forecast, the stubble share in the pollution is expected to touch approximately 35 per cent on the day and further become nearly 40% on November 6 and November 7. “Relief is expected only from the evening of November 7 but AQI will fluctuate within the Very Poor range,” it further said.On Thursday, Delhi's air quality index was recorded at 382 and remained in the "very poor" category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-recorded-in-hazardous-category-in-some-places-after-diwali-no-improvement-until-sunday-101636076659273.html
05-11-2021||Delhi||Diplomats ready to revel in festive fervour||Diwali is almost here, and the Capital is immersed in festive hues. And it’s not just Delhiites, diplomats, too, are gearing up to celebrate the festival of lights in full gusto, this time. From gorging on mouth-watering mithai to spending quality time with family and enjoying festivities back home, some diplomats share with us how they plan to celebrate the festival. An Italian touch to celebrations “I am planning to celebrate Diwali in a small gathering with my family and friends in Delhi. We will enjoy a nice meal that will definitely include Indian delicacies and sweets such as gulab jamun, which is my favourite! We will decorate the house with colourful mandalas and light many diyas, hoping that they will bring positive energy and light to our days. We will wear Italian [outfits], giving a touch of Italian lifestyle to Indian festivities!” - Vincenzo de Luca, Italian Ambassador to IndiaRelishing Indian sweets with family “I’m eagerly looking forward to my first Diwali in India. I’ll be celebrating with family, including our new puppy, a Rampur Hound, enjoying meals and lighting diyas at my residence. Now, Diwali is for more than just one community. I remember, when my nephew was young, he used to sing ‘Diwali is coming’. I look forward to familiarising myself with Indian sweets and learning more about this great festival” - Alex Ellis, British High Commissioner to IndiaDressing up in ethnicwear“I have to admit, I like Diwali very much! My wife Agnieszka and I usually attend many parties and meet our friends. We plan to do the same this year, too. We will dress up in desi style [outfits] — fancy and colourful. Also, we love Indian sweets and we will try all of them. What I like the most about Diwali is its universal message — victory of life, victory of light!” - Adam Burakowski, Polish Ambassador to IndiaDiwali in Denmark“We are in Denmark, so we will be missing the festival of Diwali and celebrations taking place in India. However, the light means a lot to us, as we come from a part of the world where in winters, we have long hours of darkness. For us, the light stands for a hopeful future. We will light candles here in Denmark to celebrate the festival” - Freddy Svane, Danish Ambassador to India||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/diplomats-ready-to-revel-in-festive-fervour-101636052359172.html
05-11-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: November 5 to November 11||Jungle trek to Vasota fort Trek to Vasota Fort via the jungle. For more details and registrations call: 9850887432 | 9850887875. When: Saturday, November 6; 8 pm Where: Start point is Via Ferrata office, Sadashiv Peth. Saturday Art TalksSaturday Art Talks present Janaki Lele, who will speak about her journey from being an architect to becoming a self-taught visual artist as she unveils her inspiration, techniques and methodologies.When: Saturday, November 6; 3 PMWhere: VHC, Koregaon ParkPrabhatswar: a concert of morning ragasSwanandi Creation presents Prabhatswar, a morning raga concert with Dhrupad singer Pt Uday Bhawalkar. He will be accompanied by Sukhad Munde on pakhwaz and the event will be compered by Manjiri Dhamankar.When: Sunday, November 7; 6:30 am Where: Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics, PuneHigh Cookout: ‘The Family’Emerging from an alt/prog rock background, 5-piece powerhouse ‘The Family’ arrives this Sunday Afternoon with their signature blends of catchy Bollywood styles, with a touch of metal and some soulful infusions of sufi, jazz and blues. Join us for, foot tapping and super exciting cookout like no other. When: Sunday, November 7; 1:30pm Where: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkHomegrown marketplace, the Pune editionSocial presents this unique concept of one thali with many flavours. An all-day marketplace serves you the hottest upcoming brands and artistes from Mumbai and Pune. To conclude the event, a ‘live’ performance by the duo Vicky & Tejas.When: Sunday, November 7; 1pm-9pmWhere: Social, FC road Huppya: Adventure camp Filled with adventure, thrill, nature, leadership skills, survival skills, interpersonal skills and much more. Registrations have opened for this camp for those 8-years old and above.For more details contact us 090490 02053When: Thursday, November 11; 6amWhere: Nisargshala, Nisargshala Velhe, Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-november-5-to-november-11-101636052108614.html
05-11-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Skimming the creamy layer off the global climate crisis||We live in such times that I must have two cancers, a heart ailment, a debilitating skeletal condition (with titanium implants in two, preferably three of my four limbs), and yet live a normal life overcoming all odds, being a role model with human frailties for my children, winning ultra-marathons in arctic conditions while delivering 200% results as a vice-president for a global company, personally leading a 1,000 people to glory while gaining the grudging admiration of peers and competitors, even while frequently breaking down due to mental pressures, but overcoming the breakdowns soon enough - all of this being known and followed by millions of people every day … for anyone to take my opinions and advice, seriously enough to take action or make a change in their lives.What then can a common person fighting ordinary battles expect from the world? Battles such as abject poverty, malnutrition, joblessness, discrimination, lack of access to education and opportunities? And why is it that billions of people face such hardship when millions of others have more than enough resources to take care of the world?Because it’s a matter of ownership and a clash of values.There’s stuff I don’t share either. I won’t think twice about sharing memories or food or opportunities or resources, but ice cream I eat alone. I don’t like sharing ice cream, even with my children. They can have all else, but not ice cream. Not one spoon. And I mean not one spoon from my three litres. I eat vanilla, mango and plain chocolate and I buy a litre of each and I eat two maybe three bowls of each at a sitting. Thankfully, it’s a once or twice a year occurrence.Topping the list of stuff, I don’t share is Diary Milk and Five Star chocolates.On the face of it, I have no reason for this behaviour and these are luxury items not necessities by any stretch of the imagination. But it gives me peace to keep these to myself.I think everyone with means in the world has stuff they don’t share. Some won’t share land, some won’t share natural resources, others won’t share equal opportunities or prosperity.And so, it is also with nations.I have been reading about COP26, climate action reports, G20, the activists and the pressure groups and it seems to me there are two different value systems at work: On the one hand are developed nations who see themselves as the leaders, caretakers and progressive moral nurturers of the world, the ones who have envisioned and shaped the chocolates of the world and don’t want to give up their chocolates but want others to pay for their desires in the name of a better world. On the other hand, is the rest of the world- developing, somewhat developed and poor nations.There was a time when chocolate was a handcrafted item that had meaning, cultural value and social significance. Today it is a mass-produced pedestrian addiction that contributes millions of metric tonnes of carbon dioxide, deforestation, and questionable labour practices in developing countries where the core ingredients are obtained from. The higher-up-the-value chain industry that reaps the benefits meanwhile sits in developed countries.Keeping aside the ridiculous trade imbalance thus created, there is also a related emissions imbalance created - the bulk of the emissions in some industries typically happen at the raw material stage, the rest being at production, storage and distribution stages. Since developing and poor nations are typically forced to sell raw materials at low prices for large volumes, and then have to buy finished goods at high prices, they do not have the money to develop themselves or buy technology to improve their lot and are thus dependent on the nations that get richer and richer propagating the same values to their children and grandchildren - to speak values and sharing but suck resources as a birth right due to trade agreements and then be the benevolent caretaker of the world.The way I have understood it, I should stop consuming chocolate (among many other things I do not need to exist) to save the world, but if I do, it impacts jobs and industry in developed and developing nations and so wise people are now deciding how much chocolate I should eat till when so that all is good with the world and also who is going to pay how much to whom to ensure that the chocolate industry improves itself by sourcing responsibly and greenly and bluely so that we can all keep eating chocolate and still save the world, together.I love how such skewed ‘we’ narratives are created by people and organisations mandated to lead the world. As the world stumbles from one economic crisis to another, they ‘advise’ resilience.It’s confusing for common people like me.I think leaders of the developed world have to make up their minds. Is climate change a serious threat or not? If it is, developed nations have to stop playing trade negotiations 101, 201, 301 with developing nations. In case they haven’t noticed, we have really strong leaders of our own now.I don’t share industry processed chocolates and ice cream because I consider them to be an unhealthy choice given the number of complex industrial processes involved. I am happy to indulge myself occasionally but I don’t want others to pick up the habit. I share specific traditional sweets and unbranded churned ice creams like kulfi with friends, family and acquaintances because they are still handmade with locally sourced and seasonal ingredients in traditional ways that were always eco-friendly since harmony with nature and no-wastage is a traditional approach to life. Sustainability is a new global branding exercise. But if one digs into the traditional practices of most world cultures, we would discover that they were all harmonious with nature, to begin with. Developed nations forced non-harmonious methods of advancing convenience over the world for their prosperity.I am conscious that I don’t need chocolate to lead a contented life. And millions more are aware that they don’t need or want the low-end opportunities created by such industrial products.It’ll take a lot more than arm-twisting and loud rhetoric from developed nations to make the rest of the world abandon its logic and home-grown values now - that’s how we got here in the first place.Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-skimming-the-creamy-layer-off-the-global-climate-crisis-101636052048974.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar: A political force not far from financial controversy||On November 2, the Income Tax (IT) department provisionally attached properties including an office building at a prime location in Mumbai, a flat in an upscale Delhi locality, a resort in Goa, and agricultural land and a sugar mill in Maharashtra allegedly linked directly or indirectly to Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. According to officials in the investigation wing of Maharashtra’s IT department, the value of the properties, spread over the three states is ₹1,000 crore.The action was taken after the department allegedly discovered unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore during searches it carried out at 70 premises of two Mumbai-based real estate groups and individuals linked to Pawar (including his son, Parth) in October. At the time, Pawar had said that the raids conducted in the premises of his three sisters in Pune and Kolhapur, were “politically motivated”. “I am hurt by the IT department’s actions,” he had said. Soon after the November 2 raid however, Pawar’s lawyer Prashant Patil issued a statement stating that no property related to the state’s deputy chief minister was attached by the I-T department, and Pawar had received no notice.“None of his properties were attached by the I-T department nor has he received any notice in this regard. The I-T department has sought clarification related to some issues. An appropriate response will be given on that particular letter. Appropriate action will also be taken through administrative and legal means,” the statement read.In a political career spanning three decades, 62-year-old Pawar’s name has cropped up in other allegations that have attracted probes by central agencies. However, these recent raids seem to be the biggest challenge facing the state’s deputy CM. They come at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is in power at the Centre and the Shiv Sena-Nationalist Congress Party-Congress coalition (referred to as the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi or MVA) are locked in a seemingly inexhaustible battle of accusations and counter-accusations. Ajit Pawar is fourth MVA leader to face a probe by central agencies, after former home minister Anil Deshmukh (who was recently arrested by the Enforcement Directorate), transport minister Anil Parab and Sena MP Bhavana Gawali.A skilled political organiserKnown for his skills as a political organiser, as a strategist who is good at ground level management to handle elections, as a minister who is lauded by the bureaucracy for his fast decision-making style, Ajit Pawar, took a long time to come out of the shadow of his charismatic uncle Sharad Pawar. He played a significant role in the 2004 assembly elections — from picking candidates to handling election management— following which the Congress-NCP combine returned to power. An ambitious politician, he became deputy chief minister in 2010. Son of Anantrao Pawar, Sharad Pawar’s younger brother, Ajit was the only member of the Pawar family that the NCP chief permitted to enter politics. He began at the gram panchayat level before he was elected as a Member of Parliament from Baramati Lok Sabha constituency in 1991. It was a brief stint and he took control of the assembly segment in a bypoll when Sharad Pawar shifted to national politics the same year to serve as the defence minister in PV Narasimha Rao’s government.Since then, Ajit Pawar has represented the Baramati assembly constituency for seven consecutive terms. He first became a minister in 1991 in Sudhakarrao Naik-led Congress government in Maharashtra. His role as Sharad Pawar’s key aide began after the latter broke away from the Congress to form the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in 1999. While the NCP had senior leaders such as Padmasinh Patil, Vijaysinh Mohite-Patil and Chhagan Bhujbal, it was Ajit Pawar who became his uncle’s most trusted aide. Till 2006, when Sharad Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule entered politics, Ajit Pawar was seen as the undisputed political heir of the NCP chief. With her emergence in national politics — she has been part of three successive Lok Sabhas and is currently serving her third term — a silent power tussle developed between uncle and nephew. The emergence of Rohit Pawar, grandson of another of Sharad Pawar’s brothers, as a new-generation leader from the family and his victory from Karjat-Jamkhed assembly seat in the 2019 state elections, added to Ajit Pawar’s woes.The bond was certainly strained enough for Ajit Pawar to switch sides after the 2019 assembly election results and partner with the BJP. High political dramaIn 2019, shortly after the assembly poll results were announced, the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party — long-time allies — split up. The Sena (which won 56 seats) had been angling for a CM post, but the BJP, which had won 105 seats, refused. Together, the two parties had a comfortable majority over the Congress (which had won 44 seats) and the NCP, which had garnered 54 seats. As Uddhav Thackeray began to hold talks with Sharad Pawar and the Congress, former CM Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP — who had helped expose an irrigation scam worth ₹70,000 crore allegedly carried out by the erstwhile Congress-NCP government and initiated an Anti-Corruption Bureau inquiry into this soon after taking over as CM in 2014 — reached out to Ajit Pawar. On November 23, 2019, Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar were sworn in as Maharashtra chief minister and deputy CM, respectively. This came hours after the Sena, NCP and Congress arrived at a consensus to form the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, with Thackeray as CM. The following day, nephew and uncle locked horns on Twitter.Ajit Pawar insisted that he was in the NCP and that the BJP-NCP alliance shall provide a stable government in Maharashtra. “I am in the NCP and shall always be in the NCP and @PawarSpeaks Saheb [Sharad Pawar] is our leader. Our BJP-NCP alliance shall provide a stable government in Maharashtra for the next five years which will work sincerely for the welfare of the State and its people,” he tweeted.Less than an hour later, Sharad Pawar shot back and ruled out any possibility of an alliance between the NCP and BJP. “There is no question of forming an alliance with @BJP4Maharashtra. NCP has unanimously decided to ally with @ShivSena & @INCMaharashtra to form the government. Shri Ajit Pawar’s statement is false and misleading in order to create confusion and false perception among the people,” he wrote.At a joint press conference with Thackeray, Sharad Pawar said his nephew had acted on his own and didn’t have the support of either the family or the party. “Ajit Pawar’s decision is an act of indiscipline. No NCP worker is in favour of the NCP-BJP government. NCP MLAs who support the BJP should know this move attracts provisions of anti-defection law,” he said.Over the following two days, Sharad Pawar managed to get all rebel MLAs who had followed his nephew to the BJP back into the party and Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar were left with no option but to tender their resignations.“I never left the party. I was with the NCP, I am with the NCP and will remain with the NCP,” he told reporters outside the Vidhan Bhavan where he arrived to be sworn in as an MLA, a few days later. His cousin, Sule, greeted him with open arms and smiled widely at the clicking cameras. Order seemed to have been restored in the Pawar clan.“BJP was of the view that Ajit Pawar will return to them. They also thought that the MVA government will not last for more than a year, but now they have realized it won’t happen. If they have to maintain the perception that the BJP can return to power then they will have to target senior leaders and break them. This will help in keeping their flock together, especially those who joined them from Congress and NCP,” said Abhay Deshpande, political analyst.“Ajit Pawar has more command than Supriya Sule over the party. There is a major chunk of the cadre who follows Ajit Pawar. Such attacks by the BJP will create a fear among leaders who are likely to pressure their respective leadership to reconsider their decision of staying in MVA,” Deshpande added.Three main important probes Though Ajit Pawar’s power accrues to his family legacy, he is also known to be a strong political force in Maharashtra. Yet, he has never been far from allegations — none have been proved till date — of financial irregularities. In 2012, Ajit Pawar became embroiled in an alleged ₹70,000-crore irrigation scam. Pawar, who was deputy CM at the time, resigned but returned to the post the same year. The scam had many parts to it: One, though ₹42,500 crore had been spent over the course of a decade, the state had brought only 0.1% of the targeted land under irrigation. Two, a nexus of contractors, officials and politicians had allegedly siphoned off thousands of crores meant for irrigation projects. Three, Ajit Pawar, the water resources minister since 1999, had cleared cost escalations of 32 irrigation projects by more than ₹17,000 crore. When Devendra Fadnavis became CM in 2014, he ordered a Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) enquiry.In December 2019, after Pawar’s short-lived rule as deputy CM, the ACB filed affidavits before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay HC stating that no criminal liability could be found against the NCP leader. In February 2020, the court also rejected a public interest litigation that challenged ACB’s clean chit. On July 1, 2021, the ED attached assets worth ₹65.75 crore belonging to Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sakhar Karkhana (cooperative sugar mill) in Satara district in connection with an alleged ₹25,000-crore Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank scam. The mill operating out of the attached property was linked to Pawar, a statement issued by the ED stated. Ajit Pawar’s uncle and Nationalist Congress Party’s supremo, Sharad Pawar, said the ED raid was a bid to “harass” him.The alleged MSC bank scam came to light in 2011 and a charge was made against the bank’s board directors — of whom Ajit Pawar was one — for disbursing loans to sugar mills in blatant violation of prescribed rules. MSC bank is the apex co-operative bank in the state and controls credit in the entire co-operative sector, forming the backbone of the rural economy.A committee led by a retired principal district judge Panditrao Jadhav was formed and a departmental probe of the state Cooperation department conducted an enquiry into these allegations. In February the committee gave a clean chit to Ajit Pawar and other directors of the Bank. Soon after the ED raid, Maharashtra BJP unit chief Chandrakant Patil wrote a letter to the union home minister Amit Shah on July 3 alleging corruption in the auctioning of 29 other sugar factories in the state. He asked that action be initiated as the factories were sold at throwaway prices to the directors of the MSC Bank board who were also politicians. “The factories, which were auctioned by MSC Bank were purchased at throwaway prices by its directors, who happened to be politicians. Despite the 2019 Bombay high court order directing the economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police to take action, the cases against these 30 factories were closed. With action against Jarandeshwar sugar factory taken, the hopes of citizens of action against [accused’s] misdeeds have revived. I would request you to initiate similar action against 29 more such factories which were part of the court hearing,” the letter stated.On October 22, Pawar categorically denied any wrongdoing in the auctioning of sugar mills by MSC Bank. He said that multiple investigations by agencies found no irregularities. He also claimed that many of the cooperative sugar factories were sold for ₹3 crore to ₹8 crore to private firms during BJP’s rule in the state, but no questions were raised then.“The Jarandeshwar sugar mill was bought by Guru Commodities for ₹65.75 crore and handed over to BVG, another firm, to run, but they gave it to some other firm after a year owing to the financial losses… Since me and my family members are linked to Jarandeshwar sugar mills, I am clarifying this to everyone in the state… The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is probing the auction and the truth will come out after it,” he had said.“The auction of Jarandeshwar sugar factory was done as per the order of the Bombay high court after the management failed to repay the debts of Mumbai District Cooperative Bank despite two opportunities given to them. A special leave petition filed against the auction was struck down by the high court and subsequently by the Supreme Court. Around 12-15 companies participated in the tendering process and the highest bid was offered by Guru Commodity Private Limited,” he added.Ajit Pawar also clarified that the CID (crime investigation department), anti-corruption bureau (ACB), economic offences wing (EOW) as well as a retired judge committee probed the allegations of the Bank scam, “but found nothing”.The deputy CM said that noise was only being made over a few select sugar factories to mislead the people. “There were 65 cooperative sugar factories of which eight were auctioned or given on lease by the respective banks or the state government. Many of these mills were sold during the BJP rule between 2015 and 2019 for a paltry amount, but nobody is talking about it. Even now the MSC Bank has floated a new tender for 11 cooperative sugar mills and textile mills to run for a period of 25 years,” he said.In October 2020, the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) filed a closure report after its special investigation team probing the alleged bank scam found no criminal aspect against any of the The 76 people named as accused in the case including Ajit Pawar. The ED opposed the move and pointed out Pawar’s conflict of interest: he was a director of MSC Bank. The highest bidder for the mill, Guru Commodity Private Limited, leased the mill out to a company owned by Pawar’s maternal uncle Rajendra Ghadge on an annual lease of ₹12 lakh only, the ED’s application stated.“ED had strongly opposed the closure report by filing an intervention application but it was rejected by the court of special judge Ajay Daga,” said Advocate Satish Talekar, who appeared for petitioners such as Anna Hazare and Surendra Arora in the case.The most recent IT raids however seem to pose another problem for Ajit Pawar.According to the IT department, it has found highly incriminating documents, evidencing unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore in the raids that were conducted at Mumbai, Pune, Baramati, Goa and Jaipur and continued for more than five days starting October 7.“A preliminary analysis of the flow of funds indicates that there has been an introduction of unaccounted funds in the group by way of various dubious methods like introduction of bogus share premium, suspicious unsecured loans, receipt of unsubstantiated advance for certain services, collusive arbitration deals out of non-existent disputes, etc,” a statement by the agency stated.“The funds, introduced in a dubious manner, have been utilized for acquisition of various assets such as an office building at a prime locality in Mumbai, a flat in a posh locality at Delhi, a resort in Goa, agricultural lands in Maharashtra and investments in sugar mills. The book value of these assets aggregates to about ₹170 crore,” said Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of I-T (media and technical policy) and official spokesperson, Central Board of Direct Taxation (CBDT).Responding to the raids, Ajit Pawar said on October 7: “It is true IT has raided a few firms related to me. It is their right... I don’t know whether they were conducted for political purposes or they want more information as we have been paying taxes on time. However, my only grief is that they conducted raids on the premises related to my three sisters. One of them stays in Kolhapur and other two in Pune. If raids were conducted because they are my sisters, then people of the state should think about the level the central agencies are being misused.”Centre v statePolitical analyst Hemant Desai said that the action by central agencies is clearly politically motivated, but the involvement of Ajit Pawar and others must still be probed.“The way information is leaked in public through BJP leaders before action by the central agencies clearly shows the political intention. Recently, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil indicated that ED will take action against PWD minister Ashok Chavan in Nanded. Since it has failed in toppling the MVA government, the BJP is intent of creating a perception of corruption and irregularities by targeting MVA leaders one by one. Their strategy is to ruin their image and benefit from that in the upcoming local bodies’ polls as well as assembly polls scheduled in 2024,” Desai said.The MVA government has been rocked with a series of attacks by the Opposition. In March, Fadnavis claimed that state ministers were involved in a money-for-transfer scam in the state police department. The previous month, former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh allegations that former home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh ran a ₹100-crore extortion ring. This allegations were probed by central agencies including the Central Bureau of Investigation and the National Investigation Agency respectively.Hitting out at the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre over the alleged “misuse of central agencies” against the MVA, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said last month: “The raids on my three nieces are on for the sixth day. The teams of I-T department have not found anything in the raids and the officers want to wind up the operation. But their bosses from Delhi have instructed them to continue the raids. My nieces are apolitical and have nothing to do with the sugar mills or other businesses facing action. Teams of up to 18 members are raiding the houses of my nieces who live in small houses. We are not against the action, but it should not cross the limit.”EOMEOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-a-political-force-not-far-from-financial-controversy-101636050668593.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||Father in custody, ED summons Anil Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh on Friday||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday summoned former state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s son, Hrishikesh Deshmukh, to show up at the ED office for questioning on Friday in connection with the money laundering case in which his father has been arrested and is in the agency’s custody till November 6.According to ED, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze allegedly collected ₹4.7 crore from orchestra bar owners in Mumbai for “smooth functioning of the bars” and gave this money to Deshmukh’s personal assistant Sanjeev Palande who later handed over the money to someone in Nagpur.ED officials said its investigation revealed that through hawala channels, this money was sent to the Delhi-based Surendra Kumar Jain and Virendra Jain who operated bogus companies. The Jain brothers are alleged to have diverted this money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by the Deshmukh family.ED officials suspect that the Jain brothers were acting on instructions of Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh Deshmukh and want to record his statement.The agency also intends to confront him with his father and quiz the two together, an ED official said, adding that the agency will decide if there is a need to place him under arrest after questioning him.Hrishikesh Deshmukh was earlier summoned twice by the agency, but like his father, he too failed to appear before the federal agency mandated to probe money laundering.His father, Anil Deshmukh, was arrested by ED after questioning him for 12 hours on Monday on grounds that he was being evasive.It was the first time that the former home minister appeared before ED officials who had issued multiple summons seeking his appearance over the last four months.ED’s case against Deshmukh is based on an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on allegations by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. Singh alleged that Deshmukh asked Vaze and other police officers to collect ₹100 crore every month from restaurants and bars in Mumbai.Apart from arresting Deshmukh, his personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde were arrested by ED earlier in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/father-in-custody-ed-summons-anil-deshmukh-s-son-hrishikesh-on-friday-101636049108408.html
05-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal minister Subrata Mukherjee, 75, dies. Heartbroken, says Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Veteran Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and Bengal minister Subrata Mukherjee, died of a heart attack on Thursday night at the state-run SSKM Hospital in Kolkata. He was admitted to the hospital on October 25 after he complained of a breathing problem.“After doctors detected a blockage in Mukherjee’s artery, they implanted a stent. He was recovering but his condition suddenly deteriorated this evening,” said Bengal minister Aroop Biswas.Mukherjee was rushed from the hospital’s Woodburn Ward to the intensive critical care unit of the cardiology department on Thursday evening but doctors could not save him. He was declared dead around 9.22 pm, Biswas said. He is survived by his wife.“I am heart broken. His contribution was immense. I cannot imagine he is no more,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee who was performing Kali puja at her residence in south Kolkata’s Kalighat area when she heard the news and rushed to the hospital.Subrata Mukherjee, who was Bengal’s minister of panchayat and three other departments, served as mayor of Kolkata from 2000 to 2005 when the Left Front was in power. He was counted among the best mayors the city has had because of his administrative skills.Mamata Banerjee always referred to Mukherjee as “Subrata Da” (Dada means elder brother in Bengali) as he was not only senior to her in the Congress to which they both belonged before TMC was formed in 1998 but also figured among those who groomed her during her early years in the Youth Congress.“His body will be preserved at Peace Heaven tonight. Tomorrow the body will be taken to his residence and then kept at some places so that people can pay their last respects before the cremation. I will not be present anywhere. I cannot bear the sight of his lifeless body. I could never accept the death of those I loved,” said Mamata Banerjee before leaving SSKM hospital.“I always found Subrata Da smiling. I saw many ups and downs in life but this is a loss that I cannot handle,” the chief minister added.TMC ministers, legislators and members of Parliament started arriving at SSKM hospital after 10 pm. Many of them broke down, saying they lost their guardian.All of them described Mukherjee as a colourful person who had an identity beyond Bengal’s politics in which he never lost relevance since the late 1960s. He became a minister in the Siddhartha Shankar Ray government in 1972 when he was only 26.Opposition leaders also paid tributes to Mukherjee, describing him as an evergreen figure. “Subrata Mukherjee’s death marks the end of an era. What impressed me most is that he was a friend to everyone, even members of parties he was opposed to. The word enemy did not exist in his life,” said Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Party that targeted Mukherjee after he was named in the charge sheet filed by the CBI in the Narada bribery case and arrested in May along with three other TMC leaders.TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh recalled how the CBI probe and the arrest affected him.“He could not accept the arrest. He used to say how it deeply hurt him. The episode probably affected his health as well,” said Ghosh. “Bengal lost one of the most successful politicians and I lost a friend of 54 years. There is a void,” said Saugata Roy, one of the most senior Lok Sabha members of the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-minister-subrata-mukherjee-dies-at-75-heartbroken-says-mamata-banerjee-101636045148320.html
05-11-2021||Mumbai||Here’s why Covid cases in Maharashtra are declining||Easing of restrictions, opening up of public transport, schools and colleges, overcrowding in public places such as markets, and a precipitous fall in vaccination numbers in October led policymakers to worry about a third Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra, with the state task force repeatedly issuing warnings. Yet, Maharashtra has been recording a steady decline in both daily fresh cases as well as fatalities.Public health experts attribute this trend to a combination of multiple factors – the receding second wave, widespread infection in the population and the overall coverage of vaccination. Virologist Dr T Jacob John from Christian Medical College in Vellore believes that Maharashtra and many other Indian states surpassed the herd immunity threshold at the end of June. “Maharashtra is now in the endemic phase,” Dr John said. The US-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) define endemic as “the constant presence and/or usual prevalence of a disease or infectious agent in a population within a geographic area”.Until November 4, Maharashtra recorded 6,615,299 cases and 140,325 deaths, making it the worst-affected state in India. The state with the next highest number of cases is Kerala with over 4.9 million, with nearly 33,000 deaths. Karnataka has nearly three million cases and over 38,000 deaths.In October, Maharashtra saw an average of 1922 new cases daily, down from 3424 cases per day in September. The first four days of November averaged just 1055 new cases.“Vaccinations are a recent addition to tackle the pandemic,” Dr John said. “The virus moved much faster and a large majority of the people were already infected and had antibodies due to the infection. This phenomenon has been the same in urban and rural areas as well as the adult and children population. Therefore, despite overcrowding and mingling of the population, we are not seeing a spike, as almost everyone has some level of immunity.” He added that the herd immunity threshold to the initial Wuhan strain of SARS-CoV-2 was surpassed in the end of 2020 and to the more infectious Delta strain by end of June.There are nearly 92 million people in the state eligible for vaccination. As of November 4, 34% of this population was fully vaccinated. However, the number of vaccinations slowed down in October with a 41% decline in daily average doses administered through the month as compared to September. From a daily average of 760,955 doses administered in September, vaccination dropped to 536,704 daily doses in October. State health officials have attributed the decline to the Navaratri festival and the harvesting season.“Maharashtra resembles the national scenario, barring Kerala, Mizoram, Sikkim and Meghalaya where the decline in cases has been slow,” Dr John said.But medical experts warn that a new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 may still shock the system. “Caution is therefore extremely necessary,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force.According to Dr Joshi, the second wave is receding in the state and there has been substantial vaccination coverage, which has helped in keeping the numbers low. “Largely, our population has antibodies against the Delta variant and its derivatives as it was the most dominant strain through the second wave. But if the variant changes, we may be back to square one,” he said.Serological surveillance studies carried out in congested cities such as Mumbai have shown that more than 85% of the population have antibodies. A serosurvey conducted in Pune showed 51.55% seroprevalence in August. Even as the overall cases are on the decline, there has been no corresponding decline in daily cases in Mumbai and Pune. Nearly half of Maharashtra’s 15,062 active cases are currently in Mumbai (4160) and Pune (3190) as of Thursday, November 4.“The virus continues to be around and a lot of cases in the endemic phase are re-infections,” said Dr John. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients also said that hospitalisations have reduced considerably and they are mostly seeing mild infections.Some health experts also cautioned about the reduced testing in districts. For instance, the Pune district has been carrying out 15,000 Covid-19 tests over the past two to three weeks. Prior to that, its daily testing numbers had touched 35,000. “People are not willing to test if they don’t have symptoms,” said Dr Bhagwan Pawar, Pune’s district health officer. “We have therefore started concentrated testing in areas where positive cases are coming from,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/heres-why-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-are-declining-101636040527445.html
