06-11-2021||Other||Political parties in Odisha demand 7 days ban during panchayat polls||Ahead of three-tier panchayat polls in Odisha, political parties in the state on Saturday appealed to the State Election Commission to shut down all liquor shops in the areas where polling is scheduled at least 7 days before the commencement of elections.State election commissioner AP Padhi, who met the representatives of various political parties, said most of them wanted a ban on liquor seven days ahead of the election.“During the election, liquor plays a major role in influencing voters. We fear the ruling BJD would try to influence the voters by a largescale distribution of liquor just before polls as was seen during the 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly polls. So we requested the Election Commission to put at least 7 days ban on liquor before the polls,” said Shibananda Ray, Congress leader.According to a Union ministry of social justice and empowerment report titled ‘Magnitude of Substance Use in India - 2019’, Odisha was at the 17th spot among the 36 states and Union territories in the country in terms of alcohol consumption. The survey found around 32 per cent of the population in the age group of 10-75 years to be consuming various forms of alcoholic drinks. The per capita consumption of liquor that was 700 ml in 2001-02 climbed to 3.3 litres in 2018-19.Election Commissioner Padhi said no decision on banning liquor for 7 days before polls has been taken.During Saturday’s meeting with the SEC, political parties demanded raising the expenditure limit for sarpanch and panchayat samiti candidates from ₹80,000 to ₹2 lakh and that of Zilla Parishad candidates from ₹2 lakh to ₹5 lakh. The parties also demanded widening the window for voting from the existing 7 am-12 pm.The panchayati raj department has already prepared a final list of reservations for the president of 30 zilla parishads, half of which would be for women candidates. For the first time in panchayat polls, Zilla Parishad president posts in 4 districts are reserved for candidates from backward class category.Elections are due in February to the posts of 6,800 sarpanch and panchayat samiti members, 92,000 ward members, 853 zilla Parishad members and 314 panchayat samiti chaiperson posts. The 2022 panchayat polls would be crucial for the BJP as it would show whether the party’s popularity has gone up after its stunning success in the 2017 polls when it registered 9 times rise in its zilla parishad members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/political-parties-in-odisha-demand-7-days-ban-during-panchayat-polls-101636222952023.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Man arrested for killing cousin in Noida on Diwali night||A 22-year-old man and his accomplice were arrested on Saturday for allegedly killing his cousin in Noida’s Phase 2 on Diwali, which was observed on Thursday. Police have launched a manhunt for the cousin’s wife, whom they suspect was also involved in the crime. The victim has been identified as 26-year-old Santosh Kumar, a native of Badaun who stayed at Bhangel in Noida and worked as a cab driver. The suspects were identified as Santosh’s cousin Rikendra Kumar (22) and Pintu (23). Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer of Phase 2 police station, said Santosh lived with his wife in Bhangel village. “Rikendra was allegedly in a relationship with Santosh’s wife for a few months. This led to differences between the two cousins,” said Upadhyaya. Police said on the night of Diwali, Rikendra called his accomplice Pintu and hatched a plan to murder Santosh. “The two suspects bought some liquor and called Santosh to a secluded place in Noida’s Sector 88 for partying. They offered him drinks and when Santosh lost consciousness, the two suspects assaulted him with bricks. Santosh received critical injuries and died on the spot,” said the SHO. On Friday morning, a passerby spotted the body and informed police. Phase 2 police registered a case against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and launched an investigation. The SHO said mobile phone records and other evidences showed Rikendra was in touch with Santosh on Diwali night. “Rikendra was picked up for questioning and during interrogation, he confessed to the crime. We have arrested both the suspects,” said Upadhyaya adding that the two men will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody. The SHO said primary investigation shows Santosh’s wife was also involved in the murder conspiracy. “The woman is currently on the run. We have deployed a team to trace and arrest her,” said Upadhyaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-killing-cousin-in-noida-on-diwali-night-101636222887642.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||UP transfers money to accounts of students’ parents for uniforms||Lucknow The state government on Saturday initiated the process to transfer ₹1100 each in the bank accounts of parents of 1.80 crore students of the state, for purchasing school uniforms, sweaters, bags, shoes and socks. Those in the know of things said the move was aimed at putting an end to complaints of poor quality uniforms and shoes being made available to students. In the past, several students also complained of getting either oversized or undersized uniforms and shoes as orders were placed in bulk to lowest bidders. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that the state government had credited ₹1100 in bank accounts of parents of 1.20 crore students of government primary and upper primary schools for purchase of two sets of school uniforms, shoe, socks and sweater. “There are 1.80 crore students in 1.5 lakh government primary and upper primary schools. Money was credited in 1.2 crore parents’ accounts. It will be credited soon in the remaining 60 lakh parents’ accounts. The money is meant to buy two sets of uniform, school bag, shoes, sweater and socks for the students. The money has been transferred through DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) scheme of the government,” he said. Earlier, the government purchased these items from various vendors and distributed them to students. “This led to problem of size and quality of uniforms and sometimes even delay in distribution of these items. The DBT scheme will allow parents to purchase the items of desired quality and size,” said basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi in a video message. Dwivedi said the state government undertook a drive to collect bank data of the parents for the scheme after Covid-19 that made timely distribution of these items more difficult. Targeting the previous governments in the state, the CM said, “The performance of basic schools of Uttar Pradesh is very high on the national standards of grading but some people do not like it. Before 2017, the buildings were in a dilapidated condition and if there were buildings, they were without teachers.” “Further, if there were teachers, students were missing. The students did not have uniforms and children used to go to school barefoot. The whole department was just engaged in transfers and postings. Now when the process is transparent and the condition of government schools has improved to a large extent due to ‘Operation Kayakalp’, they do not liking it. The opposition can’t digest the fact that the children of the poor are going to schools and getting quality education,” he added. Yogi said more than 1.3 lakh government schools were refurbished under Operation Kayakalp and the process to improve the infrastructure in remaining schools would be completed shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-transfers-money-to-accounts-of-students-parents-for-uniforms-101636222827596.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Dengue cases at an all time high in Gautam Budh Nagar, tally crosses 500-mark||Dengue cases in Gautam Budh Nagar district have reached an all time high with 14 fresh cases, reported in the last 24 hours ending on Saturday evening, taking the cumulative tally of cases to 509. Currently, there are 68 active cases in the district. As per officials, this is an all-time high of dengue cases in the district. As per data available from the last 10 years, the district had 14 cases in 2012, 69 in 2013, 0 in 2014, 176 in 2015, 17 in 2016, 13 in 2017, 28 in 2018, 40 in 2019 and 28 in 2020.“This year, there has been a spike in dengue cases in the district as they have crossed the 500-mark for the first time. Compared to nearby districts, the situation is still better in Gautam Budh Nagar as regular fogging drives and containment measures are being taken by the authorities,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer. Officials have identified 18 clusters in Noida and Greater Noida where a large number of dengue cases have been reported. Sadarpur, Chhalera, Mamura, Nithari, Barola, Chhijarsi, and Sectors 5, 9, 22 and 51 have been identified as dengue hotspots in Noida. Alpha 2, Gamma 1, Beta 1, Gaur City 1 and 2, Haibatpur, Kulesara and Surajpur are the hotspots in Greater Noida. “This year, we have seen more rainfall for a longer period compared to other years. Because of this, water kept accumulating in artificial containers, providing a conducive environment for mosquitoes to breed. As a result, transmission of the virus increased,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, the Covid helpline (18004192211) issued by the district administration last year for queries related to Covid-19 has been receiving queries regarding dengue now.“As Covid cases have gone down and vaccinations are going smoothly, there are barely any queries regarding Covid on the helpline. However, since the past three weeks, we have been getting 15-20 calls regarding testing facilities for dengue fever and requests to conduct fogging in some areas,” said an official of the health department.Sharma added that such queries are being resolved by the health officials. “If there are requests for fogging in a particular area on the helpline, concerned authorities are informed about it and it is carried out,” said Sharma.Currently, dengue testing is being done at District Hospital, Post Graduate Institute of Child Health, and Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-cases-at-an-all-time-high-in-gautam-budh-nagar-tally-crosses-500mark-101636222527571.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university’s distance education wing to attract more students with fresh degree courses||Distance education, for years, has come to the rescue of working professionals wanting to pursue higher education. The growing demand for newer courses has finally made way for courses like Masters in Business Administration (MBA) too to be pursued on the distance mode. The Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), the distance education wing of the University of Mumbai (MU) recently started registrations for admissions to the 2021-22 batch, and for the first time ever, IDOL will hold an entrance exam for their newly launched MBA/MMS (Master of Management Studies) program. “IDOL has got permission for MBA/MMS in the distance mode from All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) as well as the University Grants Commission (UGC), with approval for 720 seats. This is the first time the University of Mumbai has received recognition for its MBA course and we plan to declare dates for the entrance exam very soon,” said Vinod Malale, deputy registrar (public relations), MU. This is the first year of three new approved courses, Bachelor of Science (B Sc) Computer Science, Masters in Art (MA) Geography and MBA/MMS and officials at IDOL are seeing this as a positive trend. “We are already receiving inquiries for the new courses. For years IDOL was opted by working professionals, but like every other education institute which was hit by Covid, IDOL too faced a decline in admissions. We hope to attract maximum applications this time around,” added Malale. IDOL completed its admission for the July session of 2020-21 academic year and witnessed a drop in admissions from 67,000 students enrolled in the 2019-20 academic year to 64,000 admissions confirmed in the 2020-21 academic year. Officials and experts attributed this decline to the job losses and economic trouble faced by many, due to the pandemic induced lockdown. “The job market is looking better and we hope to attract more students than ever this time around,” he said. Last week, IDOL kicked off admissions for its 17 undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Despite Covid-19 hampering routine work, IDOL managed to register admissions of nearly 64,000 students across 14 courses in 2021-20, but with the launch of three new courses, officials are looking forward to a better admissions session. “MMS course will be a two-year program divided into four semesters. The syllabus of MMS offered through regular college and IDOL will be the same. We are thrilled to offer such interesting courses to students,” said a senior official for IDOL. He added that the course material was discussed on several occasions by the academic council and finally a proposal was sent to the UGC. The final approval came through from the Distance Education Bureau (DEB) of the UGC. Other than these new courses, IDOL has also been planning to offer popular undergraduate courses like BMS (Bachelor in Management Studies), BMM (Bachelor in Mass Media) and BAF (BCom in Accounting and Finance) in physical as well as online mode. Apart from the degree courses, IDOL is also planning to offer a host of certificate programs, including a few courses in collaboration with the Bombay Stock Exchange and MU’s department of journalism. For a certificate course in radio jockeying, IDOL is in the process of reviving the university’s campus radio channel which had gone off the air a few years ago. “The idea is to make education more accessible for everyone. Now that education is already being impacted online, the gap between interested students and available courses has reduced and this makes the entire process easier for students as well as universities,” said the senior official. The last date for filling out the admission form is November 20, 2021. Interested students can log on to https://old.mu.ac.in/distance-open-learning/ for further information. BOX: Admissions at IDOL: 2018-19 : 67,138 2019-20 : 67,237 + 900 in January 2020 Session for five courses 2020-21 : 59,010 + 5,000 (in January 2021)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-s-distance-education-wing-to-attract-more-students-with-fresh-degree-courses-101636222467309.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Tally of dengue cases crosses 1,000 in Ghaziabad, fresh cases on the decline||Officials of the district health department said that the number of fresh dengue cases has been declining in the district even as the tally of cases, according to official data, stood at 1,044 till Saturday. According to official data, the total tally of dengue cases is highest in the district after 2013, when the number of cases stood at 1,622. However, so far, the district health department has not reported any dengue death compared to 2013, when four fatalities from the infection were reported. The first dengue case in the district was reported on September 1 with the month recording 312 cases followed by 647 cases in October. As many as 85 dengue cases have been reported so far in November. The district breached the 1,000 cases mark on November 3. According to the official data, the daily average of dengue cases was about 10.4 in September which shot up to 20.87 in October. In the current month, 14.16 dengue cases are being reported on an average per day. “The number of dengue cases reported daily on average has declined in November. This is because the temperature has suddenly dropped and more relief is expected by end of November. With the ongoing trend, we are expecting that there will be no fresh cases by mid December,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. “In 2013, the total number of dengue cases stood at 1,622. If the current declining trend continues, we hope the current tally of dengue cases will not cross 2013’s figure. As for our part, our teams are continuing fogging and spraying of anti-larvae in high caseload areas and every case is being mapped for containment,” said Gupta. In 2014, the overall dengue tally in the district stood at 928 and then onwards, there has been a decline in the total number of cases reported in a year. “This year, there have been more cases due to the prolonged monsoon and heavy rains which caused waterlogging in many areas. If there has been a minor decline in fresh cases, we need to observe it further for some more weeks before we can say that it is actually on decline. In the previous years, there has been a declining trend in dengue cases after the temperature falls right after Diwali,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Unlike dengue, cases of malaria stood were under control. The total tally of malaria cases stands at 16, with one case reported in October and none in November so far. Likewise, the tally of scrub typhus also stood at 39 with no cases in October and November. “Cases of malaria and scrub typhus were majorly reported in September. No cases from either of the infection have emerged in the following months,” said Dr Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tally-of-dengue-cases-crosses-1-000-in-ghaziabad-fresh-cases-on-the-decline-101636222342377.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Money laundering case: Anil Deshmukh’s son applies for pre-arrest bail||Hrishikesh Deshmukh, son of former home Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh, on Saturday moved the Mumbai sessions court for anticipatory bail. Hrishikesh, who was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for the fifth time on November 5, failed to appear before the agency. “We have moved an anticipatory bail application on behalf of Hrishikesh,” said advocate Vikram Chaudhri, who appeared for Hrishikesh Deshmukh along with advocates Inderpal Singh and Aniket Nikam. “The agency had last summoned him on August 15. Two-and-a-half months later, they have suddenly summoned him again. Apprehending arrest, this application has been moved.” As ED sought time to reply to the plea, additional sessions judge Prashant Sitre posted the plea for hearing on November 12. The pre-arrest bail plea reads: “The entire proceedings are actuated with malice. The whole edifice of the ECIR and consequential investigations initiated by the ED pale into insignificance in view of the contents of the FIR registered in Goregaon police station for extortion in which dismissed police inspector Sachin Vaze has clearly mentioned that ‘Number 1’ is Param Bir Singh.” It added: “In such circumstances, the manner in which the allegations have been twisted against the applicant and his father and the investigations have thus commenced in a shady manner certainly warrants the interference of this court to remedy the wrong committed against the applicant.” Hrishikesh’s plea further stated that it was a matter of record that on account of a witch-hunt campaign launched at the instance of certain vested inimical interests, “some blatantly false allegations have been levelled by those persons (Sachin Vaze and Param Bir Singh) who have absolutely no credibility, honour or pride.” “These unscrupulous persons are themselves knee-deep involved in several rackets of extortion, fraud and even murder. The principal person who held the high office of Commissioner of Police is now a wanted absconding criminal. The ED has been citing some properties which were purchased by the father Anil Deshmukh fifteen years ago when the applicant was a teenager. The agency has changed its stand in last few days before various courts and is now treating them as suspect to accused based on same material available before it. The agency has neither arrested Surinder Jain or Virender Jain the alleged hawala operators in the case and the agency was adopting a pick and choose method. The applicant fears arrest like his father if he appears before the agency and prays for pre-arrest bail,” the plea added. ED has arrested Anil Deshmukh on November 2 after he joined probe in the money laundering case against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-anil-deshmukh-s-son-applies-for-pre-arrest-bail-101636221506986.html
06-11-2021||Noida||141 arrested in Gautam Budh Nagar for bursting firecrackers on Diwali||Gautam Budh Nagar police registered 114 FIRs against 141 people for bursting firecrackers on Diwali. Police said all the persons were arrested and later released on bail. The unchecked bursting of firecrackers caused pollution levels to spike in the district, with the air quality breaching the ‘severe’ category. An air quality index reading above 400 is considered to be ‘severe’. On Saturday, Noida and Greater Noida had an AQI recording of 461 and 414 respectively. Love Kumar, joint commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the commissionerate did not issue licences for the sale of firecrackers to any vendor this year. “The police had deployed their enforcement teams and also registered cases against some vendors for unauthorised sale of firecrackers. The police team also stopped people from bursting firecrackers in Noida and Greater Noida. It seems some people managed to get the firecrackers and burst them on Diwali,” said Kumar.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said 43 people were booked in 31 FIRs in Noida. He said police teams ensured the enforcement of rules and regulations in the jurisdiction of different police stations and even cracked down on people bursting firecrackers. “The suspects have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and also under Explosive Substances Act. They have been served notices under Section 41-A of the Criminal Procedure Code to appear before court as and when required,” said the DCP. Sub-inspector Sunil Kumar said that he was on duty in Sadarpur village where he spotted a man bursting firecrackers on Diwali. “The suspect was identified as Rambhajan, a resident of Sadarpur village. A case has been registered against him under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health) of the IPC at Sector 39 police station,” he said. A few cases were also registered in Greater Noida. Ayodhya Prasad, a sub-inspector at Kasna police station, said some men were bursting firecrackers near Gharbara road. “We reached the spot and saw a number of people bursting firecrackers. Most of them fled the spot when they saw us. We apprehended two suspects – Pankaj Kumar and Sandeep Kumar, who said they were aware of the ban on firecrackers but were still bursting them. A case has been registered against them under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 9B of the Explosive Substances Act, 1884,” said Prasad. Police also lodged some cases against vendors for illegally selling firecrackers without a licence. Sector Beta 2 police registered a case against two vendors, identified as Zakir and Mohan (known by their first names), in Bironda village on Friday. The two were later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/141-arrested-in-gautam-budh-nagar-for-bursting-firecrackers-on-diwali-101636221326904.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad surpasses Noida to become the worst polluted city in the country||The air quality, which started deteriorating on the day of Diwali, continued its downward trend with Ghaziabad and Noida emerging as the two most polluted cities across the country on Saturday. The air quality index (AQI) released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) indicated that Ghaziabad was most polluted on Saturday with an AQI reading of 466 while Noida, with an AQI of 461, was the second most polluted city in the country--the air quality of both the cities hovering in the ‘severe’ category. Greater Noida too was in the ‘severe’ category with an AQI of 414. According to forecast of the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), strong north-westerly winds have enhanced transport of emissions from stubble burning. “Share of crop residue burning emissions in PM2.5 is 41% (effective fire count 5,159)... Delhi’s AQI is likely to improve to upper end of ‘very poor’ category as surface winds are becoming stronger in dispersing air pollutants,” said the Safar forecast. An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 “severe”. Environmentalists said the pollution levels will improve on its own and there is no man-made intervention than can mitigate high pollution levels. “It has been a regular feature in the past few years that meteorological conditions have spiked pollution and also mitigated it. The present spike in pollution levels is the result of burning crackers and also meteorological factors. It will subside on its own in the coming days as the volume of vehicles on roads, that shot up during the festive season, will also reduce. The inter-departmental coordination between the agencies is missing. There is hardly any effect of enforcement on the ground level,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. On Saturday, the four stations monitoring air quality in Ghaziabad and the two in Greater Noida recorded PM2.5 as the primary pollutant while the four monitoring stations in Noida had both PM2.5 and PM10 as primary pollutants. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board said the spike in pollution levels was higher during the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. “The pollution levels increased due to burning of crackers. The effect reduced during the day on Friday as wind speed picked up and helped pollutants to disperse. It is expected that the upcoming spike will be more because of stubble burning, which has spiked to 41% as per the Safar forecast. It is likely that the pollution levels will improve from the evening of November 7,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad, who is also officiating for Noida. A day after Diwali on November 5, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida had an AQI of 470, 464 and 475 respectively, under the “severe” category, with Noida emerging as the most polluted city across the country. “The spike in pollution levels during this time of the year is a feature prevailing in the Ghaziabad/Noida region for past several years and the trend is continuing this year as well. A comprehensive study about the meteorological factors, demography, wind pattern and other elements, must be conducted to find out the reasons behind the spike just before the onset of winter,” said Sushil Raghav, another city-based environmentalist. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality early warning system for Delhi, the air quality is likely to improve further and reach the lower end of “very poor” category on November 8. “The outlook for subsequent five days: The air quality is likely to improve progressively and remain in lower end of very poor category to poor category. PM2.5 to be the predominant pollutant,” the forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-surpasses-noida-to-become-the-worst-polluted-city-in-the-country-101636220966935.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Environment-conscious residents of Noida reuse Diwali waste for making compost||What is Diwali if there are no fresh fragrant flowers to adorn your home sweet home ? As much as the flowers add to the aesthetics of a house during the festival of lights, they end up in the trash as soon as the decorations are taken down. Some environment-conscious residents of Gautam Buddh Nagar are now making the most out of this flower waste and turning it into rich organic compost.At Prateek Wisteria apartments in Noida’s Sector 77, the Apartment Owners’ Association is collecting flower waste from residents to turn it into compost.“We have requested all residents in our society not to throw away the flowers used in Diwali decorations and instead use them to make compost. We taught residents the process of making compost out of the flowers,” said Amit Gupta, president of Prateek Wisteria AOA.“As an alternative, we have also provided a collection box at each tower where residents can put all their old flower decorations and the housing complex gardener will use it to make compost for the society’s garden. Usually, people throw away the flowers in trash or at the roadside in a polythene, which adds to the garbage problem,” said Gupta.Residents of Sector 62’s HCL towers are also using their flower waste to make compost in their apartment complex, thanks to Anamika Chaturvedi who took the initiative.“I first started doing this (making compost) myself in 2019. This year, we spread word among other residents of our society, who will be reusing the flowers to make compost. In fact, to make the most of these flowers, I am also trying to make bioenzyme (organic solutions usually produced by fermentation of fruits, vegetables, sugar, and water that are a natural way of managing home cleaning needs) out of them this year. If it works, I will be holding a workshop to inform and educate other residents,” said Chaturvedi, who runs an eco-friendly resident’s group called Bhumitra.A similar initiative is being carried out by Arun Vihar residents’ group ‘SAAPH’ (Sustainable Alternatives and Awareness against Plastics and Household waste) led by seven women residents.“We first started reusing Diwali flower waste for making compost in 2019 and spread the word among other residents as well. We have already been using green waste of our homes to make compost for many years now, we will just add the flowers used for decoration purposes during Diwali in our usual compost,” said Radhika Gulati, a resident of Arun Vihar and a member of SAAPH.She added this year, instead of clay diyas, she used diyas made of cowdung which will also be used to make compost. In Sector 55, Shail Mathur did not buy fresh flowers to make rangoli at her home for Diwali. Instead, she picked up all the waste flowers from the local temple in the sector a day before Diwali in order to reuse them.“Every day, tonnes of flowers are offered at the local temple in our sector. This Diwali, instead of buying fresh flowers or colours for rangoli, I decided to reuse the flower waste from the temple. Usually, this flower waste is dumped as trash,” said Mathur, who created a residents group TREE (Taking Responsibility for Earth and Environment.) Now that Diwali is over, these rangoli flowers will be used for making compost, she added.In Sector 37, Sumit Khanna has spread word among his family and friends to give all their flower waste to him as he will be using it to make ‘dhoop’ or incense sticks. “We have created a collection point for all our friends and family who will be giving us their flower waste. This will be sent by us to self-help groups in Jaipur which will make ‘dhoop’ out of the flowers,” said Khanna. who runs an eco-friendly venture called Indibam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/environmentconscious-residents-of-noida-reuse-diwali-waste-for-making-compost-101636220426973.html
06-11-2021||Other||Telangana HC allows courts in state to reopen from Nov 8 for physical hearings||The High Court of Telangana on Saturday allowed all the courts in the state to open for physical hearings from November 8 citing a less severe pandemic in the state."Considering the present situation of pandemic in the State, the High Court full bench has decided to open all the courts in the State, including the High Court, for physical hearing from November 8," said an official statement of the Telangana High Court."All the Principal District Judges/Unit heads are directed to take instructions from the Administrative Judge of their district on taking a decision for going to virtual hearing of the courts in the unit," read the statement.The statement further added, "All the unit heads in the State were directed to follow the Covid-19 protocols strictly. A notification has been issued by the Registrar General in this regard on Friday".Sunil Goud, Vice-chairman, Bar council of Telangana stated," For two years we have been facing difficult situations because of pandemic in the court because of the online system. We have never been to this system before.""This online system was practised in foreign countries but after the pandemic, it was adopted in India. We faced a lot of problems in the beginning, especially in the lower court for conducting trials, taking evidence and cross-examining. The lawyers at the apex court are used to this system," he added."Now the court has decided to function offline by taking all the precautionary measures. This a very good news for all the lawyers across India as to the full function of the courts," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-hc-allows-courts-in-state-to-reopen-from-nov-8-for-physical-hearings-101636219822578.html
06-11-2021||Patna||Bihar hooch tragedy: Toll reaches 32; BJP state prez claims police collusion||Following the deaths of more than 30 people in Bihar over the past week due to the consumption of spurious liquor, the Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal claimed that illicit liquor is sold in the state in connivance with the police, news agency ANI reported.Bihar does not allow the sale or consumption of liquor as it is banned in the state. The state over the past week saw at least 32 deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor. Bettiah and Gopalganj reported 13 and 15 deaths respectively while 4 fresh deaths were reported earlier on Saturday from Samastipur.“Wherever the police are active, there is sale of illicit liquor. Especially in East Champaran, the sale of illicit alcohol can not happen without the collusion of police,” Jaiswal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Jaiswal also called for the review of the Prohibition Act. “We need to review the entire prohibition policy. We cannot link the prohibition policy with this incident. But the Bihar government must look into the suspicious role of the administration,” Jaiswal said.“The law is strict and has been made with tough rules, but the circumstances show that people are not as aware. The government's primary work will be to stop the mafia gangs in villages as the police has meagre control," Jaiswal added referring to the recent deaths due to the hooch tragedy.As many as 32 people, including 15 people in Bettiah, 13 people in Gopalganj and four people in Samastipur died due to the consumption of spurious liquor.Bihar minister Sunil Kumar added that two more are suspected to be dead due to the consumption of spurious liquor in Bettiah but he said that the reason is yet to be ascertained since the post-mortem reports are not yet released. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar held a review meeting and said that the government is looking into the prohibition rule as well as the recent deaths.Raids were conducted in 60 locations in Bihar's Gopalganj district and 19 people were arrested so far in connection with the hooch tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-hooch-tragedy-toll-reaches-32-bjp-state-prez-claims-police-collusion-101636219461138.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Sachin Vaze extorted huge sums from cricket bookies’: Crime branch tells court||A metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday extended Mumbai police crime branch custody of dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze by seven days after special prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap informed the court that the 52-year-old controversial cop has extorted huge money from cricket books by threatening to frame and arrest them in false cases, the Mumbai police crime branch informed a metropolitan magistrate. Jagtap pointed out that Vaze has extorted huge money from cricket bookies at the behest of Param Bir Singh and sought an extension of his custody for his further custodial interrogation to find out if he has extorted money from others as well. In August, the Goregaon police registered an extortion case against Singh, Vaze, who is arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases, and four civilians - Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint by Agarwal, alleging that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him. They also threatened to register cases against his hotel restaurant and bar. The crime branch has already arrested Sumeet Singh, who allegedly used to collect money for Vaze, on whose orders money was allegedly collected by Sumeet Singh from Agarwal. In this case, the court has already issued non-bailable warrants against Param Bir Singh, Riyaz Bhati, a purported aide of gangster Dawood Ibrahim, and one Vinay Singh. Vaze has been arrested in this case on November 1 and was remanded to the crime branch custody. He was presented before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday as his earlier custody remand ended. Appearing for the crime branch, advocate Jagtap sought an extension of his custody. He informed the court that the crime branch has collected Vaze’s voice samples in order to prove the number of phone call conversations with Vaze that the complainant had recorded. In these calls, Vaze talked about his alleged extortion activities involving him and Singh. Agarwal submitted the recorded audio clips to the crime branch which will now try to match the (Vaze’s) sample voice with Vaze’s alleged voice in the recorded conversations with Agarwal to corroborate allegations of extortion against Singh, Vaze and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-extorted-huge-sums-from-cricket-bookies-crime-branch-tells-court-101636219705895.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan cruise drug raid case: BJP, NCP trade charges||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary on Saturday targeted the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) alleging that a party worker named Sunil Patil was the “mastermind” of the Aryan Khan drug raid case, even as NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik alleged that Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede had attempted to “kidnap Aryan Khan” and frame him in a drug bust case after failing to get extortion money from his family.“Wankhede tried to extort money after kidnapping Aryan Khan and later framed him in a drug bust case after his plans failed,” Malik said. When asked for a reaction to this, Wankhede refused to comment.Wankhede and his team arrested Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan and a few others for their alleged involvement in the cruise drugs party on October 2.BJP functionary Mohit Khamboj said at Saturday’s press conference that Patil, an NCP worker since its inception, had given the number of Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness in the case, to Sam D’Souza and told him that Gosavi will coordinate with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Prabhakar Sail, another independent witness in the case, had alleged that Gosavi and Sam D’Souza were involved in an extortion attempt involving Shah Rukh Khan’s manager, Pooja Dadlani and Wankhede was a reported beneficiary. Sail made these allegations in a notarised affidavit on October 23.Khamboj said that he would disclose the “entire conspiracy” with all the supporting “proof”. Though he did not name Malik, Kamboj said that a “narrative of lies [was being created] in the entire country.”According to Khamboj, Patil contacted D’souza with information that drugs would be consumed on a cruise ship party set to sail on October 2. “Sunil Patil sent a WhatsApp message and called Sam D’Souza on October 1. He told D’souza that there is going to be a cruise party where drugs would be consumed. He said that he had information about 27 people and sought to connect to a Narcotics Department official. Sam D’souza spoke to NCB official VV Singh about this,” Khamboj said.“The question now is, why is the cabinet minister [Nawab Malik] using Sunil Patil to create this conspiracy? A narrative of lies has been weaved since last one month linking BJP to the raid, connecting people associated with BJP as [independent] witnesses, and that Sameer Wankhede and the BJP are hand-in-glove... The minister, who is in favour of drugs, will now have to come out and respond,” he said.Reacting to Khamboj’s charge, Malik tweeted: “A member of Sameer Dawood Wankhede’s private army just held a Press Conference to misguide and divert the attention from the truth albeit unsuccessfully. I will reveal the truth tomorrow.”The NCP meanwhile has denied that Patil was a member of the party. NCP leaders released pictures of Gosavi and Patil with Gujarat cabinet minister Kiritsinh Rana as well as other images of Patil and Manish Bhanushali, a BJP functionary and yet another independent witness in the cruise drug party case.“I had demanded an SIT probe to investigate Sameer Dawood Wankhede for kidnapping & ransom demand from Aryan Khan. Now 2 SITs are constituted (state & centre), let us see who brings out the skeletons from the closet of Wankhede and exposes him and his nefarious private army,” Malik tweeted on Saturday morning.A four-member team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Milind Khetle was formed on October 27 to probe the allegations made by Sail. The NCB has is also conducting an internal probe against officials, including Wankhede, following Sail’s allegations.Sail claimed to have overheard a phone call between his employer Kiran P Gosavi — another witness in the cruise ship drug raid case — and Sam D’Souza. The discussion was about a payment of ₹25 crore. “You put a bomb of 25 crores and let’s settle at 18 final, because we have to give 8 crores to Sameer Wankhede,” Gosavi told Sam D’Souza, according to the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-cruise-drug-raid-case-bjp-ncp-trade-charges-101636219406702.html
06-11-2021||Patna||Bihar: Vice-President to attend 2nd convocation of RPCAU on Nov 7||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu will be the chief guest at the second convocation of the Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University (RPCAU), Pusa, on the newly built campus of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya College of Horticulture and Forestry, Piprakothi, in Motihari on Sunday, according to an official communication.The college is a part of the central agricultural university, Pusa (Samastipur).Governor Phagu Chauhan and chief minister Nitish Kumar will also attend the convocation. Later in the day, the vice president accompanied by the governor and chief minister will reach Rajgir to inaugurate the 6th International Dharma Dhamma Conference on newly built campus of Nalanda University.The vice president arrived in Patna on Saturday evening and will stay for one night at Raj Bhawan. As per the itinerary, the vice president after addressing the convocation of the Central Agricultural University will inaugurate the administrative building of Pandit Deendayal College of Horticulture and Forestry (PDCHF), Piprakothi, Gandak Girls Hostel and Pandit Rajkumar Shukla Hostel of the college, Centre of Excellence on Indegenous Breeds, Piprakothi, and Indigenous Cattle Conservation and Improvement Centre, Madhopur.RPCAU vice chancellor Ramesh Chandra Srivastava , while thanking the vice president for accepting the invite to attend the convocation, said in a press statement that the central agricultural university was committed to serving the farmers and nation through its innovative research, new technology and education. RPCAU information officer Kumar Rajyavardhan said the convocation event had been organised at PDCHF, Piprakothi to highlight the facilities on the college campus, which is part of the central agricultural university. In the afternoon, the vice president along with the governor and chief minister will reach Rajgir to attend the inaugural event of the three-day 6th International Dharma-Dhamma Conference on the theme, “Dharma-Dhamma Traditions in Building a Post-Covid World Order”. A minister from Sri Lanka will also attend the inaugural event.In a statement, Nalanda University vice chancellor Sunaina Singh said the vice president will inaugurate the conference, which will be attended by more than 200 delegates, dignitaries and scholars from different countries.“The conference will provide a platform for the best minds from the world of academics, leading statesmen, policymakers, and religious heads from India and abroad to come together to explore new possibilities in building a post-Covid world order,” Singh said.The vice president will return to New Delhi in the evening, sources said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharvicepresident-to-attend-2nd-convocation-of-rpcau-today-101636218510489.html
06-11-2021||Patna||Oppn, ruling party play blame game over hooch deaths in Bihar||A war of words ensued between the opposition and ruling parties over the recent hooch tragedies in Bihar. While the opposition parties alleged the connivance of the ruling party leaders and government officials for the proliferation of illegal liquor trade, the ruling party leaders accused the opposition of levelling false allegations on the government with an apparent intent to protect the liquor mafia. Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma said that sudden spurt in hooch-related deaths laid credence to the general perception that the prohibition act had miserably failed in Bihar. “Either the state government should completely smash the illegal liquor trade network or scrap the law to legalise its sale after imposing three-four fold tax. The revenue collected from liquor sales can be used to develop industries and create jobs for the unemployed,” argued Sharma. At least 26 persons, including an army man and a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan, have died due to alleged consumption of spurious liquor in Bihar in the last five days. Officials said that illicit liquor had claimed more than 100 lives across the state since January this year. The consumption of illicit liquor has risen suddenly due to the ongoing panchayat polls. Opposition leader and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had alleged that the liquor prohibition in the state was only confined in the words of the chief minister. “Instead of taking strict action against the officials, Mafiosi and illegal traders, CM Nitish Kumar keep on cautioning the people from not consuming the liquor. “The police had recovered two trucks loaded with illegal liquor from the school of a BJP minister in the government. Yet, there is no reference of the minister in the FIR,” alleged Yadav. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said that it was high time the government should re-evaluate the prohibition act, which utterly failed to check alcohol’s consumption, and rethink if the law was effective. “The accountability of deaths due to illicit liquor must be fixed at the higher levels,” said Mishra. Former MLA and Congress leader Rishi Mishra and other Congress leaders held a Press conference and sought time from governor Fagu Chauhan to discuss the prohibition law vis-à-vis recurring deaths due to spurious liquor. Meanwhile, JD(U) national president and MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh categorically said there would be no relaxation in liquor ban and the existing excise law for prohibition would remain enforced strictly. “ With the excise law in place, action can be taken against liquor vendors manufacturing illicit liquor. Strict action would be taken against the culprits,” he said while taking potshots at the RJD’s first family and RJD chief Lalu Prasad for leaving Patna once the by-polls were.” Where were they when Covid pandemic had stuck,” he asked“The opposition parties shall not indulge in politics over the tragedies. The CM has already announced to review the situation in the coming weeks and see what is lacking,” said Neeraj Kumar, JD(U) spokesperson and MLC. He also questioned the logic behind the CLP leader Sharma’s contention of scrapping the liquor law and asked him to issue a formal request from the party to the government for lifting the prohibition law. “How can Sharma say like this, as the Congress party members are bound by the party’s oath not to take liquor,” asked the JD(U) MLC. BJP spokesman and national general secretary of the OBC front Nikhil Anand said that the government was firm on enforcing strict adherence to the prohibition laws. “Those found indulging in violating the laws have been penalised. Still, some illegal traders are being patronised by the opposition parties trying to prove that the law has completely failed in the state. Instead of issuing statements, opposition leaders shall abide by their commitment to make Bihar a liquor-free state,” said the BJP leader..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/oppn-ruling-party-play-blame-game-over-hooch-deaths-in-bihar-101636218509049.html
06-11-2021||Patna||Patna district admn to set up Covid test, vaccination centres at major Chhath ghats||Patna district administration has decided to set up temporary Covid-19 test and vaccination centres by deputing 90 teams of doctors and health workers at major Chhath ghats in the capital city. The four-day Chhath festival will begin on November 8 with ‘Nahaye Khaye’. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said, “Anticipating the footfall of unvaccinated people and those returning from other states for participating in the festival, we have decided to arrange for Covid testing and vaccination at major ghats to curb the spread of Covid-19. Temporary test cum vaccination centres will be set up at prominent Chhath ghats with help of the health department.” With just a couple of days left for the Chhath celebration, Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is making arrangements as quickly as possible for the timely completion of preparation. PMC staff are working overtime for levelling of ghats, repair of approach roads, cleanliness, lighting and decoration at all ghats and ponds. District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh along with engineers of the water resources department and municipal commissioner inspected ongoing preparations at ghats and water level of the river. Singh said, “Barricading of ghats will be completed latest by Sunday to prevent the entry of devotees in deep water. All ghats are being equipped with basic amenities like changing rooms, proper lights, toilets, watchtower and parking space for the convenience of devotees.” “Altogether 95 control rooms and 131 auxiliary control rooms are being set up for effective monitoring of crowd during the festival”, he said. The district administration has also appealed to senior citizens, children below 10 years and people suffering from fever or serious ailments not to visit ghats for the Chhath celebration given health safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-district-admn-to-set-up-covid-test-vaccination-centres-at-major-chhath-ghats-101636218507797.html
06-11-2021||Other||Bihar hooch deaths: Six more deaths take toll to 31||The death toll in suspected cases of hooch deaths in Bihar climbed to 31 on Saturday with six fresh casualties, two from Gopalganj and four from Samastipur districts, said police. Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar since April 2016.In Samastpur, four people, including two jawans, allegedly died after consuming spurious liquor at Rupali Chak of Patori block in Samsatipur on Friday night, said police.Two persons also fell ill and are currently undergoing treatment at different hospitals.However, the family members of the three deceased denied consumption of alcohol by the victims. DM, Samastipur, Shashank Shubhankar, said, “Four people died, but three families have denied consumption of liquor by the victims. We are waiting for their viscera report. Prima facie, it appears that liquor was the reason behind the incident. We also launched a drive to identify people who sat with them for consuming liquor,” he added.SP, M S Dhillon, Samsatipur, said, “Some bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) were also recovered during the search drive. The police are investigating the matter,” he added.The deceased persons have been identified as 27-year-old army jawan Mohan Kumar and 53-year-old BSF jawan Vinay Kumar Singh, besides one Shyam Nandan Choudhary (50) of Sangrampur and Virchandra Rai (35) of Rupali. Both jawans had come to their villages to celebrate Diwali and Chhath Puja.The incident came to notice when they complained about low vision on Friday night. During the investigation, the police got to know that all the victims had bought liquor from the same place.In Gopalganj, two persons died on Saturday allegedly due to spurious liquor.Anand Kumar, superintendent of police (SP), said that as many as 36 persons have been arrested in the past two days.Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate (DM), Gopalganj, said, “Sternest action will be taken against those found guilty. We have already identified the drinkers across the district with the help of chowkidars and police officials. A major drive has been launched to nab persons indulged in sale or consumption of liquor,” said DM Choudhary.Meanwhile, at Telhuwa village, where a total of 14 people have died so far due to suspected spurious liquor since November 4, the residents were inconsolable. “We had never visualised a day like this in our lives. This incident could have been averted had the local police acted against liquor traders, namely Munna Ram and Ram Prakash Ram,” said a villager Heera Lal Ram. Barely a few meters away, deceased Madan Ram’s wife Anita Devi at Dakshini Telhuwa village said her husband was a regular liquor consumer and had the same alcohol along with a few other villagers on the eve of Dipawali. A total of 14 people died in West Champaran, 13 in Gopalganj and four in Samastipur due to consumption of spurious alcohol, said the officials.In a related development, a joint team of Bettiah police and excise department conducted raids at 88 locations to look for over 2400 litres of raw materials for liquor manufacturing. “A total of 16 people were arrested,” said Upendra Nath Verma, superintendent of police (SP), Bettiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-hooch-deaths-six-more-deaths-take-toll-to-31-101636218506454.html
06-11-2021||Bhopal||Gwalior aircraft crash landing: MP govt suspends pilot||The Madhya Pradesh government has suspended its senior pilot Majid Akhtar for "serious negligence" that caused the crash landing of an aircraft at Gwalior airport on May 6 this year. The suspension order issued recently by MP Aviation Department Secretary M Selvendran stated that "serious negligence on the part of Captain Majid Akhtar resulted in damage to the plane and loss to the government". The Madhya Pradesh government had bought the aircraft, a seven-seater Beechcraft King Air B-200GT VT MPQ, from American company 'Textron Aviation' for over ₹65 crore last year. The order, in Hindi, further said Akhtar was not allowed to leave the headquarters Bhopal without prior permission and that he had been suspended under relevant sections of the Civil Services Rules. While Selevendra did not respond to calls, a top MP Aviation department, who did not wish to be identified, confirmed the development on Saturday. Earlier, in August, aviation safety regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had suspended the flying licence of Akhtar for a period of one year in connection with the crash landing. The state-owned B-200GT VT MPQ aircraf was bringing supplies of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug used in the treatment of COVID-19 patients, from Gujarat to Gwalior via Indore when it crash landed at around 9 pm on May 6 at the Gwalior airport, which has an Air Force base. The incident, in which the newly-purchased aircraft skidded and turned over to one side, resulted in major damage to the cockpit front, propeller blades, propeller hub and wheels, and had left Akhtar and co-pilot Shiv Jaiswal and one more person injured. The DGCA licence suspension letter had stated that Akhtar "flew the aircraft very low and failed to sight the arrester barrier" before the runway, adding that "the approach profile of the aircraft was not appropriate for landing in the touchdown zone and resulted in hitting the arrester barrier". The DGCA letter had further said Akhtar was issued a show case notice on July 1, and his explanation was found to be "not satisfactory". It said the crash landing took place due to a manual error and noted that Akhtar's actions not only jeopardised the safety of the aircraft, but were also in violation of the Aircraft Rules. The incident had reduced the plane to scrap, source said, while the opposition Congress, at the time, had said officials responsible for not insuring the aircraft, and thereby causing loss to the state exchequer, were being shielded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/gwalior-aircraft-crash-landing-mp-govt-suspends-pilot-101636218142907.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||Baba-Babua barbs resonate in war of words between CM Yogi, Akhilesh Yadav||Just a few months before the Uttar Pradesh assembly election, a war of words erupted between chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday.After Akhilesh Yadav called Yogi “Baba” at an event earlier in the day, Adityanath took a jibe at the SP chief and said, “Babua, ye Twitter hi vote bhi de dega (This twitter will give you votes).”The chief minister was in Akhilesh Yadav’s home district Etawah on Saturday late afternoon to inaugurate and lay foundations for projects worth about ₹475 crore. The projects he inaugurated included the Central jail in Etawah.Hours before, Yadav, referring to Yogi Adityanath, said, “Baba Mukhya Mantri should not contest an assembly seat, he is already on his way out.”The former chief minister often refers to Adityanath as “Baba” (an apparent allusion to Yogi’s position as the chief priest of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur). Babua was a term frequently used by Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati in the run-up to 2012 UP assembly polls to hit out at Akhilesh Yadav. At that time, Yadav often used to refer to Mayawati as bua (paternal aunt). Neither Mayawati nor Yadav uses these terms for each other anymore.At the Etawah function, Yogi hit out at Yadav for frequently accusing the BJP and him of “re-laying foundation stones and inaugurating or re-inaugurating previous SP government projects”.“I congratulate you all on the inauguration and foundation laying of a total of 21 development works in Etawah on the day of Bhaiya Dooj. It happens only in the BJP government that we lay the foundation and then inaugurate the projects. When the intent is not clean, dishonesty and corruption rule. Even if power is attained by deceit, and foundation stones are laid, the public doesn’t leave them in a state to inaugurate the projects,” said Yogi.“We lay the foundation in shubh muhurat (auspicious time), and then inaugurate them in shubh muhurat. The projects for which we laid foundation stones three years earlier, we are inaugurating them today,” he said.The chief minister also mentioned Ayodhya to attack the SP without directly naming it.“The glitters of the lamps of Ayodhya is shining the world over,” he said, adding that it was the same Ayodhya where people used to be scared to go earlier and where Rambhakts (devotees of Ram) were fired at (in 1990 when Akhilesh Yadav’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister).“I came here (Etawah) twice during corona but people of other parties were in home isolation when you were amid crisis. They should be confined to their homes even during polls. They need to be given replies to by people in this manner only. Tell them, ‘Babua, ye Twitter hi vote bhi de dega’,” he further said.Yogi also made reference to “kabristan (graveyard) boundary walls” and Yadav’s recent Jinnah remark.“Earlier, money used to be spent on kabristan boundary walls, now, money is spent on development projects. Someone is embracing mafia, while someone else is making Jinnah his ideal,” he said.While the comment about Jinnah was aimed at Akhilesh Yadav, the remark about embracing the mafia was apparently targeted at SP ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP). SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar had made a statement on November 3 saying if Mukhtar Ansari wants to contest the assembly polls then SBSP will give him a ticket. Rajbhar visited Ansari in Banda jail on November 2.Akhilesh Yadav, at a public meeting in Hardoi on October 31, said that leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel and Muhammad Ali Jinnah played a crucial role in India’s freedom struggle.In an obvious reference to the Samajwadi Party without naming it, Yogi said, “My family is the state’s 25 crore people, while for some their own clan was the state.”Although the SP has not reacted to Yogi’s visit to Etawah on Saturday, Yadav had said, “Okay. He must be coming to inaugurate some of the projects initiated by our government.”Akhilesh Yadav had made the remark during his visit to his ancestral village Saifai (in Etawah).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/babababua-barbs-resonate-in-war-of-words-between-cm-yogi-akhilesh-yadav-101636218207775.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Con man who duped 12, including former India cricketer, of ₹1.34 crore held||A south Delhi resident, who allegedly lured many to make investments after promising them high returns, was arrested for duping at least 12 persons, including a former India cricketer, the Delhi Police said on Saturday. Additional commissioner of police (economic offences wing) RK Singh said the suspect, Sameesh Chawla,53, was arrested in a case that the EOW had registered in September 2020, based on a woman’s complaint that Chawla and his partners had taken money from her and others, after promising them high returns, but later fled without returning the money. During the probe, police found that one of the persons that Chawla had allegedly duped was a former India cricketer, who had invested around ₹25 lakh, in the hopes of getting high returns. Police said Chawla had allegedly duped the victims to the tune of ₹1.34 crore. “Investigation revealed that Chawla and his family members used to lure people residing in their neighbourhood to invest with them after promising higher returns. The amount was received in cash as well as through banking channels. After taking the money, the accused persons neither paid the principal amount nor any interest to the investors. Our police team arrested Chawla from Mehrauli on Friday. Further investigation is under way,” said the additional CP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhicon-man-who-duped-12-including-former-india-cricketer-of-1-34-crore-held-101636217966268.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||War of words erupts between Yogi Adityanath and Akhilesh Yadav||A few months before the Uttar Pradesh assembly election, a war of words erupted between chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday.After Akhilesh Yadav called Yogi “Baba” at an event earlier in the day, Adityanath took a jibe at the SP chief and said: “Babua, ye Twitter hi vote bhi de dega (This twitter will give you votes).”The chief minister was in Akhilesh Yadav’s home district Etawah on Saturday late afternoon to inaugurate and lay foundations for projects worth about ₹475 crore. The projects he inaugurated included the Central jail in Etawah.Hours before, Akhilesh, referring to Yogi Adityanath, had said: “Baba Mukhya Mantri should not contest an assembly seat, he is already on his way out.”Akhilesh often refers to Adityanath as “Baba” (an apparent allusion to Yogi’s position as the chief priest of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur). Babua was a term frequently used by Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati in the run-up to 2012 UP assembly polls to hit out at Akhilesh Yadav. At that time, Akhilesh Yadav often used to refer to Mayawati as bua (paternal aunt). Neither Mayawati nor Akhilesh uses Babua and Bua for each other anymore.At the Etawah function, Yogi Adityanath hit out at Akhilesh Yadav for frequently accusing the BJP and him of “re-laying foundation stones and inaugurating or re-inaugurating previous SP government projects”.“I congratulate you all on the inauguration and foundation of a total of 21 development works in Etawah on the day of Bhaiya Dooj. It happens only in the BJP government that we lay the foundation and then inaugurate the projects. When the intent is not clean, dishonesty and corruption rule. Even if power is attained by deceit, and foundation stones are laid, the public doesn’t leave them in a state to inaugurate the projects,” said Yogi Adityanath.“We lay the foundation in shubh muhurat (auspicious time), and then inaugurate them in shubh muhurat. The projects for which we had laid foundation stones three years earlier, we are inaugurating them today,” he said.The chief minister also mentioned Ayodhya to attack the SP without directly naming it.“The glitters of the lamps of Ayodhya is shining the world over,” Yogi Adityanath said, adding that it was the same Ayodhya where people used to be scared to go earlier and where Rambhakts (devotees of Ram) were fired at (in 1990 when Akhilesh Yadav’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister).“I had come here (Etawah) twice during corona. But people of other parties were in home isolation e when you were in a crisis. They should be confined to their homes even during polls. They need to be given replies to by people in this manner only. Tell them, ‘Babua, ye Twitter hi vote bhi de dega’,” he further said.Apart from raking up the “Ayodhya firing” against SP, Yogi also made reference to “kabristan (graveyard) boundary walls” and “Jinnah” against Akhilesh.“Earlier money used to be spent on kabristan boundary walls, now money is spent on development projects. Someone is embracing mafia, while someone else is making Jinnah his ideal,” Yogi Adityanath said.While the comment about Jinnah was aimed at Akhilesh Yadav, the remark about embracing the mafia apparently targeted at SP ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP). SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar had made a statement on November 3 that if Mukhtar Ansari wants to contest the assembly polls, then SBSP will give him a ticket. Rajbhar had visited Ansari in Banda jail on November 2.Akhilesh Yadav, at a public meeting in Hardoi on October 31, had said that leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel and Muhammad Ali Jinnah had played a role in India’s freedom struggle.In an obvious reference to the Samajwadi Party without naming it, Yogi said, “My family is the state’s 25 crore people, while for some their own clan was the state.”Although the SP has not responded to Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Etawah on Saturday, when the chief minister’s trip to Etawah was announced on Wednesday, Akhilesh Yadav had said: “Okay. He must be coming to inaugurate some of the projects initiated by our government.”Akhilesh Yadav had made the remark during his visit to his ancestral village Saifai (in Etawah).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/war-of-words-erupts-between-yogi-adityanath-and-akhilesh-yadav-101636217666320.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad high court for expeditious examination of viscera samples to avoid delay in investigation||The Allahabad high court has taken a serious note of delay in submission of viscera reports affecting investigation of criminal cases. The court directed the Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP), and the secretary (home) of the state government to take up this issue for expeditious examination of viscera samples to help the investigating agencies so that it does not become an impediment before the courts in deciding matters.The Allahabad high court was hearing a bail application filed by one Tahir Khan of Jhansi district in Uttar Pradesh.Justice Samit Gopal observed, “The examination of viscera is also an integral part of investigation which may provide a link regarding the cause of death or give a lead in the matter. In so far as the offence is concerned, the delay in examination of viscera and due to the same being wanting, the investigating agency forwards reports under the criminal procedure code before the court concerned, on which the courts take cognizance and proceed with the matter and then at some stage the report of viscera is supplemented as document of investigation. In totality of circumstances, investigation remains lacking in the event of non-receipt of report of chemical examiner.”“The delay in examination of viscera is seen not only in this case, but in many other cases. Result is thus that the opinion of the investigating officer is lacking in so far as the opinion of experts with regards to viscera is concerned. It is observed that there is no method evolved till date for speedy analysis of viscera so that the investigation may be completed in one go and a report may be filed after its conclusion in whatsoever nature it may be,” observed the Allahabad high court.Fixing November 11, 2021 as the next date of hearing, the court directed the additional government advocate (AGA) to communicate this order to the officers concerned for its compliance and necessary action.A viscera report is prepared to determine the cause of death in suspicious circumstances, where autopsies are inconclusive. A viscera examination tests the internal organs to rule out poisoning or any other abnormality in cases of suspicious death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-high-court-for-expeditious-examination-of-viscera-samples-to-avoid-delay-in-investigation-101636217546223.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP launches fresh attack on Akhilesh Yadav over Jinnah remarks||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday launched a fresh attack on Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav over his remarks on Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan.The attack came after Akhilesh Yadav, in an interview to a news channel, advised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to read history. He made the comment when asked to clear the air on his Jinnah remarks that sparked off a political controversy with the BJP seeking an apology from the SP chief. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh tagged a video clip of Yadav’s interview and tweeted: “The love for Jinnah is intact. @yadavakhilesh ji you want to read history books of India or Pakistan?” In the video clip, the interviewer of the news channel is asking Akhilesh Yadav if he would like to clear the context of his remarks on Jinnah. “No, why should I clear the context? I would say that they should read the books again,” Akhilesh Yadav said. On October 31, Akhilesh Yadav, while addressing a public meeting in Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh, had said that leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel and Muhammad Ali Jinnah had played a role in India’s freedom struggle. The remark saw BJP leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath, targeting Akhilesh Yadav and seeking an apology from him. UP minister Anand Swaroop Shukla on Saturday said Akhilesh Yadav should get a narcotics test done for glorifying Jinnah. “SP chief Akhilesh Yadav making a statement on Muhammad Ali Jinnah is not a common incident… Jinnah is responsible for the division of the country. Jinnah is a villain, who no Indian would like to see or listen to. Akhilesh Yadav must clarify as to under which pressure, greed, is he glorifying Jinnah?” Shukla said to reporters. “I want Akhilesh Yadav to himself come forward, and get his narco test done,” Shukla said. He further said that those heaping praises on Jinnah should go to Pakistan. According to a PTI report from Ballia in eastern Uttar Pradesh, the Samajwadi Party has demanded the sacking of UP Minister Anand Swaroop Shukla for making controversial remarks against Akhilesh Yadav.The SP also demanded that a case be registered against Shukla for “insulting” Yadav and for “spreading animosity” in the society.Uttar Pradesh minister of state for parliamentary affairs Shukla had also accused Yadav of getting economic support from ISI – the Pakistan spy agency.On Friday, SP workers staged a protest at the district collectorate building in Ballia to demand the registration of a case against the minister.SP’s Ballia district unit chief Raj Mangal Yadav said there will be intense protests, and the minister will not be allowed to enter Ballia if the administration doesn’t take action against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-launches-fresh-attack-on-akhilesh-yadav-over-jinnah-remarks-101636217368439.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||CSMT’s restaurant on wheels a hit; 10 more to come up in Maharashtra||After the city’s first ‘restaurant on wheels’ started at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), received a good response, the railways are now planning to open 10 more such restaurants in the state.Mumbai may also get two more ‘restaurants on wheels’ in the coming days at Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) and Kalyan.“The response from people to the restaurant has been overwhelming. Some people wait and also pre-book for larger groups. We will be introducing the restaurant on other railway stations soon,” said a senior CR official.According to the Central Railway (CR), on average 500 people visit the restaurant daily, of which, 100 people wait forming queues outside the restaurant. This has led the CR to plan to open another eight ‘restaurants on wheels’ at Neral, Igatpuri, Lonavala, Nagpur, Miraj, Chinchwad, Baramati and Akurdi stations in Maharashtra, the officials said.Nearly 10,000 visitors have visited the restaurant at CSMT from the day it was inaugurated on October 18. The 24x7-operational restaurant has been opened at the P’D Mello entrance of the terminus. It can accommodate 40 guests and has 10 tables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-plans-to-start-10-more-restaurant-on-wheels-in-maharashtra-101636217366880.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah to lay foundation stone of university in Azamgarh on November 13||Union home minister Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone of a state university in Azamgarh on November 13 in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, UP BJP executive member Jainath Singh said on Saturday.Amit Shah will reach Varanasi on November 12 and visit Azamgarh the next day where he will also address a public meeting. The university will come up on 52-acre land which has been acquired for the purpose in Azamgarh.Jainath Singh, who is also the BJP’s former Azamgarh district unit president, said preparations for Amit Shah’s visit were under way. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Azamgarh on Friday (November 5) in this connection.After coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP government had assured the local people that a university would be set up in Azamgarh, considered to be stronghold of the Samajwadi Party.Political analyst Kaushal Kishore Mishra, professor at the department of political science, Banaras Hindu University, said, “People of Azamgarh have been demanding the university since the mid-seventies when Ramnaresh Yadav was the chief minister of UP. Different political parties remained in power in UP one after another over the last four decades, but the demand remained unfulfilled. Now, the BJP government is going to fulfil the demand by laying the foundation of the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-university-in-azamgarh-on-november-13-101636217246317.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: NCR transport body fined ₹50,000 for dust at RRTS site in Anand Vihar||The Shahdara south division of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Saturday imposed a fine of ₹50,000 against the Anand Vihar project of the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) for not having sufficient measures to control dust emissions at the site. The officials said the penalised project is the construction of the Rapid Rail Transit System (RRTS) by the NCRTC near the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal (ISBT). They said the site had insufficient machinery and manpower to undertake dust mitigation measures, which was causing pollution. Neeraj Kumar, junior engineer, Shahdara south division, EDMC, who issued the fine under Section 491 of the DCC Act, said the NCRTC has been directed to pay compensation of ₹50,000 for polluting the environment. “The fine is to be paid by banked cheque or demand draft, drawn in favour of commissioner, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, within five days at the zonal office building. Since the offending construction was found in a plot area of more than 500 square metres, the environmental compensation was kept at ₹50,000,” he said. All the prescribed guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to mitigate pollution are being religiously followed at all RRTS construction sites, including Anand Vihar, the NCRTC said in a statement.“Anti-smog guns are operational round the clock to curb the dust, apart from regular sprinkling of water to settle the dust. Excavated soil and construction material are duly kept covered. C&D waste is being disposed of as per prescribed norms. Mechanized cleaning of roads through brooming machines is being done on a regular basis. High-pressure tyre washing facilities are also in operation to remove mud and dust from heavy truck tyres. The site is duly barricaded (2 to 4 mt height) near the smog tower at Anand Vihar to isolate it, the NCRTC further said..“A dedicated team of environment and safety experts is duly monitoring these steps round the clock to ensure their effectiveness,” it added.Delhi’s air has been in the severe category of the air quality index since Diwali ( November 4), owing to a sharp increase in stubble burning in neighbouring and large-scale violations of the firecracker ban in Delhi on Diwali. The Delhi government on Saturday dispatched over 100 water tankers to sprinkle water on the roads to mitigate dust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhincr-transport-body-fined-50-000-for-dust-at-rrts-site-in-anand-vihar-101636216286227.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Fire Brigade gets 39 calls due to firecrackers; number slightly up than 2020||Even as the number of fire calls due to firecrackers in the city slightly increased this year, as compared to 2020, they have not reached the pre-Covid-19 levels, reveals the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) data. This indicates a possible trend of lesser citizens bursting crackers this year.According to the data provided by MFB, it received a total of 142 calls between November 1 and 4 during Diwali, this year. Of these, 39 calls were due to firecrackers. In the corresponding period last year, the MFB received a total of 155 calls, of which, 35 were due to firecrackers.The data further revealed that in 2019, before the outbreak of Covid-19, it received a total of 173 calls, of which, 47 were due to firecrackers, followed by 246 calls in 2018, of which 50 calls were fire-related due to firecrackers.A week ago, the Maharashtra government had issued guidelines for Diwali celebrations in the state, urging people not to burst crackers. The state government had issued directives keeping the air pollution and Covid-19 in mind. Many states have put a ban on the bursting of firecrackers to keep the pollution level under control.Hemant Parab, chief fire officer of the MFB said, “The number of calls related to fire due to firecrackers has gone down due to awareness and timely intervention.” Further, MFB officials said all the incidents due to firecrackers were minor in nature and there were no casualties due to the same. Officials added that all the firefighting calls were timely attended and there were no untoward incidents.Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), had said that owing to changing geography and increasing traffic the peak response time of the fire brigade to attend a call has gone up to 20 minutes, which ideally should be around six to seven minutes. Owing to this, the BMC had recently purchased 24 fire bikes that can reach the spot of the call quickly and take firefighting measures, until the fire tankers reach the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-brigade-gets-39-calls-due-to-firecrackers-number-slightly-up-than-2020-101636216226208.html
06-11-2021||Gurugram||Namaz row: Muslim group says ready to rent space in Gurugram for prayers, seek admin help||Gurugram: A day after right-wing Hindu groups organised Govardhan Puja at a designated namaz site in Gurugram Sector 12 to protest against Friday prayers in public spaces, members of the Muslim community, which formed a 21-member committee on Saturday to resolve the ongoing issue, said that they are ready to take up spaces on rent for their prayers and sought the help of the district authorities for the same.Members of the committee said five of their representatives will meet the Gurugram deputy commissioner on Monday to discuss their action plan.“We are ready to take up places on rent to offer namaz but then the residents of the area should not have any problems. We need the support of the government and administration to offer namaz peacefully,” said president of the Jamiat Ulama, Gurugram, Mufti Mohammad Saleem, who is also part of the 21-member committee under the leadership of former Rajya Sabha member Mohammad Adeeb.He said the committee held several meetings with community members and will share their plan of action on Monday after the meeting with the administration. A meeting was held at Idgah and Sushant Lok-1 on Saturday where a large number of Muslim community members participated and discussed the issue.“We have taken representation from Muslims staying across various sectors of Gurugram and Manesar so that we can work on finding solutions wherever they are facing challenges in offering Juma Namaz,” said Altaf Ahmad, a member of Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch and a member of the committee. Ahmad further said that there are two major issues that need to be addressed: “Firstly, the district administration should get all the Waqf Board properties cleared of encroachers so that namaz can be offered there. Secondly, until we are given designated sites, we should be allowed to offer namaz in the open as we are only offering prayers and do not want to hurt anyone’s sentiments.”Members said that they will also seek an appointment with Haryana chief minister and appeal to him to grant them land for building mosques in Gurgaon as per town planning guidelines. “We will also request for stern action against those who are working towards disturbing the communal harmony of Gurugram.” said Ahmad, adding that they are also seeking appointments with deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Ahmad pointed out that they were forced to offer namaz in the open because the city lacked mosques, particularly in newer parts of the city. “We have requested the administration to provide us land in different parts of the city so that we can build mosques. But till that happens, the authorities must ensure that namaz is offered peacefully and no one is allowed to create a disturbance,” he said. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gururgam, said that the administration will hold meetings with both communities before coming up with a solution this month. “We do not want to take any decision in haste, so we are working on all possible solutions to resolve the problem. The members of the Muslim community are meeting me on Monday and they want to discuss some plans to offer namaz at some sites,” he said.Muslim members said they did not visit the Sector 12 site on Friday to avoid confrontation with right-wing Hindu groups who participated in Govardhan puja at the namaz site on Friday. Meanwhile, Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, the legal advisor for Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, a Hindu group which organised the Govardhan puja at Sector 12 on Friday, said that they will not disrupt namaz at any location for a month. “They have 30 days to make arrangements but once the deadline is over we will not let anyone offer namaz in open.,” he said. Over the past two weeks, right-wing outfits had tried to disrupt namaz at the open site in Sector 12 and on October 29, 35 protesters were detained for attempting to disrupt Friday prayers. Representatives of the Muslim community had agreed to relocate from the site, calling for an alternative space and clearing encroachments from Waqf Board properties.A few days ago, police and administration withdrew permission for offering namaz at 8 out 37 designated sites. Police had earlier issued a statement saying that permission for namaz at the remaining designated sites could be withdrawn if local residents raise objections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-row-muslim-group-says-ready-to-rent-space-in-gurugram-for-prayers-seek-admin-help-101636214490233.html
06-11-2021||Other||Activists raise questions on arrest of 8 alleged Maoists by Sukma police||Raising questions on the arrest of eight alleged Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district, human rights activists and tribal bodies on Saturday claimed they were innocent tribals and were returning from the Silger protest on November 2, officials said.On Saturday, Sukma police claimed that eight Maoists, six of them collectively carrying a reward of ₹17 lakh on their heads, were arrested from a forest near Morpalli village under Chintalnar police station limits on Thursday during an “area domination operation” of the CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), an elite unit of the CRPF, and the District Force of police.Police said that they arrested Kawasi Raju alias Santu, a battalion member, and Kalmu Mada (25), a militia company commander, who were carrying rewards of ₹8 lakh and ₹5 lakh respectively. Others arrested included Komram Kanna (38), Madkam Hidma (29), Tursam Mudraj (45) and Madkam Enka (25), who carried rewards of ₹1 lakh each; and Madkam Soma (32) and Madkam Mutta (40).Police further claimed that security forces also recovered 35 detonators, six gelatin rods, two Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), batteries, wires and other materials from their possession, the SP said. On Saturday, Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist working in the Bastar region, in a press conference on the arrests, claimed that those arrested were innocent tribals.Bhatia released a press note in which she stated, “ The Mool Niwasi Bachao Manch held an Aam Sabha on November 1 as part of a long drawn protest against police camps in Silger in which many lawyers, activists and other prominent people participated. People from far off places of Sukma also came to take part in the protest. On November 2, 55 people took their bicycles and started returning home. They were intercepted in the forests of Morpalli by approximately 150 policemen and were taken to Chintalnar police station. Out of 55, eight have been booked under the arms and explosives act while the rest of them were released. Of the released 47, one woman is still missing and hasn’t returned to her family.”“When I met them, those eight people reiterated that they weren’t presented in front of the magistrate on November 5 which is a clear violation of the law. They have been framed in a false case and we demand their immediate release,” the letter further read.Meanwhile, district police said that the allegations against the security forces are baseless and the tribals were rescued by eight Maoists who were arrested by police.“The police actually rescued the innocent tribals from the Maoists... The eight arrested Maoists were forcibly taking these villagers to various meetings and protests. The arrested Maoists were found with explosives and were booked under the arms and explosives act. When the security forces intercepted them the Maoists started running and that’s when the CoBRA apprehended them,” said Superintendent of Police, Sukma, Sunil Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/activists-raise-questions-on-arrest-of-8-alleged-maoists-by-sukma-police-101636214428783.html
06-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Call centre staff robbed of ₹2 lakh through digital transactions, 7 booked||Gurugram: The city police have booked seven unidentified men for allegedly robbing over ₹2 lakh through digital transactions from a 26-year-old call centre employee at knife-point when she was walking to Huda City Centre Metro station on Wednesday.According to police, the victim, a resident of Shahdara in Delhi, who works in a call centre dealing with delivery of flower and gifts in Sector 44, allegedly left the office around 6pm on Wednesday and was walking towards the Metro station when the seven men allegedly intercepted her in the middle of the road. Police said they are still looking through CCTV footage from several spots in Sector 44 to establish the crime.“Due to Diwali holiday, we could not recover any CCTV footage immediately and teams were sent on Friday to check the footage. The victim is seen walking but the suspects are not visible anywhere. She was probably in an isolated stretch which is not covered under any surveillance,” said Jasvir Singh, station house officer of Sushant Lok police station.According to the Singh, the victim alleged that one of the suspects asked her to hand over all the cash from her bag. “She said another one snatched her bag, took out ₹500 and then snatched her laptop. She pleaded with them to return it following which they took her at knifepoint and forced her to transfer money through her mobile phone,” he said. The victim claimed that they forced her to enter password for digital payments application and transferred ₹2,13,500 in this manner.Singh said that according to the victim, the suspects then returned her mobile phone after which she walked up to the Metro station and immediately blocked all her accounts to ensure they don’t misuse it. Police have registered a case under section 395 (dacoity) of Indian Penal Code at Sushant Lok police station against unidentified suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugramcall-centre-staff-robbed-of-2-lakh-through-digital-transactions-7-booked-101636214005982.html
06-11-2021||Gurugram||Two days after shooting at family gathering in Manesar, 4 teams formed to trace suspects||Gurugram: Two days after two people were killed and four others were severely injured in a shooting at a family gathering in Manesar’s Kasan village, police on Saturday said that they have formed four teams from IMT Manesar police station to trace the group of 10 people from a rival gang allegedly behind the attack.Police have identified Yogender, alias Rinku, the kingpin of a rival gang, as the mastermind and one of the attackers involved in the shooting. Crime investigation units were also looking for suspects at different locations identified using technical and human intelligence.Police said the incident took place at the residence of a former sarpanch (village head), identified as Gopal, around 8pm on Thursday, when his extended family was visiting them on the occasion of Diwali. A pet dog owned by the family was also shot at in the firing.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said some of the suspects were masked and could not be identified but four of them were regular visitors of that area. “We are also scanning the call details of the suspects and are checking CCTV footage from different locations. Our teams have recovered some crucial leads and we are hoping to arrest them at the earliest,” he said. Sangwan said the incident was captured in the CCTV cameras installed inside and outside the house but as the family members could not remember the system password, it was taking time to retrieve the footage.Police claimed that the two groups were allies in criminal activities before their relations soured in 2007, when Gopal’s sons, Balram and Sohanpal, allegedly murdered Rinku’s brother Manoj.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that over the years, the two groups were involved in a fight to establish supremacy in the area.“Balram and Sohanpal shot dead Manoj in 2007 while they were out on bail and since then Rinku was waiting to take revenge. On Thursday night, when all the family members were busy, Rinku and his associates barged into the house and shot indiscriminately at the six members,” he said. Police believe the suspects may have fled to Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-days-after-shooting-at-family-gathering-in-manesar-4-teams-formed-to-trace-suspects-101636213945881.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Who all are most vulnerable to Delhi’s pollution? Doctors answer||As Delhi’s air quality continues to remain in the “severe” category two days after Diwali, medical experts have expressed concerns regarding the situation causing serious health conditions, especially because of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The national capital’s air quality began taking a tumble starting Thursday 9pm when it reached the “hazardous” category as people of Delhi refrained from obeying the blanket ban on firecrackers imposed by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government. Although the air quality index (AQI) improved to reach the “severe” category, it is far from being healthy.The central government-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) has predicted that the air quality is likely to improve to “very poor” category from tonight considering no more firecrackers are burnt. However, stubble burning that is also a primary cause of the frightening air quality situation in Delhi, has been predicted to remain almost the same.Also Read | Brace for bitter cold and high pollution this winterAs an emergency step to bring down the pollution level, the Delhi government on Saturday stopped as many as 92 construction sites for flouting norms and began spraying water on roads.According to data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI in Chandni Chowk was recorded at 442 at 8pm, at 442 in IGI Airport, at 442 in ITO Airport, at 456 in Okhla Phase-2, at 454 in Punjabi Bagh, at 451 in Patparganj, at 453 in Rohini, and at 437 in Sirifort, among others.When the air quality is at such an alarming level, it can lead to severe cases of Covid-19, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria told news agency ANI.He added that air pollution has “huge effects” on respiratory health in general, and especially in people with lung ailments and Asthma.Also Read | Stubble burning emissions account for 36% of Delhi’s pollution: SAFAREchoing Dr Guleria, chairman-MD of Medanta, Dr Naresh Trehan said that such worse pollution levels will cause every individual to suffer. He told ANI that people are complaining about “headaches, breathing problems, especially [those] with Asthma and lung problems.”Dr Trehan further explained that young children are vulnerable and the “severe” category air quality in Delhi can affect their brain development. “Hospital is full of patients, so this is a difficult phase for us. Every year we face this problem but fail to address or correct it,” he added to ANI.Terming the current air quality in the national capital to be “dangerous”, Dr Ashok Seth, chairman of Fortis Escorts Heart Institute said that the AQI levels are especially worse for the elderly and those with lung issues and heart diseases. “Pollution itself leads to chest congestion and bronchospasm. Those with Asthma, Bronchitis will start getting worse,” he told ANI.Dr Seth further stated that such extreme pollution predisposes patients with Asthma and Bronchitis to “further chest infections, viral infections and cases of pneumonia.”He recommended old people to stay indoors, get vaccinated against flu and also use air purifiers at home continuously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/who-all-are-most-vulnerable-to-delhi-s-pollution-doctors-answer-101636212851848.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||11 dead in blaze in Covid ICU ward in Ahmednagar||At least 11 elderly Covid-positive patients, including four women, admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the civil hospital in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district died in a fire on Saturday morning. The fire broke out at 11 am in the ground floor of the hospital where 17 patients were admitted, at least 15 of whom were on ventilator or oxygen support. While 10 patients died in the blaze, one person who was critically injured succumbed after being rescued.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe into the incident, and the state health minister Rajesh Tope has announced an ex-gratia amount of ₹5 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased persons.The district collector said that pending official investigation the fire was likely caused by a short circuit.“There were 17 Covid patients admitted [to the ICU] when the fire broke out at around 11 am. Eleven out of the 17 have lost their lives. A short circuit seems to be the possible cause of the incident,” Ahmednagar collector Rajendra Bhosale said.The hospital has two wings of ICU — on the ground and second floor. The fire broke out on the ground floor ward which only housed Covid-19 patients, officials confirmed. No other casualties have been reported from any of the other wards.Of the 17 persons admitted, 15 were on ventilator or oxygen in the ICU. “Saving them was the priority. But due to their critical condition, to remove the oxygen support and bring them out was a tough decision,” said one fire brigade official. There was a lot of smoke which the patients would have inhaled and which led to their death, officials said.“After discussion, we decided to bring them out anyhow and later put them back on oxygen or other support systems,” he added.Fire brigade officials said that all patients in the ICU, which was set up barely 18 months ago, were badly injured and were shifted to another room immediately as firemen brought the fire under control by 1.30 pm.“The chief minister spoke to the district guardian minister Hasan Mushrif and chief secretary (Sitaram Kunte) and asked to ensure those needing medical attention won’t have to face any difficulties. He also ordered the district collector (Rajendra Bhosale) to conduct a detailed probe of the incident and submit a report,” a statement issued by the CM’s office said.The hospital had carried out a fire audit earlier this year, but a lack of funds prevented the management from installing all necessary fire safety equipment, Shankar Misal, chief fire officer of Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation, said.The audit carried out by the fire brigade department between the last week of January and the first week of February recommended that an effective firefighting system, including a sprinkler system and a pipeline should be installed in the hospital, though the hospital had fire extinguishers.Union minister of state for Health and Family Welfare Bharati Pawar visited the hospital on Saturday and met the met six patients who were undergoing treatment as well as their relatives.The Central government sends instructions regarding the fire safety audit (to hospitals) regularly. “We are awaiting reports. Accordingly, action will be taken against the guilty,” she said.The deceased, aged between 55 and 85, have been identified as Sitaram Dagdu Jadhav (83), Ramkisan Vithhal Harpude ( 70), Satyabhama Shivaji Ghodchoure (65) , Kadubal Gangadhar Khatik ( 65), Shivaji Sadashiv Pawar ( 82), Deepak Vishwanath Jedgule (57) , Kondiba Madhukar (70), Asrabai Nangre ( 58), and Chabibi Ahmed Sayyed (65).“Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a hospital in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter“Very shocking & disturbing news from Nagar,” posted Fadnavis from his personal handle on Twitter. “My deepest condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in the Nagar civil hospital ICU fire incident. Praying for the speedy recovery of the injured. An in-depth inquiry should be conducted and strict action should be taken against all responsible people,” leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis also tweeted.Saturday’s fire follows a spate of similar incidents in Maharashtra hospitals. On April 21, 24 Covid patients on life support died at a municipal hospital in Nashik after a leak in a medical oxygen tank. The same month, at a time when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak, 15 Covid patients died as fire engulfed the ICU ward of the Vijay Vallabh Hospital in Virar, around 60 km from Mumbai. The previous month, 11 Covid positive patients died in a fire at a hospital in the eastern suburb of Bhandup in Mumbai. The fire broke out in a mall in which the Covid-designated hospital was housed. The dead included those on ventilator support. In January, 10 newborn infants died in the Sick Newborn Care Unit of the district hospital in Bhandara after a fire began in radiant warmer control panel and melted the central oxygen pipe.The incidents and the criticism that ensued led the state to issue a formal notification in August, placing the onus of fire safety audits on the hospitals, both private and government-run, including those which were dedicated Covid hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/11-dead-in-blaze-in-covid-icu-ward-in-ahmednagar-101636213405918.html
06-11-2021||Other||Explosive found near Assam-Mizoram border in Cachar||Fresh tension erupted near Assam-Mizoram inter-state border after explosives along with a detonator were found near a construction work in Assam’s Cachar district on Saturday, officials said.Superintendent of police, Cachar district, Ramandeep Kaur confirmed that the explosive was kept near a drain in Khulcherra area and had a detonator attached to it. She also informed that a bomb squad, along with a team of police, rushed to the spot and have been trying to find if there were more explosives planted around the area. Talking to Hindustan Times, Ramandeep Kaur said, “A bridge is under construction at Khulcherra area near the inter-state border under a scheme of Assam government. We got information that the explosive was kept near a drain and it has a detonator attached with it. Our bomb squad is verifying if there are more explosives planted near the construction site.”Answering a question whether this planting of explosives has any connection with Mizoram, she said, “Though it has been found near Mizoram border, we cannot come to any conclusion without verification.”Additional SP of Cachar district, Subrata Sen, along with officer incharge of Dholai police station Sahab Uddin and other officials of the police department, were also at the spot. Sen initially verified the packet found near the bridge and confirmed that it contained suspected explosives. In a similar case, an explosive blast took place near the inter-state border last Tuesday in Hailakandi district’s Ramanathpur Area. An Indian Reserve Battalion (IRBN) personnel of Mizoram was arrested in Assam for his alleged connection with the blast.“During the investigation, we found that the Mizoram miscreants used detonating cord for blasting the explosive. We have arrested one Mizoram citizen named Laldintwanga for involvement in the blast,” the Hailakandi SP said.There has been a long-standing dispute regarding the right to the land between Assam and Mizoram. In the last year, several schools near the inter-state border on Assam’s side have been bombed by miscreants. Assam has always blamed Mizoram for these incidents but Mizoram denied it. The dispute between the two states turned ugly on July 26 after police forces of both the states opened fire on each other. Six Assam Police personnel died in that incident and over 70, including an IPS officer, sustained injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/explosive-found-near-assam-mizoram-border-in-cachar-101636213047619.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh sent to judicial custody till Nov 19||A holiday court on Saturday rejected the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) plea for extension of custody of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, and remanded the 72-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader to 14 days judicial custody till November 19. Deshmukh, arrested by ED on November 2 in connection with a money-laundering case against him, was sent to Arthur Road jail in south central Mumbai. Shortly after his medical check-up at the state-run JJ Hospital, Deshmukh was produced before a special holiday court on Saturday, the day his ED custody ended. The agency sought extension of his custody for confronting the NCP leader along with some other persons, including his son Hrishikesh, summoned for questioning in connection with the case. Appearing for the agency, additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted that the probe so far has revealed that Deshmukh and his family was directly or indirectly controlled 27 companies and used these entities to launder money by creating a complex web of transactions. ED’s application seeking extension of Deshmukh’s remand stated that the money has flown from personal accounts of Deshmukh family members to these companies and an amount of Rs. 9.8 crore was laundered to one of these entities – M/s Zodiac Dealcom – through 18 Kolkata-based shell companies.Singh added that Deshmukh himself was involved in the money-laundering, but he has been giving evasive answers to the questions put to him by the investigators and sought extension of his custody to find out the entire money trail. Deshmukh’s counsels Vikram Chaudhri and Aniket Nikam opposed the plea. “The present remand application is a photocopy of the first remand application,” they said. “The investigations of the agency seems to not have progressed at all, the same grounds are shown to seek further custody of Deshmukh. Besides, the grounds are vague.” They also pointed out that Deshmukh had appeared before the agency to prove his bona fides and that the agency has attached some of Deshmukh’s assets purchased in 2005 and 2006, claiming that those were bought while he was the home minister and that the ED was stretching its probe “way beyond the scope of the allegations against him.”ED had registered the money-laundering case against Deshmukh on May 11 this year on the basis of an April 21 First Information Report (FIR) of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which in turn was based on allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.In a letter written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh alleged that Deshmukh had instructed certain Mumbai police officers to collect an amount of ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai’s restaurants and bars. ED’s lawyers pointed out that the agency’s probe revealed that, on Deshmukh’s instructions, Sachin Vaze – an assistant police inspector in Mumbai – had called a meeting of bar owners, and that, between December 2020 and February 2021 collected ₹4.7 crore from the owners of so-called orchestra bars in Mumbai to avoid police interference. In his statement to ED, Vaze reportedly revealed that he handed over the “extorted money” in two instalments to Deshmukh’s aide Kundan Shinde. Subsequently, they said, Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh received an amount of ₹4.18 crore routed through Delhi-based shell entities as donations to a Deshmukh-led charitable trust, Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur. On June 26, ED had arrested Shinde and Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande in the money laundering case, and on August 23, filed a charge sheet against them. Vaze is also an accused in the charge sheet. In July 2021, ED has provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties worth ₹4.2 crore, which included the NCP leader’s residential flat at Worli, valued at ₹ 1.54 crore, and 25 land parcels worth ₹2.67 crore, at Dhutum village in neighbouring Raigad district,” said an ED officer. The properties were held in name Deshmukh’s wife Aarti and a company named Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd. ED officers said Deshmukh family had acquired 50% ownership in this company, including its assets i.e. land and shops valued at approximately ₹5.34 crore by paying just ₹17.95 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/former-maharashtra-minister-anil-deshmukh-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-nov-19-101636212805706.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Virar hospital fire: Charges yet to be framed in blaze that killed 15||Police have filed a charge sheet filed against three directors of Vijay Vallabh Hospital.The Arnala Coastal police have filed a 1,850 page-charge sheet and submitted it to the court. However, no charges have been framed as yet. A fire broke out in the dawn of April 23 dawn at the Vijay Vallabh Hospital in Virar. Fifteen Covid-19 patients were charred to death. Senior inspector Pramod Badakh of the Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commissionerate confirmed that a charge sheet was filed in mid-July naming the directors and owners of the hospital: Bastimal Shah, his son Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah and Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak.The three accused were held under Sections 304 (causing death by negligence),337 and 338 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of others) and moved the high court after the Vasai sessions court rejected their bail applications. They received bail in mid-May, Vishwajeet Mohite, counsel for the defence confirmed.The Vasai court observed that six fire extinguishers of the 14 installed fire extinguishers were not working and the hospital management had not renewed the working permits of the rest. TheMaharashtra State Electricity Distribution Limited (MSEDCL) report submitted to the court also noted that the hospital was not running on optimum power usage. The Vasai court will frame charges and the trial will commence soon, Badakh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/virar-hospital-fire-charges-yet-to-be-framed-in-blaze-that-killed-15-101636212025703.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai gets light rains after Diwali||A low-pressure area, which formed over the Arabian Sea on November 2, brought light rains to Mumbai city and suburbs on Friday. However, the showers were not enough to dispel the post-Diwali day spike in air pollution. The same was the case in Pune city a day earlier, which recorded ‘satisfactory’ air on November 4 and 5.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had forecast earlier this week that the city might get an unseasonal bout of mild rains over the weekend. However, the IMD observatory in Santacruz (taken as representative for the city) recorded ‘NIL’ rainfall at 8.30am Saturday The passage of the low-pressure area (LPA) also caused wind patterns to fluctuate, and easterly winds began to prevail over the region.“If we had got cleaner and stronger westerly winds from the sea, there would have been more dispersal of residual Diwali pollutants. But with only light rains and easterly winds, there was not much dispersal of particulate matter. The LPA has now moved north-west and wind patterns will stabilise next week. There is only a very slim chance of rain, but skies may remain overcast for another day,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the sky will become “mainly clear” from Monday. The maximum temperature is expected to hover around 35 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature will hover around 23 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-light-rains-after-diwali-101636208186648.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi to visit Kairana on Nov 8||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will lay the foundation stones of a PAC battalion camp and other projects during his visit to Kairana in Shamli district on Monday (November 8). He will also address a public meeting on the occasion.Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Suresh Rana along with Shamli district magistrate Jasjeet Kaur, superintendent of police Sukirti Madhav Mishra and some BJP leaders visited the venue of the public meeting on Friday to review preparations for the event.Rana convened a meeting with the DM, the SP, Kairana MP Pradeep Choudhary, MLA Tejendra Nirwal, MLC Virendra Singh and party leader Mriganka Singh and discussed the plan for the CM’s proposed visit. He also entrusted party leader Anil Chauhan with the task of ensuring good turnout in the CM’s public meeting.The state government had purchased land for construction of PAC battalion camp in Uncha Gaon of Shamli district. Meanwhile, ADG, PAC, Agra zone, Ajay Anand also visited Uncha Gaon on Friday and reviewed preparations for CM’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-yogi-to-visit-kairana-on-nov-8-101636208185357.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||Makka Darzi Imambara in UP’s Sitapur may get protected monument status||The Makka Darzi Imambara located in Khairabad town of Sitapur district, some 80 km from the state capital, may get the status of a protected monument as Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) has approached Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), demanding inclusion of the edifice and that of adjoining Qadam Rasool into its list.“It is also worthwhile to mention that the properties of the waqf are very old and are of historical significance. Therefore, it is requested to kindly declare the Imambara of Makka Darzi, its adjoining mosque and Qadam Rasool situated at Khairabad in Sitapur as ancient monuments under protection of ASI,” said the Board’s letter to superintending archaeologist, ASI’s Lucknow Circle.Zufar Ahmed Farooqi, chairman, UPSCWB, said, “Granting the status of protected monuments may safeguard the property from any unforeseen vandalism and destruction.” Sunni Central Waqf Board’s move is an outcome of the representation filed by two Lucknow-based heritage enthusiasts stating if not granted the protected status, Makka Darzi would soon be lost into oblivion.“Imambara Makka Darzi, the mosque and Qadam Rasool are in an utter bad shape. Currently, the sprawling Imambara and nearby structures serve as a haven to anti-social elements and hence intervention is urgently required to save the structure,” said S Mohammed Haider, a corporate lawyer and a heritage activist who along with his wife prof Sanober Haider has filed the representation.This was, however, the second time when the heritage-enthusiast duo has raised their voice to save this structure. Prior to this, the duo has filed a representation in 2019 after the Hindustan Times highlighted the tattered state of the structure and had carried a detailed report on Makka Darzi and adjoining structures that has fallen victim to the apathy of the authorities.The 2019 representation was addressed to the secretary, culture, Government of India and the director general of ASI. In response to the representation, ASI in a letter had stated, “There is a certain procedure to grant a protected status to any heritage structure. You are requested to provide additional information regarding the stakeholders of the heritage structures so that further procedure can be followed.” Now since the UPSCWB—the stakeholder of the structure—has written to the ASI, giving a kind of a no objection certificate (a mandate for granting protected status), the heritage enthusiasts here are hopeful that the protected status would be granted to the crumbling heritage structures.About Makka Darzi ImambaraIf historians are to be believed, “Makka Darzi”, also known as “Makka Jaamadar”, was constructed in 1835 by a Makka, a close confidant of the then King Nasir-ud-din Haider of Oudh. Makka is believed to have been the only tailor in the entire kingdom to fulfil Nasir-ud-din’s passion for European dresses.Some historians say Makka is believed to have learnt the intricacies of English dressmaking from the five favourite European friends of the king. He was so much adept in his work that he could demand any amount for designing and stitching an exclusive garment in conformity with the expectations of Nasir-ud-din Haider. And perhaps his proximity with the king made him seek the royal indulgence of a huge amount of money for the construction of a complex which not only comprised his Imambara but also a beautiful mosque and a Qadam Rasool.Some historians have also termed it one of the most beautiful monuments, combining and symbolizing the Nawabi-Mughal-gothic architectural styles. The beautiful inlay work on roofs, the heavy stucco work and the beautiful façade of Imambara building, composed of five multi-foliated archways flanked with octagonal minarets is a delight for watchers.Presently, the fading structure is a hub of illegalities and home to more than 200 squatters. City-based historians say it would be a major step in saving to decaying structure that is one of the most important parts of history of erstwhile Oudh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/makka-darzi-imambara-in-up-s-sitapur-may-get-protected-monument-status-101636207825464.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze extorted money from cricket bookies: Crime branch to Mumbai court||A metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday extended the police custody of dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze by seven days after special prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap informed the court that the 52-year-old controversial ex-cop has extorted large amounts of money from cricket bookies by threatening to frame them in false cases. Jagtap pointed out that Vaze had extorted the money at the behest of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, and sought the extension of his custody for further interrogation by the crime branch to find out if he has extorted money from other persons as well. Vaze has been dismissed from the service after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested him in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases. The Goregaon police had in August registered an extortion case against Singh, Vaze and four civilians – Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint by builder Bimal Agarwal, alleging that the accused had extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against his hotel restaurant and bar. The crime branch has already arrested Sumeet Singh for allegedly extorting money from Agarwal at Vaze’s behest. In this case, the court had previously issued non-bailable warrants against Param Bir Singh, Riyaz Bhati – a purported aide of gangster Dawood Ibrahim – and another accused named Vinay Singh. Vaze was arrested in this case on November 1 and remanded in the crime branch custody. He was presented before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday as his earlier custody remand had ended. Appearing for the crime branch, advocate Jagtap sought the extension of his custody. To corroborate the allegations of extortion, the crime branch has collected Vaze’s voice samples to match with the voice recorded on the complainant’s phone calls. Agarwal had claimed that he had recorded Vaze’s phone calls, in which the ex-cop has talked about the alleged extortion activities involving him and Singh. Agarwal had submitted the recorded audio clips to the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-extorted-money-from-cricket-bookies-crime-branch-to-mumbai-court-101636207645288.html
06-11-2021||Bhopal||Did Kamal Nath and Sonia Gandhi talk about MP bypoll results? Here’s what they discussed during their Delhi meet||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday met Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the performance of Congress in the recently concluded bypolls in the state, people familiar with the matter told news agency ANI. “Kamath Nath informed Sonia Gandhi about the recently concluded by-elections in Madhya Pradesh and its results,” the people were quoted as saying by ANI. The two met in Delhi.The bypolls in Madhya Pradesh were held in three assembly seats - Prithvipur, Raigaon (SC) and Jobat (ST), and one Lok Sabha seat in Khandwa. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won Jobat, Prithvipur and Khandwa, while Congress secured victory in the Raigaon constituency seat. The saffron party’s Sulochona Rawat and Shishupal Yadav emerged victorious over their Congress rivals Mahesh Rawat Patel and Nitendra Singh Rathore in Jobat and Prithvipur, respectively. Meanwhile, Congress’s Kalpana Verma defeated BJP’s Pratima Bagari with a margin of 12,290 votes.The Madhya Pradesh bypoll results were a setback for Congress as it lost Jobat and Prithvipur to the BJP though snatched back Raigaon from them. Khandwa, which belonged to the BJP, went back to the saffron party.Also Read | BJP’s apex body to discuss 2022 poll strategy on November 7The ANI report stated that after the bypolls were concluded in 14 states and one Union territory (UT) on October 30 and their results were announced on November 2, Congress general secretary (Organisation) KC Venugopal sought a report from the in-charge and presidents of all election states for the party’s defeat as well as triumph. They were asked to prepare a review report on eight reasons – reason of by-elections, selection of candidates, campaign and strategy, the impact of the coalition, the influence of other opposition parties, the impact of bypoll results on the state’s politics, review of the election results of Congress and any other reason for how the bypolls turned out for the party.According to the people familiar with the matter, Nath also spoke to Sonia about the farmers’ protest, which is only days away from its one-year anniversary. They discussed the farm laws – passed by the Centre and against which the farmers are protesting, along with nationwide fertiliser crisis, coal crisis, problems faced by farmers, increasing inflation and electricity crisis. States that are going into polls next year and the organisation of the party were also some of the topics that Nath and Sonia discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/exmp-cm-kamal-nath-meets-sonia-gandhi-discusses-cong-s-performance-in-bypolls-101636206364447.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad University convocation: No DLitt to Gulzar as Centre’s nod still awaited||Even as officials of Allahabad University (AU) are busy in last minute preparations for the convocation scheduled on November 8, it is now clear that the varsity will not be able to confer honorary degree of DLitt on noted lyricist Gulzar as the go ahead needed from the Union Ministry of Education has still not been received, said an official of the central university. Likewise, governor Anandiben Patel, who is the Rector of AU, will also not be attending the function due to her prior engagements. “We have still not received the approval of the Union Education Ministry for conferring the honorary degree of DLitt to Gulzar and hence he will not be attending the ceremony,” said Allahabad University public relation officer (PRO) Jaya Kapoor on Saturday.The decision to confer honorary degree on Gulzar was taken in the academic council and executive council meetings. Union Minister of Education Dharmendra Pradhan will be the chief guest of the convocation. Chief executive officer (CEO) and managing director of Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) Ashish Chauhan will join the function in the capacity of Allahabad University Chancellor. A total of 263 medals will be awarded to meritorious students while 550 students will be awarded PhD degrees during the function. These will be for academic session 2018-19 and 2019-20. For the academic session 2018-19, Chancellor’s Gold Medal will be awarded to Himanshu Dubey of BA.LLB, Neha Mishra of B.Sc Bio will be given Chancellor’s Silver Medal and Kulbhushan Tiwari of BA will be awarded Chancellor’s Bronze Medal. At the same time, Shivnekar Revathi Vijay of MSc Cognitive Science in postgraduate courses will be awarded Chancellor’s Gold Medal and Shreya Agarwal of MSc Computer Science will be awarded Chancellor’s Silver Medal. Similarly, for undergraduate courses of academic session 2019-20, Anshika Mittal of BCA will be awarded Chancellor Gold Medal, Shalvika Upadhyay of BA will be awarded Chancellor Silver Medal, Urja Srivastava of BTech will be awarded Chancellor Bronze Medal. In PG, Madhavi Singh of MSc Botany will be conferred with Chancellor’s Gold Medal and Shashank Mani Tripathi of MSc Biotechnology will be awarded with Chancellor’s Silver Medal. The event will also witness ‘Dronacharya’ and ‘Meghnad Saha’ awards being conferred for the first time. The names of the recipients of these two awards will be announced at the function. Dronacharya award will be given to two teachers and two research scholars will be awarded the Meghnad Saha award for good research work. The ceremony will also witness the union minister inaugurating three new buildings. The PRO said 124-seat girl’s hostel-- Gargi Hostel located on women’s hostel campus-- along with 34-seat Chandrashekhar Azad International Hostel and Major Dhyanchand activity centre will also be inaugurated during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-university-convocation-no-dlitt-to-gulzar-as-centre-s-nod-still-awaited-101636206445494.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||PM level six times the safe limit; AQI drops to ‘poor’ day after Diwali in Mumbai||On November 5, a day after Diwali, the city’s air quality index (AQI) slipped into the ‘poor’ category after two years. Mumbai’s AQI stood at 215 based on 10 monitoring stations under the Union ministry of earth sciences’ system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR) as compared to 107 (moderate) in 2020 and 75 (moderate) in 2019. The drop in air quality on Friday was an outcome of emissions from firecrackers and prevailing weather conditions the previous day, according to scientists monitoring the city’s pollution levels. After logging in ‘satisfactory’ air quality on Diwali day for two years, the city’s AQI fell into the ‘moderate’ category at 180 on November 4 – it was 90 last year and 75 in 2019. Hourly data from 21 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) across the city operated by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and SAFAR showed that the immediate, localised impact of bursting firecrackers between 8pm and 10pm was much more significant on November 4 with spikes in the concentration of particulate matter. “AQI is calculated as a 24-hour average. Given the significant variations in concentration of pollutants that can happen within a single day, this average tends to mask the very high spikes that are seen within the permissible window of time for bursting crackers,” said Gufran Beig, project director and meteorologist at SAFAR. “These pollutants then linger on due to lower temperatures at night and slower wind speeds.” Navy Nagar in Colaba was the most polluted locality recording particulate matter (PM) concentrations well over 300ug/m3 (micrograms per metre of cubic air) from 8pm Thursday to 11am on Friday. An air quality monitor in the area recorded a maximum of 425ug/m3 of PM2.5 at 6am Friday, which is more than seven times the daily safe limit of 60ug/m3, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). Maximum PM10 concentration was 235ug/m3. The SAFAR monitor in Mazagaon recorded PM2.5 levels at 395ug/m3 on Friday evening, and PM10 at 373ug/m3. High levels of PM were present till around 10am on Friday, and by evening the concentration of suspended particulate matter had dropped to between 70-80ug/m3, the data shows. Other monitors in the city also recorded intense spikes in pollution, as opposed to seeing satisfactory levels of PM just a few hours ago. In Worli, for example, MPCB monitor that recorded PM2.5 at 123ug/m3, at 6pm on Thursday, saw a threefold increase in pollutants with PM2.5 levels touching 438ug/m3 by 10pm. Experts and officials said this was a clear indicator of widespread use of firecrackers. “The data clearly shows that around Thursday evening there was a dip in air quality as people started bursting crackers, and then there is an improvement the next morning as the sun comes up and winds become stronger,” said Sachin Pawar, an independent air-quality scientist certified by the Quality Council of India under the union environment ministry. These granular spikes in pollution, which can adversely impact a person’s health on exposure, are not reflected in the average AQI value calculated by CPCB in its daily all-India bulletin, or by SAFAR, which maintains its own network of monitors in the city. However, past AQI data suggests that pollution levels this year were considerably higher. In 2019, Mumbai had recorded its cleanest Diwali and post-Diwali air in five years owing to high wind speed under the influence of Cyclone Kyarr in the Arabian Sea. The year 2020 was the second cleanest post-Diwali air since 2015. Quietest Diwali in three years While MPCB officials did not share official data from their annual noise monitoring exercise, spot checks by city-based NGO Awaaz Foundation observed that Diwali this year was the quietest in three years. The maximum noise levels were recorded at 100.4 decibels (dB) at Shivaji Park at around 9pm. In 2020, the maximum noise level was 105.5dB at Shivaji Park. In 2019, pre-Covid, maximum noise level was 112.3dB at Marine Drive. “Maximum recorded noise levels measured at Bandra, Mahim, Worli, Dadar, Shivaji Park, Babulnath and Marine Drive were much lower than previous years,” Awaaz Foundation said in a report on Saturday. Marine Drive, which was the centre of firecracker use before 2020, was completely silent in 2021 even before 10pm due to heavy police presence, the report observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-level-six-times-the-safe-limit-aqi-drops-to-poor-day-after-diwali-in-mumbai-101636206327239.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||'This is a Hindu area': Video of man threatening shopkeeper on Diwali goes viral||Taking suo motu cognisance of a viral video in which a man can be seen threatening a Muslim staff for opening his biryani shop on Diwali in Delhi's Sant Nagar area, the Delhi Police filed an FIR on Saturday, news agency PTI reported. In the abusive video, the man claims that he is a member of the Bajrang Dal and his name is Naresh Kumar Suryavanshi.The shop owner and his workers closed the shop soon after the video was recorded at around 9 pm on Thursday. Soon the video went viral on social media and people started tagging Delhi Police on Twitter urging to take action against the abuser.The video that is doing the rounds is three-minute-long. Naresh Kumar asks the biryani seller who gave him permission to open his shop on the occasion of Diwali. This is a Hindu area, the speaker said hurling abuses on the shopkeeper for opening the shop. He also threatened that the shop will be set on fire. "Is this Jama Masjid," the speaker can be said saying. "Aren't you scared? Is this your eid? What do you think of yourself?" he said."Hindus are in deep slumber. Wake up Hindus, these people do love jihad," He said warning the shopkeeper to not open the shop on any Hindu occasion. Giving his introduction, Naresh Kumar said he went to the area to buy flowers.After taking cognisance of the video and verifying the facts, a case was registered under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code at Burari police station, a senior police officer told PTI. An investigation is underway to ascertain the identity of the accused and nab him, the news agency reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/this-is-a-hindu-area-video-of-man-threatening-shopkeeper-on-diwali-goes-viral-101636205728483.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||CCTV cameras protecting mangroves in Navi Mumbai uprooted for road widening project in Vashi||In an effort to protect the mangroves, the forest department had installed two CCTV cameras along the Sion-Panvel highway in Vashi in 2018. Both the cameras were recently removed as the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has started widening the highway in that area.Illegal dumping of debris had severely affected the mangroves in the said area over the past two decades.DS Kukare, range forest officer (RFO) of the Navi Mumbai mangrove cell, said, “Unidentified culprits would carry debris from different places of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai and illegally dump there at night. They chose that deserted place for that purpose as there used to be no one to check on them. Taking the gravity of the issue into consideration, we installed two CCTV cameras there in December 2018. The number of debris dumping cases had drastically reduced after the installation of the cameras.”A senior MSRDC official said, “The CCTV cameras were installed very close to the highway. As we are now widening the entire stretch, we had to remove the cameras so that our people could carry out their work without any hindrance. We have also informed the forest department about it, and they will take the future course of action on this.”When asked about their next course of action, Kukare said that they have decided to develop a 600m-long concrete wall for protecting the mangroves in that area.“The plan of developing the wall has recently been approved by our higher authorities and the work at the site will be started within a few days. We are spending around ₹95 lakh on that project. Once the wall is ready, it will not be possible for anyone to cross it and dump debris on the other side. Even after that if we feel the need, we will install CCTV cameras there at a later stage,” he said.According to the state mangrove cell, there are 1,471 hectare of mangrove forests in the government-owned land in Navi Mumbai that are protected by the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cctv-cameras-protecting-mangroves-in-navi-mumbai-uprooted-for-road-widening-project-in-vashi-101636204585054.html
06-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Yogi shouldn’t contest assembly seat, he is on his way out’: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said that “Baba chief minister (Yogi Adityanath)” should not contest elections for he was on his way out.Yadav was reacting to Adityanath’s comments in Gorakhpur on Friday wherein the CM said that he will contest the Assembly polls if the party decides.Regarding his own candidature for 2022 UP assembly polls, the former chief minister said, “it will be decided by the party at the right time”.Both Akhilesh and Yogi Adityanath never contested an assembly seat and both occupied the chief minister’s post as members of the UP legislative committee.Last week in an interview with a news agency, Yadav had said that he will not contest assembly polls himself. However, the same day, a Samajwadi Party state spokesperson said, “the party will decide if he’ll contest or not”.Akhilesh told newspersons, soon after inaugurating an office of Janwadi Party (Socialist), “Baba chief Minister should not contest elections now, he is on his way out. As far as my candidature is concerned, the party will decide from where and when I have to contest elections.”Janwadi Party (Socialist) is an SP ally and a backward classes based party.Talking about the alliance partner Yadav said, “Both Samajwadi Party and Janwadi Party (Socialist) demand for a caste-based census so that those ignored could get proper representation and respect.”Uttar Pradesh is likely to go to the polls early next year of its 403 seats legislative assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-shouldn-t-contest-assembly-seat-he-is-on-his-way-out-akhilesh-yadav-101636203385717.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Panvel City police arrest 18-year-old for pushing to death 19-year-old friend||Panvel City police have arrested an 18-year-old for killing his mentally-challenged friend by pushing him from the terrace after snatching his phone and a Bluetooth speaker.The incident occurred on Thursday evening, which a resident of a neighbouring building saw and alerted the police. The accused arrested has been identified as Aditya Ajay Shekate and the deceased as Prathamesh Ramesh Rane (19), both residents of Panvel.The incident occurred at an under-construction building of Sai Developers.The complainant, Ganesh Mhatre (36), who stays in the nearby building, was speaking over the phone with his friend standing near the window when he saw a man falling from the terrace. He later saw someone coming down from the building by flashing a mobile torch. Mhatre immediately took a video of the man who came out of the building and alerted the police.“We arrested the accused on the basis of the video the complainant shared with us. The accused confessed to the crime and said that he committed the murder to rob the deceased of his mobile phone and a Bluetooth speaker and was afraid that his friend might tell someone that he had snatched the mobile and the speaker, and hence killed him,” senior police inspector Ajay Landge of Panvel City police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/panvel-city-police-arrest-18-year-old-for-pushing-to-death-19-year-old-friend-101636202964989.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli civic body seeks help of political leaders to update voters list||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has appealed to the political leaders to help spread awareness among the new voters in their respective areas and get them registered. This is a part of the initiative to have as many voters registered in a month-long awareness programme.Under the guidance of the State Election Commission, the KDMC has initiated a month-long voters’ list updating programme from November1. The civic body is undertaking several initiatives to spread awareness. Among them, one is involving the colleges to get young voters registered and another is involving the political leaders.“We have urged the political leaders not only in helping with registering new voters but also to help scrutinise the existing list and maintain a proper list of voters without any repetition and mistakes,” said Sunil Pawar, additional commissioner, KDMC.“We have also urged them to approach differently-abled citizens and get them registered in the voting list. This way, we can reach out to more non-voters and get them registered,” added Pawar.A meeting with the political leaders was held earlier this week to explain how the entire one-month programme for awareness would be carried out in the city. The drive will focus on registering new voters and rectifying any errors in the existing list related to the names of the voters.“Once the voters’ list is published, the political leaders can check it and rectify any errors before the final voters’ list is updated,” added Pawar.As per the civic body, the final voters’ list will be out by January 5, 2022.Representatives of all political parties from Kalyan-Dombivli who attended the meeting also gave their suggestions and highlighted some concerns.Sachin Bansare, a Shiv Sena leader, said, “There is a need to mention the part number of the respective areas that will help enrol a voter in his or her respective area. Most of the time, the part number is not mentioned and due to this, the name, which is listed, is listed for some other area that is even far away. Similarly, there are many names of the deceased citizens. The civic body should make use of the death certificates and remove such names from the list.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-seeks-help-of-political-leaders-to-update-voters-list-101636201355773.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||With dengue cases rising, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation sends notice to contractors for shoddy fogging work||With increase in suspected dengue cases, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has sent notices to contractors responsible for fogging as, despite repeated warnings, the workers fogging were found to be doing a shoddy job.“A couple of times, we warned the contractors about their workers not fogging properly. But, even after repeated warnings, we found that they did not mend their ways. Some of the houses with tinned roofs have tyres kept on them so that the roofs are not damaged during windy days. The workers are supposed to check the tyres for breeding spots and destroy them but it was found that the work was not being done. Hence, we decided to send notices and, if required, will take strong action against them,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.He further added that the number of suspected dengue cases have increased in 2021 as compared to 2019 and with the offset of monsoon, the cases will now go down. While in 2019, the suspected dengue cases were 260, this year it was reported to be 579.“Prevention and surveillance is a very important part when it comes to dengue for which the workers who fog the breeding spots play a major role. Besides, we had also asked all the hospitals to report to us regularly in order to keep a tab of the cases and the areas of breeding,” Bangar added.In September, a 17-year-old boy from Vashi was suspected to have dengue and passed away due to multiple complications. According to the health officers, it was the first case of death with suspected dengue but the major reason behind the death was late reporting that led to complications.“Increased number of suspected cases of dengue also means an effective reporting system. We are making sure to find the breeding spots in the vicinity of the suspected cases and then destroy them,” medical health officer, Dr Pramod Patil, said.In 2019, the malaria cases reported were 36 while in 2021, it is 39. While the malaria cases have not increased drastically, dengue reported an increase by 55%. Till now, two contractors have been served with the show cause notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-dengue-cases-rising-navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-sends-notice-to-contractors-for-shoddy-fogging-work-101636199904896.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan case: BJP functionary alleges ‘mastermind’ Sunil Patil ‘closely associated’ with NCP||In a fresh twist in the cruise drug party case, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary Mohit Bharatiya on Saturday targeted Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) alleging that one Sunil Patil, who is a member of the NCP, was the “mastermind” of the Aryan Khan case. Kamboj claimed that Patil gave the number of Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness in the case, to Sam D’Souza and told him that Gosavi will coordinate with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).Patil’s name had surfaced during an investigation on corruption allegations against NCB officials.Bharatiya, while addressing a press conference, said that he will disclose the “entire conspiracy” with all the supporting “proof”. Without naming any political party or NCP minister Nawab Malik, Kamboj said that a “narrative of lies is in the entire country.”For the past three weeks, Malik has been levelling serious allegations against Wankhede and NCB over their vigilance, discrepancies in investigation and the information related to the officer’s religion. Malik has raised serious questions over the handling of cruise drug party accused Aryan Khan by Kiran Gosavi, who is facing serious cases and a BJP office-bearer Manish Bhanushali.“The mastermind of the entire thing is a person named Sunil Patil. He has been an NCP member since its inception. He hails from Dhule and is connected with the party for 20 years,” Bharatiya said. He further claimed that Patil was a close friend of Rishikesh Deshmukh, the son of former home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was recently arrested.The BJP leader said that Patil had contacted D’souza with information on the cruise party where drugs would be consumed. “Sunil Patil sent a WhatsApp message and call to Sam D’Souza on October 1. He told D’souza that there is going to be a cruise party where drugs would be consumed. He said that he has information on 27 people and sought to connect to a narcotics department’s official. Sam D’souza spoke to NCB official VV Singh about this and informed Patil,” he said.He added further, “On October 2, Sunil Patil told Sam D’souza to connect his contact to the NCB official who will give him more details. Patil shared the number of Kiran Gosavi to D’souza and said that Gosavi will coordinate with the officials. Gosavi will share all the details with VV Singh.”Kamboj also claimed that Patil and Sam D’souza spoke to each other in August where the former was boasting about his contacts within the corridors of power in Maharashtra and with ministers.Reacting to the allegation, NCP minister Nawab Malik said a member of Wankhede’s private army is trying to misguide and divert the attention from the truth, which he is going to reveal on Sunday. “A member of Sameer Dawood Wankhede’s private army just held a Press Conference to misguide and divert the attention from the truth albeit unsuccessfully. I will reveal the truth tomorrow,” he said in a tweet.Bharatiya indirectly targeted Malik and NCP saying a narrative was built against the BJP in the entire case. “The question now is, why is the cabinet minister using Sunil Patil to create this conspiracy. A narrative of lies has been weaved since last one month-linking BJP to the raid, connecting people associated with BJP as [independent] witness, that Sameer Wankhede and BJP are hand-in-glove... The minister, who is in favour of drugs, will now have to come out and respond,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-case-bjp-functionary-alleges-mastermind-sunil-patil-closely-associated-with-ncp-101636199427521.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal AQI: Industrial towns register fall despite holiday||The air quality index (AQI) of the industrial town of Baddi in Himachal Pradesh’s Solan district dipped to moderate post-Diwali despite factories being closed due to the Vishwakarma Day holiday, the state pollution control board authorities said on Saturday. Also read: BJP bosses seek report on poll debacle from Himachal unitThey said rampant bursting of firecrackers despite restrictions resulted in low AQI in several other hill towns. Baddi recorded an AQI of 165, the worst in the state, to fall in the moderate category that causes breathing discomfort to people with lung, asthma and heart diseases. The PM (particulate matter) 2.5 stood at 29.11, while the PM10 was 197. The adjoining industrial town of Nalagarh recorded an AQI of 110. The PM2.5 in Nalagarh was also recorded as 29.11, while the PM 10 was 115. According to the board’s report, industrial towns such as Paonta Sahib, Kala Amb and Una recorded an AQI lower than usual. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Paonta Sahib had an AQI of 96, Kala Amb 77 and Una 72. Dharamshala, the abode of Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, has satisfactory AQI of 57, Damtal 53 and Manali 50. Shimla had the cleanest air with its AQI at 38 followed by 39 in Parwanoo and 46 in Sundernagar. Though the Himachal Pradesh government had allowed eco-friendly crackers to be burst between 8pm and 10pm on Thursday, Diwali revellers violated the directives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-aqi-industrial-towns-register-fall-despite-holiday-101636199424615.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Stubble burning emissions account for 36% of Delhi’s pollution: SAFAR||As Delhi’s air quality stayed at “severe” category for the second consecutive day on Saturday, emissions from stubble burning accounted for 36 per cent of the pollution share, Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said.In the last 24 hours, SAFAR added, the PM2.5 pollutants’ concentration across the national capital has become higher than in 2020 but “much less than that in 2018.” “However, it may be noted that local winds have picked up since morning and now the fast dispersion is expected,” SAFAR forecasted.The central agency further predicted the contribution of stubble burning to remain almost the same today, and that the air quality in Delhi is expected to improve to “very poor” by tonight if no more firecrackers are burnt in the city.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in Delhi had imposed a blanket ban on the sale, use and bursting of firecrackers, including green ones, on Diwali. However, the prohibition was widely flouted resulting in the air quality of the capital degrading to “severe” category by Thursday 9pm. It was the first time this season that the air quality index (AQI) dipped beyond the “very poor” category in the city.Also Read | An hour-by-hour account of how Delhi’s air quality tanked on DiwaliIn fact, on Friday – a day after Diwali celebrations, Delhi reported the highest average AQI at 462 in five years. Last year, the AQI on Diwali’s next day was recorded at 435. As per SAFAR, the PM2.5 levels yesterday was also the highest in three years owing to firecracker bursting as well as stubble burning. However, SAFAR clarified that it was still better in comparison to 2018.Also Read | Delhi air pollution: Oppn ‘encouraged’ people to burst crackers, says ministerAccording to the latest data provided by the SAFAR, PM2.5 and PM10 levels stand at 306 and 439, respectively, in Delhi with both being in the “severe” category, at 4pm. The central agency has forecasted PM10 levels to reach “poor” and PM2.5 levels to “very poor” category on Sunday.Citing a report, environmental activist Vimlendu Jha told news agency ANI that people living in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) lose 9.5 years of their lives because of air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stubble-burning-emissions-account-for-36-of-delhi-s-pollution-safar-101636197871238.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Couple arrested for robbing auto drivers||The Shil Daighar police have arrested a husband-wife duo who had become the bane of auto rickshaw drivers over the last one month.According to the police, the accused have been identified as Sameer Sheikh (29) and his wife Fiza (21). The police said that inquiries into the matter were initiated on October 25, when an auto rickshaw driver registered a complaint against the couple. Even as the police were investigating the matter, another similar complaint was registered on Wednesday.“In both the cases, the couple had hailed the victim’s auto rickshaw at around 1am, taken him to spots like Shil Phata or Kalyan Phata, threatened him with a blade and robbed him of all his valuables including his money, cell phone and auto rickshaw. The spots were chosen for robbery after careful examination as these spots are deserted in the early hours of the morning, poorly lit and only partially covered by CCTV cameras. The presence of a woman also helped as it made the auto rickshaw drivers less suspicious,” assistant police inspector Bhushan Kapadnis, Shil Daighar police station, said.After the police received the first complaint, the investigation team scanned all the available CCTV footage but failed to find any usable image that could aid them in their investigation. Hence, the police shared a rough description of the accused with their local informants and sought any and all information about them. By the time the second case was registered, the police already had a tip off about Sameer and Fiza behind the spate of robberies.“Acting on the information received, we reached Sheikh’s residence on Shil Mahape Road on the same day the second case was registered. It was still before dawn at the time and we camped in the area, using the cover of darkness and keeping a discreet watch on the house. The couple turned up late in the morning and we took them into custody,” an officer who was part of the investigating team said.Sameer and Fiza were questioned and allegedly confessed to having robbed several auto rickshaw drivers over the last one month. They have been placed under arrest. They also told their interrogators that they had help from one more accomplice who is currently wanted.“We have recovered both the auto rickshaws robbed from our jurisdiction from the accused, as well as four cell phones. We have also found a similar case registered against them with the Turbhe police station in Navi Mumbai. By their own admission, the accused have been committing robberies roughly every alternate day for the last 20 to 25 days, and more such cases are expected to come to light,” Kapadnis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/couple-arrested-for-robbing-auto-drivers-101636197984650.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||NCP’s Nawab Malik alleges kidnapping, extortion in Aryan Khan case||Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik again made a serious allegation against narcotics control bureau’s (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede. He alleged that Wankhede tried to kidnap Aryan Khan and framed him in a drug bust case after failing to get extortion money from his family. He also said that skeletons from Wankhede’s closet will come out and his private army will be exposed as the state government has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate his allegations.Wankhede and his team arrested Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan and a few others for their alleged involvement in the cruise drugs party on October 2.“I had demanded an S.I.T probe to investigate Sameer Dawood Wankhede for kidnapping & ransom demand from Aryan Khan. Now 2 SITs are constituted (state & centre), let us see who brings out the skeletons from the closet of Wankhede and exposes him and his nefarious private army,” Malik tweeted on Saturday morning.“Wankhede tried to extort money after kidnapping Aryan Khan and later framed him in a drug bust case after his plans failed,” Malik told HT.He was referring to a four-member team formed by the Mumbai police on October 27 to probe the allegations made by Prabhakar Sail, a key witness in the Aryan Khan case, and three others.The team is headed by ACP Milind Khetle of the Azad Maidan division. It also comprises inspector Ajay Sawant (Colaba police station), sub-inspector Prakash Gawli (cyber police) and assistant inspector Shrikant Karkar (anti-narcotics cell). It is being supervised by additional commissioner of police Dilip Sawant and deputy commissioner of police Hemraj Singh Rajput.Sail had alleged that he was forced to sign blank papers by Wankhede on the night of the raid and that the officer was part of a ₹25 crore extortion racket targeting Aryan Khan.For the past three weeks, Malik has been levelling serious allegations against Wankhede and the NCB over their vigilance, discrepancies in investigation and the information related to the officer’s religion. Malik has raised serious questions over the handling of cruise drug bust accused Aryan Khan by Kiran Gosavi who is facing serious cases and a BJP office-bearer Manish Bhanushali. On November 2, he alleged Wankhede of extorting crores by forming a private army and using expensive clothes.“Wankhede made a private army. Kiran Gosavi, Manish Bhanushali, Fletcher Patel, Adil Usmani, Sam D Souza, Illu Pathan among others were its players. It was involved in the drug business. Those in major business were allowed to run while actions were shown on small quantity cases and implicating people and extorted crores,” Malik had alleged.On Friday, the NCB decided to transfer six cases, including that of Aryan Khan, to an SIT from Mumbai zonal unit following allegations and an internal vigilance probe against Wankhede. On Saturday, new investigating officer Sanjay Kumar Singh, however, said Sameer Wankhede’s assistance will be taken in all six cases as he is the director of the Mumbai unit.“A Special Investigation Team (SIT) comprising officers from Operations Branch of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Headquarters has been constituted by the Director-General, NCB to take over a total of 06 cases from NCB Mumbai Zonal Unit which have national and international ramifications, in order to conduct a deeper investigation to find out forward and backward linkages,” a statement from Singh’s office said issued on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncps-nawab-malik-alleges-kidnapping-extortion-in-aryan-khan-case-101636196666741.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi police look for man for allegedly murdering 53-year-old||An unidentified person is on the run after allegedly murdering a 53-year-old by hitting his head with a heavy object in Bhiwandi city on Thursday night. The Bhiwandi city police have formed three teams in search of the accused.The deceased, identified as Rajendra Singh, used to work in a dyeing company, which was closed during the lockdown due to losses, in Bhiwandi. He joined another company but used to visit his earlier company often. On November 4 night, he told his wife that he was going to sleep in the company itself and would come back home the next day.An officer from Bhiwandi city police said, “The man didn’t return home on Friday and was not even picking up calls. The wife got scared and asked her brother, who stays near the company, to visit the place. After the brother went to the factory late in the evening, he found Singh lying in a pool of blood. His head was damaged with some heavy object. We immediately reached the spot and started investigations. The family has revealed the names of doubtful persons but we are yet to get any lead in the case.”Senior police inspector C Kakade said, “We have checked CCTV footage but nothing has been found relating to the accused so far. The accused attacked the deceased and fled the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-police-look-for-man-for-allegedly-murdering-53yearold-101636196664520.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AG hits back, says Sidhu obstructing govt functioning||Punjab advocate general APS Deol on Saturday hit back at Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, accusing him of obstructing the functioning of the state government and AG’s office as well as spreading misinformation to gain advantage over his political colleagues. Also read: Sidhu targets Punjab CM on delay in justice in sacrilege, drug casesIn a strongly worded statement, Deol said that Sidhu’s repeated utterances seek to derail the earnest efforts of the Punjab government to ensure justice in the “drugs matter and sacrilege cases”. “There is a concerted attempt by vested interests to malign the functioning of the Congress party in view of coming elections in the state for their selfish political gain by politicising the constitutional office of the advocate general of Punjab,” he said. Deol’s remarks came a day after Sidhu, while withdrawing his resignation as Punjab Congress president, put the former’s removal as a precondition for resuming his duties. The reply is being seen in Congress circles as a counterpunch from the advocate general who had put in his papers four days ago under intense pressure from the state chief of the ruling party. However, his resignation is still to be accepted. As a lawyer, Deol had represented former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini, who headed the state police during the incidents of sacrilege and police firing on protesters six years ago. Sidhu was opposed to his appointment as the AG by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who took the reins of the Congress government in Punjab following Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation on September 18, for this reason and has been pressing for Deol’s removal. Sidhu had resigned from his post on September 28, triggering a fresh crisis in the state Congress ahead of the assembly elections. He had earlier indicated that Deol’s appointment along with that of IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the director general of police were part of the reason he quit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ag-hits-back-says-sidhu-obstructing-govt-functioning-101636191264329.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: 'Emergency measure' launched, smog towers' efficacy questioned||The Delhi government on Saturday banned 92 construction sites for violating norms and started spraying water on roads a day after the national capital's pollution level rose to alarming levels. According to government data, Delhi's air quality index (AQI) nosedived to the 'severe' category, measuring 533 on Saturday morning, two days after Diwali.Also Read | Brace for bitter cold and high pollution this winter"As an emergency measure, we've started spraying water on roads with the help of anti-smog water tanks to reduce the air pollution. We've also banned 92 construction sites for violating norms," news agency ANI quoted Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai as saying.And in more worry, many areas in the national capital recorded an AQI of over 600, making the ambient air unsuitable for breathing. The numbers were released by the Dephi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), based on data from the smog towers installed in the city.The huge structures, believed to provide clean air to nearby areas where they are installed, failed to deliver. The smog tower in Connaught Place could only reduce the PM10 level from 649 micrograms per cubic metre to 511 micrograms per cubic metre, as per the readings taken at 9 pm on Thursday, the night of Diwali.It recorded a PM2.5 concentration of 642 micrograms per cubic metre at the inlet and 453 micrograms per cubic metre at the outlet on the same day.The safe limit for the lung-damaging fine particles PM2.5 and PM10 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre and 100 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively.Also Read | 10 cities with poorest air qualityExperts have pointed to the limited ability of the smog tower, saying they can reduce pollution only to a certain extent."This experiment at Connaught Place has shown that smog towers can never be a solution to the problem of air pollution. Any further wastage of money on such structures should be stopped immediately. The money should be utilised to reduce pollution at source," said Sunil Dahiya of the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had inaugurated the smog tower on August 23 which, officials say, can purify air in a one-km radius around the structure at a rate of around 1,000 cubic metres per second.There is no reaction from the Delhi government about the efficiency of the smog towers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-emergency-measure-launched-smog-towers-efficacy-questioned-101636186955887.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Death toll rises to 11 in Maharashtra hospital fire, ₹5 lakh ex-gratia announced||The death toll in Ahmednagar's hospital fire incident Saturday in Maharashtra has risen to 11 after a victim succumbed to his injuries. The government has announced an ex-gratia amount of ₹5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased, said Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope.Earlier, the authorities had said that at least 10 people died after a massive fire broke out at a district hospital in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar.“A total of 10 people died in a fire incident at Ahmednagar district hospital,” news agency ANI reported, quoting district collector Rajendra Bhosale. The district collector later informed that there were 17 patients admitted with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when the fire broke out at around 11 am. A short circuit seems to be the primary cause of the incident.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a detailed inquiry and has also sought a detailed report on the matter. Thackeray’s office said in a statement that the chief minister spoke to the district guardian minister Hasan Mushrif and chief secretary Sitaram Kunte as soon as he came to know about the incident, asking them to ensure medical attention to those in need.“CM Thackeray has expressed condolences and ordered a detailed probe and action against those responsible for negligence,” the chief minister's office stated.Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in the Maharashtra assembly, expressed his shock over the news and sent his condolences to the families of the victims.“Very shocking & disturbing news from Nagar,” posted Fadnavis from his personal handle on Twitter. “My deepest condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in the Nagar civil hospital ICU fire incident. Praying for the speedy recovery of the injured. An in-depth inquiry should be conducted and strict action should be taken against all responsible people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-10-dead-after-fire-breaks-out-at-ahmednagar-district-hospital-101636185733810.html
06-11-2021||Bangalore||In Karnataka's Karwar, Coast Guard ship rescues fishermen after boat catches fire||The Indian Coast Guard said on Saturday its personnel rescued seven fishermen in Karnataka's Karwar after their boat was engulfed by fire due to a short circuit in the wheelhouse. The fishing boat, it said, had seven fishermen crew onboard, adding that all of them are in a healthy state and are being provided all moral support by the Coast Guard.Describing the incident in detail, the force said in an official statement that the incident took place on Friday night at a distance of around 10 nautical miles from the famous Karwar lighthouse. “On receipt of message by marine rescue sub-centre (MRSC), New Mangalore, at 10pm on November 5 from CSP Malpe sources, C-155 from Karwar was sailed during night hours for SAR mission for an assessment of the incident and evacuation of fishermen,” the press released noted.Identifying the distressed boat as IFB Varda Vinayaka-I, the statement further said that the Indian Coast Guard ship reached the spot at 10:15pm and, after shifting all the seven fishermen to the nearby fishing boat IFB Vajra, immediately began dousing the fire. “Braving the inclement weather, C-155 took three hours to completely douse the seat of fire. On assessing that there was no further possibility of fire outbreak, C-155 provided all assistance to IFB Vajra for towing the ill-fated IFB to Karwar fishing harbour,” the Coast Guard said.Finally, after successfully completing the rescue mission, C-155 handed over IFB Varda to CSP Karwar Boat at sea by 4am on Saturday for further probe, the release said.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/in-karnataka-s-karwar-coast-guard-ship-rescues-fishermen-after-boat-catches-fire-101636180910994.html
06-11-2021||Patna||Children to share pandemic and flood experiences at Bal Darbaar in Bihar||The Bihar government is organising a session to let children and adolescents from government-run care institutions speak about their problems and experiences faced during the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in the state. The platform is called ‘Bal Darbaar, Seedha Samvaad- Bihar Ke Bhavishya Ke Saath’, meaning a straight dialogue with children. It is the first of it’s kind initiative in the state, enabling children at government care institutions in all the 38 districts to voice their concerns and views directly to policy makers at the district and state level. The seven day event will start on November 14 in the districts and conclude in state capital on November 20. Children and adolescents comprise more than 50% of Bihar’s total population, and the learning from events such as Bal Darbaar in form of recommendations and charter of children’s demands will be presented to chief minister Nitish Kumar. Besides , the report will also be provided to various departments including education, art and culture, health and information and public relations. “It’s been intended to create and promote awareness among various government departments about the rights and protection of children, especially those from the marginalised communities. The focus is to stop violence against children. It will also be an opportunity for the policy makers to understand the issues and experiences and views of adolescents,” Rajkumar, director, social welfare department, said. Since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, vulnerability of children and adolescents has increased many times, he added. “Young women and girls are at greater risks of violence, physical abuse and exploitation because of pandemic while the psychological pressures and distress are also there. To address these issues the Bal Darbaar has been planned, “ he said. Also Read: Toll in suspected hooch tragedies in Bihar rises to 25Nipurnh Gupta, the communication coordinator, UNICEF, Bihar, said the state has witnessed a huge inflow of people due to reverse migration during the pandemic. “Not just that, disasters like flood too have increased the vulnerability of children and adolescents. Reports of child marriages, trafficking, child labourers in poor section of the society have been quite frequent,” she said. Children and adolescents are the biggest victims of disasters like pandemic or floods and have to go through deprivations at various levels due to reverse migration, making them vulnerable to abuse, Gupta added. Given these situations, there was the need for a platform where children and adolescents can share their issues, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/children-to-share-pandemic-and-flood-experiences-at-bal-darbaar-in-bihar-101636176383730.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: PM10 at alarming 654 in Connaught Place. List of other pollution hotspots||National capital Delhi, which is battling severely bad air quality days after the festival of Diwali, has more bad news. One of the most-visited places and heart of Delhi, Connaught Place (CP), recorded a PM10 level of 654 on Saturday morning, according to ANI.The news agency quoted data from Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to report that the PM2.5 levels reached 628 in CP on Saturday. The data was collected by smog tower installed in the area.In Jantar Mantar, the PM10 level was 382, while PM2.5 reached 341. Near ITO, the PM2.5 level recorded was 374, ANI further showed.PM2.5 is defined as ambient airborne particulates that measure up to 2.5 microns in size. These include a range of chemical makeups and come from a range of human-made sources, including fossil-fuel powered motor vehicles, power generation, industrial activity, agriculture and biomass burning. The microscopic size of PM2.5 allow these particles to enter the bloodstream upon inhalation, potentially causing far-reaching health effects, such as low birth rate, acute respiratory infections and stroke. PM10 are typical the dust particles.Overall, Delhi's AQI soared to 533 on Saturday morning, even two days after Diwali. On Friday, the AQI stood at 462. Such high pollution levels have led to concerns from health experts.Dr Ashok Seth, Chairman, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute said that the pollution levels are dangerous for the elderly people as well as Covid recovered patients."These are really dangerous levels. AQI levels are especially dangerous for the elderly and those with lung problems and heart disease. Pollution itself leads to chest congestion and bronchospasm. Those with asthma, bronchitis will start getting worse. It itself predisposes to further chest infections, viral infections and cases of pneumonia. We see a lot of these happening when pollution rises," Dr Seth told ANI."Covid recovered patients, too, are vulnerable. This is the time for the elderly to stay indoors, be flu-vaccinated and use air purifiers at home continuously," he added.As a thick blanket of smog shrouded the skies of Delhi the morning after Diwali, with several people complaining of itchy throat and watery eyes.As per the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the air quality would not improve until Sunday evening (November 7). The improvement would, however, just fluctuate in the 'Very Poor' category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pm10-at-alarming-654-in-connaught-place-list-of-other-pollution-hotspots-101636172610457.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||As Delhi chokes post-Diwali, here are the 10 cities with poorest air quality||As Delhi's air quality continues to be in the “severe” category even two days after Diwali, the nationwide air quality index (AQI) shows that multiple cities across India, too, continue to be in poor shape – with as many as seven of them in Uttar Pradesh and the rest in Haryana. According to AQI pollution data fetched from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Saturday morning, the national capital currently displays the worst air quality among all the major cities in the country, followed by Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh.Also Read | Delhi's air quality still in ‘severe’ zone post-Diwali, AQI clocking at 533Ten cities with the poorest air quality as of 8am on November 6, 2021:1. Delhi (AQI: 533, severe)2. Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh (AQI: 486, severe)3. Noida, Uttar Pradesh (AQI: 478, severe)4. Hapur, Uttar Pradesh (AQI: 468, severe)5. Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh (AQI: 464, severe)6. Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh (AQI: 463, severe)7. Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh (AQI: 461, severe)8. Gurugram, Haryana (AQI: 456, severe)9. Meerut, Uttar Pradesh (AQI: 455, severe)10. Ballabhgarh, Haryana (AQI: 448, severe)Delhi's air quality was registered at 533 on Saturday morning by the System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR). The air quality in the national capital deteriorated by drastic levels following the festival of Diwali, reaching the ‘hazardous’ category on Friday morning. A thick blanket of smog shrouded the skies of Delhi, as several people complained of an itchy throat and watery eyes.The Air Quality Index or the AQI is used by government agencies, like SAFAR, to communicate to the public exactly how polluted the air currently is or how polluted it is forecast to become. The bursting of firecrackers despite the imposition of curbs across Haryana coupled with the recent increase in farm fires worsened the air quality index (AQI) in most cities, particularly in the national capital region (NCR), on Diwali night.Also Read | AQI deteriorates in most parts of HaryanaIn India, an AQI of 401-500 and beyond is categorised as “severe”, indicating over 430 PM10 particles and such an air quality is almost certain to have hazardous respiratory impacts even on otherwise healthy people. People with lung disorders or heart diseases are seriously at risk, and the impacts may even be experienced during light physical activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-delhi-chokes-post-diwali-here-are-the-10-cities-with-poorest-air-quality-101636165712913.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi's air quality still in ‘severe’ zone post-Diwali, AQI clocking at 533||Delhi's air quality continues to be in the “severe” category even two days after Diwali, with the air quality index (AQI) registering at 533, according to data released by the System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR) on Saturday morning. The air quality in the national capital deteriorated by drastic levels following the festival of Diwali, reaching the ‘hazardous’ category on Friday morning. A thick blanket of smog shrouded the skies of Delhi, as several people complained of an itchy throat and watery eyes.The Air Quality Index or the AQI is used by government agencies, like SAFAR, to communicate to the public exactly how polluted the air currently is or how polluted it is forecast to become. In India, an AQI of 401-500 and beyond is categorised as “severe”, indicating over 430 PM10 particles and such an air quality is almost certain to have hazardous respiratory impacts even on otherwise healthy people. People with lung disorders or heart diseases are seriously at risk, and the impacts may even be experienced during light physical activity.Hindustan Times has compiled an hour-by-hour account of how Delhi’s air quality tanked on Diwali, with farm fires in Punjab and Haryana and the use of fireworks on Diwali night contributing to the spike. On the basis of available data, two things are clear: this was among the most polluted Diwalis in Delhi and fireworks are not the only cause for the spike in pollution.However, it is worth noting that despite the Delhi government's ban on firecrackers, several people were seen bursting crackers on street on the occasion of Diwali, contributing to the degradation of the air quality. As per the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the air quality would not improve until Sunday evening (November 7). The improvement would, however, just fluctuate in the ‘Very Poor’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-still-in-severe-zone-post-diwali-aqi-clocking-at-533-101636161806216.html
06-11-2021||Mumbai||Drugs-on-cruise case: Meet Sanjay Singh, NCB's new probe officer||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) deputy director general (ops) Sanjay Singh will head the special investigation team (SIT) which will take over probe into six cases being investigated by the federal agency's Mumbai zonal unit. This includes the drugs-on-cruise case, which led to the arrest, and, later, bail, of several people, including actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan. Also Read | Sameer Wankhede out, Aryan Khan case given to new teamHere's what we know about DDG (ops) Sanjay Singh:(1.) Singh is a 1996-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of Odisha cadre. He has previously served with the Odisha Police, as well as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).(2.) During his time with the Odisha Police, the officer headed its drug task force (DTF) as an additional director general (ADG). He also served as commissioner, Bhubaneswar, and as additional commissioner of Twin City, Odisha Police.(3.) With the CBI, he handled several high-profile cases, including the 2010 Commonwealth Games scam.(4.) According to a media report, Singh was sent on deputation to the NCB in January this year. According to another report, he will hold the rank of DDG till January 31, 2015, which is the date of his superannuation, or until further orders, whichever is earlier.Also Read | ‘Just the beginning’, says Nawab Malik as NCB’s Delhi team takes over Aryan Khan caseThe Aryan Khan case was, until now, being handled by the NCB's zonal director, Sameer Wankhede, who himself came under intense scrutiny after a series of allegations were levelled against him by Maharashtra cabinet minister Nawab Malik. On Friday, the half-a-dozen cases were 'transferred' from Wankhede to the Singh-led SIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugsoncruise-case-meet-sanjay-singh-the-new-probe-officer-101636156803771.html
06-11-2021||Patna||Toll in suspected hooch tragedies in Bihar rises to 25||The death toll in two suspected spurious liquor consumption cases from Bihar, where total prohibition is in place, climbed to 25 on Friday with seven fresh casualties-- five from West Champaran and two from Gopalganj districts. At least 23 people have been arrested, five have been detained in both the cases and two policemen from each district have been suspended, police said.“We are waiting for the post-mortem report to reach any conclusion. Prima facie, these deaths appear to have occurred due to the consumption of poisonous substances,” West Champaran’s superintendent of police (SP) Upendra Nath Verma said. Verma confirmed five more deaths in the district took place since Thursday.West Champaran and Gopalganj have recorded 14 and 11 deaths respectively in last four days, an official said.Verma added that nine others who had taken ill after consumption of alleged toxic hooch in the Telhwa panchayat of the district were undergoing treatment. In Gopalganj’s Kushar village, four people were under treatment for severe illness due to consumption of suspected illicit hooch.Police have registered a case and a local station house officer (SHO) and one chowkidar have been suspended in West Champaran following the incident, the SP said. Verma said three persons have been arrested and five others were detained for questioning.West Champaran district magistrate Kundan Kumar said, “Medical teams have been deployed for check up and raids are on to arrest the accused.”Chief minister Nitish Kumar, on Friday, warned of strict action against those violating prohibition in the state. “We will take action. Some people are doing bad work by making spurious liquor. Raids are on and I am going to review the entire scenario...,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/toll-in-suspected-hooch-tragedies-in-bihar-rises-to-25-101636153404353.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Cover 90% with first dose by Nov 30: Govt||The Union government has asked all states to plan to achieve at least 90% first dose Covid vaccination coverage by the end of November, stressing on the need to accelerate the immunisation drive for which several regions with low rates have launched a house-to-house canvassing effort being called Har Ghar Dastak.The advisory was issued in a virtual meeting last month and the Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, later wrote to states separately asking them to make efforts to the effect.“You would recall that in the video conference held on 18th October 2021, with all the states and Union Territories, it was advised that States/UTs should plan to achieve about 90% coverage of 1st dose by November-end and timely administration of 2nd dose,” said Bhushan in his letter issued on October 20 that HT has accessed. “…I request you to kindly direct concerned officials to initiate the process of planning for timely completion of full vaccination of all adult citizens and implement it at the earliest. I would also expect that the progress of 2nd dose administration is reviewed on a daily basis by you and your team,” it added.According to government data, at least 78% of India’s eligible population has been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while 38% has been fully vaccinated.“Even though there is no substantial data available globally to support a particular percentage of population that if fully vaccinated will provide the necessary safety cover. Ideally, it should be 90-95% of the population but that is not immediately possible, therefore, we should try to cover as high as possible, and as fast as possible,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.According to the Co-WIN dashboard, the coverage of first doses across Indian states ranges from 61% to more than 100%.The government data shows there are currently 45 districts in India that are still seeing a heavy lag in vaccination coverage as they are yet to administer even a single shot to more than half of their adult population. The districts belong to states such as Arunchal Pradesh (6 districts), Assam (1), Chhattisgarh (1), Haryana (1), Jharkhand (8), Maharashtra (5), Manipur (8), Meghalaya (4), Mizoram (1), Nagaland (8), Tamil Nadu (1) and Delhi (1).To plug the gap in vaccination coverage, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched the special door-to-door drive that will be held between November 3 and 30.“We have allowed the states to send their health care workers door to door to identify those who have not been vaccinated yet or those who are due to take their second shot...,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cover-90-with-first-dose-by-nov-30-govt-101636152802311.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The lake isle of Chawri||Crickets are singing. The water is lapping by the shore.This is the lake isle of Innisfree. The dependable Wikipedia locates it in Ireland. While the aforementioned description is gathered from a WB Yeats poem that famously immortalised Innisfree as a place where “peace comes dropping slow.”But this evening the island has temporarily shifted to Old Delhi’s Chawri Bazar. It has made this shift solely for labourer Naeem.Here’s his currently tranquil world. It’s the 5pm rush hour. The traffic jam is looking hopeless. Nothing is moving on the road. The scooters, the bikes, and the carts are standing still. Only the pavements are rippling along with the steady flow of pedestrians. Every (unmasked) face in the crowd is looking stressed, but Naeem’s (his mask is pulled down to his chin). He is lying on the narrow space separating the road from the footpath; his slim figure is slumped between two poles. It doesn’t look like a comfortable posture, but Naeem’s expressions are surprisingly serene. His eyes are closed.“I’m free right now,” he smiles, opening his eyes. A “mazdoor” in the market’s bustling wedding card trade, Naeem transports “shaadi wale cards” from printing presses to retail shops. He makes dozens of rounds everyday on foot along the alleys, carrying the “load” on his back. The opportunities of idleness come to him occasionally, he says, and lasts for only a few minutes between the assignments. “So then I lie down and rest.” This way of “aaram (rest)” makes him so calm “that all my tensions leave me… my mind becomes khali (empty).” Not even the Chawri Bazar chaos then intrudes into this resourceful mindfulness. The traffic, the incessant blowing of bike horns, the dust, the smog, the cries of the vendors—all of these pass by him like a breeze. “Because this is ghar,” Naeem explains, pointing out that the entire market is like his home. “I work here. I sleep here.”In his 30s, Naeem arrived in Delhi 20 years ago, and started working in Chawri Bazar when he was still a child. “Papa looks after our little agricultural land (in the village in Bahraich, UP).” He chose to make a career in Chawri Bazar even though his wife and two children are in the village because “there is more money in laboury (sic) than in kheti (farming). The money I earn everyday in Dilli is ₹200 more than what I would have earned everyday as a farmer in Bahraich.”By now, the traffic has started to move. Naeem again closes his eyes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-lake-isle-of-chawri-101636151624528.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi's south body opens 15-bed dengue treatment facility||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has set up a 15-bed dengue treatment facility at the Tilak Nagar Colony Hospital on Friday, the civic body spokesperson said, adding that the facility will have intensive care unit support and will be available round the clock to patients suffering from vector-borne diseases.“In order to ensure treatment to patients, additional manpower, including junior residents and senior residents, have been hired while other staff members have been pooled in from various centres of the SDMC. Patients requiring treatment from a higher centre will be referred to the nearby DDU Hospital, as the Tilak Nagar facility is linked to the hospital,” SDMC said in a statement.Delhi has reported 1,537 dengue cases and six deaths till October 30 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-body-opens-15-bed-dengue-treatment-facility-101636150612712.html
06-11-2021||Gurugram||Hindu groups hold puja at designated namaz site||Members of right-wing Hindu groups on Friday organised Govardhan Puja at a designated namaz site in Sector 12, where Muslims offer prayers on Fridays. Members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also attended the rituals, which were organised by the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti.While members of Hindu groups said that the action was to mark their protest against namaz being offered in open spaces, members of Muslim communities said that they decided not to offer prayers at the site in Sector 12 due to objections raised by residents as well as protests by Hindu groups over the past few weeks.Namaz was majorly held at Leisure Valley Ground in Sector 29 besides other designated locations, while Govardhan Puja was offered at designated namaz sites in Sector 47 and DLF Phase-3, on a small scale, besides Sector 12.Heavy police deployment was witnessed at all sites and the prayers by both communities went off peacefully.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “No report of disruption was received from any area and majority of Muslims offered prayers at Leisure Valley Ground in Sector 29, and they did not visit the Sector 12 area on Friday as they knew Govardhan puja was organised.”Addressing the gathering of hundreds at Sector 12, BJP leader Kapil Mishra said that roads are not for religious activities. “Blocking roads is not part of any religion. People have first right to the roads,” said Mishra.Surendra Kumar Jain, the international joint general secretary of Vishva Hindu Parishad, alleged that namaz was being offered in open spaces to establish control over public land.Altaf Ahmad, a representative of the Muslim community in the city, said, “...we voluntarily stepped back as the same was advised by police... We have asked our Muslim community to show restraint and walk away in case troublemakers try to provoke or disrupt namaz.”Over the past two weeks, right-wing outfits had tried to disrupt namaz at the open site in Sector 12 and on October 29, 35 protesters were detained for attempting to disrupt Friday prayers. Representatives of the Muslim community had agreed to relocate from the site, calling for an alternative space and clearing encroachments from Waqf Board properties.Mahavir Bharadwaj, a member of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, claimed that the administration had to “bow down to their demands”. “The Muslim community has a month to make arrangements... to ensure they don’t offer namaz in open, “ he said.However, officials of the district administration said permissions were withdrawn only for eight sites, and a decision on other sites will be taken later.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that a committee, comprising a subdivisional magistrate, an assistant commissioner of police and members of religious organisations and civil society groups will discuss the issue. “The committee will also take consent from locals at the time of designating a spot for offering prayers but no concrete decision has been taken yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hindu-groups-hold-puja-at-designated-namaz-site-101636149974061.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||5-year-old taken away by wild animal in Shimla, search ops underway||A five-year-old boy was taken away by a wild animal from Himachal Pradesh’s Shimla city while he was bursting crackers with his younger cousin on the eve of Diwali, a forest official said on Friday.This is the second such incident in three months in Shimla. In August, a five-year-old girl was taken away from Kanlog locality and mauled to death by a leopard. Around 8 pm on Thursday, the boy identified as Yograj was bursting crackers with his younger cousin near his house at Downdale near Old Bus Stand when the wild animal took him away, Shimla Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife) Ravi Shankar said, adding that it is not yet clear which animal it was. Yograj’s younger cousin informed their family that he was taken away by a wild animal. The Rapid Rescue Team (RRT) of the Forest Department received a call around 11 pm after the family members informed the local police about the incident, he said. Shankar told PTI that a pair of trousers and some bloodstains were found near the spot. The Forest Department is verifying whether they are of the boy. Meanwhile, Shimla police said in a statement that the pant was found about 100 feet below his house. About 50 policemen along with the QRT are searching for the boy, it added. “The focus of the Forest Department is to rescue the boy,” Shankar said. He acknowledged that the Forest Department has been unable to capture the leopard that killed the five-year-old girl in August despite installing several cages. The DFO said camera traps installed in the area confirmed that the girl was killed by the leopard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5yearold-taken-away-by-wild-animal-in-shimla-search-ops-underway-101636146679661.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||PM celebrates Diwali with soldiers on LoC in Nowshera||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday celebrated Diwali with soldiers on the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera area of Rajouri district. Addressing the soldiers, the PM said that spending Diwali with the armed forces, for him, is in the same spirit as celebrating Diwali with his family. He said, that is why, he has spent all his Diwali with the armed forces at the border after assuming the constitutional post. He said he has not come alone but has brought with him with the wishes of the 130 crore Indians. The PM paid rich tribute to the heroes of Nowshera, Brig Usman and Naik Jadunath Singh who made the supreme sacrifice for defending the motherland. He saluted Lt RR Rane and other bravehearts who set unprecedented examples of valour and patriotism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-celebrates-diwali-with-soldiers-on-loc-in-nowshera-101636146380800.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram inaugurates live telecast of aartis from Kangra shrines||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday inaugurated the live telecast of aartis of all three major shrines in Kangra— Jwalaji, Bajreshwari and Chamunda. He also paid obeisance and performed pooja at the temple and visited the place where a statue of Aadiguru Shankaracharya has been.The CM said daily live telecast of aartis from the three Shaktipeets of Kangra will help the devotees to pay obeisance and perform Pooja at their homes.Earlier, he attended the online event of Kedar Dham (Uttrakhand) presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Briefing about the timings of the Aarti, deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal said these aartis will be aired daily on MH1 Channel from Jwalaji in the evening only from 8:30 to 9:00 PM in winter and from 9:30 to 10:00 pm in summer. From Brijeshwari temple, the aarti will be online from 6:00 to 7:00 am in winter and from 5:00 to 6:00 am in summer during morning hours and from 7:00 to 8:00 pm in winter and summer each. From Chamunda Temple, the Aarti will be aired daily from 8:00 to 8:30 am both in summer and winter. The evening timings will remain from 6:30 to 7:00 in winter and 8:00 to 8:30 pm in summer.Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur, industry minister Bikram Thakur, MP Kishan Kapoor also attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-jai-ram-inaugurates-live-telecast-of-aartis-from-kangra-shrines-101636146079109.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sack AG Deol, form fresh panel for DGP post: Sidhu sets preconditions to resume duties as Punjab Congress chief||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday withdrew his resignation as state Congress president, but hit out at chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and put a precondition for resuming his duties. Sidhu, who stepped down from the post on September 28, said he will return to his duties as the state unit chief the day new advocate general is appointed and a new panel for (appointment of director general of police) is received (from UPSC). “It was never personal or a matter of ego. It is the question of conscience of Punjab. Without moral authority, you cannot speak truth,” the Amritsar East MLA said at a press conference here before questioning Channi over his choices for the two senior positions and steps taken by his government for delivery of justice in sacrilege cases and action against drug trafficking. The Congress leader has been opposed to the appointment of APS Deol and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the state’s AG and DGP by Channi who took over as the chief minister following Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation on September 18 amid a rift in the state unit. The PPCC chief kept pressing for their removal as both Deol and Sahota continue to hold their posts. Deol had resigned three days ago but his resignation is yet to be accepted. Sidhu’s statement came three days after he and Channi, along with Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, visited Kedarnath Temple in Uttarakhand to put up a show of unity. On their return, the two leaders attended a meeting of Congress MLAs and praised each other. At his press conference, Sidhu said the state government was changed by people in 2017 over Bargari sacrilege and drugs and later a chief minister (Capt Amarinder) also removed over these big issues. “The offices of AG and DGP are crucial to take to logical conclusion the issue of Bargari sacrilege and drugs,” he said. He said that Sahota was appointed as head of SIT to investigate sacrilege incident by the then Badal government six years ago and their blue-eyed officer has become the DGP whereas Deol represented former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in court, who headed the police during the sacrilege and police firing incidents, and is now the AG. “What is this happening…when we go to villages, how are we going to answer people? What are we going to say? The party is demanding answers. After three special investigation teams (SITs), seven first information reports (FIRs), two commissions and six years of the sacrilege cases, are these the only officers you could find,” he asked. Questioning the delay in action in sacrilege cases and making public report on drug trafficking, Sidhu asked about the steps taken by the government in the past 50 days. “Don’t you want the report to be made public in the state assembly? Which court order is restraining you? Who is stopping?” he said. Sidhu further said that if the government does not have the guts to make the special task force (STF) report public, it should give it to the party. “I will release it .The high command has no objections. They want action on 18-point agenda,” he said. He also demanded a white paper on power purchase agreements with complete details of the circumstances in which these were inked, who signed them and why these were not renegotiated. Asked about his repeated lollipop and empty treasury barbs at Channi, Sidhu claimed his lollipop comment was aimed at (Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind) Kejriwal for promising 26 lakh jobs during one of his trips to the state. “As for khali khazana, I have talking about this from 2016 in my speeches and meetings,” he said. On using foul language against former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, he replied, “Doesn’t an 80-year-old person need to maintain dignity? You have to earn respect”. In response to a question on the Congress’ CM-face for the 2022 poll, he said that it is decided by the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sack-ag-deol-form-fresh-panel-for-dgp-post-sidhu-sets-preconditions-to-resume-duties-as-punjab-congress-chief-101636145239580.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||In 2 weeks, Jammu and Kashmir sees 22% rise in active Covid cases||Although Jammu and Kashmir recorded its lowest Covid-19 count in eight months in October, the union territory has been witnessing a slow and consistent rise in active cases over the past two weeks. The active cases in J&K had been on the decline, reaching its lowest ebb on October 20 with 800 cases. However after October 20, the active cases slowly went up and reached 981 on November 4, an increase of 22% in 15 days.“The cases are rising slowly but it is not a threatening scenario. We are not seeing many admissions. Around 40,000 tests are conducted daily, of which around 100 persons test positive,” said Prof Dr Mohammad Salim Khan, the nodal officer for Covid and the head of the department of community medicine at Government Medical College, Srinagar.The UT is now recording around 100 cases daily as against the daily average of 80 cases in the second and third week of October. Last month, the UT recorded a total of 10 deaths while in just four days of November, J&K has already seen six deaths. “There were some deaths but these people were admitted around two weeks ago. There is no need to worry but yes alertness is the key,” said Dr Khan.The active cases are highest in the districts of Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam and Ganderbal in Kashmir valley and Jammu district of the Jammu division.On November 4, Srinagar has 476 active cases, Baramulla 156, Budgam 85, Ganderbal 68 and Jammu 45.The districts of Shopian in Kashmir and Samba in Jammu have mostly maintained zero active cases in the past 12 days. In fact, Shopian has maintained zero active cases since October 14 and just reported a case on Thursday after over three weeks.In the past one week, the active cases in six districts – Shopian, Kulgam, Kathua, Samba, Kishtwar and Udhampur – have mostly remained five or below.“Overall, we are fine. There aren’t many new cases, even though there are gatherings and people don’t wear masks or maintain social distancing. The main reasons include vaccination coverage and an increased exposure of the community to the virus in the first and the second wave,” said Dr Khalid Abbas, block medical officer of Zainapora in Shopian.“South Kashmir’s Shopian and Kulgam were badly affected by Covid in the beginning. Increased exposure of the community led to some sort of herd immunity,” he said.Jammu and Kashmir logged 2,819 Covid infections in October. This is the lowest since February, when the first wave had receded and just 1,935 cases were reported. In September this year, around 4,011 infections had been reported from the union territory.October’s test positivity rate (TPR) in J&K– the percentage of tests turning positive out of the total tests conducted – also dropped to 0.20% from 0.27% in September. If TPR is below 5%, it indicates that the infection is under control in the community.The data reveals that on an average, 43,482 tests were conducted daily in October so far, against 49,374 daily tests in September, 53,359 in August and 56,719 in July.Overall, the union territory conducted 13.47 lakh tests in October, as against September when 14.81 lakh tests were carried out. In August, 16.54 lakh tests were conducted.Since September, the vaccination drive has been very rigorous. Around 65 lakh people have been vaccinated in J&K with one or both doses during the two months.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,27,232, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.37%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,32,651 and the death toll has reached 4,438. Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities with 1,145, followed by Srinagar with 850 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-2-weeks-jammu-and-kashmir-sees-22-rise-in-active-covid-cases-101636144819167.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pollution alert: Punjab farm fires see sharp spike||With nearly 70% of paddy harvest completed in Punjab, the hinterland of the state is seeing a sharp rise in the number of farm fires, with 8,359 separate blazes reported in the past two days. The state’s air quality was, however, still better than neighbouring Haryana where cracker ban went up in smoke on Diwali night following which the AQI of 10 cities plummeted to a “severe” category. While 5,327 stubble burning incidents were reported in Punjab on Friday (till 5pm), the figure for Thursday ( Diwali day) stood at 3,032. Of the total number of farm fires this year, 65% was reported in the last five days alone. A total of 28,792 farm fires have been reported so far. It is nearly half the number that was reported for the same period, until November 5, last year. Sangrur, with 611 active fire events, reported the highest number of straw burning incidents on Friday, followed by Moga (484), Ferozepur (481) and Ludhiana (455). Punjab’s Pollution Control Board has decided to send expert teams to various parts of the state to issue challans to farmers for burning straw. While some farmers are exploring alternatives ways to handle the post-harvest straw, most medium and marginal farmer are burning it to clear their farms for sowing wheat. An official of Punjab’s agriculture department called for the need to develop a mechanism to give the farmers incentives to avoid burning their straw. “If the government wants to end this practice, it should implement a Supreme Court’s judgment on this, and give ₹100 per quintal as incentive to hand over the straw. It will help… because farmers can’t spend extra amount of money due to high input costs to clear their fields using machinery,” said Jugraj Singh, a farm leader from Samana in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pollution-alert-punjab-farm-fires-see-sharp-spike-101636144639117.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||1.5 lakh SC students issued ‘freeship’ cards in Punjab: Minister Raj Kumar Verka||Punjab social justice and empowerment minister Raj Kumar Verka on Friday said that over 1.5 lakh scheduled caste (SC) students have been issued ‘freeship’ cards under the post-matric scholarship scheme.The department’s web portal is open to receive applications for the 2021-22 session, he said in a press release.‘Freeship card’ scheme has been introduced to ease the difficulties of students for admission in different institutions, Verka said. “After obtaining the card, the students become eligible for admission in any educational institution. Earlier, SC students faced various difficulties in getting admission. Educational institutions have been directed to forward complete cases of eligible SC and backward class (BC) students by November 30,” he added. The last date for the sanctioning authority to forward the cases to the welfare department has been fixed on December 15, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-lakh-sc-students-issued-freeship-cards-in-punjab-minister-raj-kumar-verka-101636144518994.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder asks Congress govt in Punjab to come out of denial mode over security threat||A day after Punjab police recovered an explosive-filled tiffin box from an agricultural field near the India-Pakistan border in Ferozepur, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday asked the Congress government, particularly deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, to come out of denial mode and take security threat from across the border seriously. Amarinder said that a detailed action plan must be drawn to combat the challenge. “Hope@PunjabGovtIndia, HM Punjab in particular, will come out of denial mode and take this threat seriously. With multiple consignments being sent regularly from across the border, extra vigil and a detailed action plan must be formed to combat the challenge (sic),” he tweeted. Punjab Police had on Thursday claimed to have foiled a possible attempt of a terror attack with the recovery of tiffin bomb at Ali Ke village. The recovery was made following interrogation of three persons arrested earlier this week in connection with the Jalalabad blast case. The former CM’s tweet is being seen as his response to Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio and had last month questioned the former’s repeated barbs over security concerns and the “alarmist narrative” being created about peace and security in the state. Amarinder, who was made to resign from the CM’s post on September 18 amid a rift in the state Congress, has been voicing concerns over security, condemning the present state government of being in a state of denial over security threat. “Something very wrong and dangerous was happening at the borders which the state should not ignore,” he had said in a statement last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-asks-congress-govt-in-punjab-to-come-out-of-denial-mode-over-security-threat-101636143979108.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP bosses seek report on poll debacle from Himachal unit||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s central leadership has sought a report from the state unit on the party’s drubbing in the recently held bypolls to three assembly constituencies and one parliamentary segment. The state unit has sought reports from its observers, in-charges and coordinators appointed for the bypolls. Party’s national president JP Nadda has also spoken to chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap on the matter. Leaders from Himachal Pradesh will virtually join Prime Minister Narendra Modi, National President JP Nadda, home minister Amit Shah at the party’ national executive meeting on Sunday. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, former Chief Ministers Prem Kumar Dhumal, Shanta Kumar, union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur, state party chief Suresh Kashyap will apprise thecentral leadership on the poll debacle.The party had appointed its best poll managers in Mandi, Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai constituencies. In Mandi, Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur, who is known for his political maneuvering, was at the forefront of the campaign while education minister Govind Singh Thakur was the co-incharge. Party general secretary and CM Thakur’s close confidante Rakesh Jamwal was the coordinator and the CM himself remained at the forefront of the campaign. In Arki, former BJP president Rajiv Bindal was the in-charge while health minister Rajiv Sehjal and party general secretary Trilok Jamwal assisted him. Industries minister Bikram Singh, forest minister Rakesh Pathania and former BJP president Satpal Singh Satti were assigned Fatehpur assembly segment. In Jubbal-Kotkhai, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj and power minister Sukhram were at theforefront. The party had carried out a preliminary assessment of factors leading to its debacle. The assessment hinted at widespread resentment among the public against inflation, and poor coordination between the government and the organisation as the reasons for the defeat. Infighting and lack of enthusiasm among the cadre and the party’s failure to nullify the sympathy for Congress nominee Pratibha Singh invoked after her husband Virbhadra Singh death were also among the reasons it lost its vote-share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-bosses-seek-report-on-poll-debacle-from-himachal-unit-101636143919075.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab minister Warring advises Amarinder to retire, not mess with Congress||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Friday advised former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to retire and not mess with the Congress. Calling him a “compromised CM”, Warring accused Amarinder of remaining in “comfort zone” with the Badals and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during his stint. “You @capt_amarinder as a compromised CM, was just like writing with black ink on a black paper... While the promise was to deliver in black and white. you never came out of the comfort zone against Badals and BJP. Pl retire don’t mess with us @INCPunjab (sic),” tweeted the minister. Warring, considered close to state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, was among the first few ministers to target the two-time former CM after he (Amarinder) resigned from the party on Tuesday, accusing party president Sonia Gandhi and her two children, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, of a “midnight conspiracy” against him. Amarinder also announced the formation of his separate party, Punjab Lok Congress. He had resigned from the CM’s post on September 18 following a long-drawn tussle with Navjot Sidhu, four ministers and some MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-minister-warring-advises-amarinder-to-retire-not-mess-with-congress-101636143738814.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||On Bandi Chhor Diwas, Akal Takht jathedar expresses concern over ‘wrongful’ conversion of Sikhs||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Thursday expressed concern over Sikhs being allegedly converted to a particular religion through “wrongful” means and asked the Sikh bodies and preachers to keep tabs on such a practice. The jathedar said this in the customary sandesh (massage) he delivered from ‘darshani deori’ of the Golden Temple’s sanctum sanctorum on Diwali, also celebrated by Sikhs as ‘Bandi Chhor Diwas’, amid talks of Christian missionaries allegedly making some members of Sikh community embrace Christianity.“Nobody can be allured, forced or misguided to change their religion. The Sikh organisations and the preachers should be careful of those behind wrongful conversion,” said Giani Harpreet Singh. The head of the highest Sikh temporal seat also exhorted the Sikh organisations to build pressure on the Centre to ensure permanent release of members of the community lodged in the country’s jails in terror-related cases. “This is very unfortunate that these Sikh prisoners are not being released despite they have completed their jail terms,” he added.Besides, Takht Patna Sahib jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh, Takht Kesgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, Golden Temple head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur, Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Khalsa and Nihang organisation Budha Dal chief Baba Balbir Singh also addressed the devotees on the occasion.Diwali was celebrated with religious farvour at the shrine. Members of Nihang organisations and other Sikh bodies participated in the festivities at the Akal Takht. Fireworks were also carried out albeit symbolically in view of the air pollution. Denied entry, parallel jathedar reads out sandesh at entranceDhian Singh Mand, the Sarbat Khalsa-appointed Akal Takht parallel jathedar was denied entry to the Golden Temple complex by the Punjab Police personnel deployed there.When Mand along with some radical Sikh leaders and their supporters starting entering the shrine, a team led by additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-1) Harjit Singh and ADCP-3 Harpal Singh stopped them citing orders from their seniors.Mand’s supporters opposed the move and wanted to be allowed to at least pay obeisance, but to no avail. It also led to a minor scuffle. Another message of Jagtar Singh Hawara, one of the convicts in the assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh and appointed as (parallel) Akal Takht jathedar by Sarbat Khalsa, was also delivered by his supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-bandi-chhor-diwas-akal-takht-jathedar-expresses-concern-over-wrongful-conversion-of-sikhs-101636143498751.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Festival rush raises concern over Covid spread in Punjab again||With Covid-19 norms being violated blatantly across Punjab during the Diwali festivities as heavy rush of people was seen in markets and other public places, the health department has raised concern over spread of the pandemic in the state once again. The cities of Mohali, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala are being seen as more vulnerable as they witnessed an unprecedented rush in the past one week when the number of people getting inoculated with vaccine also came down. The department has decided to step up testing and inoculate those who have not received the Covid vaccine yet. As per official figures, at least 80% population has received the first dose while 40% have been administered the second dose. The remaining unvaccinated population (20%) is the most vulnerable to virus infection, experts said. “We will ask people to get tested for the virus infection in case they have any of the symptoms. The state was the worst-hit in the second phase of the pandemic when people in cities, towns and rural pockets were badly affected,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. It will take at least a week to 10 days to ascertain the impact of lack of adherence to the Covid-19 protocols during the festival season, said another health department official.“In the view of the festival season, various agencies have predicted the onset of the third wave of virus by November-end,” Bhaskar added. A day after Diwali on Friday, there were 219 active cases of infection and 17 new cases in the state with 2,600 people getting the vaccine. Of the 602,496 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state since the outbreak of coronavirus, 585,715 have recovered. The death count has reached 16,562. State health director Dr Andesh Kang said the department is taking all steps to keep the spread of infection under check. “The number of people getting positive has decreased significantly but we can’t lower our guard. The department is monitoring the situation closely,” she added. 35,000 samples being collected daily The department is collecting nearly 35,000 samples every day, particularly in schools, hospitals and other public places, Dr Bhaskar said. Mansa district reported no Covid case for at least 10 days with 10-12 districts witnessing zero case on the daily basis. Gurdaspur, Muktsar and Tarn Taran districts have recorded positivity rate even less than the state’s average of 0.1%. The majority of the tests being conducted are RT-PCR, said another department official, adding that an average 1 lakh vaccine doses are being administered daily. “Earlier, the daily vaccination number was 2.5-3 lakh which came down due to the festival and the ongoing paddy procurement. We will increase the number again,” he said. With the World Health Organization (WHO) giving approval to Covaxin vaccine, the immunization rate in Punjab is expected to pick up in the coming days, say experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/festival-rush-raises-concern-over-covid-spread-in-punjab-again-101636143260703.html
06-11-2021||Dehradun||IFS officer to probe felling of trees in Corbett||The Uttarakhand forest department has directed Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi to probe allegations of illegal constructions and felling of trees in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), an officer aware of the details said on Friday.The state forest department has also asked the bureaucrat to probe the role of forest officials in the matter and submit a report within two weeks, the officer added.“I want this matter to be investigated properly so that action can be taken against the officers responsible. So, I issued an order on November 2 in this regard. I have directed him (Chaturvedi) to investigate the matter and find out who did what and when and with whose permission,” principal chief conservator of forests Rajiv Bhartari said.Chaturvedi, who is working as chief conservator of forest at Haldwani, had made headlines during his tenure as chief vigilance officer of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, from 2012 to 2014, when he investigated around 200 corruption cases, according to news agency PTI.Winner of the prestigious Ramon Magsaysay Award in 2015, the civil servant has unearthed a spate of corruption cases in public offices. He also stopped illegal construction inside Haryana’s Saraswati Wildlife Sanctuary in 2009.On October 27, the Uttarakhand high court ordered the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the state’s top officials for forest and wildlife to investigate the alleged illegal construction and illegal felling of trees in CTR.The court’s order was based on an October 22 report by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) which said that forest officers may have forged government records to allow illegal construction of roads and buildings in the reserve.The committee described the illegal construction in CTR an excellent example of “administrative and managerial failure”, recommended vigilance inquiry against Uttarakhand forest officers and recommended that the Union ministry take strong action against erring forest officers.Subsequently, the state government on October 29 directed Bhartari to take appropriate action in the matter.Supreme Court lawyer and wildlife activist Gaurav Bansal, who moved court, alleged the matter involved more than ₹150 crores as government funds were utilised for illegal construction.“The NTCA’s report clearly says that work has been done without financial sanction,” he alleged, adding that there is an urgent need to investigate why funds were used for illegal purposes.Bhartari said he cannot comment about the financial irregularities alleged by the advocate and that Chaturvedi will investigate them.The court, meanwhile, sought an action taken report from NTCA by November 9.Bansal said he had earlier approached the Supreme Court, which subsequently constituted a Central Empowered Committee to probe allegations of illegal felling of thousands of trees in Pakhrau tiger safari, and construction of structures and water body in Corbett tiger reserve landscape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ifs-officer-to-probe-felling-of-trees-in-corbett-101636142289442.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Firecrackers stalls gutted in Bathinda||Six firecrackers stalls put up in front of shops were gutted in fire at Jalal village in Rampura Phul of Bathinda district. In another incident, the roof of a bus stand collapsed after a gas cylinder in a welding shop exploded at Mandi Ladhuka village in Fazilka district. No injuries were reported in both the incidents. Roof of bus stand collapses Fazilka deputy superintendent of police Jora Singh Kagra said a cycle repair shop caught fire in the wee hours of Friday near Mandi Ladhuka bus stand. The welding shop also caught fire leading to an explosion in a gas cylinder. “The impact of the explosion was so strong that the roof of the nearby bus stand gave in. Fire tenders were called from Fazilka and Jalalabad to control the blaze. No one was injured as the incident took place around 2am. The reason of the fire is yet to be ascertained,” he added. The district administration ordered a revenue official to submit a report on the damage. Rampura Phul police said that they are investigating the cause of the fire which broke out in shops near the bus stand at Jalal village. Minor fire incidents were also reported in Faridkot, Moga, Mansa, Muktsar and Ferozepur districts on Diwali night. 50 fires reported in Jalandhar JALANDHAR: Fifty fire incidents were reported in the district on Diwali, according to a data shared by fire services department. Fire safety officer Jaswant Singh said that of the 50 fire incidents, only five were major. No casualty was reported in the fire incidents. The department had stationed fire tenders at 17 crucial points, he said. A major incident occurred at a furniture showroom on Nakodar road. It took eight fire tenders an hour to control the blaze. Similarly, a fire broke out at a paper box factory near Patel Chowk and rubber factory in focal point. Meanwhile, three fire incidents each were reported in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Kapurthala districts. 19 fire incidents in AmritsarAMRITSAR: A total of 19 fire incidents were reported in Amritsar on Diwali night. Officials said most of the incidents were caused due to the bursting of firecrackers. However, no casualty or injury was reported. Three cloth shops where gutted in the Putlighar area of the holy city. Officials said investigation to ascertain the exact cause of the fire was still on. Fire incidents were also reported from Lawrence Road, Hall Gate, Bhai Manjh Singh Gate, Jahaj Garh, Mamal Mandi, Baba Bakala, Partap Nagar, Meeran Kot, Fatahpur, Maha Singh Gate, Baba Tall, Loon Mandi and Rattan Singh Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firecrackers-stalls-gutted-in-bathinda-101636141698843.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Action on crackers let up before this Diwali||The number of people arrested for violating the firecracker ban in the city in over a month in the run up to Diwali this year is only around a third of the total number of arrests recorded during Diwali last year, data from the Delhi Police showed. The number of cases registered also saw a three-fold drop in the comparative period, even as the police control room received over 1,100 calls related to bursting of firecrackers in Delhi on Thursday.According to data released on Friday by the Delhi Police, 281 people were arrested across the city in the 38 days between September 28 and November 4 in 335 cases related to bursting and stocking firecrackers. Last year’s police data available with HT shows that 850 people were arrested in 1,206 cases related to bursting crackers, and illegal sale, storage and supply of crackers just on Diwali (November 14, 2020). Delhi Police officials did not respond to calls and messages seeking a comment.The sale, storage and use of firecrackers were banned in the city following a Delhi government order on September 15 this year.Of the 281 arrests this year , 143 people were picked up in 210 cases of bursting crackers and the remaining 138 were caught in 125 cases of illegally selling and supplying crackers. A total of nearly 19,703kg of crackers were seized during the police action in the last 38 days. Instances of bursting firecrackers was witnessed in several parts of the city on Thursday and the police control room received over 1,100 calls -- averaging nearly 47 calls each hour -- related to such offences.According to this year’s police statistics, Rohini district topped the list for arrests related to bursting crackers among the 15 police districts. Of the total 143 arrests in this category, 39 were arrested in Rohini, followed by Shahdara (37 arrests in 28 cases). Nobody was arrested for bursting crackers in east and north districts though six and three cases were registered respectively in the areas. The arrest data of southeast and central districts was not available.Similarly, north district saw the maximum arrests (21 arrests in 12 cases) for illegal sale of crackers, followed by Rohini (14 arrests in 14 cases) and west district (14 arrests in 13 cases).Further, Rohini also saw the highest seizure of firecrackers, recording capture of 11,396kg of the total 19,703kg of firecrackers seized in the Capital. The seizure data of Dwarka and New Delhi districts were not mentioned in the chart that the police shared.To enforce the directives pertaining to the “complete ban” on firecrackers in Delhi, the city police said that they had formed 706 teams and held 1,351 meeting with various resident welfare associations (RWAs), market welfare associations (MWAs) and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) between September 28 and November 4. The teams checked 128 premises of licensees and inventory during this period, they said.Meanwhile, many residents complained that despite a centralised helpline for reporting cracker violations in the city, it was difficult to either get through to the authorities or get them to act on it.Nishata Singh, a resident of east Delhi’s Preet Vihar, said that she reached out to the Delhi Police via the 112 helpline to report massive cracker bursting in her area but the attendants insisted that she provide specific details on where exactly the bursting was happening. “I provided them the details of the area and the areas from where the cracker bursting sounds were coming, but how can I exactly tell them from which lane or which house the crackers were being burst? Despite my complaint, I could hear cracker bursting all night and no action was taken,” Singh said.Rajeev Suri, a Delhi-based environmental activist, also said that cracker noises were being heard across the city. “This was a display of our collective governance failure and a breakdown of law and order,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-action-on-crackers-let-up-before-this-diwali-101636141518307.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||AQI deteriorates in most parts of Haryana||Bursting of fire crackers despite imposition of curbs across Haryana coupled with the recent increase in farm fires worsened the air quality index (AQI) in most cities, particularly in the national capital region (NCR), on Diwali night.On Friday afternoon, 10 Haryana cities reported an AQI of over 400 categorised “severe” by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Severe AQI affects even the healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing health conditions, the CPCB said.As per the CPCB bulletin, the 10 cities reporting severe AQI post-Diwali are Gurugram (472), Faridabad (469), Ballabhgarh (462), Jind (462), Charkhi Dadri, (424), Bhiwani (437), Hisar, (405), Manesar (458), Panipat (413), and Rohtak (437).As per the CPCB data, the air quality of nine other cities in state was categorised “very poor”. These include Ambala (301), Fatehabad (330), Daruhera (383), Kaithal (377), Karnal (329), Kurukshetra (354), Narnaul (377), Palwal (314) and Sonepat (400).Of the 24 cities chosen for the air quality bulletin, Panchkula was the only city which had “moderate” air quality with an AQI measured below 200, whereas the air quality of Sirsa and Yamunanagar cities was “poor”.Farm fires on the rise?Even as the number of farm fires has gone up in the past couple of days, officials said that there are discrepancies in the data of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC).The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) officials said the state has reported 228 incidents of farm fires on November 4 and 331 on November 5, an increase of about 100 incidents as compared to last year. The number of total active fire locations is over 3,600.Additional chief secretary (agriculture) Sumita Misra said while the HARSAC satellite data showed about 50% reduction in farm fires as compared to last year, the ICAR data indicated an increase. “We need to reconcile this data before we reach a conclusion,” she said.Director general (environment) and member secretary of HSPCB, S Narayanan said though the statistics showed an increase in farm fires due to residual burning, many fires could have started because of the use of firecrackers. “We will need to verify this as well,” he said.CPCB for zero toleranceThe CPCB has taken a serious note of rising air pollution in Delhi and the national capital region. CPCB chairman Tanmay Kumar has written to the Haryana chief secretary besides the chief secretaries of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi for strict vigilance to ensure zero tolerance to air polluting activities in the upcoming winter season.“Delhi and NCR were among the worst affected regions in country by the Covid-19 pandemic causing respiratory illness since air quality in Delhi-NCR becomes susceptible to deterioration during winter months under unfavourable meteorological conditions and if effective preventive actions are not taken the situation may worsen,” reads the letter, mentioning that the air pollution in Delhi-NCR during critical winter months is a matter of serious concern.The apex pollution watchdog has expressed concerns over the incidents causing air pollution including open burning of waste, improper handling of construction waste and emission from industries.The CPCB has issued directions for strict implementation of the nine points by preparing a detailed action plan by November 10.HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said, “We have already received the communication and have circulated the same to field officers for strict implementation.”Narayanan has admitted that firecrackers burst on Diwali night was a major factor behind the deteriorated air quality, despite the ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers in 14 NCR districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aqi-deteriorates-in-most-parts-of-haryana-101636141400332.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel prices: Cabinet to decide on cut in VAT on Sunday: Manpreet||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the decision on reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel will be taken in the cabinet meeting on Sunday.Talking to the media on the sidelines of a state-level function to celebrate the Vishwakarma Day at Vishwakarma Bhawan in Millarganj, Ludhiana, on Friday, the minister said he was expecting more relaxation in the fuel prices from the central government.Neighbouring states, including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, have slashed VAT on fuel prices after the Centre cut excise duty on petrol and diesel on the eve of Diwali.“The Punjab government will also reduce tax on fuel prices and it will be announced after the cabinet meeting,” said Manpreet. The minister also announced a grant of ₹1 crore for the revamp of Lord Vishwakarma Temple. Food, civil supplies and consumers affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and industry and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli also announced ₹10 lakh each for the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-prices-cabinet-to-decide-on-cut-in-vat-on-sunday-manpreet-101636141338179.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM celebrates Diwali with Cabinet ministers at Thyagaraj stadium||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday celebrated Diwali along with ministers in the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government at Delhi’s Thyagaraj Sports Complex-- an event that was broadcast live on several TV channels and the party’s social media handles.The government set up a temporary structure at the venue, which was supposed to resemble the under-construction Ram Temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh -- where the AAP will be contesting assembly polls next year.“The puja was held under the supervision of the head priest of the iconic Jhandewalan Temple... A magnificent 30-foot high and 80-foot wide symbolic replica of the Ram Mandir of Ayodhya was crafted especially at the Thyagaraj Stadium for the Dilli Ki Diwali celebrations,” said a statement issued by the government.The rituals were followed by a light and sound show and a cultural programme. No spectators were allowed at the venue, in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year too, the government had organised a similar event at the Akshardham temple in east Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-celebrates-diwali-with-cabinet-ministers-at-thyagaraj-stadium-101636141218294.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP Rajya Sabha MP faces protesting farmers’ wrath in Hisar||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra on Friday faced farmers’ ire at Hisar’s Narnaund town in Haryana where he had gone to inaugurate a community centre (dharamshala).The MP reportedly called the protesters “jobless alcoholics from villages”. Hundreds of farmers gathered near the venue carrying black flags and chanted slogans against the MP. In a scuffle between the Haryana Police and the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws, the windshield of the MP’s car was also smashed, officials said.The MP accused the farmers of smashing the windshield of his car while the protesters blamed the police.In the entire incident, a farmer identified as Kuldeep Singh, of Satrod Khurd village in Hisar district, sustained injuries and the protesters rushed him to a nearby hospital where his condition is said to be critical. A few policemen also got injured.A heavy police force was deployed to prevent the farmers from reaching the area but police failed to stop the huge crowd. The farmers also faced heat from the attendees supporting Jangra and both sides chanted slogans against each other, officials said.The Narnaund police have booked three farmers identified as Harsh Deep Gill, Kailash and Sudhir of the district and 20 others under Sections 147, 149, 148, 341, 186, 353, 427 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for vandalising Jangra’s car.The farmers have launched an indefinite dharna outside the Narnaund police station demanding withdrawal of cases.Farm leader Vikas Sisar said they were protesting peacefully against MP Jangra and some of the attendees provoked the farmers.“People accompanying the MP had thrashed our protestors in which he got injured and is undergoing treatment at a Hisar hospital. We have pitched tents at the police station and a large number of farmers will reach here at 11am to gherao it,” he added.Hansi superintendent of police (SP) Nitika Gehlout said the farmers protested the MP’s visit and his car’s windshield was damaged in the scuffle.“We have not resorted to lathi-charge and a protester fell unconscious following which he was rushed to Jindal Hospital in Hisar. He was unwell,” the SP added.On Thursday also, the BJP MP faced a similar protest in Rohtak where he had gone to attend a Diwali programme.In a purported audio clip that went viral, the MP was allegedly heard saying, “bad elements have been protesting against the government and the recent killing of an innocent Nihang at Singhu border has exposed them. The farmers are not protesting but only bad elements. I have been frequently visiting Delhi and most of the tents at protest sites are empty and this issue will be resolved soon”.Reacting to this, Jangra said the incident took place when he was on his way to another function when some miscreants threw sticks on his car, damaging his car’s windshield.“I have spoken to the Hansi SP and Haryana director general of police in this regard. This was a clear case of attempt to murder and police told me that two persons have been detained. I have demanded strict action against the detainees. I had gone to attend social functions when the incident took place. Will they (farmers) protest social functions too? After my car was vandalised, I had to cancel two other social programmes,” the MP added.After the incident, the farmers staged a dharna outside Narnaund police station while other groups blocked the Hisar-Rohtak national highway near Ramayana toll plaza, chanting slogans against the BJP MP, the state government and the local administration.BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni also reached the Narnaund police station and demanded the release of the two farmers.“We will go back after police cancel the FIRs registered against farmers. Jangra has been trying to divide the people on caste lines and he has been using abusive language against the protesters. We have started indefinite dharna at Narnaund police station,” Charuni added.Hansi police PRO Subhash said two detained farmers have been released and senior police officials are holding meetings with Charuni and other farm leaders to end the dharna.“We are hoping that the dharna will be lifted after the meeting,” the Hansi police PRO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-rajya-sabha-mp-faces-protesting-farmers-wrath-in-hisar-101636140978419.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Guru Nanak birth anniv: Pak allows only fully vaccinated pilgrims to visit Nankana Sahib||The Pakistan government has made both doses of Covid-19 vaccine mandatory for Indian pilgrims for taking part in the birth anniversary celebrations of Sikhism’s founder Guru Nanak.The birth anniversary is being celebrated at Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Nanak, on November 19. “Fully-vaccinated persons with certificates will be allowed to enter Pakistan provided they show real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test reports, which should not be more than 72 hours old. Pakistan high commission, New Delhi, has informed the SGPC about these conditions over the telephone,” said SGPC honorary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami.He said: “The pilgrims who have submitted their passports for issuance of visa, must be aware of these conditions, so they face no problem while crossing over to Pakistan through the Attari-Wagah border. As far as the Covid-19 tests are concerned, the SGPC will organise a camp for the pilgrims.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guru-nanak-birth-anniv-pak-allows-only-fully-vaccinated-pilgrims-to-visit-nankana-sahib-101636140798242.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospitals report fewer burn cases due to crackers this Diwali||This Diwali, Delhi hospitals reported fewer cases of burns due to crackers and diyas (clay lamps) as compared to before the pandemic, according to three major government hospitals. In preparation for Diwali, hospitals across the city had earmarked beds, kept staff on standby, and added counters to admit people with burn injuries.Lok Nayak Hospital, near Delhi gate, received only one case--that of a child with 10% burns due to a cracker bursting in his hand--according to senior doctors at the hospital.“Before the pandemic, we saw between 30 and 40 burn injuries on the night of Diwali, so we earmarked 40 beds this year as well. Last year, the hospital wasn’t admitting any patient other than those suffering from Covid-19, so I do not have a comparison between this year’s numbers and the last,” the doctor said.At Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) Hospital, the biggest government hospital in the trans-Yamuna region, 18 persons with burn injuries were brought to the hospital emergency section. “But none of them had severe burns; they all had less than 10% burns. All the patients were given first aid, their burns were dressed, and they were sent home. There were no admissions this year,” said a senior doctor at the hospital. GTB Hospital too was earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 last year.Last November, Delhi had seen the worst surge in Covid-19 cases till then, reporting over 8,500 cases a day at its peak. After that, Delhi saw a massive second wave when over 28,000 cases were recorded in a day in April this year.Safdarjung Hospital, which has one of the best burn treatment units in the city, received 50 patients with Diwali-related injuries on Thursday, of whom seven needed to be admitted. “The rest had minor burns. However, this year we saw more cases than last year when people mostly stayed home because of Covid-19. Last year, we saw 28 cases, of which eight needed hospital admission. The numbers have definitely gone down as compared to before the pandemic,” said a senior doctor at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospitals-report-fewer-burn-cases-due-to-crackers-this-diwali-101636140745664.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cracker ban goes up in smoke in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Police registered 24 cases and arrested 13 people for the sale or use of crackers on Diwali. Even as the administration had imposed a blanket ban on crackers and 600 cops were on duty to enforce it, people could be seen bursting crackers till late at night on Diwali. “This year Diwali remained comparatively peaceful. The residents were aware of the ban, though many did indulge in bursting crackers. They have been booked,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police.While 24 cases were registered for bursting crackers, four were for the sale of crackers. In all, 13 people were arrested on the spot while others managed to escape on spotting police teams. Those arrested were later released on bail. They all have been booked under the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 (non-compliance of prohibitory order) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Section 51 of the Act provides for a jail term of two years in case anyone gets hurt and one year for mere violation, while Section 188 entails a jail term up to three months.Besides this, the emergency number received 818 calls, following which PCR vehicles were dispatched to 351 spots, fire tenders to 13 spots and ambulance to 63 spots. No FIRs in Mohali, PanchkulaPeople flouted the restrictions on crackers In the neighbouring Panchkula and Mohali districts as well. However, not a single FIR was registered. In both districts, people were given only a two-hour window to burst crackers, between 8pm and 10pm. Also, there was a ban on the sale and use of traditional crackers, with only green crackers being allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cracker-ban-goes-up-in-smoke-in-chandigarh-101636140744469.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Diwali: 100 people suffer eye injuries, burns in Chandigarh tricity area||At least 32 people suffered eye injuries and 64 were left with burns while bursting crackers in the tricity on Diwali. However, doctors claimed that the number of cases saw a dip as compared to previous years. Dr SS Pandav, head of the advance eye centre, PGIMER ,said: “This Diwali, the number of patients reporting here with eye injuries has gone down. We have received only 15 cases, of which most are from other states. Only five cases are from the tricity, including three from Chandigarh.”Of these, only 12 people needed surgical intervention. Most of the victims were bystanders as only five were bursting crackers when injured.Last year, 27 cases were reported. “We are expecting a few cases in the coming days as well,” said Dr Pandav.Also, four people with burn injuries reported to the department of plastic surgery. Two of these patients sustained major thermal injuries, while lighting candles. Another young patient received grievous hand injury while bursting a firecracker. These patients will need multiple surgeries over the next few days.At GMCH-32, 21 patients reported with cracker injuries on Diwali. Of these, four were from Chandigarh and the rest from other states. While eight patients had eye injuries, one had ear injury and the rest had burns. Twenty of the patients have been discharged, while one is still hospitalised.Around 24 cases of skin burns were reported at GMSH-16, and the patients were sent back after treatment. Four cases of cracker-related eye injuries were also reported, and two were referred to the PGIMER. Meanwhile, at the Panchkula civil hospital, 16 burn injury cases were reported on Diwali. Most of the victims were children.In Mohali, 12 adults while three children were injured while bursting crackers. Among the adults, seven sustained eye injuries and five had burn injuries on hands. Three children had sustained injuries owing to bursting crackers. Two children, aged 2 and 4 years, sustained burn injuries on the hand and a six-year-old suffered burn injuries on the head. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “All patients had minor injuries and were discharged after treatment”.Pregnant woman sustains 65% burns while lighting diyaA pregnant woman sustained 65% burn injuries while lighting a diya at her house in Zirakpur on Diwali eve. The incident took place at Balaji Enclave on the Patiala road on Wednesday. Police said the victim, Harpinder Kaur, is admitted to the PGIMER. While she has lost her baby, she is said to be in a critical condition.Police said Harpinder, who stays on rent with her family, was lighting an earthen lamp when a bottle containing petrol caught fire. Her husband, Gurvinder Singh, told police that he had run out of fuel for his scooter and had brought the petrol in a bottle. The victim’s daughter and mother-in-law were present in the house when the mishap took place. Meanwhile, a high-end BMW car was gutted after it was reportedly hit by a rocket cracker in Zirakpur on Diwali. In all, there were five fire incidents reported owing to bursting of crackers in Zirakpur, said fire officer Rajiv Kumar.A parked BMW car, owned by one Naveen Kumar, was gutted at Silver City around 9:30pm on Thursday. A fire tender doused the flames by 10:10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/diwali-100-people-suffer-eye-injuries-burns-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101636140743331.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Air quality in Chandigarh turned severe on Diwali night||The Air Quality Index (AQI) crossed 400 and stayed in the severe range for about an hour before showing improvement at both continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations in Sectors 22 and 25, Chandigarh, on Diwali night. Meanwhile, the average AQI at all observatories across the city remained on the lower side on Thursday and it took just around four to five hours for the air quality to improve, according to data available with the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC).The AQI was in the moderate range till 6pm on Thursday, after which it started rising. At Sector 25, it went up to 465 between 10pm and 11pm, the highest it has ever gone since this observatory was opened in 2019. After this, it remained in the very poor category and came down to satisfactory levels (below 100) around 2am on Friday.At the other real-time data observatory in Sector 22, the AQI spiked to 409 between 9pm and 10pm. After this, it dropped to the very poor bracket for two hours and came down to satisfactory levels around 2am.“This is the first time that the AQI went up to 400 on Diwali. However, weather-wise we were lucky as the pollutants cleared within a few hours,” said CPCC member secretary Debendra Dalai, adding that it was unfortunate that people had ignored the administration’s blanket ban on crackers.Due to the air getting cleared in a few hours, the average AQI also remained on the lower side as compared to previous years. At 115, it was lowest at Sector 25. It was highest at the observatories in Sector 39 (IMTECH) and Sector 12 (PEC), touching 207, though lower than that recorded last year. “This doesn’t mean that less crackers were used this year. Last year, Diwali was celebrated on November 15, which was colder weather. Temperature inversion causes AQI to increase. Further, weather conditions helped clear the pollutants and the air quality was back to normal within a few hours this year,” said Dalai.The department had also calculated the average AQI at all observatories on October 29 to get the AQI values for a normal day, and it was found that the index had dramatically increased between an average day and Diwali across all centres. The noise pollution also went up this year. The highest noise level was recorded at Sector 39 (78.2 dB). Last year, the highest noise level stood at 66.6 dB, at the observatory in Sector 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-quality-in-chandigarh-turned-severe-on-diwali-night-101636140741986.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police clueless day after murder at PU||Chandigarh Police are yet to make any breakthrough a day after a Panjab University professor’s wife was found murdered at their house in Sector 14 on Diwali morning. Identified as Seema Goyal, 60, the victim was the wife of Prof Bharat Bhushan Goyal, who teaches at the University Business School (UBS). She was a homemaker.The couple lived with their daughter in an independent house that shares its rear boundary wall with the vice-chancellor’s official residence, a high-security area on the campus.On Thursday morning, the police control room received a call about a woman lying unconscious with her hands and legs tied at her house on the PU campus. “By the time, a police team reached the spot, the woman had been shifted to hospital,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, city), Chandigarh. Seema Goyal had been rushed to Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead. A case was registered against the unknown assailant under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the police station in Sector 11. After the postmortem, the woman’s body was handed over to her family. According to the preliminary report, she had died of a head injury. Hand, feet were tied In his statement to police, Prof Goyal said that on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, his wife was sleeping in a bedroom of the ground floor while he was in a room on the first floor. Their daughter was not present in the house. On Thursday, around 7:30 in the morning, he received a call on his mobile phone from his milkman, who told him to collect milk packets left at the main gate. When he came down to the ground floor, he was unable to open the main door. He then went to the gate using the kitchen door and later found that the main door was locked from outside.On entering the house again, he went to his wife’s room, and reportedly found her lying unconscious on the bed, with her hands and legs tied with a cloth. Police scanning CCTV footage SP Ketan Bansal said that the investigating team is scanning CCTV footage of the area to get any clue about the accused, but has failed to make any breakthrough yet. Sources said CCTV cameras are installed outside the V-C’s residence and near a hostel situated close to Goyal’s house. Other than that, police have to rely solely on Goyal’s statement as the body had already been removed by the time they reached the spot. After noticing his wife’s condition, Goyal had apparently informed his neighbours and called a doctor before rushing her to hospital. Police have found no sign of forced entry into the house. Meanwhile, Goyal told police that his wife’s mobile phone had also gone missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-clueless-day-after-murder-at-pu-101636140740599.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Former BJP minister confined in Rohtak village||Haryana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president and former state minister Manish Grover, BJP general secretary (organisation) Ravindra Raju, Rohtak mayor Man Mohan Goyal and other senior leaders of the saffron party were kept confined for hours at a temple in Kiloi village in Rohtak district on Friday.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Inderjit Singh said farmers and local residents of Kiloi village started protest against BJP leaders for using a temple to fulfil their political agenda.“How a party can live telecast Prime Minister’s speech at a temple?” he questioned.The BJP leaders had assembled at Kiloi to hear the live telecast of PM Narendra Modi’s speech from Kedarnath Temple where he had gone to perform ‘aarti’ at the shrine.Farmers protesting against three farm laws locked the main entrance gate of the Shiva Temple at Kiloi village and took BJP leaders hostage. Heavy police force was also deployed to maintain law and order and both sides were at loggerheads.After the situation got tense, additional forces from Jhajjar, Sonepat and Jind were called at Kiloi village to keep peace in the village.While the farmers claimed that the stand-off situation ended after BJP leaders climbed on the terrace and apologised, Grover has denied this.Grover, after leaving the temple, said a few social organisations’ people had met them and urged to wave towards the protesters to end the deadlock.“We did not apologise to anyone. We will continue to visit the shrine,” Grover said.SKM leader Inderjit Singh, however, maintained that the protest was lifted after Grover and others apologised to the villagers. “But they took a U-turn after leaving the village,” Inderjit said.Meanwhile, a spokesperson of the Rohtak administration said the dispute which had arisen due to a misunderstanding in Kiloi village was resolved peacefully.The spokesperson said the villagers had gathered outside the ancient Shiv Temple in the village over some issue.“It was not an issue which required an apology. Rather, it was a misunderstanding,” the spokesperson said.“After coming out of the Shiv Temple, former minister Manish Grover said the dispute had arisen due to a misunderstanding. He said as soon as the villagers understood the reality, the matter was resolved,” the spokesperson said.Quoting Grover, the spokesperson said some people of the Hooda Khap came to him and requested him to wish everyone ‘Ram-Ram’ from the balcony and the matter was resolved thereafter.Grover said he did not apologise to anyone, nor was it such a matter. “It was a misunderstanding which has now been resolved. He said whenever Lord Shiva will call him to Kiloi village, he will come to this temple to pay obeisance. The temple is for all and this fact should be understood by all sections of the society,” Grover said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-bjp-minister-confined-in-rohtak-village-101636140739293.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali village: Four years after FIR, no inquiry into ₹50-crore embezzlement||It’s been four years since the registration of an FIR in the alleged embezzlement of ₹50.42 crore government funds meant for Jheorheri village in Mohali, but the Punjab vigilance bureau has failed to conduct an inquiry. The secretary, rural development and panchayat, has now taken up the issue with the higher authorities and has also written to the director general of police (DGP), vigilance bureau (VB), to look into the matter personally and issue directions.The case dates back to 2017 when Congress MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu raised the issue in Vidhan Sabha, alleging embezzlement of funds meant for development works at Jheorheri and compensation disbursed to villagers in lieu of land for construction of the international airport that began in 2009.A preliminary inquiry found that ₹50 crore had been disbursed in contravention of rules. In February 2018, the VB registered a case against former district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) Gurwinder Singh Sarao, then block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Jatinder Singh Dhillon, panchayat secretary Ravinder Singh, former sarpanch Gurpal Singh and former panchayat samiti chairman Resham Singh for purchasing land worth ₹24 crore against rules. Scrutiny of records also found that in 2009, the then director rural development and panchayat (DRDP) Gurdev Singh Sidhu, in whose name the compensation was deposited in the bank, disbursed ₹8.94 crore to private individuals without following the mandatory procedure. The secretary, Rahul Bhandari, has stated that it a clear misuse of power and personnel department may like to take appropriate action.The letter further stated that even in 2016, the then DRDP, Sukhjeet Singh Bains, disbursed ₹11 crore to private individuals while ignoring the orders of legal remembrancer, who in 2012 held that the department should wait for the high court orders in the case. “It is clarified that the department is of the considered view that nowhere in the statute any power has been given to DRDP to hear the claim petitions filed by private individuals; therefore, such claims were settled without any power vested, through any law, on him,” stated the letter.‘Needs proper scrutiny’Bhandari has asked the higher authorities for proper scrutiny regarding the settlement of claims through the office of advocate general or any other department as the government deems fit.Regarding the expenditure of ₹6.33 crore by the gram panchayat for development works, the department got the matter inquired from the superintending engineer (panchayat secretaries). In the report submitted on November 2017, it was found that BDPOs Mohinder Singh, Malwinder Singh, Jatinder Singh Dhillon; panchayat secretaries Jasbir Singh and Ravinder Singh; and sarpanch Gurpal Singh embezzled funds amounting to ₹3.62 crore, following which the case was handed over to the vigilance bureau. Even as an FIR was registered, even after four years and several reminders, the vigilance failed to prepare any report. The secretary stated that the case involves misappropriation of funds on a large scale due to the involvement of delinquent officers and has brought a bad name to the department, and needs thorough inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-village-four-years-after-fir-no-inquiry-into-50-crore-embezzlement-101636140696216.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panel finds loopholes in Chandigarh electric vehicle policy||A three-member committee set up to finalise the draft of the electric vehicle (EV) policy has picked loopholes in the latest draft of the policy.The committee members, in a recent meeting, questioned several key proposed features like the quantum of subsidy to be given, subsidy targets, proposal to ban petrol two-wheelers from the next financial year and the methodology on which the policy is being prepared.In September, UT adviser Dharam Pal had constituted a three-member committee comprising deputy commissioner, MC commissioner and the chief executive officer, Chandigarh renewable energy and science and technology (CREST) to prepare the final draft electric vehicle policy.The primary mandate of the committee is to examine the financial implications of the incentives to be offered under the policy and to analyse the pattern in the other states where such policy has been formulated.CREST entrusted with finalising policyNotably, earlier, the UT transport department had also prepared a draft EV policy. But later this year the CREST was entrusted with finalising the policy.The administration is to bring the policy to encourage e-vehicles to reduce pollution in the city by bringing down emissions from the transport sector.There are five categories of vehicles that include two-wheelers, cars and heavy vehicles. The official questioned how the subsidy for these different categories has been calculated.“It was suggested that rather than arbitrary fixing the subsidy, it should be calculated by incorporating actual markets costs and resale value of vehicles,” said a senior UT official privy to the committee discussions.The draft advocates subsidies to vehicle buyers, which is expected to act as a major incentive to people to move from fossil fuel-based vehicles to electric vehicles.‘Subsidy target should be practical’The members also pointed out the subsidy targets being set. “The members said the subsidy target should be practical and based on the actual new vehicles being registered. For instance, it doesn’t make sense to fix a target of say 200 vehicles per month for the subsidy when only 100 vehicles are being registered. Instead, it can be in the percentage of total vehicles being registered,” said the official.The members also asked the CREST officials to re-postulate the modalities of the fund to be set up for financing subsidies and other measures under the policy.Members for adequate charging pointsThe committee members also suggested that before the city residents are asked to favour electric vehicles over petrol/diesel vehicles, adequate charging points across the city should be there. Notably, most of the charging points are to be created in the MC parking lots and its permission to set up these were sought by the environment department only recently. Acting on it, the MC general house in its last meeting in principle approved the setting up of these on MC land. “There is also an issue with the timelines set by the draft. For instance, the provision under the draft recommending stopping of registration of petrol two-wheelers by the start of the next financial year is not feasible,” said the official.Debendra Dalai, chief executive officer, CREST, said, “We had a constructive meeting on different aspects. We are in the process of incorporating the suggestions made by the members and revising the draft.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panel-finds-loopholes-in-chandigarh-electric-vehicle-policy-101636140694737.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Elderly woman’s earrings snatched in Maloya||A 75-year-old woman’s gold earrings were snatched from outside her house in Maloya. In her complaint, Surjeet Kaur (75), a resident of Maloya village, told the police that on Thursday, at 12.30 pm she was sitting outside the main gate of her house when a youth who had parked his motorcycle at a distance walked up to her. The accused grabbed her earrings and fled. She raised an alarm and even tried to chase him, but he fled the spot. A case under Section 379-A (snatching) of the IPC has been registered at the Maloya police station, Chandigarh. However, no arrests had been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhelderly-woman-s-earrings-snatched-in-maloya-101636140689183.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dry weather likely ahead in Chandigarh: IMD||The recent spell of dry weather is likely to continue in the coming days as per the India meteorological department (IMD).Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “Currently, the north-westerly winds are blowing in the region which is having a cooling effect, reaching up to the speed of 20km/h. It’s also the reason why the air quality improved after Diwali in just a few hours. It is expected that the same winds will make the nights colder in the coming days, while no western disturbances are likely in the region right now.”The maxim temperature in the city went down from 29.4°C on Thursday to 29.2°C on Friday. The minimum temperature went down from 13.1°C on Thursday to 12.7°C on Friday. This is the first time that the minimum temperature has gone below the 13°C-mark this season.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 29°C while the minimum temperature will remain around 12°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dry-weather-likely-ahead-in-chandigarh-imd-101636140687929.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Nayagaon resident hit by car succumbs to injuries||A 23-year-old resident of Nayagaon succumbed to his injuries sustained after the motorcycle he was riding was hit by a car on November 2. The deceased has been identified as Jaspal Singh, 23, a resident of Nayagaon. In his complaint, Shubham Rawat, 24, of Nayagaon told the police that on November 2 he along with his friend Jaspal was returning home from sector 19, Chandigarh, on his motorcycle.He said Jaspal was riding the pillion and when they reached the Sector 9-10 dividing road, a Honda Accord car rammed into their bike in which Jaspal received critical injuries. He was rushed to the PGIMER in the same car that had hit them. However, he succumbed to his injuries.The police later booked Sunil Kumar Yadav of Sector-10, Chandigarh, who was driving the car bearing Delhi registration number. He was later granted bail. A case under Sections 279 and 337 of the IPC was initially registered at the Sector 3 police station, Chandigarh. Later, Section 304-A of the IPC was added after Jaspal died during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nayagaon-resident-hit-by-car-succumbs-to-injuries-101636140686648.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Gift shop gutted in Panchkula; six fire incidents in two days||A gift shop was destroyed in a fire incident at Sector 11, Panchkula, on Friday.The city has reported six fire incidents in the past two days, including four on Diwali. A diagnostic lab in Sector 4 is among the properties gutted.Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta visited Raghav Gift Gallery, SCO 19, Sector 11, on Friday to take stock of the damage caused by the fire that erupted in the afternoon.He announced ₹5 lakh from his discretionary fund to compensate for the loss. The cause of the fire is being ascertained. No casualties have been reported in the accident.Gupta urged traders to register themselves under the traders’ welfare board. He said the state government has constituted the board under which insurance benefits up to ₹25 lakh was provided to traders on the basis of their turnover to compensate for the loss of their stock caused due to fire, theft, flood and earthquake and damage to furniture and other goods.Fire officer Tarsem said: “Our men are on duty round the clock. So far six cases of fire have been reported in the city in two days. No casualty has been reported so far.”Earlier, three workers were killed while one was severely injured after a fire broke out at a furniture factory in Panchkula Industrial Area on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gift-shop-gutted-in-panchkula-six-fire-incidents-in-two-days-101636140685333.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU allows hostels to PhD scholars enrolled till September 30||Panjab University (PU) has decided to provide hostel accommodation to those PhD scholars who have enrolled up to September 30.The decision has been taken recently after the recommendation of a panel last month. However, they can avail hostel accommodation with the consent of their respective supervisor. The meeting of the panel was held in October to deliberate on the allotment of hostels to PhD scholars who have been enrolled after March 5.The university has said hostel accommodation will be provided on the basis of the availability of seats and merit prepared by the department concerned.The eligible students have to provide a Covid-19 test report done within a week prior to joining the hostel and they have to submit an undertaking as well to the warden of the hostel that they will follow Covid protocol.The entry of guests/visitors is not allowed till further orders and eligible students have been advised to go through SOPs provided in hostels and adhere strictly.The university is in the process of reopening the campus for students in a phased manner. It has already opened several departments for the final year students of postgraduate courses. The university is also planning further reopening in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-allows-hostels-to-phd-scholars-enrolled-till-september-30-101636140682210.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol price down ₹11, diesel’s plunges by ₹18 in Chandigarh||Following the Centre’s cut in excise duty and further reduction in VAT by the Chandigarh administration and Haryana government, fuel prices have dropped drastically in Chandigarh and Panchkula. However, with the Punjab government failing to announce any VAT cut, the price gap with Mohali has further widened.The Union government slashed excise duty on petrol by ₹5 and on diesel by ₹10 on Diwali eve. Following its lead, the UT administration reduced VAT on both fuels by ₹7. According to a notification issued by the excise and taxation department on Thursday, VAT on petrol has been reduced from 22.45% to 15.24%, and on diesel from 14.02% to 6.66%.Even the Haryana government announced VAT cut, which reduced the price of both petrol and diesel in the state by ₹12 per litre. Currently, prices continue to be the lowest in Chandigarh, with petrol available for ₹94.23 and diesel for ₹80.9 on Friday. The prices stood at ₹105.24 and ₹98.96, respectively, on Wednesday. Gap with Mohali widensMeanwhile, the Punjab government is yet to slash VAT, hitting fuel stations in Mohali. “We saw no customers owing to the huge gap in fuel prices. The Punjab government must act fast or declining fuel sales will directly affect its revenues,” said Ashwinder Mongia, president, Mohali Petroleum Dealers’ Association.In Chandigarh, transporters hailed the fuel price cut. “The relief is too late, but we are thankful for it. This is likely to bring down inflation. The Centre must bring fuel, especially diesel, under GST regime to prevent a repeat of such a situation,” said BL Sharma, general secretary, Chandigarh Transport Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-price-down-11-diesel-s-plunges-by-18-in-chandigarh-101636140680943.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly Covid cases slide during festive season in Chandigarh tricity||Though the medical fraternity and government agencies feared another pandemic surge in the festival season, the number of weekly Covid-19 cases being reported in the tricity has, in fact, dipped between Dussehra and Diwali. However, experts say the risk is not yet over, as keeping in view the incubation period of infection, cases might start rising a week after Diwali.Between October 1 and 15, the tricity reported 89 Covid-19 cases besides five fatalities. In three weeks following that, from October 15 (Dussehra) to November 4 (Diwali), 145 cases surfaced with a positivity rate of 0.22%. Among the three cities, Chandigarh remained the most-affected with 62 new infections, followed by 55 in Mohali and 28 in Panchkula. However, only one fatality was reported across the tricity, after a Mohali man succumbed to the virus on Diwali eve.As far as the weekly trend is concerned, the cases have been receding since Dussehra. A total of 52 cases were reported in the tricity in the week ending on October 21. In the following week, 50 cases were reported and only 43 people tested positive in the week that ended on Diwali day.Mohali reports no new caseMeanwhile, Mohali district reported no new case or death on Friday. Its tally stands at 68,827 and 1,069, respectively. In Chandigarh, two new cases and surfaced and Panchkula reported just one.Chandigarh has recorded 65,359 cases and 820 deaths so far. The numbers stand at 40,472 and 379, respectively, in Panchkula. The tricity’s active caseload was 61 on Friday, with 33 patients in Chandigarh, 20 in Mohali and eight in Panchkula. Dr Mini P Singh, professor in the virology department, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said: “Due to prevalence of antibodies in adults as well as paediatric population, the transmission of Covid-19 infection is not speedy. So far, the situation is under control and there are no traces of a third wave, but keeping in view incubation period of the infection, cases might start increasing a week after Diwali.”Dr Singh said the cases will surge only if people fail to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “People must also come forward to complete their vaccination cycle as it is the key to protect themselves and the society,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekly-covid-cases-slide-during-festive-season-in-chandigarh-tricity-101636140679829.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Man posing as RAW officer dupes Maloya resident of ₹11.5 lakh||A Maloya resident alleged being duped of ₹11.50 lakh by a man posing as RAW officer. In her complaint, the victim said she had come in contact with the accused, Nilutpal Mishra, in October 2019 through a religious group on social media. She said the accused told her that he was a resident of New Delhi and works with RAW. She told the police that they had been talking on the phone since January 2020. He told her that he was going on a mission to Siachen in February 2020 and called her to tell her that he had been hit by a bullet and needed money for treatment as he forgot his ATM at his house in Delhi. She deposited the money and on various occasions, he kept asking for money. On different occasions, she deposited a huge sum of money to the accused who had assured her of returning the money. Acting on her complaint, the police lodged a complaint under Sections 419 and 420 of the IPC at the Maloya police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-posing-as-raw-officer-dupes-maloya-resident-of-11-5-lakh-101636140678503.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 31 fresh Covid cases||ChandigarhPunjab on Friday reported 17 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,02,496, according to a medical bulletin. Fourteen new cases were reported on Thursday, the bulletin said. With no Covid-related fatality, the death toll stood at 16,562, it said. Of the fresh cases, Ludhiana reported seven, Fazilka and Jalandhar three each and Bathinda two. There are 219 active cases in the state. With 25 recoveries from the infection on Friday, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,715, the bulletin said. Owing to festive season, the daily vaccination has also come down. A total of 2,600 vaccine doses were administered on Friday and 7,041 samples were taken to testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-31-fresh-covid-cases-101636140558277.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Govt nod to induct 190 low-floor buses into Capital’s fleet||The Delhi cabinet on Friday approved induction of 190 low-floor buses in the city’s cluster service fleet which will take the national capital’s total public bus fleet size to 7,140, the government said in a statement.“Delhi cabinet, under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, approves the induction of 190 low-floor CNG buses under its cluster scheme. With the induction of these 190 buses, (the) total number of cluster buses will reach 3,383 and the total bus fleet in Delhi will reach an all-time high of 7,140,” the government said in a statement.The new buses will start arriving next year. The statement further said, “These new low-floor CNG AC buses will be fully compliant with BS-VI emission standards. New buses will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities like real-time passenger information system, CCTVs, panic buttons and GPS...”Delhi transport minister Kailsh Gahlot announced the move on Twitter after Friday’s cabinet meeting: “Congrats Delhi! Cabinet today, under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, cleared the proposal for induction of 190 low-floor AC CNG buses fitted with CCTV, GPS, panic buttons and differently-abled friendly.”The statement said that the government will incur a cost of over ₹1,250 crore. “The Transport department will incur an estimated amount of ₹1,259 crore on the viability gap funding for 10 years on the prevailing fare structure w.r.t the engagement of 190 buses under cluster number 16B CLF. These buses will start arriving next year,” the it said.The statement issued by the government also said that initially they had issued one tender for 350 low-floor cluster buses twice but it failed to materialise into a work order. Things started working out only when the tender was broken into two -- comprising 160 and 190 buses.The induction of the new buses is part of a larger plan of the government to add 4,000 buses to the city’s fleet by the end of next year.The government statement said, “Delhi government currently operates a total of 3,033 non-AC and AC buses under the cluster scheme. Earlier this year, Delhi cabinet had also approved the proposal for the award of contract to 160 buses and with the addition of these 190 buses, the total number of cluster buses will reach 3,383 and the total bus fleet in Delhi will reach an all-time high of 7,140. 300 electric buses will also be inducted into the DTC fleet by start of next year and a total of approx 3,500 new electric buses are also getting added to the DTC and cluster fleet as per the induction plan of the transport department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-nod-to-induct-190-low-floor-buses-into-capital-s-fleet-101636140499337.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Five killed in Kurukshetra road mishap||Five people were killed on the spot when a car they were travelling in rammed into a tree on the Ismailabad-Shahbad road near Nalvi village in Haryana’s Kurukshetra district on Friday.The police officials said the accident took place at around 1.30am on Friday when the driver of the Maruti-800 car lost control and rammed into a tree.Later, after police rushed to the spot, the bodies were taken out with the help of a crane.Shahbad police station in-charge Prem Singh said the deceased were aged between 20 to 25 years. They were identified as Ankit and his cousin Brijpal, residents of Basantpur village, Gurmeet Singh, of Jainpur village, Goldy, of Gauripur village, and Vishal Kumar, of Nalvi village. All of them hailed from Kurukshetra.According to the SHO, the bodies have been handed over to their families after conducting postmortem at Kurukshetra’s LNJP Hospital.Investigation officer Ramesh Kumar said in the preliminary investigation, it was found that they were going to Shahabad and the car hit a tree on the roadside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-killed-in-kurukshetra-road-mishap-101636140498174.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||35-yr-old man shot dead in Jalandhar over land dispute||JALANDHARA 35-year-old man was shot dead in broad daylight by a fellow villager over a land dispute in Mehatpur town of Jalandhar district on Friday. Police have booked Pritpal Singh, a resident of Mohallan Saidan, for killing Gurwinder Singh of Mohalli Shadi Khan, after local resident staged a protest demanding the arrest of the accused. Police said Gurwinder was ploughing his field on Friday morning when Pritpal fired four rounds, killing him on the spot. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered at the Mehatpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/35yrold-man-shot-dead-in-jalandhar-over-land-dispute-101636140320194.html
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tracking Covid: Infection on the decline in Haryana for 25 weeks now||For the past eight weeks, the number of per-week active coronavirus infections has not touched the three-figure mark in Haryana, indicating a steep decline in the virus spread across state. After going through the roof with over a lakh infection in May first week during the deadly second wave, the infection trajectory in Haryana has been on constant decline for 25 consecutive weeks now. As per the health department statistics, the 95 active cases were reported last week (October 25-31). As on Friday, there are 15 districts which do not have a single active case. These include Hisar, Sonepat, Ambala, Sirsa, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh, Jind, Rewari, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri. Data showed that the health officials tested 91,690 individuals, a per day average of about 18,000 samples during the last five days. As on Friday, there were 84 active cases across 22 districts, with Gurugram alone accounting for 56 infections.The second wave of virus transmission during the devastating six-week period in April and May had thrown more than 4.21 lakh infections and over 4,200 fatalities in state. As per the data, while the virus took 249 days to hit peak in November 2020 during the first wave, it took just 93 days to peak during the second wave this May, primarily due to the virulence of the highly-contagious delta variant of the virus. The state has so far inoculated about 2.60 crore persons of which, more than 50% have got the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tracking-covid-infection-on-the-decline-in-haryana-for-25-weeks-now-101636140318133.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s wind speed may pick up today, to help clear haze||Choking on a toxic, thick mixture of fog and air pollutants, Delhi’s first hope of relief is the wind speed likely picking up from Saturday, scientists said. Weather forecasters said better wind speed from Saturday will help improve air quality by aiding the dispersal of pollutants. “Winds have started picking pace from Friday afternoon. On Saturday and Sunday both the wind speeds are expected to remain high, which will help disperse the accumulated pollution levels. While the direction of the winds blowing into Delhi will continue to be north-westerly, continuous high speed wind will ensure that the stubble smoke does not amass over the city,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services. IMD has also predicted a “visible improvement” in air quality starting November 7. “The air quality is likely to improve further on November 6 and November 7, and settle in the ‘very poor’ category due to strong winds... The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from west-northwest directions of Delhi at a speed of 10-20 kmph. The surface winds is likely to blow at a speed of 25-35kmph on November 6, with partly cloudy sky, and shallow fog in the morning,” the IMD said in its forecast for Saturday. Senior India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said on Friday, Delhi also recorded its first fog episode of the season as visibility fell to 350 metres at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. At Safdarjung weather station, that provides representational data for the entire city, visibility fell to 200 metres. On Thursday morning, the visibility fell to 600-800 metres and remained in the 800-900 metre range throughout the day, the officials said.IMD scientists said the heavy load of pollutants from bursting of crackers on Diwali, particulate matter from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana coupled with moisture in the atmosphere also contributed to low visibility. They said such “fog” conditions, when visibility falls to the 200-500 metre range, are usually seen during mid-December and January, but Thursday-Friday’s condition was caused by high pollution levels in the city and high moisture content in the air. “Such conditions are usually caused because of absence of wind and higher humidity. High pollution levels lead to poor visibility,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD. Earlier, in 2019, 2017, 2016 and 2012, visibility levels in Delhi fell to 200-500 metres during October-November, IMD data showed. On Friday, a day after Diwali, Delhi’s air quality fell to 462, in the severe zone, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings. This was the highest day-after-Diwali pollution recordings since 2015, when Delhi started AQI monitoring. Experts attributed this steep fall in Delhi’s air quality to a blatant violation of the cracker ban in the Capital and the rising contribution of stubble fires to overall pollution mix in Delhi. An analysis by Climate Trends, a strategic communications initiative on climate ambition and low carbon development pathways, said on Friday with the second consecutive La Nina in India, northwest region is gearing up for intense chilly weather this season. La Nina is a weather pattern that occurs in the Pacific Ocean. In this pattern, strong winds blow warm water at the ocean’s surface from South America to Indonesia. It is usually characterised by harsh winters. “While a lower number of crop residue burning incidents and widespread rain and snow in October kept pollution under check in the region until recently, the situation is already changing. With temperature dropping and other meteorological factors like wind speed slowing down, wind direction, haze setting in, pollution levels are again in the ‘very poor’ and ‘hazardous’ categories in most cities across the Indo-Gangetic plains (IGP). The seasonal factors of firecrackers and stubble burning have, as usual, added to the problem, as the peak of crop residue burning incidents coincide with Diwali,” the analysis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-wind-speed-may-pick-up-today-to-help-clear-haze-101636140018024.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Pileup on Eastern Peripheral e-way due to low visibility, 2 hurt||Two people were critically injured after low visibility due to fog led to a six-vehicle pile up on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Dankaur on Friday. The injured persons are currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Faridabad, said police.Arvind Pathak, station house officer of Dankaur police station, said the accident took place at 7am on Friday. Police said Chandan Kumar (35), a resident of Palwal in Haryana, his wife (35), their 11-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son were going from Greater Noida to Palwal in a Hyundai i20 car when it hit a truck. “Kumar did not spot a slow moving truck in his way due to poor visibility and ended up ramming his car into it. Kumar and his wife were critically injured while the two children sitting on the back seat had a narrow escape,” said Pathak.Police said a Toyota Innova coming behind them hit the i20 car, following which a mini truck also collided with the Innova. Two more cars on the same route subsequently hit the vehicle pile up blocking the road.Pathak said people sitting in all other vehicles escaped with minor injuries.Some passerby informed police and also arranged for a car and sent Kumar, who is a head constable in the cyber cell in Panchkula, and his wife to a private hospital in Faridabad.Pathak said they have not received any complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pileup-on-eastern-peripheral-e-way-due-to-low-visibility-2-hurt-101636139336010.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south civic body sets up 15-bed dengue facility in Tilak Nagar Colony hospital||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has set up a 15-bed dengue treatment facility at the Tilak Nagar Colony Hospital on Friday, the civic body spokesperson said, adding that the facility will have intensive care unit support and will be available round the clock to patients suffering from vector-borne diseases. Delhi has reported 1,537 dengue cases and six deaths from the diseases till October 30, 2021. The figures are compiled by the three municipal bodies and released once a week on Mondays.“These arrangements have been made considering the favourable conditions for further spike in cases of vector-borne diseases. In order to ensure treatment to patients, additional manpower, including junior residents and senior residents, have been hired while other staff members have been pooled in from various centres of the SDMC. Patients requiring treatment from a higher centre will be referred to the nearby DDU Hospital, as the Tilak Nagar facility is linked to the hospital,” the civic body said in a statement. The Tilak Nagar facility was set up to attend to Covid patients.Last month, the east corporation had set up a separate ward of 160 beds for dengue patients at the Swami Dayanand hospital. Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said there is also a large influx of patients from western Uttar Pradesh and preparations have been ramped up due to an increase in the number of dengue cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-sets-up-15-bed-dengue-facility-in-tilak-nagar-colony-hospital-101636139838211.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||BJP encouraged people to burst crackers, says AAP||A political war of words erupted on Friday over Delhi recording severe air quality largely due to rampant bursting of firecrackers on Diwali with the Delhi environment minister accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of encouraging people to violate the ban on firecrackers, and the opposition slamming the government for not taking adequate preventive measures. On Friday, Delhi was enveloped by a thick haze a day after Diwali when people across the city burst crackers in violation of a complete ban on storage, sale and bursting of firecrackers by the Delhi government. Gopal Rai on Friday said that the large-scale cracker bursting on Diwali night, and increased stubble fires in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana were responsible for the Capital’s ‘severe’ air quality. Rai also alleged that the BJP was behind deliberately encouraging people to burst crackers and defy the government’s ban. “Some people in Delhi burst firecrackers on purpose. BJP is behind this,” Rai said on Friday. Delhi’s AQI on Thursday night slipped into the ‘severe’ zone, crossing the 400 mark on Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality scale. The average AQI at 2pm on Friday was 463. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta slammed the Delhi government for not taking any concrete measures to curb pollution in the national capital. Referring to Rai’s statement, Gupta said, “The Kejriwal government is trying to hide its failure to curb pollution in the city. In the past six years, the government has taken no concrete steps such as improving last mile connectivity, expanding the public bus fleet, encouraging the use of battery-operated vehicles, etc, to curb pollution. “They just want to tackle the issue by temporary arrangements. Ban on fire cracker is not the solution, as it hurts the religious sentiments of people. The government has now seen the result. They should have allowed the use of firecrackers for a limited period.” He said Delhi’s AQI was in the poor category even when people were not bursting firecrackers. “It is wrong to blame people for bursting firecrackers. The AQI was in poor category even before Diwali. The government is just trying to pass the buck.” He also questioned the Delhi government on the status of its green action plan, which was introduced in 2018. “They were to take 24 measures. We want to ask the CM about the status of all the measures proposed in the green action plan for which budget was also allocated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-encouraged-people-to-burst-crackers-aap-it-s-delhi-govt-s-failure-says-bjp-101636139658394.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi cabinet approves additional allocation of ₹1,544 crore for Covid-19 management||The Delhi cabinet on Friday approved an additional allocation of ₹1,544 crore for Covid-19 management this financial year as a preventive measure against future waves of the pandemic, a statement from the government has said.The allocated amount will be invested on multiple aspects of Covid-19 management, which involves tests, laboratories, isolation facilities, hospital beds, intensive care units, ventilators, medicines, and patient care services, said the government.The government has named the allocation the “emergency Covid response package”. The approval was given in a cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.“(The) Kejriwal government to leave no stone unturned in its battle against Covid-19. Delhi cabinet approved a budget of ₹1,544 crore to bolster health systems. Delhi’s fight against Covid-19 to get stronger; Delhi cCabinet gives nod to state’s own “emergency Covid response package”. This budget will be spent on further enhancing testing and labs, procuring supplies, mobilizing additional human resources, increasing health facilities in the hospitals and managing Covid care centres, among others,” said the government statement.“As a responsible government, we are taking all measures and steps necessary to fight Covid-19,” said Kejriwal in the statement.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said, “In view of the advent of a possible wave of Covid, the Delhi government is trying its best to strengthen its health systems and preparedness at every level. This move will further enhance the management of resources in Delhi and prove to be crucial in the advent of any future wave of Covid-19.”In the 2021-22 Delhi budget, that was passed by the assembly in March, the Delhi government allocated ₹50 crore for vaccinations and ₹9,934 crore (14% of the total budget outlay of ₹69,000 crore) to the health sector, for setting up new hospitals, adding beds and scaling up infrastructure. However, there was no specific allocation under a separate Covid-19 head other than vaccinations. The government had then said Covid-19 allocations were likely to be assessed around the middle of the fiscal and and appropriate decisions taken.In April, Delhi witnessed it’s worst Covid-19 wave with daily cases peaking at a seven-day average of around 25,000 and positivity rate exceeding 36%. It had left the health-care infrastructure overwhelmed -- causing shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen, life saving drugs and ambulances -- and led to the death of thousands of infected persons. Delhi has so far witnessed four distinct waves of Covid-19 since March 2020, and recorded more than 25,000 deaths.On Friday, Delhi recorded 32 new cases against seven recoveries. There were no deaths from the diseases, which recorded and a positivity rate of 0.14%, the government’s daily health bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-approves-additional-allocation-of-1-544-crore-for-covid-19-management-101636139418206.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||PM 2.5 levels worst in 3 years, says Delhi pollution committee||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), in its Diwali analysis on Friday said Delhi recorded an average PM 2.5 concentration of 607 micrograms per cubic metre on Diwali day – the highest in the last three years. It also said the concentration of different pollutants such as SO2, CO and NO2 overall showed a decrease from last year, but the concentration was higher than in 2019. “The sudden deterioration this year attributed to extremely calm conditions, change of wind direction extremely calm conditions and low ventilation co-efficient and use of firecrackers. Though the increase in trend in the concentration of pollutants like PM2.5 & PM10 was observed since the evening of the November 3, major changes were observed after 8:00 PM on Diwali when the fireworks started. Ambient Air Quality in Delhi was already in the ‘very poor’ category due to the accumulation of pollutants in the air shed,” said DPCC in its analysis on Friday, stating active fire counts this year were much higher than last year on Diwali day. “On this Diwali day, the active fire count was recorded at 3383, while in 2020, the fire count on Diwali day was just 623,” it said. DPCC says the highest PM 2.5 concentration was recorded at midnight, with pollution levels starting to dip after that, adding that Delhi’s average PM 2.5 concentration ranged from 315 µg/m3 to 960 µg/m3. While the lowest average concentration was recorded at the National stadium, the highest average PM 2.5 concentration was seen at Jahangirpuri. In terms of noise pollution, real-time noise monitoring was undertaken at 31 locations by the DPCC, finding decibels level ranges from 54.2 dB (A) at Wazirpur to 77.4 dB(A) at Karol Bagh on Diwali day. On a normal day, the range varies from 46.4 dB(A) to 69.5 dB(A).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pm25-levels-worst-in-3-years-says-delhi-pollution-committee-101636139178862.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Cabinet approves ₹1,544 crore for Covid management in city||The Delhi cabinet on Friday approved an additional allocation of ₹1,544 crore for Covid-19 management this financial year as a preventive measure against future waves of the pandemic, a statement from the government has said.The allocated amount will be invested on multiple aspects of Covid-19 management, which involves tests, laboratories, isolation facilities, hospital beds, intensive care units, ventilators, medicines, and patient care services, said the government.The government has named the allocation the “emergency Covid response package”. The approval was given in a cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.“(The) Kejriwal government to leave no stone unturned in its battle against Covid-19. Delhi cabinet approved a budget of ₹1,544 crore to bolster health systems. Delhi’s fight against Covid-19 to get stronger; Delhi Cabinet gives nod to state’s own ‘emergency Covid response package’. This budget will be spent on further enhancing testing and labs, procuring supplies, mobilizing additional human resources, increasing health facilities in the hospitals and managing Covid care centres, among others,” said the government statement.“As a responsible government, we are taking all measures and steps necessary to fight Covid-19,” said Kejriwal in the statement.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said, “This move will further enhance the management of resources in Delhi and prove to be crucial in the advent of any future wave of Covid-19.”In the 2021-22 Delhi budget, that was passed by the assembly in March, the Delhi government allocated ₹50 crore for vaccinations and ₹9,934 crore (14% of the total budget outlay of ₹69,000 crore) to the health sector, for setting up new hospitals, adding beds and scaling up infrastructure.However, there was no specific allocation under a separate Covid-19 head other than vaccinations. The government had then said Covid-19 allocations were likely to be assessed around the middle of the fiscal and appropriate decisions taken.In April, Delhi witnessed it’s worst Covid-19 wave with daily cases peaking at a seven-day average of around 25,000 and positivity rate exceeding 36%. It had left the health-care infrastructure overwhelmed -- causing shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen, life saving drugs and ambulances -- and led to the death of thousands of infected persons.On Friday, Delhi recorded 32 new cases against seven recoveries. There were no deaths from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cabinet-approves-rs-1-544-crore-for-covid-management-in-city-101636138406022.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Seven, including 5 firefighters, injured in a cylinder blast in Delhi’s Jafrabad||At least seven persons, including five firemen, suffered burns and injuries due to a cooking gas cylinder blast that occurred after a fire broke out in a cooking gas stove repair shop in a thickly populated residential area in northeast Delhi’s Jafrabad on Friday evening. The condition of one of the firemen is serious, fire department officials said.The injured firemen were identified as Feroz, Sushil, Suresh, Rakesh and Mahabir. All of them were admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital. The condition of Sunil is serious, said Garg.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the mishap took place around 7pm. Some houses close to the shop were evacuated as the fire engulfed two adjacent shops that sold groceries and mobile phones, and began spreading quickly.Eight fire tenders along with firemen from Tahirpur fire station rushed to the spot to douse the flames. While the firemen were carrying out the operation, a gas cylinder exploded in the shop where gas stoves were repaired.“As per information, till now seven persons, including five firemen have been injured and taken to the hospital. The blaze is under control. The people living in the affected buildings have been safely evacuated. It’s a thickly populated area and accordingly, all necessary precautions have been taken,” said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain.The police said that an inquiry into the incident has been initiated to ascertain the exact cause of the fire and to find out if any illegal activity was being carried out in the shop. Further legal action will be taken accordingly, they said.Last month, a 31-year-old fireman died of heart failure in Lok Nayak Hospital, 18 days after he suffered serious burns and other injuries during a firefighting operation at a paper plates manufacturing factory in Narela industrial area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/seven-including-five-firefighters-injured-in-a-cylinder-blast-in-delhi-s-jafrabad-101636138577866.html
06-11-2021||Patna||Armed criminals loot jewellery shop in Bihar, decamp with jewels worth ₹30 lakh||Half-a-dozen armed criminals looted a jewellery shop in Bihar’s Darbhanga district and decamped with jewels worth ₹30 lakh in broad daylight on Friday, officials said.The incident took place at Rajshree Jewellers, located at Shankar Rohar Chouk under Baheri police station area, about 35 kilometres south-east of district headquarters, police said.“There were six miscreants on four bikes. As soon as they entered the jewellery shop, the criminals threatened the customers inside and also beat up some of them,” said shop owner Raj Kumar Shah. He claimed that the criminals robbed ₹1.50 lakh in cash and jewellery worth more than 30 lakh from the shop.According to Benipur DSP Kumar Sumit, “the criminals raided Rajshree jewellers at around 11 am. They robbed of 600 grams of gold and 25 to 27 kgs of silver ornaments. Besides, ₹1.50 lakh in cash was also looted from the shop. Police are investigating the matter. CCTV footage has also been obtained. Raids were being conducted to track down the criminals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/armed-criminals-loot-jewellery-shop-in-bihar-decamp-with-jewels-worth-rs-30-lakh-101636138278958.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Over 20 vehicles pile up on Delhi Meerut Expressway due to poor visibility||Poor visibility near the Masuri stretch on the Delhi Meerut Expressway led about two dozen vehicles, including cars, to pile up on Friday morning. Police said that though vehicles were damaged, no passenger sustained any serious injuries. The incident took place when several cars were moving to Ghaziabad around 8.30am on Friday. Police said thick fog engulfed the expressway and the cars on front applied brakes to slow down. “As the vehicles ahead slowed down, those coming from behind also applied brakes but one by one hit the vehicles in front. This way, about two dozen cars piled up but no passenger suffered any serious injury. The vehicles were damaged and police provided assistance,” said Yogendra Singh, station house officer of Masuri police station. “The vehicles piled up as the visibility on the stretch was very poor and people faced problems while driving. No one registered any complaint,” he added. Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board said the poor visibility was the result of thick smoke arising from the bursting of crackers and stubble burning in the neighbouring states. “It is likely that the conditions will improve by the evening of November 7, once more pollutants are dispersed. This will happen when wind speed increases,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said the expressway has indicators to assist drivers during foggy conditions. “Recently, we also installed delineator to guide drivers during the night and foggy conditions but about 80 of these were stolen by unidentified persons. The delineators were especially put up at the Dasna/Masuri stretch of the expressway as it generally experiences foggy conditions during winter,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-20-vehicles-pile-up-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-due-to-poor-visibility-101636138217622.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Govt nod to induct 190 low-floor buses into Delhi’s fleet||The Delhi cabinet on Friday approved induction of 190 low-floor buses in the city’s cluster service fleet which will take the national capital’s total public bus fleet size to 7,140, the government said in a statement.“Delhi cabinet, under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, approves the induction of 190 low-floor CNG buses under its cluster scheme. With the induction of these 190 buses, (the) total number of cluster buses will reach 3,383 and the total bus fleet in Delhi will reach an all-time high of 7,140,” the government said in a statement.The new buses will start arriving next year. The statement further said, “These new low-floor CNG AC buses will be fully compliant with BS-VI emission standards. New buses will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities like real-time passenger information system, CCTVs, panic buttons and GPS, among others, besides being differently abled friendly.”Delhi transport minister Kailsh Gahlot announced the move on Twitter: “Congrats Delhi! Cabinet today, under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, cleared the proposal for induction of 190 low-floor AC CNG buses...”The statement said that the government will incur a cost of over ₹1,250 crore.The statement issued by the government also said that initially they had issued one tender for 350 low-floor cluster buses twice but it failed to materialise into a work order. Things started working out only when the tender was broken into two -- comprising 160 and 190 buses.The induction of the new buses is part of a larger plan of the government to add 4,000 buses to the city’s fleet by the end of next year.The statement said, “Delhi government currently operates a total of 3,033 non-AC and AC buses under the cluster scheme. Earlier this year, Delhi cabinet had also approved the proposal for the award of contract to 160 buses and with the addition of these 190 buses, the total number of cluster buses will reach 3,383 and the total bus fleet in Delhi will reach an all-time high of 7,140. 300 electric buses will also be inducted into the DTC fleet by start of next year and a total of approx 3,500 new electric buses are also getting added to the DTC and cluster fleet...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-nod-to-induct-190-low-floor-buses-into-delhi-s-fleet-101636137655692.html
06-11-2021||Noida||6 vehicles pile up as fog engulfs Eastern Peripheral Expressway||Low visibility due to fog conditions caused six vehicles to pile up on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Dankaur, Greater Noida, on Friday morning. Two people, whose car was the first to crash into a truck from behind, were critically injured and are currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Faridabad, said police. Arvind Pathak, station house officer of Dankaur police station, said the accident took place around 7am on Friday. Police said Chandan Kumar (35), a resident of Palwal in Haryana, and his wife (35), their 11-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son were going from Greater Noida to Palwal in a Hyundai i20. “Kumar could not spot a slow moving truck ahead of his car due to poor visibility and ended up ramming the truck from behind. Kumar and his wife were critically injured while their two children sitting on the rear seat of the car had a narrow escape,” said Pathak.  Police said a Toyota Innova crashed into the Hyundai i20, fllowed by a mini truck that hit the Innova, blocking off the road. As the visibility was poor, two more cars ended up in the pile-up on the same route. Pathak said people in all the other vehicles escaped with minor injuries. Some passerby informed police and also arranged for a car to rush Kumar and his wife to a private hospital in Faridabad. Police said Kumar is a head constable with the cyber cell and is posted in the Panchkula district. The truck driver managed to escape after the accident. A team from Dankaur police station reached the spot and cleared the expressway in about 30 minutes. Pathak said they have not received any complaint in the incident. Ashutosh Singh, traffic inspector, Noida, advised people to drive cautiously in poor visibility conditions. “We are creating awareness among people as November is being observed as a road safety month,” he said. Data from the Noida transport department shows that from January 1 to August 31 this year, 238 people were while 348 injured in 501 accidents in Gautam Budh Nagar. During the corresponding period in 2020, 221 people were killed and 345 injured in 446 accidents in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/6-vehicles-pile-up-as-fog-engulfs-eastern-peripheral-expressway-101636138040710.html
06-11-2021||Dehradun||Gangotri shrine portals closed for winters; Kedarnath, Yamunotri to close today||UTTARKASHI: The portals of Gangotri shrine, one of the four highly revered shrines known as Char Dham, closed on Friday amid the religious rituals related to it.According to the Hindu calendar, the portals were closed on Friday morning at 11.45 am in the presence of a significant number of devotees gathered there to witness the rituals.Following the closure of portals for the next six months, the palanquin of Maa Ganga of the Gangotri shrine left for her winter abode of Mukhba village in the district where it will reach Saturday on the occasion of Bhai Dooj.The portals of the other three shrines including Kedarnath and Yamunotri will close on Saturday, November 6, while those of Badrinath will close on November 30.The Char Dham yatra was started on September 18 with certain curbs imposed on orders of the Uttarakhand high court in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The restrictions were later lifted by the court on October 5 as the number of Covid infections in the state declined.According to official records, at least 32,948 pilgrims visited Gangotri this season after the temple was opened for devotees in September amid Covid restrictions such as a limit on the number of devotees. The daily limit was later lifted by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/gangotri-shrine-portals-closed-for-winters-kedarnath-yamunotri-to-close-today-101636138039436.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Man shot at during brawl over bursting of firecrackers||A 30-year-old man was allegedly shot at during a brawl over bursting of fire crackers in Green Park colony in Gadhi Chaukhandi village in Noida on Thursday night. The victim, Vineet (known by his first name), a resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad, had come to celebrate Diwali at his maternal uncle Rajveer’s (known by his first name) place in Noida.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said Rajveer runs a grocery shop near his house. “Vineet was bursting fire crackers outside Rajveer’s house when two locals, identified as Sunil (25) and Gopal (22) (both known by their first names), reached there and also started bursting crackers,” said Chander. A little later, Rajveer and Vineet asked Sunil and Gopal not to burst firecrackers outside their residence. However, Rajveer stated in his complaint that the two people continued bursting crackers and this led to an argument, said the DCP. Vivek Trivedi, station house officer of Phase 3 police station, said Vineet and Rajveer picked up lathis and started beating Sunil and Gopal. “Sunil and Gopal barged into a neighbouring tour operator’s office to take shelter. The tour operator, 45-year-old Rajkumar (known by his first name), and his father, 70-year-old Shri Pramod (known by his first name), were sitting inside the office. Vineet and his uncle suspected that Rajkumar was known to the two persons hence, they took shelter there. Vineet and Rajveer allegedly hit Rajkumar and his father with the lathis,” said the SHO. Police said that it seemed all the four persons--Vineet, Rajveer, Sunil and Gopal--were in an inebriated state at the time of the incident. Police said Rajkumar took out his licenced revolver and opened fire to threaten the four people and warned them to leave his office. However, the four continued attacking each other. Rajkumar then fired a shot at Vineet, who sustained an injury on his chest.  Vineet was critically injured and rushed to a private hospital in Noida, said police. A team from phase 3 police station reached the spot and arrested Rajkumar and Gopal. “We have seized the licenced gun used in the crime. A case has been registered against four persons--Sunil, Gopal, Rajkumar and his father--under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC. The arrested suspects will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said the SHO.  Police have launched a search for Sunil and Shri Pramod who are on the run. Trivedi said police will also recommend suspending Rajkumar’s weapon’s licence for its misuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-shot-at-during-brawl-over-bursting-of-firecrackers-101636137677803.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fire dept records least number of emergency calls on Diwali in 12 years||The Delhi Fire Services (DFS) on Friday said they received 152 calls--the lowest number of calls related to fire and other emergencies on Diwali in the past 12 years, and nearly 32% less than the calls received on Diwali last year.Of the total calls, 117 were related to fire incidents in the city, while the remaining 35 were related to other emergencies such as rescuing animals and birds, and road accidents, senior fire officials said. Among the 117 fire-related calls, four were about fires caused by the bursting of crackers while 35 were related to garbage fires. No major fire or casualty was reported from anywhere in the city till midnight, they added.“The 152 calls were received between the midnights of Wednesday and Thursday. The number was the lowest since 2010; that year, our control room received 169 calls. Last year, we received 222 calls,” said Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg, attributing the dip in such calls to the precautions taken by the public while dealing with fire and crackers, and the various public awareness campaigns carried out by the fire department before Diwali celebrations.“For us (the fire department), it’s a positive sign, which also suggests that people are becoming more aware of fire safety, and handling fire-related items with care during Diwali. We thank Delhiites for making us believe that awareness campaigns are showing positive results. This time, we deployed nearly 3,000 firefighters and 200 fire vehicles to deal with emergencies. We also deployed vehicles at 30 different locations in the city apart from the 64 existing fire stations,” said Garg.According to the fire department, the number of fire-related calls usually increases during Diwali, mainly due to people bursting firecrackers, not taking adequate precautions when lighting earthen lamps or candles, and not checking for loose wires while putting up decoration lights.According to the DFS data, most fire and emergency calls (36) were reported between 8pm and 10pm on Thursday. The lowest number of calls (7) was received between 2pm and 4pm.According to the DSF, there was a fire reported from a factory outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri area on Thursday night. The tiles stored in the basement, artificial flowers stored on the first floor and shoe manufacturing material kept on the second floor of the factory caught fire. Eight fire tenders were sent to douse the flames. No one was injured, the fire officials said.Another fire was reported from the servant quarters of the residence of the director of Doordarshan at Pandara Road in Lutyen’s Delhi around 2am Thursday. The fire department chief said that four fire tenders were rushed to the spot.“Six people were rescued by the public and the firefighters. One woman was sent to the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, as she had inhaled a lot of smoke. All were safe,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifire-dept-records-least-number-of-emergency-calls-on-diwali-in-12-years-101636137501204.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Senior citizen couple murdered at Ghaziabad home on Diwali night||Unidentified assailants entered the house of a senior citizen couple in the Patel Nagar 2 locality of Ghaziabad and killed them while their neighbours were celebrating the festival of Diwali. The police said that it could be a case of personal enmity or dispute but not robbery as valuables in the house were found intact.Police identified the two victims as Ashok Jaidka, 72, and his wife Madhu Jaidka, 70, who lived by themselves in a ground-floor flat.According to police, footage from CCTV cameras shows that two men entered the victims’ house around 8.45pm on Thursday and left within a span of five minutes.“The body of the woman was found near the main door while the man was found dead in bed as he was bed-ridden after suffering a paralytic attack. The nature of injuries (on the heads) of both the victims initially suggested gunshot wounds. But the autopsy revealed they were attacked by a hard, blunt object. The house was not broken into, and their valuables, including the jewellery worn by the woman, were found intact,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1).Police said they received information about the couple around 1am on Friday after the daughter of the victims, who lives in Noida, called for help.“She had been calling up her parents on Diwali but they did not pick the phone. So, she called up a local washerman, who visited the house and found the couple dead. She then called the police. It seems to be a planned murder and it could be due to some personal enmity or any dispute. We have formed several teams to trace the suspects,” the SP said, adding that the couple’s daughters live in Noida and Pune.The police said that the assailants probably chose the night of Diwali so that the neighbours would be busy celebrating Diwali.They added that one of the two men seen entering the house had put on a face mask while the other did not. The police also suspect that a third person kept watch outside the house.On the basis of the complaint given by the family, the police registered an FIR under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder) against unidentified persons at Sihani Gate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/senior-citizen-couple-murdered-at-ghaziabad-home-on-diwali-night-101636137320871.html
06-11-2021||Noida||Noida most polluted in India post-Diwali, Ghaziabad, G Noida not far behind||Residents in Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida breathed this season’s worst air on Friday as, for the first time since the Graded Response Action Plan came into effect on October 15, the Air Quality Index (AQI) readings of the three cities breached the “very poor” category and spiked to “severe” a day after Diwali.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Noida was the most polluted city across the country on Friday with an AQI reading of 475 (severe). The air in Ghaziabad and Greater Noida was no better, as the AQI reached the “severe” category with readings of 470 and 464, respectively. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) attributed the sudden spike in pollution levels to the bursting of firecrackers on Diwali (Thursday) and stubble burning in neighbouring states. “The air quality of the region was impacted as firecrackers were burnt on Thursday evening and the air quality continued to deteriorate till 3am on Friday. Thereafter, we witnessed a downward trend. The pollution levels have also increased because of stubble burning in the neighbouring states. It is likely, as per the pollution pattern, that the air quality will improve from November 7,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, (Ghaziabad), who is also officiating for Noida. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) in a forecast said that firework emissions on the night of Diwali degraded air quality from “very poor” to “severe” category, as predicted. “The share of stubble emissions has peaked today (Friday) at 36%. In the last 24 hours, PM2.5 level is higher as compared to 2020, but much less than that in 2018. However, it may be noted that local winds have picked up since morning and now fast dispersion is expected. Without any more firecracker emissions, AQI is likely to improve to ‘very poor’ category by tonight (Friday night) although stubble contribution is expected to remain almost the same as today,” said the Safar forecast on Friday. It added relief from “severe” pollution is expected only from the evening of November 7, but the air quality might remain in the “very poor” range. According to CPCB, on Thursday, the AQI of Ghaziabad and Noida was recorded in the “severe” category with readings of 419 and 404, respectively. Greater Noida had “very poor” air with a recording of 322. Last year on Diwali (November 14), the AQI of Ghaziabad and Noida was recorded in the “severe” category, with readings of 456 and 425 respectively, while Greater Noida’s air quality was in the “very poor” category with a recording of 394. Despite no licences, residents buy firecrackers In both Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, authorities did not issue any licence for the sale of firecrackers. However, residents managed to buy crackers and burst them till late Thursday night in both districts. Brajesh Sharma, a resident of Antriksh Golf View 2 in Noida’s Sector 78, said a number of people burst firecrackers on Thursday night. “The police and administration had informed people that firecrackers were not allowed. However, people managed to get firecrackers and burst them from 8pm till midnight. This led to a rise in pollution levels and poor visibility in Noida,” said Sharma. He said on Friday morning, he drove to his office in Delhi amid such low visibility that he was hardly able to see anything even 50 metres ahead. “I was not able to clearly see the Yamuna river while driving on the DND flyover,” said Sharma. “Residents burst a lot of crackers despite the fact that no licence was issued this year or last year. There was no enforcement and the bursting of firecrackers went on until very late at night,” said Alok Kumar, a resident of Arihant Harmony in Indirapuram. According to official statistics from the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, there were 3,032 fire counts reported from Punjab, 228 from Haryana, 123 from Uttar Pradesh, 19 from Rajasthan and 123 from Madhya Pradesh on November 4. Authorities in both districts admitted people burst firecrackers on the night of Diwali but emphasised that they did enforce rules. “We will recover environment compensation cost from erring persons, who are being identified with the help of video records. There was some bursting of crackers but residents in most localities celebrated the festival peacefully. The spike in pollution is also because of the high volume of traffic on roads during the festival,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. Love Kumar, joint commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the commissionerate had not issued licence to any vendor to sell firecrackers this year. “The police deployed enforcement teams and registered cases against five vendors for unauthorised sale of crackers. In some cases, police also stopped people from bursting firecrackers. It seems somehow people managed to get firecrackers and burst them on Diwali,” he said. Health experts said with the spike in pollution levels, health ailments are expected and may include burning of eyes, watering and redness of eyes, nasal congestion, runny nose, frequent sneezing, headache, breathlessness, cough and chest heaviness among others. “The effect that air pollution has on lungs depends on the type and mix of pollutants in the air, the concentration of pollutants and how much of the pollutant gets into the lungs... the deteriorating AQI makes even non-smokers highly susceptible to the risk of developing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other life-threatening lung diseases,” said Dr Sharad Joshi, principal consultant (pulmonology), Max Hospital, Vaishali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-most-polluted-in-india-post-diwali-ghaziabad-g-noida-not-far-behind-101636137138668.html
06-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Pollution peaks as norms go up in smoke||At midnight on Thursday -- after nearly five hours of cracker burning by people across the city to mark Diwali -- the hourly concentration of PM 2.5 (one of the minutest and dangerous pollutants) hit 1,984 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) in south-east Delhi’s Okhla-Phase-2, 33 times the national ambient air quality standards and nearly 397 times the WHO safe-limit.In north Delhi’s Ashok Vihar, the hourly average of the micro particle touched 1,957µg/m3 at 3am.These two were among the most polluted localities in Delhi on Diwali this year, data from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) showed. Rampant cracker bursting, slow winds, high moisture content and a high contribution of pollutants from farm fires pushed Delhi’s air quality into severe zone for the first time this year since January, and the worst after Diwali since air quality records are being maintained.The 24-hour average air quality on Diwali (Thursday) at 4pm was 382. The same was recorded at 462 on Friday.Locations such as Najafgarh recorded the average PM2.5 levels at 528µg/m3, in Narela it was 654µg/m3, Bawana showed a reading of 705µg/m3, and the residential area around Aurobindo Marg recorded 791µg/m3.Other locations that showed high PM2.5 pollution include Wazirpur (1,843 µg/m3), an industrial area fairly close to Ashok Vihar, and Anand Vihar (1,714 µg/m3). Of the 37 air quality monitoring stations across the city, 36 showed air quality in the severe zone on Friday at 4pm. Only the station at DTU, north Delhi, recorded AQI of 384 in the very poor zone.Experts said though several factors could be responsible for varying concentration of particulate pollutants across areas, it is mostly indicative of cracker burning.“We have to see the area and the wind-speed and if the area is upwind or down-wind for smoke coming from stubble burning, but largely, these spikes are indicative of firecrackers, in addition to any other local emission source... With it being Diwali, industries and vehicles may not be playing much of a role and firecrackers are likely to be the major source (of pollution),” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment.HT reported on Wednesday that according to the forecast by weather and pollution monitoring agencies, the air quality in Delhi will slip into the severe zone, if the Delhi government’s ban on storage, sale and use of firecrackers was violated.This is evident from the extremely high PM 2.5 concentration recorded at Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range monitoring station (1,731µg/m3) that is situated in a largely green area. Experts said since it is flanked by residential colonies, and having no other major source of pollution around, the high PM2.5 levels are indicative of cracker bursting.To be sure, the use of firecrackers in the city coincided with more than 3,000 farm fires in Punjab and Haryana contributing to 36% of the air pollution in Delhi -- the highest this season so far.The peak pollution level across Delhi was generally recorded between midnight and 1am, but some locations also saw a spike at 3am as well, including Mandir Marg (1,600 µg/m3), Anand Vihar (1,714µg/m3), Vivek Vihar (1,604µg/m3) and Ashok Vihar (1,957µg/m3), indicating that firecrackers may have been burst at these locations well past midnight.Pramod Kohli (67), general secretary of the Federation of Ashok Vihar Residents’ Welfare Association, said that he could hear firecrackers in the area till 1am. “The spike on Thursday could well be due to firecrackers. We could hear it till 1am, and since I have breathing problems, I could not even step out and ask people to stop. We have been writing to the government for several years to act on local sources of pollution too, but nothing has happened,” he said.He added that local factors such as open burning of waste and frequent fires at the nearby Bhalswa landfill are perennial sources of pollution in the area.Professor Mukesh Sharma from IIT Kanpur, part of the team that will carry out real-time apportionment of pollution sources in the city with the Delhi government, said it is difficult to pin-point if firecrackers were alone responsible for the spike in pollution levels, but added that bursting even a few firecrackers would have led to a huge spike in the current scenario. “If the area is congested and compact, some crackers may also create an increase in pollution levels till it reaches a peak, before starting to disperse. Once the real-time source apportionment study commences in Delhi, we will be able to analyse barium, strontium and copper in the air to identify specific emissions from firecrackers,” he said.According to DPCC data, last year, the locations in Delhi which saw the biggest spike during Diwali were Vivek Vihar (1,970 µg/m3) and Mundka (1,853 µg/m3), while it was 1,798 µg/m3 in the bustling sub-city of Rohini in north Delhi.Upendra Bharadwaj, president of the Pocket B RWA in Sukhdev Vihar, Okhla, said pollution from firecrackers and the nearby waste-to-energy plant are likely to be the key factors behind Thursday’s high PM 2.5 readings. “There was a layer of ash on our cars in the morning. The waste-to-energy plant has remained a problem throughout the year, and when firecrackers are burst in large numbers, then it all combines to make the air worse,” Bharadwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiokhla-sees-highest-pollution-as-cracker-ban-flouted-across-the-capital-101636137019492.html
06-11-2021||Bhopal||MP man dies by suicide, police bring down his body after 18 hrs due to ‘staff crunch’||The body of a man, who died by suicide, in Madhya Pradesh’s in Damoh district, was brought down after over 18 hours after, said one of the relatives of the deceased. The family members accused the police of delay in taking action and recovering the body, the police personnel, on the other hand, said the delay happened due to a staff crunch. The 40-year-old man hailed from Sadguva village of the district and died by hanging himself in his kutcha house on Thursday. His uncle said the man used to live alone and was last seen on Wednesday night. “When he didn’t come out on Thursday, the family members, who live in the neighbourhood, knocked on the door. Later, they checked by removing earthen tiles of the kutcha roof and found him dead at around 4 pm on Thursday. The family members reached Pathariya police station to inform and in return, the police asked them to report with a photo. However, we didn’t take the matter of photo seriously and waited for the police till Friday morning,” said an uncle of the deceased. When they asked the police again to bring down the body, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) MK Patel reached the spot and brought down the body with the help of the villagers. Patel said the delay happened due to a staff crunch. However, sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Pathariya SP Shukla, said, “An inquiry has been ordered in the matter to know the reason behind the delay in recovering the body and sending it for the postmortem.” The preliminary report of the post mortem is awaited. (With inputs from Anupam Pateriya from Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-man-dies-by-suicide-police-recover-body-after-18-hours-due-to-staff-crunch-101636137017993.html
06-11-2021||Gurugram||Two killed, four injured in fallout between gangs in Gurugram’s Manesar||Two men were killed and four others, including an eight-year-old boy, severely injured on Thursday night in Manesar’s Kasan village in an attack by a group of 10 people, who fired at least 30 rounds, in a fallout between two gangs that has been going on for over a decade, the police said.According to the survivors and area residents, the firing went on for around 10 minutes, following which the attackers fled when the police were called in. The police booked 10 persons, four of whom have been identified, in connection with the incident, but are yet to make any arrests.According to the police, the incident took place at the residence of a former sarpanch (village head), identified as Gopal, around 8pm, when his extended family was visiting them for drinks and dinner on the occasion of Diwali. A pet dog owned by the family was also shot at in the firing.A case was registered under sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 307 (attempt to murder), and 452 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act at the IMT Manesar police station on Thursday night.Yashwant Yadav, the station house officer (SHO) of IMT Manesar police station, said that the two groups were allies in criminal activities before their relations soured in 2007, when Gopal’s sons, Balram and Sohanpal, allegedly murdered one Manoj, the brother of Yogender alias Rinku, the leader of the other group.“A tiff broke out between the two groups leading to the murder of Manoj in 2007, done in order to establish supremacy in the area. Balram and Sohanpal were out on bail. The main suspect was holding a grudge against them for his brother’s murder and planned to kill all the family members when they were together on Diwali night,” the SHO said.The deceased were identified as Vikas (21) and Sohanpal (35), while Balram was injured and is under treatment at a private hospital. The others who were injured were identified as Rajesh Kumar, Chauhan and Parveen.“Vikas was declared brought dead by the doctors at the hospital,” the SHO said.According to Kumar, one of the victims, the attack was carried out by Rinku, Deepak alias Bholu of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, Manish Rana of Bhiwani, and Amit alias Gaath of Sonipat, along with others. “We were sitting inside the room when the incident took place. My nephews Balram and Sohanpal were chatting with their cousin Praveen, while his son Vikas Raghav and Balram’s eight-year-old son, Yash Chauhan, were celebrating Diwali in the lawn when we were fired upon,” he said.The police said that they have constituted three teams to trace the assailants and are conducting raids at their hideouts. The bodies were handed over to the families after a post-mortem examination.Dr Deepak Mathur, the forensic expert who conducted the autopsy, said that both died due to excessive bleeding. “Vikas suffered 16 gunshot injuries; three bullets were recovered from his abdomen and rest passed through his head, neck and chest. Sohanpal suffered two gunshots to the abdomen, leading to his death,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-killed-four-injured-in-fallout-between-gangs-in-gurugram-s-manesar-101636136299026.html
06-11-2021||Bhopal||4 killed as two families clash at MP panchayat, 8 arrested: Police||Four people were killed and eight injured in a clash at a village panchayat in Madhya Pradesh’s Alirajur district on Thursday night.The deadly fighting erupted over a dispute between two families over silver ornaments that a girl took with her when she eloped with her lover more than a year ago, police said.“Madho Bhudariya, 20, and Leela Guliya, 21, both residents of Bakodiya village, ran away from their homes to marry as per the Bhilala tribe’s tradition. Leela had taken with her silver jewellery weighing 1kg that belonged to her mother,” said Manoj Singh, superintendent of police, Alirajpur. As per the tribe’s tradition, a man or a woman can pick a life partner at a village fair and can elope. Later, a community feast is held in the village to recognise the marriage.Singh said the girl’s family had been asking her to return the silver jewellery since they eloped in June 2020, but she has refused to do so.“On Thursday, a village panchayat was called to settle the issue. As per tribal tradition, the boy’s family had to give money to the girl’s family to get their consent for the marriage,” Singh said. But during the talks, Singh said, the two families argued, resulting in an escalation of tensions. As the talks turned violent, the two families attacked each other with sticks and sharp-edged weapons, he narrated. In the ensuing fight, Madho’s cousin Ismail Bhudariya, 25, and Sukhdev Bhudariya, 22, were killed by Leela’s family members; while Leela’s grandfather Bhal Singh Guliya, 50, and her uncle Nandu Singh, 24, were killed by Madho’s family members, Singh said. All four people were beaten and stabbed to death on the spot while more than eight were injured and rushed to the district hospital, the police said.Also Read: 3 die as mini bus catches fire after hitting stationary truck in Madhya PradeshPolice booked 13 people, including the four deceased, in two separate FIRs registered under section 302 (murder) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code. Eight people were arrested on Friday, said Mohan Singh Damor, the town inspector of Chandpur police station. Devendra Pachaya, a local villager, said, “After the man Madho and the woman Leela eloped last year and got married in Gujarat, as per tradition, a panchayat was called and a decision was taken that after their return to the village, Madho’s family will return the silver and also give ₹20,000 to Leela’s family. Even after one and a half years, Madho’s family didn’t fulfill the promise… On Thursday, the panchayat was called to settle this issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/four-killed-in-clash-over-dispute-at-panchayat-in-madhya-pradesh-101636113854249.html
06-11-2021||Dehradun||IFS officer to probe illegal constructions, felling of trees in Corbett reserve||The Uttarakhand forest department has directed Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi to probe allegations of illegal constructions and felling of trees in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), an officer aware of the details said on Friday.The state forest department has also asked the bureaucrat to probe the role of forest officials in the matter and submit a report within two weeks, the officer added. “I want this matter to be investigated properly so that action can be taken against the officers responsible. So, I issued an order on November 2 in this regard. I have directed him (Chaturvedi) to investigate the matter and find out who did what and when and with whose permission,” principal chief conservator of forests Rajiv Bhartari said. Chaturvedi, who is working as chief conservator of forest at Haldwani, had made headlines during his tenure as chief vigilance officer of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, from2012 to 2014, when he investigated around 200 corruption cases, according to news agency PTI. Winner of the prestigious Ramon Magsaysay Award in 2015, the civil servant has unearthed a spate of corruption cases in public offices. He also stopped illegal construction inside Haryana’s Saraswati Wildlife Sanctuary in 2009.On October 27, the Uttarakhand high court ordered the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the state’s top officials for forest and wildlife to investigate the alleged illegal construction and illegal felling of trees in CTR.The court’s order was based on an October 22 report by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) which said that forest officers may have forged government records to allow illegal construction of roads and buildings in the reserve.The committee described the illegal construction in CTR an excellent example of “administrative and managerial failure”, recommended vigilance inquiry against Uttarakhand forest officers and recommended that the Union ministry take strong action against erring forest officers.Subsequently, the state government on October 29 directed Bhartari to take appropriate action in the matter. Supreme Court lawyer and wildlife activist Gaurav Bansal, who moved court, alleged the matter involved more than ₹150 crores as government funds were utilised for illegal construction.“The NTCA’s report clearly says that work has been done without financial sanction,” he alleged, adding that there is an urgent need to investigate why funds were used for illegal purposes.Bhartari said he cannot comment about the financial irregularities alleged by the advocate and that Chaturvedi will investigate them.The court, meanwhile, sought an action taken report from NTCA by November 9.Bansal said he had earlier approached the Supreme Court, which subsequently constituted a Central Empowered Committee to probe allegations of illegal felling of thousands of trees in Pakhrau tiger safari, and construction of structures and water body in Corbett tiger reserve landscape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/whistleblower-asked-to-probe-constructions-felling-of-trees-in-corbett-reserve-101636111274351.html
