07-11-2021||Gurugram||Door-to-door Covid jabs drive to be held in 172 areas in Gurugram today||On Monday, the Gurugram administration will hold its door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaign at 172 locations across the district to vaccinate as many people as possible in the district with both doses, said officials. Of the 172 locations, Covaxin will be administered at four areas in Pataudi and Covishield will be administered everywhere else. “Our focus is on vaccinating all people who are yet to take the vaccine against Covid-19. The door-to-door campaign will continue till the end of November--we aim to cover the maximum possible population. On Monday, teams will cover 172 locations across the district for door-to-door vaccination,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. The campaign began on November 2--on the first two days, over 800 residents were vaccinated. The campaign was paused from November 4-5 for Diwali holidays. On Sunday, 5,738 people were administered the Covid-19 vaccine in the district, said officials, with 1,109 people being administered the first dose and 4,629 being given the second dose of the vaccine. As part of this campaign, in urban areas, three-member teams comprising Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers and data entry operators will visit residential areas and wait in common spaces such as residents’ welfare association offices, where people can come and get vaccinated. In rural areas, the teams will wait for people at chaupals or in centrally located buildings. Officials said that all primary health centres in the district have conducted surveys at their levels to identify people who have still not taken the vaccine and teams are being formed accordingly. “People will be informed in advance where the teams will wait so that beneficiaries can come and get themselves vaccinated. Residents whose second doses are due will be informed with the help of lists prepared by the primary health centres. This way, residents can get vaccinated at their condominiums or nearby localities. Along with this, vaccination will be done at fixed session sites also,” added Singh. In October, union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had advised states and Union territories to scale up the national Covid-19 vaccination drive with the door-to-door vaccination campaign ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ over the next month, especially focusing on covering beneficiaries due for their second dose. At present, 77.2% of the population has been administered both vaccine doses in the district. In Gurugram, over 1.78 million people are eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine and over 3.59 million have already been vaccinated. In the district, first-dose vaccination has crossed 100% as several people from other districts and a migrating population have also been vaccinated in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/doortodoor-covid-jabs-drive-to-be-held-in-172-areas-in-gurugram-today-101636309551498.html
07-11-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad working on 100% waste collection by March 2022: Municipal commissioner||A meeting of 40 newly constituted ward committees constituted by Faridabad Municipal Corporation was held on Sunday in which it was decided that complete solid waste management would be achieved in the city by the middle of next year. The municipal corporation also decided that ward committees would carry out decentralised waste management, and asked the members to collaborate with local residents’ welfare associations, market associations, and other groups.Yashpal Yadav, municipal commissioner, Faridabad, said that ward committees will act as change agents to ensure the participation of all stakeholders and take ownership of areas under their jurisdiction. “We have procured 110 vehicles to collect waste in the city. They will be pressed into service from November 10. We have trained manpower and experts, we will help in the smooth collection and disposal of solid waste. Our aim is to ensure 100% door-to-door collection of waste in Faridabad and its segregation at the house itself,” said Yadav.Yadav said that Faridabad generates 600 metric tonnes of waste every day, and the municipal corporation is working to implement 100% waste collection by March 31, 2022. “The waste and garbage in the city and stuck in drains is being removed and this work will be completed by January 31, 2022. This clearing will help prevent waterlogging and sewage leakage,” he said.The corporation, he said, will also launch an awareness drive on the segregation of waste and also collaborate with people at the ground level so that this cleaning and waste management drive is successful.Yadav also appealed to the residents to ensure that waste is handed over to authorised waste collection vehicles so that it is disposed of at designated places. He also said that construction debris and similar waste should also be disposed of in a scientific manner as it becomes a major hazard due to poor disposal. “The ward committees have been empowered and they will play important role in the entire exercise. The model we are building in Faridabad focusses on self-governance in urban areas where people can take decisions for themselves,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-working-on-100-waste-collection-by-march-2022-municipal-commissioner-101636309370839.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Social activist ensures respectful disposal of discarded idols in Agra||Agra Moved by the disrespect shown to old and discarded idols of God Ganesh and Goddess Laxmi after Diwali, a social activist Sunil Dubey is going around the city in a vehicle to collect them and dispose of them on the ghats of Yamuna respectfully. Supported by an organization, Sunil Dubey aims to dispose of at least 20,000 such idols at Hathi Ghat on Monday. “It is time for new clothes, gifts and new idols of God Ganesh and Goddess Lakshmi on Diwali but discarded idola are just abandoned under ‘peepal’ trees, on foot paths and even in garbage dumps and drains,” said Sunil Dubey (42). “Last year I decided to ensure graceful disposal of these old idols but due to lack of publicity and Covid -19, results were not satisfactory. This time, we planned it in advance and discussed it in a meeting of ‘Brahmin Parishad’. Designated centres were chosen, asking denizens to place old idols there,” he said. ‘The results were encouraging and we began collecting old idols from Saturday onwards. We also picked up old idols lying under ‘peepal’ trees, on footpaths and other places,” he said. “ The Agra Nagar Nigam has extended support and dug the ‘kund’ (well) on Hathi Ghat along river Yamuna where we expect to immerse at least 20,000 pairs of Ganesh Laxmi idols by Monday afternoon. Twenty-one Brahmins would recite ‘mantras’ for ceremonious ‘visarjan’ (disposal) of these idols,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/social-activist-ensures-respectful-disposal-of-discarded-idols-in-agra-101636308951645.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Old City monuments hotspot for pre-wedding shoots||After two pandemic waves and small weddings, the winter wedding season is just a week away. With a large number of summer weddings pushed to this season, the week preceding the season is being utilised by would-be brides and grooms for the pre-wedding shoots with the historic monuments in the city turning out to be their favourite destinations for providing a perfect backdrop. Visit any Old City monument in the Hussainabad section in the early morning hours these days, one will find a team of photographers capturing would-be brides and grooms. Specially dressed for the occasion, with make-up artistes doing the touch-ups, the young couples-to-be are seen striking poses against Rumi Darwaza, Picture Gallery, Clock Tower and against the backdrop of Gomti river at the majestic Kudiya Ghat. “The big-fat weddings have shrunk to small personalised affairs, so pre-wedding portfolio shoots have become a big affair. When shooting in Lucknow, the historic monuments and some modern structures like Gomti Riverfront, Ambedkar Park and Janeshwar Mishra Park have become the most sought-after spots,” says young lensman Dev Singh. Software engineer Prakhar Sinha, who is getting married on November 21, says, “Ours is a small day-wedding with a 150-person reception in the night. Since all the wedding ceremonies will be solemnised on the same day so we are getting a pre-wedding shoot done. My elder brother, before his marriage, too got a pre-wedding shoot done at the majestic Dilkusha Gardens. Unfortunately, they are not allowing wedding shoots there, so we have zeroed upon the signature of Lucknow — Rumi Darwaza, which looks beautiful in morning lights.” The trend can be gauged by the fact that many have added pre-wedding shoots to their do-list off late. “Mostly pre-wedding shoots are a part of a complete wedding package, but this year many engaged us, just before the marriage season, as a standalone assignment. People have realised that they can use his shoot pictures in their virtual invitation cards, save the date invitation and social media posts and reels. Also, outstation relatives who can’t visit marriages are sent these cinematic films,” tells lensman Amit Saheta. The Kudiya Ghat bank with old-world charm and Gomti Riverfront in the Gomti Nagar area with the modern feel gives an amazing contrast, he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/old-city-monuments-hotspot-for-pre-wedding-shoots-101636308531432.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||5-yr-old going to buy chips run over by pick-up jeep in Ludhiana||A five-year-old boy was crushed under a pick-up jeep in Dakha while he was heading to a nearby shop with his father to buy a pack of chips. The boy’s father had a narrow escape. The victim has been identified as Jagtar Singh of Changna village of Dakha.The driver of the pick-up vehicle managed to escape the spot after the incident, however, passersby managed to jot down the vehicle’s registration number. Police have registered a case under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code against the driver, on the statement of the boy’s father, Jagdeep Singh.Jagdeep said they were walking on the roadside when the speeding Mahindra Bolero Camper, coming from Hambran road side, ran over his son. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hamir Singh, the investigating officer, said the accused will be nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5yrold-going-to-buy-chips-run-over-by-pick-up-jeep-in-ludhiana-101636308409695.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Tap water scheme being expedited in B’khand, Vindhya regions||LUCKNOW: With assembly elections round the corner, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh has expedited the work of starting door-to-door supply of drinking water in the villages of Bundelkhand and the Vindhya region from December. Officials said trial runs have begun and along with starting tap water supply in Bundelkhand and Vindhya regions, the work of ‘har ghar nal yojana’ (tap water in each house) had been expedited in more than two dozen districts like Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur and Mathura. “Water supply will be started in most of these districts by March 2022,” an official said. “Under the Jal Jeevan Mission scheme, the work of laying pipelines in remote rural areas in the state, including Bundelkhand and Vindhyas as well as laying pure drinking water supply lines to individual houses has also been completed,” an official said. Principal secretary, Namami Gange and rural water supply department Anurag Srivastava said that directions had been issued to regularly monitor the functioning of the water treatment plants and check water lines laid at various levels. “Directions have been given to stop the leakage and wastage of water in the line at any cost. Water supply work is on the verge of completion in most of the villages of Bundelkhand,” he said. Officials said that the ‘tap water in every house scheme’, being run with the help of the centre, was being completed about six months before the scheduled time. “By getting pure water, people of rural areas will get rid of diseases and overcome the problem of potable. Till now, the people in villages were dependent only on water from hand pumps located in far off regions,” officials said. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the UP government had so far provided 31.76 lakh water connections in over 97,000 villages, officials said. “Not only this, the government has provided 19.15 lakh tap connections in the last financial year. The state government is working to provide 59 lakh tap water connections in the current financial year, 85.40 lakh in financial year 2022-23 and 90.01 lakh in financial year 2023-24,” an official said. Piped water will reach a population of 7268705 in Bundelkhand and 40,45,943 in Vindhya region, the official said. A total of 467 piped drinking water schemes have been implemented in 32 projects under Jal Jeevan Mission in Bundelkhand region. “Of these, 43 are surface water-based schemes and 424 are ground water-based ones. Through these schemes, arrangements will be made for 1195265 functional home water connections for a population of 7268705 of 3823 revenue villages. Pure water will be supplied to 1195265 households. These projects will benefit 40 tehsils, 68 development blocks and 2608-gram panchayats of seven districts of Bundelkhand region,” the official said. There are 162 piped drinking water schemes under 17 projects under Jal Jeevan Mission in the Vindhya region, along with 22 surface water-based schemes and 140 ground water-based ones. Under these schemes, 6,69,508 functional house water connections (FHTCs) have been provided for a population of 40,45,943 of 2,961 revenue villages and this will supply pure drinking water to a total of 6,69,508 households. “Har Ghar Nal Yojana’ of Jal Jeevan Mission will also help provide employment and in the first phase, more than 30,000 people will be hired on contract in the projects being completed in Bundelkhand and Vindhya regions. Along with the operation of water supply system in villages and towns, fitters, plumbers, mechanic and security guards will also be recruited,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tap-water-scheme-being-expedited-in-b-khand-vindhya-regions-101636308229682.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP national executive meet: Yogi Adityanath presents political resolution, praises PM Modi’s leadership||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath presented the political resolution at the BJP national executive meet in New Delhi on Sunday and praised the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who he said was helping a new India emerge. A statement issued by the state government quoted Yogi Adityanath as saying that under PM Modi, the reputation of India has improved globally and the Indian passport has earned its due respect.“PM’s vision of ‘one sun, one world, one grid” got solid support at the recent COP26 meet in Glasgow. PM is the most popular leader of the world, according to a survey conducted by a reputed global agency. At the G20 meet, PM gave the important message of one world, one health, imparting a sense of direction to the world,” Yogi Adityanath said, according to the government statement. The statement also quoted Yogi Adityanath as saying, “PM Modi’s timely decisions helped the country fight successfully against the coronavirus pandemic that brought the whole world to its knees while continuing the developmental activities and looking after the poor and the underprivileged. PM Modi’s mantra of trace, test, treat and vaccinate has helped UP control the disease.”“Developing two vaccines in the country in a short time and administering more than 100 crore doses is a historic achievement. In Uttar Pradesh, 13.28 crore doses of corona vaccines have been given and 8.43 crore tests conducted. Forty-one districts of the state don’t have a single case of Covid infection today. The state is capable of conducting 4 lakh Covid tests daily. UP is also bracing up to tackle the third wave of the pandemic, Yogi said, as per the statement.The statement also said Yogi praised PM Modi for cutting excise duty on petrol and diesel on the occasion of Diwali to bring relief to common people, adding that UP has slashed prices of both by ₹12 each.“UP tops in implementation of 44 welfare schemes of the centre,” the statement quoted Yogi Adityanath as saying. “Uttar Pradesh ranks second in the ease of doing business in the country. The state has also emerged as the second largest economy of the country in a very short time,” CM Yogi remarked.Furthermore, he said that due to the increasing investment in the state, 1.61 crore youths have got jobs in the private sector. Around 4.5 lakh have got government jobs in the last four and a half years, the CM pointed out.Yogi Adityanath said that the UP government has decided to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in the state until Holi in view of the ongoing pandemic, which will continue to benefit 15 crore people of UP. Yogi Adityanath also mentioned the restoration of law and order in the state in the last four and a half years, saying that illegal properties worth over 1800 crore belonging to mafias and gangsters have been either been impounded or demolished||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-national-executive-meet-yogi-adityanath-presents-political-resolution-praises-pm-modi-s-leadership-101636307929769.html
07-11-2021||Noida||Noida cops hold traffic awareness programme, emphasize on wearing safety-gear||Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police, in association with a citizens’ group ‘7X Welfare Team’, organised a traffic awareness programme in Hajipur T-Point in Sector 104 on Sunday, sensitising road users to follow traffic rules and regulations and take precautions while travelling amid foggy or inclement weather conditions. The Sectors 74 to 79 in Noida are known as 7X. Noida traffic inspector Ashutosh Singh said police teams asked motorists to follow traffic rules. “People also took an oath of following traffic rules,” said Singh. Brajesh Sharma, a resident of Antriksh Golf View 2 in Noida’s Sector 78, and a member of 7X Welfare Team, said traffic volunteers reached Hajipur T-Point holding a placard bearing messages on traffic rules. “When the red light of the traffic signal was on, we approached people driving car without a seatbelt and motorcycle riders without helmets and sensitized them about traffic rules. They promised to follow traffic rules in future,” he said. Sharma said that the violation of seatbelt and helmet rule is the main reason for casualties in an accident. “We advised people to put on their safety gear while driving vehicles. We also told them to drive carefully during foggy weather conditions,” he said. On Saturday, a programme was organised at Jewar toll plaza to sensitize motorists travelling on the Yamuna Expressway. Data from the Noida transport department shows that from January 1 to August 31 this year, 238 people died while 348 were injured in 501 accidents in the district. During the same period in 2020, 221 died while 345 were injured in 446 accidents in the district.A report by the ministry of road transport and highways states that in 2019, 151,113 people died and 451,361 were injured in 449,002 accidents in India. This roughly translates to an average of 1,230 accidents and 414 deaths every day and nearly 51 accidents and 17 deaths every hour. Uttar Pradesh had recorded 42,572 accidents, in which 22,655 people died and 28,932 were injured, which is roughly 15% of the national share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cops-hold-traffic-awareness-programme-emphasize-on-wearing-safetygear-101636307691046.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana newborn’s family withdraws plaint as ‘abductor’ suffers from mental illness||The family members of a new-born girl who was abducted from the mother and child ward of Lord Mahavira Civil Hospital on Saturday, withdrew the police complaint after they found out that the woman who took her away was mentally ill. The grandmother of the infant had handed over the baby to the woman for a bit as she had to take her daughter to the washroom. On returning, she found the woman and the baby missing. It was later found that the woman, who had taken away the baby, was mentally ill. She suffers from epilepsy and had come to the hospital with her four-year-old son for treatment. “The woman’s son had wandered out of the ward. She followed him and reached home, without returning the new-born to her kin,” said inspector Satpal, station house officer, Division Number 2 police station.“Later when she realised that she had brought someone else’s baby home, she herself returned to the hospital to return the child,” said the SHO. “After reaching home in Sunet village, the woman’s four-year-old son rang up his father, who is a security guard, and told him that the mother had brought home some child. The man asked her to return the baby to her parents, following which she returned to the hospital and handed over the newborn to her parents,” said the SHO.Narinder Kumar, father of the newborn girl, said, “We came to know that the four-year-old son of the woman had got her to return our baby. How can we send the boy’s mother to jail when he helped us be reunited with our daughter.”The inspector said no FIR was registered as the family withdrew the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-newborn-s-family-withdraws-plaint-as-abductor-suffers-from-mental-illness-101636307569742.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Vehicular movement, drop in temp behind smog blanket over Lucknow’||Lucknow Post Diwali and Bhai dooj, a thick layer of smog enveloped the state capital, reducing visibility. Experts said vehicular movement was on its peak due to the festival season and the weather conditions were favourable for a spike in air pollutants. According to experts, since the temperature is going down, particulate matters are suspended in air and low wind speed is not allowing the dust to disperse. They say increased vehicular pollution and drop in temperature has led to this situation which is now becoming common in this season, especially in north India. Professor Venkatesh Dutta of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow said, “The changing temperature and slow and stable winds trap soot,dust and fine particulate matter. The particulate matter is present in a variety of sizes ranging from coarse and fine to ultrafine.” “Most important to note are PM2.5 (particles with a size less than 2.5 micrometres). These particles are emitted by various sources like industrial exhausts, vehicular emissions, rapid construction, stubble burning and burning of waste material etc. They are considered to be the most dangerous because they can stay in the atmosphere longer due to light weight and small size, thereby increasing the chances of humans and animals inhaling them which and eventually leads to respiratory and cardio-vascular disorders,” he said. Prof Datta adds, “The road conditions are not good and lead to a lot of dust emissions during traffic hours. These emissions also hang around the air at breathing heights, causing severe health hazards.” Former director, Geological Survey of India, VK Joshi said, “Being a geologist by training and profession, I am a firm believer in the dictum ‘Present is a key to the past and past is a window of the future.’ Around 5.4 million years ago there was unprecedented Global Warming, leading to intense heat and climate change somewhat similar to the present, but temperatures, rainfall and cardon dioxide content of the atmosphere were much more. Alas, we were not there to take the blame!” “Around 40% of the problem during this time and the ensuing winter is caused by us, while 60% of the misdeed is done by nature. We believe that we are the sole rulers of the planet. It is not so. There are several others too controlling our climate.The pollution by firecrackers is a municipal problem and should be sorted out accordingly. But there are other issues too which need the attention of the local bodies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vehicular-movement-drop-in-temp-behind-smog-blanket-over-lucknow-101636307509995.html
07-11-2021||Noida||Noida’s Sector 71 underpass now open for motorists||The Noida authority opened the sector 51/71 six-lane underpass project on Sunday evening to the public, offering seamless connectivity to commuters travelling between Noida and Greater Noida west. “We have opened both sides of the underpass for public use. We only need to complete the painting work, that will be over in the next 15 days,” said Mukesh Vaish, project engineer of Noida authority.The underpass will now facilitate a smooth ride for commuters over Vikas Marg, the arterial road linking Noida to Greater Noida West as well as Vishwakarma Marg, which connects the Noida expressway in the city with Indirapuram in Ghaziabad. The underpass will also benefit newly developed group housing societies in Noida’s Sector 51, Hoshiyarpur, Sectors 74 to 79 as well as Greater Noida West. It will provide a smooth ride to at least 50,000 daily commuters, said officials. In June 2019, the authority started work on the 780 metre long underpass corridor at an estimated cost of ₹59 crore, setting December 2020 as the deadline for completion. Since then, the project missed two more deadlines -- March 2021 and June 2021.One of the key traffic intersections of Noida, this spot in sector 51/71 used to witness long traffic snarls in the absence of a seamless underpass. Now, commuters travelling from Noida to Greater Noida, Ghaziabad side to Dadri road will not have to wait at this junction. The underpass will also ease commuting for residents who travel within the city.However, residents of Sector 51 are still not happy with the opening of the underpass because some work on their side is yet to be completed.“The authority is yet to complete slab work next to the Sector 51 corner. We will not be able to take a U-turn to reach Sector 51’s blocks D, E, F and Hoshiyarpur above this underpass. We will have to drive longer and face congestion till the work on this corner is completed,” said Sanjiv Kumar , general secretary of Sector 51 residents’ welfare association. “We will complete remaining work in next four to five days and ensure all the pending issues are resolved,” said Vaish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-sector-71-underpass-now-open-for-motorists-101636307269635.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Commuters hassled as protesters lay siege to Bharat Nagar Chowk||Commuters were a harried lot on Sunday as Sikh organisations staged a protest at Bharat Nagar Chowk, one of the busiest intersections in the city, for over two hours, seeking the arrest of right-wing leader Anil Arora who had allegedly made some objectionable religious comments.Due to the protest at Bharat Nagar Chowk, traffic movement was disrupted on this stretch as well as the Link Road, Mall Road, Ferozepur Road and surrounding roads. Police tried to divert traffic to other roads, but commuters were stuck in the jam due to the rush on internal roads.Abhiraj Singh of Model Town, a commuter, said he had gone to see the Diwali Mela with his family, but got stuck in the jam for at least an hour. Pankaj Sharma, another commuter, said blocking roads is not a solution to any problem. “It is sad that such protests have become a routine affair.”Bhavandeep Singh, one of the protesters, said, “We had been protesting peacefully near Samrala Chowk to seek the arrest of Anil Arora, however, police is deliberately delaying the accused’s arrest. So, we decided to block traffic at Bharat Nagar Chowk.”Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma said, “Police made diversions near ESIC Chowk, Mall Road, Bhai Bala Chowk and Jagraon Bridge to ensure smooth traffic flow. The agitators ended their protest on their own after two hours.”Anil Arora was booked for hurting religious statements on October 20 after an audio of him purportedly making some objectionable statements went viral on social media. Police have arrested at least six people for allegedly sheltering the accused. A cash reward of ₹1 lakh has also been announced on his head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-commuters-hassled-as-protesters-lay-siege-to-bharat-nagar-chowk-101636306729667.html
07-11-2021||Kolkata||EVMs changed before counting in Bengal by-polls: BJP's Suvendu Adhikari||Leader of Opposition in the West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday claimed that electronic voting machines (EVMs) were changed before counting in four assembly constituencies where by-elections were held on October 30, and TMC candidates won by huge victory margins.Alleging that in certain booths, the number of votes secured by the BJP was less than that of the voters in the families of saffron party leaders and workers, Adhikari wondered how this had happened.The ruling TMC rejected the allegations as baseless, saying the by-polls were held under the Election Commission and counting took place under tight security by central force personnel."EVMs in four assembly segments were altered before counting. Otherwise, how can Subrata Mondal in Gosaba and Udayan Guha in Dinhata win by such a huge margin? I have information that the EVM used in Behala Purba constituency (during the assembly elections) earlier this year was counted in Gosaba," Adhikari said at a function in Kolkata.Guha won the Dinhata bypoll by a record margin of 1.64 lakh while Mondal emerged victorious by 1.43 lakh votes from Gosaba. The TMC's Braja Kishore Goswami defeated his nearest BJP rival by 64,675 votes in Santipur, while in the Khardah assembly segment, state minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay beat the BJP nominee by a margin of 93,832 votes.While BJP leader Nisith Pramanik, who became Union minister later, won the assembly election by a wafer-thin margin of just 57 votes defeating Guha from the Dinhata seat earlier this year, another BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar won by a comfortable margin of 15,878 votes from Santipur. The two, however, resigned as MLAs to keep their memberships in the Lok Sabha after the TMC secured a landslide victory, necessitating the by-polls."In the Santipur College booth, the TMC bagged 478 votes and the BJP 8. There are 20 BJP workers in that booth and the total number of voters in their families is 92. At a booth in Gosaba, one leader has eight voters in his family but the BJP got only one vote. How are these possible?" Adhikari said, indicating malpractices during the bt-elections.The allegations do not make any sense, TMC state spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said."The by-polls were held under the Election Commission's supervision. The counting took place under tight security by central force personnel. Adhikari is cooking up such absurd stories hide BJP leaders' failure to stop the quick erosion of support base after tall claims made before the assembly elections," he said.After the by-polls, the tally of the TMC in the state assembly rose to 217, while that of the BJP came down to 75.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/evms-changed-before-counting-in-bengal-by-polls-bjp-s-suvendu-adhikari-101636305331771.html
07-11-2021||Kolkata||BJP worker killed in Bengal; TMC denies charge of post-poll violence||The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged on Sunday that one of its workers was murdered by Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters at Bhagabanpur in East Midnapore district on Saturday night and demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The ruling party denied the charge, saying the victim, Sambhu Maity, was killed because of infighting in the BJP. Maity was head of the BJP’s local unit at Muhammadpur in the Bhagabanpur 1 community block. The allegation was raised while the BJP’s central executive body held a meeting in Delhi in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. At the meeting, BJP national president JP Nadda alleged that post-poll violation in Bengal has claimed the lives of 57 party workers so far. Maity’s body, which bore marks of injury, was found in a desolate place, said the local police. It was sent for postmortem examination and handed over to the family on Sunday evening. “An investigation has started,” said a district police officer who did not want to be named. BJP Lok Sabha member and state general secretary Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, who led a procession with the body, declared a 12-hour bandh at Bhagabanpur on Monday. “We demand a CBI probe. Maity was abducted from the road near his home around 9.30 pm on Saturday. Post-poll violence, into which the Calcutta high court ordered a CBI probe, is continuing,” said Mahato. Cabinet minister and legislator from the district, Soumen Mahapatra, dismissed the allegation. “TMC had nothing to do with the death. It was the fallout of a dispute between two local groups,” said Mahapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-worker-killed-in-bengal-tmc-denies-charge-of-post-poll-violence-101636306310554.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to allocate funds for fire audits of district hospitals: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday that the state government will allocate funds for fire safety audits in all district hospitals, adding a post of 'fire safety officer' has also been proposed in all such hospitals.His comments came a day after a massive fire broke out in the ICU ward of the Ahmednagar Civil Hospital, killing 11 patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Most of the deceased were senior citizens.A senior fire officer of the Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation told news agency PTI on Sunday that the hospital lacked various fire safety measures suggested by the civic body.Also Read| Smoke killed most victims of Ahmednagar hospital fire: PoliceAddressing reporters after visiting the incident site on Sunday, Rajesh Tope said that officials informed him that a short circuit was the cause of the blaze. He requested an amount of ₹217 crore should be immediately sanctioned by the government to conduct the fire safety audits of such hospitals."A committee formed to probe the Ahmednagar fire tragedy has been asked to submit a report in eight days, following which action will be taken against the guilty," Rajesh Tope told reporters on Sunday.He pointed out that after the fire broke out on Saturday, the hospital staff immediately used fire extinguishers to douse the flames, but they were not effective enough due to the thick smoke.Tope said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray issued instructions to prevent fire incidents in future, and health workers will be given the training to deal with such situations and mock drills will be implemented.Also Read| Maharashtra hospital victims’ kin in shock, allege negligenceWith regard to the formation of the post of a fire safety officer in each district hospital, the Maharashtra health minister said on Sunday that the official will keep a check on fire safety-related aspects in all government-run district, tehsil and rural hospitals.Tope also said there is a need to plan on what kind of materials should be inside the ICU wards to avoid such tragic incidents in future.The Maharashtra government has announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh for the families of the victims while an FIR has been registered against unknown people under the Indian Penal Code’s (IPC) Section 304(A), for causing death due to negligence.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-allocate-funds-for-fire-audits-of-district-hospitals-rajesh-tope-101636301295163.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu playing manipulative politics: SAD||Amid a row between advocate general Amar Preet Singh Deol and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has hit out at Sidhu for “playing manipulative politics”.SAD spokesman Maheshinder Singh Grewal said Sidhu’s father was advocate Bhagwant Singh, a Congress leader who fought cases against his own government. “Not so long ago Sidhu and his wife were elected representatives of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and could be seen mocking at Congress leaders. They continued to do so even after they joined the Congress. By that standard, Sidhu should also resign from the post PPCC chief,” said Grewal while reacting to Sidhu’s criticism over Deol’s appointment.Deol, 61, had shot into limelight earlier this year when he secured the release of former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, arrested by the vigilance bureau in a 2020 criminal case. Deol had appeared for Saini, among other accused, in the 2015 sacrilege cases before the Punjab and Haryana high court.The SAD asked the Congress government to not engage in “disruptive politics” at the cost of the people. It also challenged the government to get the issue of power purchase agreements (PPAs) probed by any independent agency of its choice.Asking the government not to do politics on an issue which could harm the people, Maheshinder Grewal said passing resolutions to cancel the PPAs in the forthcoming special session of the Vidhan Sabha was a meaningless exercise.“The Vidhan Sabha neither proposed the PPAs nor ratified them. They were contracts between the Punjab government and private companies. They were executed on the basis of guidelines proposed and approved by the UPA government headed by then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh. Keeping these facts in mind, it is clear that state assembly does not have any role to play on this issue and in case the government intends to cancel the PPAs, they should do so through an executive order instead of misleading people through empty resolutions”, Grewal.The SAD leader also questioned the Congress government’s intention to pass resolutions on the issue of extension of jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) and the three farm laws.He said the Vidhan Sabha had already passed a resolution under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, calling for repudiation of the three farm laws. “Now another resolution is being passed on the same issue under Charanjit Singh Channi’s leadership. The government must tell Punjabis the difference between both resolutions and how they will help them,” Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-playing-manipulative-politics-sad-101636305951525.html
07-11-2021||Other||CBI arrests former Assam CM Histeswar Saikia’s son in alleged bank fraud case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday arrested former Assam chief minister Hiteswar Saikia’s son Ashok Saikia in connection with an alleged bank fraud case, officials said. Saikia, the younger brother of Congress legislator and leader of opposition in Assam assembly Debabrata Saikia, was arrested from his Soru Motoria residence in Guwahati following a raid at the premise by the agency. As per details provided by the family, the case pertains to a loan worth ₹9.37 lakh which Ashok Saikia had taken from the Assam State Cooperative And Rural Development (ASCARD) Bank in 1996. “I repaid the entire amount in 2011 which was acknowledged by the bank through a letter in October 2015. Today, the CBI team arrived at our house without any prior intimation and notice and mentioned that I have dues to pay the bank,” Ashok Saikia said in a statement. “Only the government or the investigating agency would know why I have been detained in a baseless and incorrect allegation,” the statement added. Saikia is to be produced in court on Monday. Debabrata Saikia also reiterated that the family, including the late CM’s wife who stays at the house, had not received any notice or intimation from the CBI about the case before Sunday’s raid and arrest. “I have been told by our advocates that CBI shouldn’t have intervened in the case as the loan amount has already been repaid in 2011. Legal proceedings, if any, with regard to it is going on in court. The CBI says they served a notice to my brother, but we haven’t received it,” Debabrata Saikia said. “If the bank lodged a case with the CBI for recovery of unpaid loans, they should have intimated the agency that my brother has already repaid his loan. We are confident that we will get justice from the court,” he added. The CBI hasn’t issued any statement in connection with the development and officials of the agency were not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-arrests-former-assam-cm-histeswar-saikia-s-son-in-alleged-bank-fraud-case-101636304990969.html
07-11-2021||Noida||Son was in Indian territorial limits: Mother of fisherman killed by Pak Navy||“My son was inside the Indian territorial limits,” said an emotional Anusha Chamre, whose 32-year-old son Shridhar, was reportedly shot several times on chest by Pakistan Navy’s marine commandos on Saturday afternoon at the maritime boundary between the two countries near Okha in Gujarat’s Dwarka district. Shridhar lived in Vadrai fishing village at Palghar. “My son was employed with Jayantilal Rathod, a boat owner, as a khalasi (fish labourer) three months ago. On October 26, Rathod’s boat Jalpari set sail and was to return to coast soon,” said Shridhar’s father Ramesh, who was also a fisherman. “We also heard that the Pakistan Navy has kidnapped six Indian fishermen and seized one boat, but we are not sure about it,” said Ramesh. “Another member on the boat, Dilip Tandel, also sustained a gunshot wound and is being treated at an Okha hospital,” said Rathod, speaking to HT from Gujarat.Sunil Joshi, superintendent of police (SP), Dwarka, said a first information report under section 303 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the Pakistani Navy Marine commandos.“As the incident occurred at the high seas, the case has been registered at Navi Bunder Coastal police station in Porbander. We are awaiting the post-mortem report of the body and are investigating further,” he added.Shridhar’s body was sent for post mortem at a Jamnagar government hospital and is expected to reach Palghar by Monday evening, Manendra Arekar, vice-president of Maharashtra Machimar Kriti Samiti, a forum for fishworkers’ welfare, has informed. “We are protesting against the entire incident and demand compensation to Shridhar’s family both from the Centre and the state, as the victim is survived by his two daughters and wife. Their future is bleak; Shridhar used to work on a meagre wage of ₹600 per day,” said Arekar. “The fishermen were within the Indian territorial limits and there was no need for the Pakistani Navy to fire on them. There are no specific marks to differentiate between Indian and Pakistani waters but we do have GPS (global positioning system) which warns us if we trespass into another territory. There are chances that owing to gusty winds, the GPS may have malfunctioned, but the Indian fishermen know their territorial limits and won’t trespass into Pakistani waters,” said Arekar. Jatin Desai, member of Pakistan India Peoples’ Forum For Peace and Democracy, has called the killed a murder by the Pakistani marine commandos. “We condemn the firing. As per the UN (United Nations) Convention of Law of Seas, those who encroach upon the waters can’t even be arrested, leave alone firing by Indian or Pakistan Maritime agencies. It is high time that the Ministry of External Affairs, Indian Coast Guard and the Pakistan’s Maritime Security Agency (MSA) have a dialogue on this issue, specifically as it is a violation of human rights and the UN Convention,” said Desai Due to such incidents, in the Saurashtra region particularly, the fishing community’s economy has been hit severely. “Such incidents create an atmosphere of fear within the fishing community and they will hesitate to go to the sea in the future, which will ultimately affect the fishing industry as a whole,” said Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/son-was-in-indian-territorial-limits-mother-of-fisherman-killed-by-pakistani-navy-101636304869493.html
07-11-2021||Patna||Security beefed up ahead of Chhath festival; 12 ghats declared ‘unsafe’ in Patna||Authorities beefed up security arrangements in the state capital for peaceful celebration of the four-day Chhath festival beginning from Monday.District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh and SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma held a joint meeting at SK Memorial Hall on Sunday to assess final preparations ahead of the Chhath festival.They instructed all concerned departments, including health, disaster, energy, building construction, police and municipal corporation, to work in coordination for the peaceful celebration of Chhath.During the review meeting, authorities said the Chhath festival will be celebrated at 96 ghats and ponds while 12 ghats have been declared ‘unsafe’ owing to the high water level of the river, unclean river water or marshy river banks.Sharma said, “Altogether 1700 policemen, 587 magistrates and 316 police officers have been deployed for tight security in the city. Besides, separate police squads have been constituted for night patrolling for keeping a check on theft during Chhath festival.”The district administration has set up 161 temporary toilets,161 urinals and 319 changing rooms for the convenience of devotees at ghats. Apart from this, 131 watchtowers and 226 control rooms have been set up for crowd monitoring. Altogether 91 teams of doctors and 28 ambulances are also deployed to deal with any medical emergencies at ghats on November 10 and 11.DM Singh said, “Eight teams of NDRF and four teams of SDRF have also been deployed at ghats. Auxiliary control rooms have been set up for effective crowd management. The civil surgeon has been instructed to ensure the availability of medical teams and ambulances at ghats and alert public hospitals including PMCH, NMCH, IGIMS, Kurji hospital for keeping their services, including operation theatre operational for 24 hours to deal with any exigency during the festival.”Patna district administration has declared 12 ghats, including Maharaj Ghat, Adalat Ghat, Mishri Ghat, TN Banerjee Ghat, Anta Ghat, BN College Ghat, Bankipore Ghat, unsafe for Chhath celebration and restricted the entry of devotees on these ghats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/security-beefed-up-ahead-of-chhath-festival-12-ghats-declared-unsafe-in-patna-101636303852522.html
07-11-2021||Patna||SHO shot at in Gaya, six held||Six persons were arrested in Bihar’s Gaya on Sunday in connection with the attack on police on Saturday that left three policemen injured, including an officer who sustained bullet injuries, police said.According to police, the incident happened when a group of people were returning after immersing an idol of Goddess Laxmi. An altercation ensued when the police asked them to lower the volume of loud music being played in the procession. Soon, miscreants began pelting stones at the police and one of them opened fire. Ajay Kumar (45), station house officer of Tanakuppa police station, was hit by two bullets on the leg and has been admitted to Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, police said.Two SAP(Special Auxiliary Police) jawans, Krishnanandan Sharma and Shashi Neelam, received head injuries during the stone pelting and have been admitted to a hospital. Senior superintendent of police Aditya Kumar, who confirmed the arrests, said adequate police force has been deployed in the area and raids were under way to arrest other culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sho-shot-at-in-gaya-six-held-101636303850845.html
07-11-2021||Patna||Covid-19 vaccination: Bihar crosses 7-cr mark in doses||Bihar on Sunday reached another milestone in its Covid-19 vaccination drive when the number of doses administered crossed seven-crore mark in its target population of 7.22 crore, state’s health minister Mangal Pandey said. The state had achieved the target of administering six crore vaccine doses in the first week of October. “We crossed the milestone today with people’s cooperation, support from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and guidance of chief minister Nitish Kumar. As far as second dose is concerned, more than 1.97 crore people were fully vaccinated till Sunday evening. We hope to touch the two-crore mark by late evening,” said the minister. “If we continue to get the same cooperation from our people, we will have administered eight crore doses in the state by December,” the minister said. On June 11, CM Kumar had set a target of administering six crore jabs to six crore people by December. The state had then administered around 1.16 crore jabs. The minister said that to boost the vaccination drive, 846 teams of health workers on motorcycles were pressed into service as part of the vaccination drive on Sunday morning. “The state was able to achieve the figure of 7 crore doses from 2 crores in 15 weeks,” said Pandey. Additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said the government has formed a Refusal Response team (RRT), which would be counselling people who have showed reluctance to get vaccinated one plea or the other. “A survey has also being carried out to track pregnant women who have also showed their reluctance to get them vaccinated. The government is keeping a special eye on people coming to state for Chhath festival and the vaccination drive will continue with same intensity till all persons have been administered the second dose,” said Amrit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-vaccination-bihar-crosses-7-cr-mark-in-doses-101636303849476.html
07-11-2021||Other||Need to boost income of small farmers: V-P||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said the agriculture sector in India is characterised by small and marginal farmers, and there is a need to increase their income.Addressing the convocation of Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa, at its Piprakothi campus in Motihari in Bihar’s East Champaran district, Naidu said it should be ensured that the sector is given all the support it needs for development and sustenance.“Indian agriculture is characterised by marginal and small farmers with fewer resources. There is a need for increasing the farmers’ income through various sources, including improved resource use efficiency,” Naidu said. The vice president also pitched for greater use of technology in the agriculture sector.Naidu also inaugurated newly built campus of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya College of Horticulture and Forestry and called upon students to work in the larger interest of the nation.He said the country has witnessed degeneration in all walks of life namely politics, legislation, local body institutions owing to the vested interests. Chief minister Nitish Kumar was also present at the function where 738 students (from 27 states) of agriculture and allied subjects were awarded degrees, besides gold medals to seven of them.During his 25-minute speech, the vice president praised farmers for the record production of foodgrains during Covid-19 pandemic. “Our farmers have certainly been the front-line corona warriors. The country owes a lot to them. This is the first time since 2013-14 that agriculture regained this economic prominence,” said Naidu.CM Kumar said his government has favoured the development in agriculture sector, which has resulted in central university status for Rajendra agriculture university and opening of agriculture institutions namely Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour (in 2010), Bihar Animal Sciences University (BASU) in 2016.“After first agriculture road map in 2008, successive road maps in 2012 and 2017, led to significant development in agriculture. While the production of wheat, paddy and maize doubled, fruits and vegetables registered remarkable production,” said chief minister.Recalling his stint as union agriculture minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, Kumar said, “The agriculture policy was introduced for the first time in the country and it opened a new chapter of development in agriculture sector.”Deputy CM Renu Devi, former union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh and Bihar’s agriculture minister Amrendra Pratap Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-to-boost-income-of-small-farmers-vp-101636303789253.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Firefighting system of Kandivli high-rise was not operational; bldg to get notice’||A day after two people died in the blaze that broke out in the ground-plus-15 Hansa Heritage building in Kandivli (West), the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) has claimed that the structure’s internal firefighting system was not operational at the time of the incident. Owing to the absence of the firefighting system, the blaze that broke out in one of the flats on the 14th floor around 8.30pm, spread rapidly to the floor above too. It was doused after more than three hours.The victims have been identified as Ranjanben Parekh, 90, and Nita Parekh, 64, both of whom were occupants of the 14th floor flat. MFB had rescued five of a family from the 14th floor flat, following the blaze.Chief fire officer Hemant Parab said, “A notice will be served to the building for not having an operational firefighting system in place. The system was supplied water from an overhead tank. Due to the gravity, water was supplied to the firefighting system only for the first few minutes. Once the pressure ran out, the firefighting system did not work. The blaze was doused using the fire brigade’s machinery only.” The notice will be served under section 6 of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Act, 2006, which mandates that it the responsibility of the building owner or occupiers to ensure fire safety within the premises.Saturday’s incident comes two weeks after a massive fire was reported on the 19th floor of the 60-storey Avighna Park in south Mumbai’s Currey Road area, in which one person was killed. Authorities have claimed that the firefighting system of Avighna Park, too, was not functional at the time of the incident.Mayor Kishori Pednekar, who had visited the building premises in Kandivli on Saturday, said, “According to the information given to me, the fire started owing to a diya kept in the balcony on the 14th floor.” However, on Sunday the fire brigade said that the cause of the fire will be confirmed after a preliminary inquiry is conducted.“The five residents rescued by the fire brigade are not in a state to talk, as they are in shock. A team of fire officials visited the spot on Sunday to begin with the preliminary inquiries. The [complete] inquiry will be done after recording eyewitness accounts. This may give us an insight on where the fire originated, how it spread, and what was the exact cause,” Parab said.He said that MFB personnel who had entered the two-bedroom flat on the 14th floor saw that the curtains and couch in the living room had caught fire. The five family members of the 14th floor flat had locked themselves in a bedroom and opened a window. When the personnel entered the bedroom, the bed had also caught fire, said Parab. He said, “These five people were rescued from the room. The two elderly women who died were unable to walk owing to their health and thus may not have been able to save themselves.”Local legislator Yogesh Sagar said, “I spoke to the family and was told that both the victims were bedridden.”MFB got 159 calls in 1 weekBetween November 1 and 6, MFB received 65 calls, wherein fires had broken out owing to crackers, information by the fire brigade revealed. On a whole, MFB had received 159 calls between November 1 and November 6. On November 1 and 2, MFB one call each, informing them of fires owing to crackers, and on November 3, they got four such calls. On the day of Diwali on November 4, MFB had received 33 fire calls related to crackers and a total of 62 calls. The following day, they received 19 calls related to firecrackers, and on November 6, MFB got seven such calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/firefighting-system-of-kandivli-high-rise-was-not-operational-bldg-to-get-notice-101636303429279.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Prisoners run riot in Fatehgarh jail, one dead, 30 police personnel injured||A prisoner died and 30 policemen were injured in violence as prisoners took control of the Fatehpur jail in Farrukhabad district of western Uttar Pradesh for several hours on Sunday after the death of a fellow jail inmate due to dengue the previous night, according to officials.The prisoners set the jail hospital on fire and pelted the jail staff and the police with stones, officials said.Additional director general of police (Kanpur zone) Bhanu Bhaskar said the violence would be probed by DIG (headquarters) VP Tripathi.A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into deaths of the two inmates, including that of convict Sandip Yadav, who succumbed to dengue, triggering the violence.Fatehgarh senior superintendent of police Ashok Meena said the inmates resorted to violence and arson unprovoked. The police were identifying the troublemakers and would initiate stern action, he said. Denying any firing inside the jail, he said people, however, heard some loud sounds. One inmate died and 30 policemen were injured, he said.“It is not clear yet how the inmate died, it will be investigated,” he said.District magistrate Sanjay Kumar said an inquiry has been ordered into the incident. The damage to the jail property was being assessed and stern action would be taken against those responsible for the violence, he added.The situation was controlled in time by the police and security has further been beefed up, he said.The authorities suspect the violence was a cover for a jailbreak and inmates tried to bring down the main gate. Certain top criminals lodged in the jail are said to have instigated this violence.Sandip had died in the district hospital on Saturday night. Alleging that he was not treated properly and sent to hospital belatedly, his family created a ruckus in his hometown Saifai in Etawah district of Uttar Pradesh.The news of Sandip’s death angered the inmates inside the jail. As they were asked to come out of their barracks at 7am, the inmates went berserk. They first held a jail warden captive and assaulted him. Eyewitnesses told the authorities that two deputy jailers Ashish Kumar and Shailesh Sonkar, who were trying to pacify the prisoners, were also taken captive and beaten up. Within an hour, the prisoners were in control of the entire jail.As the situation went out of control, the Farrukhabad police were informed around 10am. Three circle officers were sent with heavy police contingent to control the situation. Owing to heavy brick batting from the rooftops, the police teams could not reach the main gates for an hour.The police had to fire teargas shells to make their way into the jail and take strategic positions. The police allegedly resorted to firing and lathi-charge to disperse the inmates, who were unrelenting.One inmate identified as Shivam was allegedly hit by a bullet. He was rushed to Saifai where he was declared dead on arrival.The 30 policemen injured in the violence were admitted in different hospitals.Apart from Sandip’s death, the inmates were said to be angry with the jail administration over other issues. During talks with the officials, they said jail administration did not open barrack doors on Diwali and, as a result, they could not greet one another. Nor were they given quality food, which is provided to them every year during the festival, they claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prisoners-run-riot-in-fatehgarh-jail-one-dead-30-police-personnel-injured-101636303130799.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati hits back at Samajwadi Party, says induction of expelled BSP leaders will weaken it||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Sunday hit back at the Samajwadi Party (SP) after two expelled BSP leaders Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar joined the Akhilesh Yadav-led party at a rally in Uttar Pradesh.The inclusion of expelled leaders of the BSP and other rival parties would not increase the SP’s support base but would weaken it further, Mayawati said in a series of tweets.Several Samajwadi Party leaders aspiring for the party ticket in the coming assembly election were in contact with the BSP leadership after the SP opened its doors for the expelled leaders of other parties, Mayawati claimed.The Samajwadi Party should know that ticket seekers in its own party were now angry after the induction of such selfish leaders eager to defect to other parties, BSP chief Mayawati said. The defectors joining the Samajwadi Party are going to cause a lot of damage to this party from within in the coming assembly election, Mayawati said.Mayawati made it clear that she was not eager to open the BSP’s doors to the defectors from other parties who wished to join the BSP after being denied tickets for the assembly election. Rather, the BSP will give the party ticket to its own leaders instead of defectors, she said.In a separate tweet, Mayawati demanded withdrawal of the Centre’s three new farm laws.For the first time in three years, the Central government has given some relief to the people on Diwali by reducing the excise duty slightly on petrol and diesel, Mayawati noted.Similarly, the central government should withdraw the three agricultural laws, she said.Speaking at the Janadesh rally in Ambedkar Nagar district earlier in the day, both Verma and Rajbhar called upon the people to vote the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) out of power and make Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav the next chief minister by ensuring the SP’s victory in the 2022 assembly election. Verma, who was leader of the BSP legislature party, said the BSP has deviated from ideals of Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram.“I was a founder member of the BSP and worked for 35 years to widen the party’s support,” he said.Ramachal Rajbhar, who was national general secretary of the BSP, alleged that the BSP chief had humiliated him.“Before taking action, she did not hear us. A large number of the BSP leaders and workers are deserting the party to join the SP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-hits-back-at-samajwadi-party-says-induction-of-expelled-bsp-leaders-will-weaken-it-101636303069139.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Mahant Narendra Giri death case: CBI questions 170 people during ongoing probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has questioned about 170 people till now during the ongoing probe into the suspicious death of the then Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri.Those questioned by CBI include people related to Mahant Narendra Giri, his Baghambari Gaddi Math and the suspects, including his disciple Anand Giri, Bade Hanuman temple priest Aadya Tiwari and Aadya’s son Sandeep. CBI officials have also included some other disputes pertaining to Mahant Narendra Giri in the ambit of their investigation as these could be related to his death as well. The probe team recently collected related documents from his lawyer.Officials aware of the developments in the ongoing investigation said CBI officials have also issued notices to 18 people for questioning till now.CBI officials have informed the court that the investigation is in the preliminary stage and all evidence is being examined properly.Mahant Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging in a room at his Math in Prayagraj on September 20. An autopsy was carried out and viscera was preserved and then sent to a forensic science lab (FSL) for examinations. The rope from which his body was found hanging and scissors collected from that room were also sent for detailed examination to FSL. Mahant Narendra Giri’s purported suicide note found in the room is under examination by handwriting experts. CBI is yet to receive the reports of examination of evidence by FSL and handwriting experts. Instead, CBI has collected samples of signatures of Mahant Narendra Giri made in his will and other documents to match it with the signature and the handwriting of Narendra Giri on the purported suicide note. “CBI team is focusing on the suicide angle and is waiting for reports of FSL to reach any concrete conclusion. Moreover, CBI officials have till now grilled persons related to Narendra Giri and the Math along with people close to Anand Giri and other two suspects of the case,” said a senior police official privy to the investigation. The new persons whose names surfaced during the probe were also called for questioning. Some more persons may soon be quizzed too, he added. After the case was referred to CBI, an FIR was lodged by agency officials in Delhi. The case may soon be transferred to the CBI court in Lucknow. Officials said that in such circumstances, Anand Giri, former priest of Bade Hanuman Temple Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep may be shifted from the Naini central jail in Prayagraj to the Lucknow jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mahant-narendra-giri-death-case-cbi-questions-170-people-during-ongoing-probe-101636302949184.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||U-14 tennis tournament : Abhinav, Shaurya enter main draw||Top seed Abhinav Sangra outplayed Abhinav Chaudhary 6-4,4-6,(10-4) in a marathon boys’ U-14 final qualifying round match during the All-India Tennis Association National Ranking Championship at the Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur on Sunday. In other U-14 matches, second seed Shaurya Goyal beat Mohit 6-1,6-3; Harman Singh overpowered Samvir Singh 6-1,7-5; Devvert Singh prevailed over Hardit Singh 6-3,6-1 and third seed Ayaan Chandel got the better of Mayank Bishnoi 6-0, 7-5.ResultsBoys’ Under 14 (final qualifying round): Abhinav Sangra (1) (Ch) bt Abhinav Chaudhary (Pb) 6-4,4-6,(10-4); Shaurya Goyal (Ch) (2) bt Mohit (Hr) 6-1,6-3; Harman Singh (Ch) bt Samvir Singh (Pb) 6-1,7-5; Devvert Singh (Hr) bt Hardit singh (Pb) 6-3,6-1; Ayaan Chandel (3) (Ch) bt Mayank Bishnoi (Hr) 6-0,7-5; Manan Dhir (Pb) bt Prabhroop Singh (Pb) 4-6,6-4,(10-4); Gaurish Madaan (4) (Ch) bt Krishansh Batra(Hr) 6-0,6-0; Love Pahal (Pb) bt S.Bhavesh (Hr) 6-0, 6-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/u14-tennis-tournament-abhinav-shaurya-enter-main-draw-101636302469213.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Bassi: Decade on, Punjab local bodies department scraps waste mgmt project||After a decade, the Punjab local bodies department has scrapped the solid waste management project at Samgoli in Dera Bassi. In December last year, the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) had backed out.A senior officer of the local bodies department, who wished not to be named, said that the local bodies of Mohali district have already constructed waste resource management centres. The wet waste dumped in pits will eventually be organically converted to manure, which can be further sold to increase the income of civic bodies. So, there is no need for a solid waste management plant, he said.He said that now, the state government is looking for the latest technology, through which refuse-derived fuel (RDF) or by-products of waste can be used to make coal to be sold to thermal plants in the state.In March last year, the Punjab government had approved handing over the construction and operations of the ‘waste to energy plant to NTPC. The state government had also given approval to the local bodies department for an MoU between NTPC and the Mohali municipal corporation (MC), being the nodal agency, for the execution of the project. But, the project did not materialise.The project has been hanging fire for the past decade. Mohali MC had prepared the detailed project report (DPR) 11 years back at a cost of ₹100 crore, including the land cost.Currently, Mohali is generating 150 metric tonnes (MT) of garbage in a day. It is being dumped at an unauthorised site in Industrial Area, Phase 8B, and nearby residents and industrialists are already protesting.In August last year, Mohali had slipped to the 157th place out of 382 cities in the nationwide Swachh Survekshan rankings. In 2019, the district’s rank was 153, while in 2018, it was 109. The main reason for Mohali’s worst slip is that the city failed to get garbage processing projects off the ground.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have only constructed the boundary wall of the plant and the state government has to take a final decision on the project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-bassi-decade-on-punjab-local-bodies-department-scraps-waste-mgmt-project-101636302053391.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP setting communal narrative: Congress minority dept chairman||Imran Partapgarhi, chairman of the minority wing of All Indian Congress Committee (AICC), on Sunday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party, stating that it was trying to set a communal narrative. Partapgarhi, who was addressing a public meeting at Manimajra, called upon the people of Chandigarh to defeat the BJP in the municipal corporation elections scheduled next month.Pawan Kumar Bansal, former Union minister and treasurer of AICC, also addressed the gathering. He said the BJP has no economic policy and people of the country are suffering because of its faulty policies. Subhash Chawla, city Congress chief, said that the BJP-led MC has emptied the coffers of the civic body and backtracked on all its promises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-setting-communal-narrative-congress-minority-dept-chairman-101636301874448.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Protesting farmers stop screening of Suryavanshi for 2nd day in a row||Farmers continued their protest outside Dhillon Plaza and Cosmo Plaza in Zirakpur on Sunday stop the screening of Akshay Kumar starrer Suryavanshi. The farmers had also protested on Saturday and warned the owners of the theatres not to screen the movie and they had also got assurance from the SHO regarding the same. On Sunday morning, the theatre owners started taking online bookings again for their first show at 11.30am, following which farmers reached the spot and blocked the road and got the show cancelled. The farmers alleged that the film Suryavanshi favours Prime Minister Narendra Modi and is praising his deeds. They said that Modi is against farmers and the agriculture bills will ruin the future of the farmers and Akshay Kumar has become a puppet at his hands, because of which they are opposing the screening of the film. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) Mohali vice-president Kirpal Singh Siau said, “Narendra Modi has planned to ruin the future of the farmers and film actors like Akshay Kumar are blindly following his footsteps. We will not allow his films to ruin in Punjab.” In August this year, the farmers had stopped the screening of Akshay starrer Bell Bottom as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-protesting-farmers-stop-screening-of-suryavanshi-for-2nd-day-in-a-row-101636301571371.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||PEC to prepare report to improve NIRF ranking||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) will prepare a report on actionable points to improve the performance of the institute in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF).The decision was taken in the last meeting of the PEC senate, where the members deliberated on the dipping ranking of institute. After that, the senate requested a faculty member to make a comprehensive report on actionable points to improving the institute’s ranking.The points will be both short and long term and the report will be presented in the next senate meeting. “Our team is working on it and the report will be presented once it is prepared,” said PEC director Baldev Setia.The matter was also discussed during a meeting of PECs board of governors (BoG) in September and it was suggested that the NIRF data may be collected from top 10 institutions and comparison be made accordingly.How PEC has fared so farIn this year’s Union education ministry’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), PEC settled at the 70th position against 68th in 2020 among the engineering institutes of the country. In 2019, PEC’s rank was 78 and it was ranked 73 in 2018. In the first ever NIRF rankings released in 2016, PEC ranked 38 with 61.32 score. After that, the institute never made it to the top 50 engineering institutes again.Also, during the last senate meeting, a committee was also constituted to analyse the reasons for the low intake in PG programmes. The panel has been tasked with suggesting remedial measures.PEC to complete 100 years on Nov 9Meanwhile, the institute will complete 100 years of its existence on Tuesday. The institution is likely to announce plans for the yearlong celebration on Monday. Setia, who joined the institute few months back, may also share his vision for the institute, recent rankings of the institute and will also make formal announcements of the chief guest and dignitaries expected to attend the centenary year celebrations, as well as a summary of the events scheduled for the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pec-to-prepare-report-to-improve-nirf-ranking-101636301390606.html
07-11-2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh adds 7 new Covid-19 cases; active cases at 100||The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 7,92,907 on Sunday with the addition of seven cases, while the total death toll remained unchanged at 10,524, an official said. The recovery count stood at 7,82,283, with 13 people being discharged during the day, leaving Madhya Pradesh with 100 active cases, he said. With 34,362 samples being examined during the day, the number of tests in MP went up to 2,05,92,458, the official added. An official release said 7,15,78,267 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in MP so far, including 59,680 on Sunday. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 7,92,907, new cases 06, death toll 10,524, recovered 7,82,283, active cases 100, number of tests so far 2,05,92,458.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/madhya-pradesh-adds-7-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-at-100-101636299998735.html
07-11-2021||Other||No arrests in 5 years in 2 UAPA cases in Tripura||Tripura registered two cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 in past five years since 2016 till 2020, a report from National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) said. Both cases were registered in 2020, but no arrests have been made. However, on Saturday, Tripura police booked 102 social media account holders under one UAPA case for posting alleged distorted news regarding communal violence in the state and also served notices to social media companies, Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to block these 102 profiles on these platforms. The move came after the state police booked four Delhi-based advocates, under the UAPA and some other charges of the Indian Penal Code, who visited the state as part of an independent fact-finding team. Of the total 102 account holders, 68 are on Twitter followed by 32 Facebook accounts and 2 on YouTube, according to the police.A senior police official said that a one-to-one correlation with the briefing of these Delhi-based lawyers and the communal propaganda on social media was observed. “We registered a master case under the UAPA and some other sections of Indian Penal Code in this regard and served notices separately to the lawyers and the 102 social media account holders,” said the official on the condition of anonymity. Reacting to the move, the Editors Guild of India demanded the Tripura government to conduct a fair investigation into the matter and also reiterated their earlier plea to the Supreme Court to take cognizance of the matter alleging unjustified use of laws against freedom of speech and to issue guidelines on charging media persons under them, to ensure that these laws don’t become an easy tool to suppress the freedom of press. “The Editors Guild of India is deeply shocked by the Tripura Police’s action of booking 102 people, including journalists, under the coercive Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, for reporting and writing on the recent communal violence in the state,” they tweeted.In a press statement released on Sunday, they said, “The Guild is of the opinion that this is an attempt by the state government to deflect attention away from its own failure to control majoritarian violence, as well as to take action against the perpetrators of this. Governments cannot use stringent laws like UAPA to suppress reporting on such incidents.”They also cited one of the journalists, Shyam Meera Singh, who alleged to have been booked under UAPA for his three-word tweet ‘Tripura is burning.”On the issue, Information and Cultural Affairs Minister Sushanta Chowdhury said, “A section of outsiders attempted to bring a particular religion throughout the country and unite them against the Narendra Modi government. Our government is very much serious about law and we will not allow any communal disturbance here. Peace and communal harmony prevail in the BJP regime.”CPM veteran leader and former deputy speaker of Assembly termed it as an interference of the government and said, “Controversial posts on social media that can ignite communal tension are not encouraged. The concerned social media platforms can alert them, but how come government asks to block social media accounts.”It started since the state witnessed the vandalism of a mosque and a few houses and shops at Panisagar sub-division of North District on October 26. Pictures and videos of the burning mosque were circulated on social media that was refuted by the police claiming that no mosque was burnt in the state and those pictures were not from Tripura.Police also denied the news of vandalism of a mosque at Kakraban in Gomati district saying that the mosque is fine and it was a misrepresentation of facts.The police earlier said that they had booked 71 persons for allegedly spreading rumours on communal violence incidents in the state on social media.The High Court also sought a report on the incident that happened at Panisagar by November 10. Later, the National Human Rights Commission also sought an action-taking report from the state regarding the violence following a complaint filed by All India Trinamool Congress national spokesperson Saket Gokhale. According to the NCRB data, from 2016 to 2020, Manipur registered 1,421 cases under the UAPA - the highest among the northeastern states. Assam was in the second spot with 820 cases followed by 36 cases in Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland each, 17 cases in Meghalaya, 2 in Tripura and only one in Mizoram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-arrests-in-5-years-in-2-uapa-cases-in-tripura-101636300730050.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Kairana exodus: UP CM to meet a group of people who have returned||Samajwadi Party (SP) has termed chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s proposed meeting with a group of people, who had left Kairana town in 2016 and later came back, during his visit to Shamli district on Monday “an attempt to communalise atmosphere in western UP ahead of 2022 assembly elections”. As per the CM’s schedule received at Shamli district headquarters, Yogi will on Monday lay the foundation stones of a PAC battalion camp and other projects in Kairana besides meeting a group of people who had left the town in 2016 and later came back. The CM will also address a public meeting in Kairana. Shamli superintendent of police Sukirti Madhav Mishra confirmed the schedule and the CM’s proposed meeting with a group of people who had left the town in 2016 but returned thereafter. However, the exact number of people meeting the CM is yet not clear. Alleging that the government did nothing for the development of Kairana, SP leader Sudhir Pawar, who belongs to Shamli district, said, “They are now playing the exodus card again to polarise voters on the basis of religion to get political mileage.” Pawar claimed that the then BJP MP Hukum Singh had raised the issue of exodus but he had later admitted that it was not associated with Hindu and Muslims.The then minister of state for home Hansraj Aheer had said in Parliament that no such issue existed in western UP, the SP leader further claimed. He said that during his recent visit to Kairana, SP president Akhilesh Yadav announced to set up a university for girls and an industrial zone there. “Instead of talking about issues of real development, they are raising an issue which never existed,” Pawar alleged.The then BJP MP Hukum Singh had in June 2016 claimed that close to 350 Hindus had left Kairana over alleged threats and extortion by criminal elements belonging to a particular community. Later, Kairan police had claimed that a spot verification of 150 addresses of the list revealed several reasons for the migration, including better business and job prospects.The then ruling Samajwadi Party had sent a delegation under Congress leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam to verify the charges. Later, the Bharatiya Janata Party had also sent a delegation of their MPs and leaders to enquire about the issue.Speaking over the phone, Congress leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam said, “People had least grievances against one other. They wanted stern action against criminals.” Krishnam also expressed his dismay that the ruling SP didn’t initiate any action on the recommendations of their report.The traders’ community of Kairana too had then claimed that reign of terror unleashed by dreaded criminal Mukim Kala and his gang was one of the major reasons for many traders shifting their base. Kala struck terror in Kairana by killing two businessmen in August 2014 after they refused to pay him extortion. Earlier, one more businessman was allegedly shot dead by members of Furkan gang in broad daylight. Later, Kala was arrested and lodged in Chitrakoot jail where he was allegedly shot dead by another inmate when a gang war broke out inside the jail in May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kairana-exodus-up-cm-to-meet-a-group-of-people-who-have-returned-101636300248868.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Helping poor farmers grow vegetables in parts of Lucknow||The Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) Is helping poor farmers, who lack resources, grow vegetables by providing them seedlings. “Approximately 2.5 lakh winter vegetable seedlings are being distributed to 1,000 poor farmers of Mall and Kakori blocks of Lucknow districts to help them achieve nutritional security by growing their own vegetables,” said CISH director Shailendra Rajan.He said seedlings were being made available to them in their villages so that they could grow and understand the importance of nutri gardens. “On the basis of last year’s experiences, it can be expected that these farmers would produce vegetables worth ₹30 lakh. They are selling their extra produce in rural markets which provides them with a steady source of income,” Rajan said.“In the past, nearly 30,000 broccoli seedlings were made available to farmers. These farmers are now interested in cultivating it due to its prevailing higher market price,” he added. “Because of its nutritional value and high concentration of bioactive compounds, broccoli is in high demand in Lucknow. It has also become common in villages,” Ranjan said.“Presently farmers are not getting good returns from cauliflower and cabbage production during the peak season,” Rajan added. While providing inputs like grafted plants and plantlets to farmers as part of the “Amrit Bharat Mahotsav” programme recently, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) also raised awareness about food and nutrition for farmers among them.In keeping with the theme, farmers and other participants learned about the health benefits of eating a wide variety of fruits and vegetables. His said fruits like mango, guava and others, which are sources of bioactive substances like flavonoids, polyphenolic acids and vitamins, lower the risk of diabetes, cancer and heart diseases.For farmers in poor villages, ICAR-CISH is making efforts to supply high quality planting materials for various fruit and vegetable crops as well as assist them in implementing best management practices for higher yields, better product quality, and higher profits.“Some of the most successful strategies include meetings between scientists and farmers, exposure visits, supply of critical inputs and sustained farmer encouragement with an emphasis on the youth and women,” Rajan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/helping-poor-farmers-grow-vegetables-in-parts-of-lucknow-101636299528722.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Cold, cough cases rising in Prayagraj due to weather change||There has been an increase in cases of cold, cough, flu and sore throat besides pneumonia among people, especially children, in the Sangam city as the winter chill has started making its presence felt with early morning fog and cold winds during nights.Temperature, as recorded by the meteorological department on Friday, was 31.3 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was 15.3 degrees Celsius. On Saturday, the temperature was 30 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature was 14.4 degrees Celsius.“The sharp change in temperature as recorded in the city, or for that matter in the entire northern plains, is the phenomenon which would continue for this entire month as the difference in daily temperature would keep on decreasing till the time winter fully sets in”, said AU’s head of geography department prof AR Siddiqui.Several hospitals are witnessing heavy rush and a sudden spurt in number of OPD patients mainly those suffering from viral fever, asthma or its related symptoms. “As there has been a high fluctuation in the day and night temperatures these past few days, it provides an ideal environment for the growth and spread of viruses and bacteria, which is the common cause for various ailments”, said Dr Neelam Shukla, a medico based in Dhumanganj locality.Dr Kamal Kumar, a senior local physician, said, “This lack of sunlight weakens our body’s immune system thereby making it a suitable environment for the viruses to survive in the body much longer than they can during summer”.“Most people, including children of all ages, suffer with several winter ailments like the cold, cough, congestion, flu and sore throat,” said Dr SAM Meesum, another Sangam city doctor. “The cold winter also brings with it different kinds of allergies and a problem of dry and itchy skin and people suffering from asthma may find their symptoms getting aggravated,” he added. “As the temperatures fluctuate, make sure that your kid is kept warm at night,” suggests the expert.Supplementing our food with lots of vitamins, minerals and antioxidants that are vital to boost the body defence mechanism in order to fight the viruses and bacteria, Vitamin “C” in particular, is also advisable, said Dr RP Singh, in-charge, ESI Hospital-Naini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cold-cough-cases-rising-in-prayagraj-due-to-weather-change-101636298328854.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Cruise ship drug bust case: SIT from Delhi NCB summon Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant, others||After taking over the six cases being investigated by the Mumbai Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the special investigation team (SIT) of the Delhi NCB has started probing the cruise drug raid case and has summoned actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and alleged drug peddler Achit Kumar and several others connected to the case. Arbaaz Merchant and Achit Kumar reached the NCB office in south Mumbai on Sunday, and the agency has been recording their statement. The SIT headed by IPS Sanjay Singh said, “We have summoned several people including accused and witnesses connected to the case and we are examining them.” Arbaaz Merchant’s father advocate Aslam Merchant said, “We received the summons on Sunday, the date of issue was mentioned Saturday, hence after getting it we came to the NCB office. We do not have any issues and we are cooperating in the investigation. Good for us that the facts will come out. As per law, the NCB can call any suspects for investigation if they are required to verify certain facts and to maintain transparency in the case.” An NCB source said, “Summons have been sent to Aryan Khan and we will record his statement in the coming days.” Aryan, Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were detained by the NCB on October 2 after a drug raid on a cruise ship. After questioning several hours, the three were arrested on October 3. Khan and Merchant were sent to judicial custody at Arthur Road Jail on October 7, while Dhamecha was sent to Byculla Women’s Jail. They got bail from Bombay high court on October 28 and Khan was released from jail on October 30, while Merchant and Dhamecha on October 31. The SIT also visited the cruise ship to verify the facts on Saturday evening. The agency recorded the statement of CISF officials as well as staff members of the cruise ship presented during the raid on October 3. Zonal director Sameer Wankhede was with the team while visiting the cruise ship. “The captain of the cruise ship, nine independent witnesses including Prabhakar Sail as well as other people connected in the case will also be examined,” said Singh. The SIT was formed on November 5 and NCB chief SN Pradhan issued an order transferring the six cases from NCB’s Mumbai zonal unit to the operations branch from its headquarters to conduct a deeper investigation. The SIT team reached Mumbai on Saturday to take over the probe into six cases, which included the drugs-on-cruise case, in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan was arrested by Wankhede. Singh said SIT will take the help of Wankhede who was supervising the case earlier. The other cases also include the drugs case against Sameer Khan, son-in-law of Maharashtra cabinet minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik. Khan was arrested by NCB in the first week of January 2021 and was released on bail on September 28. The SIT will also probe the case involving actor Armaan Kohli. An NCB team led by Wankhede had raided Kohli’s Juhu residence on August 28 and recovered a small quantity of cocaine. Kohli was arrested on August 29. The fourth case to be probed by the SIT was registered by the agency’s Mumbai zonal unit on July 25 when it arrested three persons – Sameer Mukhtar Sayyed alias Sam Langda, Zakir Sayyed alias Zakir Takla alias Zakir Chikna and Mohammad Amed Shamsuddin Shaikh and allegedly seized 1.2kg of charas, an intermediate quantity of mephedrone along with ₹17.5 lakh in cash from them. NCB claimed that Sameer Merchant alias Sam Langda was a notorious, organised drug mafia member. The fifth case on the list was registered in September when NCB recovered an intermediate quantity of mephedrone, whereas the sixth case related to the recovery of mephedrone from the Dongri area in south Mumbai. Pooja Dadlani summonedMumbai Police’s special investigation team (SIT) formed to inquire into the extortion allegations levelled by witness Prabhakar Sail against NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede and controversial witness Kiran Gosavi, has summoned Pooja Dadlani, Shah Rukh Khan’s manager, on Monday. It is alleged that Gosavi had taken ₹50 lakh from Dadlani on October 3 to save Aryan Khan from the matter. After recording the statement of Dadlani, the SIT will try to establish the exact sequence of events and corroborate allegations made by Sail in his statement. Sail in his affidavit had claimed that he overheard Gosavi and D’Souza talking about a ₹25 crore bribe to save Aryan Khan and he also heard them talking that ₹8 crore would go to NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Wankhede earlier had termed all these allegations as baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-ship-drug-bust-case-sit-from-delhi-ncb-summon-aryan-khan-arbaaz-merchant-others-101636295451960.html
07-11-2021||Bangalore||Cong to organise 'Padayatra' for implementation of Mekedatu project in K'taka||The Congress in Karnataka on Sunday decided to organise a 'Padayatra' (march) from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, covering a distance of over 100 km, probably during the first week of December, demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project across river Cauvery.The principal opposition party in the state also asserted that Karnataka has every right to go ahead with the project as there are no legal impediments, while accusing Tamil Nadu of 'playing politics' by unnecessarily opposing it and creating issues."During the Congress and coalition government time, we had sent our plan of action and DPR to the Centre (on Mekedatu project) and it was accepted. We can today start the work, there is no impediments from the Supreme Court, what we need is environment clearance from the Centre," Shivakumar, who had earlier held the water resources portfolio, said.Speaking to reporters after a meeting of senior party leaders here, he pointed out that state's money, land and water will be utilised for the project, and Karnataka does not require any other permission for its implementation, as he alleged that Chief Minister Basavarj Bommai seems to be under some "political pressure" and "lacks political will" to go ahead with it."Implementation of the Mekedatu project is a necessity... so agitation is inevitable to demand it. So the Congress party has decided to organise a 'padayatra' (march) from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, probably in December first week, covering a distance of over 100 km, to put pressure on the central and the state governments to implement it," he said adding that exact date and route map will be decided and made known.Mekedatu is a multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district of Karnataka.The project once completed is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighboring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power, and the estimated cost of the project is ₹9,000 crore.Claiming that the implementation of the Mekedatu project will in no way affect Tamil Nadu and the state was unnecessarily creating issues, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said as a matter of fact, the balancing reservoir will benefit both states, and will help in releasing the water stored, during the distress year.Further accusing Tamil Nadu of 'creating issues' with regards to the project for the sake of politics, he said, "the project will be taken up within Karnataka's territory and has nothing to do with Tamil Nadu, and their (TN) right is on the quantum of water mentioned in the tribunal order." Karnataka has all the rights to implement the project, as it is to store and utilise excess water going into the sea, which will be shared with Tamil Nadu during distress times. The former CM said, "the central government should immediately grant environmental clearance. There is no impediment at all to take up the project and the state government should immediately take it up." In response to a question, he also made it clear that the 'Padayatre' organised by Congress has nothing to do with politics or upcoming 2023 assembly polls.Earlier, Karnataka Chief Minister Basvaraj Bommai had asserted that there is no "compromise" on the Mekedatu project and the state government will go ahead with its implementation, once it gets necessary approvals from the centre.He had also accused the neighbouring state of opposing it for the sake of politics.Giving further details on the meeting with Congress leader, Shivakumar said that a membership drive will be launched in Karnataka from November 14, during which, existing members will have to renew their membership and those seeking new membership should fill a form after paying ₹5.Also those wanting to become active members with voting rights, can take it by following prescribed fees and procedures.The KPCC chief said, the party also plans to organise a public awareness campaign regarding the economic situation in the country and the state, distress faced by several sections of the society, at all panchayat and assembly constituency level, as per the directions of the party's central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cong-to-organise-padayatra-for-implementation-of-mekedatu-project-in-ktaka-101636294670186.html
07-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 200 new Covid cases, 7 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: As of Sunday, Pune district has reported 200 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,971 deaths and 3,047 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 4,000 vaccinations on the day as 4,811 vaccinations were registered on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Sunday and in total 12,165,454. Of which 7,859,700 are first doses and 4,305,754 are second doses. A total of 182 sites saw vaccination of which 108 were government centres and 74 were private. The state reported a total of 1,063 patients discharged on Sunday taking the total count to 6,459,108 Covid patients discharged after full recovery until Sunday in Maharashtra. The recovery rate in the state is 97.6%. Also, 892 new cases and 16 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Sunday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. Out of 63,240,769 laboratory samples 6,617,654 have been tested positive (10.46%) for Covid until Sunday. Currently, 148,743 people are in home quarantine and 968 people are in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-200-new-covid-cases-7-deaths-in-24-hours-101636294848197.html
07-11-2021||Pune||UK's Wellington college to open its first school in Pune: Report||The UK's Wellington College International will open its first school in Pune, according to officials. The college had last month announced its partnership with India's Unison Group to open premium schools in India."The long-term strategy is to open a group of schools across India. The first school will open in Pune (opening 2023) and a second to be confirmed soon. We are looking to grow the number of schools, but at a pace where we can ensure the quality and exclusivity (rather than quantity) of provision," said Anuj Aggarwal, co-founder, Unison Education Foundation."Wellington College International Pune will provide an alternative to the current schools in Pune. Wellington's focus will be on delivering all-round excellence," Aggarwal said.Wellington College International (WCI) Pune will be a coeducational day and boarding school for ages 2-18 years with a student strength of around 800.WCI is a leading international schools’ group. It is a subsidiary of the Wellington College, founded under the British Royal Charter in 1853, and a leading UK day and boarding school.There are currently six schools in the WCI family of schools with two partners in China and Thailand serving over 5,000 students.The Unison Group provides education in India with four educational institutions in Dehradun and Delhi NCR, including Unison World School, one of India's leading girls boarding schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/uks-wellington-college-to-open-its-first-school-in-pune-report-101636293705135.html
07-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram Namaz row: Religious events should be held inside places of worship, says Haryana home minister Anil Vij||Days after attempts were made to disrupt Friday Namaz in Haryana's Gurugram on October 29, state home minister Anil Vij said on Sunday that people should hold their religious events inside the respective places of worship.Thirty-five people, associated with different Hindu groups, were briefly detained by the police for allegedly gathering to disrupt Namaz in sector 12 in Gurugram on October 29. They were seen raising religious slogans and appealed to the district administration to take action against anyone offering prayers in the open.Speaking to reporters in Ambala on Sunday, Anil Vij said, “Everyone has their religious events. They should be held in their respective places of worship." Vij added that such events should not take place on the streets without the permission of the administration.The Haryana home minister's remarks came two days after members of Hindu groups organised a Govardhan Puja in sector 12 on Friday, where Muslims used to offer Namaz every week.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra, who was a part of Friday's Puja, objected to anyone occupying a public place to offer prayers."If people from different religions, faiths and sects keep occupying open public spaces on one day every week, it will result in blockade of all the roads and parks," Mishra was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He added that blocking roads is not part of any religion and people have the first right to roads.In 2018, thirty-seven sites in Gurgram were designated by the administration to offer Friday Namaz, leading to protests from Hindu groups. Few months back, a group started protesting against offering of prayers in the open, following which there have been demonstrations since October, according to PTI.The Muslim community, said on Friday that it has decided to not offer prayers at the sector-12 site due to objections raised by the residents along with the recent protests held, Hindustan Times reported. To resolve the problem, a delegation of the Muslim community said that it has agreed to take up spaces on rent and urged for help from the district authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-row-religious-events-should-be-held-inside-places-of-worship-says-vij-101636290090660.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Central agencies and prisons in the country have been privatised: Shiv Sena||In the backdrop of the recent arrest of former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and the action by the central agencies against leaders from the ruling parties in Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena has taken potshots at the Central government and stated that the central agencies and prisons in the country have been “privatised” as the opponents are being imprisoned on “trumped up charges”.Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column ‘Rokthok’ in party mouthpiece Saamana, taunted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and stated that everyday, instead of taking up some major issues that the nation is facing, it just talks of putting its opponents in prison. He said that the central agencies are being “effectively misused” to hassle the opponents. Raut assailed that BJP was displaying a “sick mentality” as it stood behind the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) which arrested actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan and his friends despite the fact that he did not possess any drugs. It also accused BJP of supporting the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for arresting Deshmukh without any concrete proof. “The [Narendra] Modi government is anyway on a privatisation spree and the way central agencies such as ED, NCB and CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) are working, it appears that even they have now been privatised. BJP claims everyday that it will send its opponents to prison. This raises the question on whether even prisons have become privatised? We have to bear [this] till 2024, as our country seems to be becoming like a prison,” he added. Raut said that it looks like the central agencies, particularly NCB, is all set to destabilise the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) by putting the opponents in dock and cobbling up a majority for BJP.He has called Deshmukh’s arrest by ED as illegal. “A person who is accused of extortion, murder and corruption [former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh] levelled baseless charges against Deshmukh. Despite Singh claiming that he has no proof against Deshmukh, ED still arrested the leader, solely owing to BJP’s pressure,” said Raut.Raut also said that despite the reduction in the excise duty on fuel, their prices continue to remain high, above ₹100 per litre. The Central government had last week announced reduction of excise duty on auto fuel, which was expected to bring down the prices that have now breached the ₹100-mark. However, Raut claimed that the prices were slashed after the drubbing BJP received in the recent bypolls. “BJP has been praising Modi for cutting the duty on auto fuel but the fact remains that the prices are still high and are not coming below ₹100 per litre. It is good that Modi spent the first day of Diwali with the soldiers at the border. But he should have spent the second day with the poor, who are in a sorry state owing to the price rise, and understand their difficulties on how they are coping up,” said Raut.Responding to Raut’s allegations, BJP said the Shiv Sena’s only job was to target BJP instead of governing Maharashtra. “The Central government has cut the excise duty on fuel, but the state has not cut its value added tax (VAT), which many BJP-ruled states did. This would have given relief to the citizens but the state government did not do so,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam. He also justified Deshmukh’s arrest. “The Shiv Sena has not studied Deshmukh’s case, as he is accused for money laundering. Singh’s allegations are just one aspect, as the former minister formed web of companies to launder money, and he has been arrested for that crime,” defended Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-agencies-and-prisons-in-the-country-have-been-privatised-shiv-sena-101636292267813.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede’s father files ₹1.25 crore defamation suit against Nawab Malik||The Bombay high court (HC) permitted Dnyandev Wankhede, father of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, to file a ₹1.25 crore defamation suit against Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik for posting what he termed as “derogatory comments on social media against my son and family.” On Friday, Wankhede’s lawyers Arshad Shaikh, Ranjit Agase, Krishnan Iyer and Saurabh Tamhankar informed the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla that their client needed an urgent hearing on the issue and sought permission for the suit to be filed. The court permitted it and posted hearing to Monday, November 8. Apart from seeking damages of ₹1.25 crore, the suit also seeks deletion of articles and interviews on electronic and digital platforms by Malik, his party members and aides. The suit has also sought a permanent injunction against them from posting any comments through social media and messaging platforms as well as a temporary injunction against issuing statements and press releases containing any defamatory content against the Wankhede family. In response, Malik said (Sameer) Wankhede or his relatives “have the right to move court against me.” He said, “I will face it in court. (Sameer) Wankhede had moved court for a gag order against me earlier, too, but did not succeed. He claimed that he demanded an SIT (Special Investigation Team) in the case, but fact is that he demanded a probe by CBI or NIA. Wankhede has been misguiding people, but truth will prevail.” The suit states that Malik’s comments, statements and allegations levelled against Sameer Wankhede and his family was prompted by the fact that his son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB in January 2021 for allegedly trading in contraband material. Dnyandev’s suit claims that oral or written interviews and statements by Malik and his family members are tortious (wrongful or bringing harm to someone) and defamatory, and that the defendants have “caused irreparable loss, damage, harm, prejudice to the name, character, reputation and societal image of plaintiff and his family members.” While justifying the need for the suit, Dnyandev’s lawyers stressed that Malik had been questioning the religious beliefs of the Wankhedes, though they were Hindus, and by calling them frauds, Malik was maligning the family’s image. This insinuation by Malik, the suit says, was also affecting the legal practice of his daughter Yasmeen who takes up criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-s-father-files-1-25-crore-defamation-suit-against-nawab-malik-101636291727641.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man held with 500 gm opium||The anti-narcotics cell of Ludhiana police commissionerate arrested an “illegal” lottery trader with 500 gm opium from his possession. Identified as Harsh Verma, 28, of Mahavir Colony of Bhamian Khurd, police say he is himself an addict. He was nabbed from Bhamian Khurd following a tip-off.Inspector Rajesh Sharma, in-charge, anti-narcotics cell, said that the accused used to get the opium from Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh, for ₹1.10 lakh per kg and sell it among addicts for ₹1.60 lakh per kg.The inspector added that the accused earlier used to run an illegal lottery trade but after he was caught, he took to drug peddling.He had been caught with drugs in February 2020 as well. The Special task Force (STF) had found 710 gm heroin in his possession. After coming out on bail, he again got back to drug peddling. He is also facing trial in two cases of gambling.The inspector further added that a case under Sections 18B, 61 and 85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been lodged against the accused at Jamalpur police station. The accused was produced before the court on Sunday and sent to one-day police custody for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-with-500-gm-opium-101636290527830.html
07-11-2021||Kolkata||'Not voluntarily leaving BJP, will be party’s conscience-keeper’, says Tathagata Roy||Amid the ongoing feud with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s national vice-president Dilip Ghosh, former Meghalaya governor and party leader Tathagata Roy on Sunday confirmed that he was not mulling quitting the party voluntarily. He intends to remain as the party’s “conscience-keeper” and said he would have revealed many more “secrets” if he was quitting the party, in what appeared to be a tongue-in-cheek remark.Taking to Twitter, Roy said, “I have been deluged with phone calls since yesterday. Let me assure you that I am not leaving the party voluntarily. I am currently an ordinary member. In this situation, I will continue to play the role of the conscience-keeper of the party. If I were to leave the party, I would have leaked all the secrets, but it is not happening now,” he further said in a tweet in Bengali.গতকাল থেকে ফোনে ফোনে জর্জরিত হয়ে গেলাম। সকলকে আশ্বস্ত করছি এই বলে, যে আমি স্বেচ্ছায় দল ছাড়ছি না। আমি আপাতত এখন সাধারণ সদস্য। এই অবস্থাতেই যাত্রার বিবেকের ভূমিকা পালন করে যাব। দল ছাড়তে পারলে সব গুপ্তকথাই ফাঁস করতে পারতাম কিন্তু এখনই তা হচ্ছে না।The feud between Roy and Bengal BJP’s leadership goes back to the recently concluded state assembly elections in May 2021, in which the party had bitterly lost a high-stakes battle to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress. Roy had particularly criticised, and often in public forums such as Twitter, the leadership of Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh, Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash, BJP’s senior leaders in the state.Notably, last month, Roy had said he was “ashamed of some top-level leaders like Vijayvargiya as, ahead of the Bengal assembly polls, they were swayed by the glamour factor while inducting people into the BJP and did not take experience and chances of winning into consideration,” according to a report by news agency PTI.Also read | ‘Why is he not quitting party?’ Dilip Ghosh’s jibe at Tathagata RoyThe comments came a day after Ghosh had responded to Roy’s frequent criticisms about the BJP’s Bengal unit’s leadership and wondered why he had not quit the party if he was so upset. “If you are so upset and ashamed of all that is happening within the party, why don't you just leave?” PTI quoted Ghosh as saying earlier on Saturday. “You (Tathagata) did nothing for the party in recent times. But the party did everything for people like you,” he further said.Meanwhile, current Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumder had stayed away from the altercation. On Saturday, when asked about the issue, he had refrained from commenting and only remarked that it was the “prerogative of the central leadership,” to act on Roy’s comments. Majumder was made president of the party’s state unit after Ghosh was elevated to the national role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/not-voluntarily-leaving-bjp-will-be-party-s-conscience-keeper-says-tathagata-roy-101636289685683.html
07-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP demands reduction in VAT on petrol, diesel||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan is facing pressure from all corners to reduce value-added tax (VAT) from petrol and diesel. Despite the reduction in excise duty by the Central government, Rajasthan still is on top when it comes to the rate of petrol and diesel. In Jaipur, the price of per litre petrol is ₹111.10 and that of diesel is ₹95.71. The state government has been suggesting the Centre reduces excise duty on fuel due to which the VAT collection of the states will automatically reduce. The Centre on Wednesday slashed the excise duties on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 per litre respectively. “The reduction of excise duty on diesel-petrol by the Narendra Modi government has brought relief to the common man and traders but what Ashok Gehlot is saying is surprising that he has included VAT in the excise duty which is cheating with the public,” said Satish Poonia, state BJP chief. Poonia demanded to reduce VAT on diesel and petrol to provide relief to people. Rajasthan has levied the highest VAT on fuel in the country. Supporting the demand of the opposition, the petrol pump dealers too are asking the state government to lower the VAT at par with other neighbouring states. President, Rajasthan Petrol Pump and Dealer association, Sunnet Bagai, said, during the previous (BJP) government, the VAT on diesel was 16% and 26% on petrol, which, in the last two years, has been increased to 26% and 36% respectively. “The VAT percentage does not reduce with slashing of excise duty. Rajasthan government should reduce the VAT on diesel to 16% and 26% on petrol – at par with the neighbouring states. We are paying the highest price of petro-diesel in the country,” he said. “The dealers and public are demanding a reduction in VAT as we are losing our revenue,” Bagai said. Amid a demand to reduce VAT, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has suggested the centre to further reduce excise duty on fuel due to which the VAT collection of the states will automatically reduce. “We have been continuously urging the central government to control and reduce the prices of petrol/diesel. Now, with the centre’s decision on November 4 to reduce the excise duty, the state’s VAT has also automatically been reduced by ₹1.8 per litre on petrol and ₹2.6 per litre on diesel which has caused an annual loss of ₹1,800 crore in revenue collection of the state,” said Gehlot. He urged the GoI to restrict the oil companies from curbing the daily increase in the prices of petrol/diesel prices. else after Diwali or assembly elections of five states, the oil companies will increase the price and make the benefit of the relief given by the central and state government to zero. Gehlot said that the central government has already reduced the share that all the state governments used to get from excise duty. He added, due to the situation of Covid-19, there has been a huge decline in the revenue of the states. “About ₹5,963 crores of GST compensation of Rajasthan is yet to be paid by the central government,” he said. He said that the state governments levy VAT on the revenue collected by the central government in the form of additional excise duty, special excise duty, and CESS from petrol, diesel, and gas. “In view of inflation, the central government should make further reduction due to which the VAT collection of the states will automatically reduce in the same proportion,” he suggested. As with the announcement of reducing the price of petrol by ₹5 and diesel by ₹10, the revenue of the state of Rajasthan will be reduced by ₹1800 crore. During this year’s budget, due to the reduction of VAT by 2% by the state government, there has been a revenue loss of ₹1000 crores - thus the total revenue of ₹2800 crore will reduce, said Gehlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bjp-demands-reduction-in-vat-on-petrol-diesel-101636289268713.html
07-11-2021||Gurugram||India's longest drone flight conducted in Haryana for HPCL, claims robotics firm||A robotics and drone company has claimed that it has conducted the longest drone flight of 51 km in India to survey the pipeline of the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) in Haryana.Omnipresent Robot Technologies Founder and CEO Aakash Sinha told PTI that the 51 km-long flight of Omni-Hansa V5 took place on November 3. "I believe the previous longest drone flight in India was of 42 km," he said.The entire flight -- from take off to landing -- was fully autonomous, which means it was on auto-pilot, he said."We had a tracker mechanism on the drone. We could track it over our 4G network with our tracker," he noted.HPCL wants Omnipresent to extend the range of Omni Hansa V5 to 100-200 km, he said.Omni Hansa V5 can take off and land like a helicopter so it does not need a runway. However, once it is in air, it flies like a plane, Sinha stated.This drone is called hybrid fixed-wing VTOL (vertical take off and landing) drone, he explained."We successfully completed India's longest drone flight. We flew the drone for 51 km for one of our pipeline clients HPCL. It was a BVLOS (beyond visual line of sight) flight. This is a record in India," he claimed.He said the flight took place to survey the pipeline of HPCL that runs between Delhi and Haryana. "It (pipeline) starts from Bahadurgarh (in Haryana)," he added.Officials of HPCL were also present during the flight demonstration, he stated.The flight went up to the height of maximum 400 feet, as permitted by the rules of aviation regulator DGCA. Sinha said Omnipresent has registered 100 per cent growth in last one year and it is expected to grow three to five times in the next 3-4 years.The company aims to reach the target of ₹1,000 crore revenue in the next four years, he added. Currently, the company is also working with Indian e-commerce giants that want to deploy drones for delivering items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/indias-longest-drone-flight-conducted-in-haryana-for-hpcl-claims-robotics-firm-101636287161593.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Zika virus: 10 fresh cases reported in Kanpur; tally rises to 89||At least 10 fresh cases of Zika virus have come to light from Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur city, reported news agency ANI on Sunday. With this, the tally has gone up to 89, Kanpur's chief medical officer, Dr Nepal Singh, told ANI.On Saturday, 13 new cases of Zika virus were reported in Kanpur that took the tally to 79.As Zika virus cases are rising in Kanpur, the government hospitals across the city have sounded an alert and intensified surveillance under its infectious disease control campaign, health officials told ANI.Speaking to ANI, Dr Anil Nigam Chief Medical Superintendent, Ursala Hospital said, "Regularly our team is inspecting and Municipal corporation teams have also been deployed for the fogging to destroy mosquito breeding points."The health officials have also urged special caution amid the spread of Zika virus disease. "Arrangements have been made in all hospitals for the treatment of virus-infected people. The health of each patient is being monitored. Surveillance has been improved," the officials said.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also instructed officials to speed up sanitisation work. "Infection with the Zika virus is spreading rapidly in Kanpur. Considering the seriousness, special caution is required. Dengue testing should also be intensified. Arrangements should have been made in all hospitals. The health of each patient should be continuously monitored," the chief minister was quoted as saying by ANI.The chief minister has also asked officials to ensure full cooperation of monitoring committees.The first case in Kanpur was reported on October 23 when an Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer tested positive for Zika virus.Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of an infected Aedes species of mosquito, which bites during the day. The symptoms of this disease are mild fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or a headache.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zika-virus-10-fresh-cases-reported-in-kanpur-tally-rises-to-89-101636286007274.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Money laundering case: Bombay high court stays PMLA court order, grants ED custody of Anil Deshmukh||The vacation bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Sunday granted custody of former Maharashtra home minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Anil Deshmukh to Enforcement Directorate (ED) till November 12. The ED moved the HC on Saturday night after the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court refused to grant additional custody of Deshmukh to ED in the money laundering case and sent him to 14-day judicial custody on Saturday. Appearing for ED, additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate Shreeram Shirsat told the single judge bench of justice Madhav Jamdar that the special court had not heeded their plea for extension of custody for nine days. Singh argued that the money laundering investigation was at a crucial stage. By not granting extension of Deshmukh’s custody, the investigation could be hampered, they said. Appearing for Deshmukh senior advocate Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Aniket Nikam said that though there was much to say and argue on the merit as well as the maintainability of the application, they were voluntarily agreeing to ED custody, and hence, by consent, not opposing the ED’s application. They said Deshmukh had been cooperating with the investigation since the day he had visited the ED office on November 2 morning – and arrested 12 hours later – and will continue to do so. After hearing the submissions by ED, the court referred to a Gujarat HC order wherein a revision application was allowed on the grounds that, “An order refusing to grant remand has direct bearing on the proceedings of the trial itself and in a given case will definitely have effect on the ultimate decision of the case.” Justice Jamdar observed, “I have gone through the impugned order and also relevant investigation papers. Prima facie there is substance in the contentions raised by Mr. Anil Singh and also contentions raised in criminal revision application about the legality of the impugned order.” Thereafter, justice Jamdar granted custody of Deshmukh to ED till November 12. Deshmukh had been arrested by ED on the midnight of November 2 and 3, in connection with the investigation in the FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 21 this year, based on an allegation of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh was accused by Singh of having directed police officers to collect ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants every month. The ED claimed that Deshmukh had received ₹4.7 crore from dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze which he had allegedly collected from various bars and restaurants. The agency has further claimed that Deshmukh laundered the amount through a shell company based in Delhi and had received the amount in Shree Sai Shikshan Sanstha, a trust owned by his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-bombay-high-court-stays-pmla-court-order-grants-ed-custody-of-anil-deshmukh-101636287167306.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi environment minister urges Centre to hold emergency meeting with neighbouring states on stubble burning||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Sunday that the Centre should hold an “emergency” meeting with the states bordering the national capital to address the issue of crop residue burning. Rai also claimed that burning of crop residue in the states of Haryana, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh is behind Delhi’s worsening air quality."There was also the effect of cracker bursting on Diwali but it's waning now. The effect of ‘parali’ burning, however, continues to worsen air quality in Delhi," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator told reporters during a press conference.The overall air quality in the national capital remained in the ‘severe’ category, two days after Diwali, as the air quality index (AQI) stood at an alarming 436 on Sunday morning. Data from System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) shows that farm fires or crop residue burning contributed 25% of PM 2.5 on Diwali, the highest concentration since October 20.Even though state governments of Haryana and Punjab introduced new strategies to combat farm fires, data collected by Hindustan Times showed the neighbouring state of Punjab witnessed 3,032 incidents of farm fires on Diwali. At around 228, Haryana too witnessed a surge in farm fires on Diwali.A delayed harvesting season as well as lack of sufficient incentives to encourage farmers to keep them from burning crop residue contributed to this spike.Bursting of firecrackers on Diwali had also contributed to the national capital’s deteriorating air quality. Despite a government ban on the use, sale, and storage of crackers citizens openly flouted the rules after procuring firecrackers from the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.The AAP government hit out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for encouraging people to burn crackers and for giving the issue of cracker ban a “religious colour”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-environment-minister-urges-centre-to-hold-emergency-meeting-with-neighbouring-states-on-stubble-burning-101636286428859.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu takes on Punjab's advocate general in sacrilege, drugs cases||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has launched a fresh round of attacks on the state government's advocate general, accusing him of 'subverting justice by inaction' in the sacrilege and drugs cases. In a series of tweets, the cricketer-turned-politician pointed out that advocate general APS Deol had appeared for the accused in the sacrilege cases and is now representing the state. "...Very soon you will seek elevation as a judge so that you can decide this case. Being the highest law officer, your focus is on politics and political gains," he said.Sidhu's diatribe came a day after Deol accused Navjot Singh Sidhu of obstructing the functioning of the state government and his office, and "spreading misinformation to gain political advantage". Sidhu on Sunday alleged that the advocate general's "earnest inaction" was subverting justice in the sacrilege and drug cases.In a series of tweets on Sunday, Sidhu slammed Deol, saying "justice is blind but the people of Punjab are not"."Mr. AG-PUNJAB, Justice is blind but people of Punjab are not. Our Congress party came in power with a promise to give justice in Sacrilege Cases, in which you appeared before the High Court for main conspirators/accused persons and made serious allegations against our Govt," he said.Mr. AG-PUNJAB, Justice is blind but people of Punjab are not. Our Congress party came in power with a promise to give justice in Sacrilege Cases, in which you appeared before the High Court for main conspirators/accused persons and made serious allegations against our Govt. 1/12 pic.twitter.com/YMjPrPBPCh"Today, you are representing the same Government of same political party in power and accusing me of spreading misinformation, whereas, I am fighting for justice in Sacrilege cases and you were procuring blanket bails for the accused persons," Sidhu said in another tweet.The Punjab Congress chief has been opposing Deol's appointment as the state advocate general. Deol had represented former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and inspector general Paramraj Singh Umaranangal in relation to cases regarding incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing in Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan in 2015, according to news agency PTI.A senior advocate of the Punjab and Haryana high court, Deol was appointed to the post in September after Atul Nanda resigned as the advocate general following the exit of Captian Amarinder Singh as the Punjab chief minister."A person of character does the right thing for right reason with right motive. Your earnest inaction is clearly subverting justice rather than ensuring it," Sidhu alleged.A person of character does the right thing for right reason with right motive. Your earnest inaction is clearly subverting justice rather than ensuring it. 12/12In another tweet, Sidhu alleged that Deol had prayed for transferring the investigation to the CBI as "you were afraid of their false implication in sacrilege cases on accounts of malafide, malice and ulterior motives on the part of political party in power in the state of Punjab"."May I know which interest (vested or otherwise) were you acting for when you appeared for the main conspirators and procured blanket bail for them and which interest, you are acting now," he asked.A month after announcing his resignation as the state Congress chief, Sidhu withdrew it on Friday. However, he said he would re-assume charge only after the state government replaced the advocate general."Are you acting at the behest of those who appointed you in this constitutional office and fulfilling their political gains," Sidhu said on Sunday, targeting Deol, who is considered chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's choice for the post of the AG, news agency PTI reported."Did you advise the government to challenge the blanket bail order procured by you or any other adverse order in sacrilege cases in Supreme Court," he asked.You appeared for the accused, now representing the State and very soon you will seek elevation as a judge so that you can decide this case. Being the highest law officer, your focus is on politics and political gains. 6/12"You appeared for the accused, now representing the State and very soon you will seek elevation as a judge so that you can decide this case. Being the highest law officer, your focus is on politics and political gains,” Sidhu hit out at Deol.He further asked Deol to leave politics to the politicians and “focus on your personal conscience, integrity and professional ethics, which your job requires”.Pointing at the STF report in the drug cases, Sidhu said, "In the hearing of Drugs case in High Court on 05.10.2021, upon being asked that what is stopping Govt. for taking action on the basis of STF Report filed in High Court, you replied that 'It would be ethically wrong to proceed in the matter without the Court's Nod'."On Friday, Sidhu had questioned the Channi-led state government over the steps taken for the delivery of justice in the cases of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and drug trafficking."May I know what is unethical in proceeding against the accused persons on the basis of STF Report who are responsible for narcotics-terrorism in Punjab and has put India's most prosperous state in danger of losing an entire generation to drug abuse," he asked."Did Hon'ble High Court stop you? Hon'ble High Court itself gave a copy of the STF report to our Government for consideration and you are shielding the inaction of the Government under the guise of your own unknown Ethics," Sidhu said."I believe that Ethics is about the way things ought to be, not about the way things are. Ethical people often do more than law requires and less than it allows. When it comes to ethics, motive is very important," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-takes-on-punjab-s-advocate-general-in-sacrilege-drugs-cases-101636275694104.html
07-11-2021||Kolkata||TMC urges Centre to extend free ration scheme for 6 more months||The TMC on Sunday urged the Centre to extend its free ration scheme under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for another six months amid reports that the programme might be discontinued after November 30. The scheme was launched in March last year, after the Covid-19 pandemic struck, leaving lakhs of people in distress. Veteran TMC MP Sougata Roy told reporters that he would soon write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking an extension of the scheme. "Poor people of this country, still reeling under the devastating impact of the pandemic, will be hit hard if the scheme is discontinued," he pointed out.The Centre had on Friday said that there was no proposal at present to continue PMGKAY, given the recovery in the economy and good disposal of foodgrain under the Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS). Roy further said that the state government will continue to provide ration to people free of cost. "Those grappling with economic crisis in the midst of the rising fuel prices will need assistance from the state as well as the Centre. If the Union government discontinues the scheme, it will add to their woes," the TMC MP stated. He hoped the central government will reconsider its plans. "I will be writing to PM Narendra Modi soon to request him to continue the scheme for another six months," the Dumdum MP said on the sidelines of a function here. At another event in the city, Left Front Chairman and veteran CPI(M) leader Biman Bose also put forth the same demand. "We know that this country has enough foodgrain for distribution among the poor. And running the scheme for an extended period of time should not be a problem," Bose added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-urges-centre-to-extend-free-ration-scheme-for-6-more-months-101636284103272.html
07-11-2021||Jaipur||5 Rajasthan cops punished for beating and stripping colleague||The Rajasthan Police department has sent five constables to the police line following a complaint that they thrashed and stripped a constable in Udaipur on Thursday. A head constable deployed in a police station in Udaipur has alleged that on eve of Diwali, five of his colleagues barged into his room in inebriated condition and thrashed and stripped him. He said he lodged a complaint as suggested by his senior officer but had been threatened by the accused cops. Police said a complaint under the IPC Section 452, 341, 323,504, 506, 34 and SC/ST act has been lodged. Following the complaint, additional superintendent of police, Gopal Swaroop ordered a probe and sent the five accused cops to the police line till further orders. The five accused cops include four constables and a head constable. In another incident, an ex legislator (MLA) was allegedly attacked by some miscreants in Jaipur. Four miscreants allegedly chased and hurled stone at the car of former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Jalore, Amrita Meghwal, in Transport Nagar area of Jaipur on Saturday evening. She received minor injuries, police said. Also Read: Cabinet expansion on cards in Rajasthan, CM likely to visit Delhi“Meghwal alleged that the miscreants chased her car from Biological Park where she along with her family members had gone for recreation and hurled one stone at the running car,” said Gayasuddin Khan, the station house officer (SHO) of Transport Nagar police station. He said the stone thrown by the miscreants broke through the window glass of the car and hit Meghwal in her ear. Police said the ex-MLA had a verbal spat with the accused in the park over some issue and from there, they chased her vehicle on motorcycles and threw the stone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/5-rajasthan-cops-punished-for-beating-and-stripping-colleague-101636284046797.html
07-11-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh launches weekly Covid-19 vaccination drive from Nov 10 in push towards 100% coverage||The Madhya Pradesh government would organise a special coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccination drive every Wednesday from November 10, in a step towards achieving 100% coverage of all eligible population by the end of this year. The announcement came as a top health official expressed concerns about the slowing pace of vaccinations in the state.“In MP, around 5.49 crore people are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination, including 10% who are migrants (moving out of the state). Some 5 crore people have got the first dose and 2.13 crore have received the second one as well,” news agency PTI quoted Madhya Pradesh immunisation officer Santosh Shukla as saying. “So currently, 91.8% have got the first dose and 39% have got the second dose in the state,” he added.Also read | Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine for children over 12 approved. 10 pointsFurther, the official also wondered if the number of people in the state visiting the vaccination centres has reduced since last month due to the festive season. The special vaccination drive named 'COVID Vaccination Maha Abhiyan' every Wednesday has been planned by the government from November 10 to catch up on the target, he added.Shukla also said that the second dose of the vaccine would be administered to one crore eligible beneficiaries in the state in order to achieve 100% vaccination coverage by the year end deadline the state has set for itself.Meanwhile, three districts have administered the first dose to 100% eligible population. “We have administered 7.13 crore jabs so far. Bhopal, Indore and Agar Malwa districts have completed 100% first dose target,” he said.Also, 26 other districts in the state have covered 90% of their population with the first dose. “ Twenty-six other districts (MP has 52 districts) have covered 90 per cent of first dose beneficiaries. Narsingh Gunda, a tribal village in Jhabua district, has been fully vaccinated,” he added.On Saturday, the state saw seven new Covid-19 cases as the total caseload reached 792,901 while the death toll remained unchanged at 10,524 as no new deaths were reported. As of 7am on Sunday, 71,511,470 doses of the vaccine have been administered in the state, the Union health ministry’s data showed.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-launches-weekly-covid-19-vaccination-drive-from-nov-10-in-push-towards-100-coverage-101636283309058.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ariel’s love’s labour lost: Learnings of a pet mother||When Ariel, our six-year-old beagle, conceived after a number of pseudo-pregnancies, a current of joy spread among family and friends. The household was abuzz with her dietary needs, exercise regimen, sleep patterns, changing gait and what not. Each of us would wager on the possible number of puppies after giving her the belly rubs she so demanded. The 60-day countdown was happily endured in the hope of a mewling litter of cuddly beagles. The whelping started with her painful contractions, panting and vomiting. When the first pup arrived at dawn, we watched with pride as little Ariel, schooled in the ‘ivy league’ of nature, deftly tore open the amniotic sac, licked the pup clean and bit off the umbilical cord with surgical precision. She delivered five in quick succession. When the sixth arrived, we knew something was amiss. She knew instantly that the pup was stillborn and rushed out of the kennel, holding the baby in her mouth. She dug a pit and began covering the carcass with her nose, only to leave the process midway to handle the seventh arrival, another stillborn. Her misery did not stop her from laying her dead ones to rest with complete dignity. Images of man-made miseries from the second Covid-19 wave narrated a contrasting human tale. Finally, anxiety did get the better of her. The contractions stopped and in spite of a well-formed udder, she could not lactate. As her temperature rose and condition worsened, veterinary intervention was sought. The ultrasound revealed two undelivered pups. Artificial labour was induced but to no avail. An emergency C-Section was performed to clear the uterus and Ariel got back home to the surviving pups. Regardless of utter distress, she agitatedly began licking her babies the moment she regained consciousness. The unfolding of the next four days, blew away the Descartian concept of human superiority in emotional intelligence. Ariel was crazed by the realisation that she was unable to feed the newborns. In agitation, she substituted licking for suckling. She huddled them under her chest, constantly cleaning and feeling them. Breaking her defence to bottle feed the pups was an uphill task. She raptly overlooked the process, giving minimal time for nursing. Sniffing and inspecting every drop of medicine given to the pups, not for a moment did she lower the guard. Separating the pups from her for incubation was another challenge. In spite of best efforts, the puppies started fading away. When the third, nicknamed Tilak, passed away in the cardboard incubating box, she intuitively knew it. She pounded the box, grabbed him and lay next to him moaning. The entire household sighed in revelation. The death of the last two survivors, called ‘Boy’ and ‘Girl’, of hypothermia devastated Ariel. She was restlessly in and out of the house, digging carpets or the ground. When she lay down, visceral agony translated into deep groans. Often as she snuggles close to us for security, her moist nose and watery eyes reveal the mysteries of the non-human universe. Within a week, a playful pet changed into a heartbroken parent. Her palpable expression of loss set me thinking. Are we right in underrating the feelings of the animal world? manindersidhu7@gmail.com The writer is professor of English at Government College for Girls in Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ariels-love-s-labour-lost-learnings-of-a-pet-mother-101636279846258.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||'Delhi will again suffocate if stubble burning doesn't reduce': Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai warned that the national capital will again suffocate if stubble burning does not come down. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, Rai cited official data from November 1 till November 6, which revealed that whenever stubble burning increased in neighbouring states such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, the level of pollution also went up in Delhi.“The data showed that pollution levels in Delhi are seeing an alarming rise because of stubble burning, and bursting of firecrackers during Diwali made the situation worse,” Rai said.He pointed out that the impact of firecrackers is reducing in the national capital but the effect of stubble burning is on a constant level. “The threat of pollution will loom till there is no solution for stubble burning,” Rai added.The environment minister's remarks came after the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said that stubble burning accounted for 36% of the pollution in Delhi, Hindustan Times reported on Saturday.During Sunday's press conference, environment minister Rai also said that the impact of the Delhi government's anti-pollution initiatives such as the anti-dust campaign, the 'Red Light on, Gaadi off' campaign and electric vehicles among others was failing because of stubble burning.Rai requested that the Centre must hold an emergency meeting of the environment ministers of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on stubble burning.Also Watch| Delhi Pollution: Not just about firecrackers, stubble burns. Netas ignoring lasting solutions? Highlighting that there has been no stubble burning in Delhi, Rai told reporters that the national capital is facing the impact due to fire being set to straw stubble in neighbouring states.On Sunday, the air quality index (AQI) in Delhi continued to remain in the ‘severe category’ at 436, according to data shared by SAFAR. However, the data also showed that the AQI is likely to improve to the upper end of the 'very poor' category as the "surface winds are becoming stronger", dispersing air pollutants from Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-will-again-suffocate-if-stubble-burning-doesn-t-reduce-gopal-rai-101636275542716.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cong-ruled Punjab reduces petrol price by ₹10, diesel by ₹5||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday announced that the Punjab cabinet has decided to reduce petrol prices by ₹10 per litre and diesel by Rs. 5 per litre. This comes after the central government announced a reduction in excise duty on fuel, a day before Diwali earlier this week.According to the finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the effective per litre price of diesel and petrol will be Rs. 85 and Rs. 95 per litre respectively (as effective in Jalandhar), which will be applicable from the mid night. He said that on reduction effective VAT on diesel will be 9.92% and on petrol 13.77%. With BJP-ruled states announcing reduction following Centre's excise move, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the state earlier questioned the Congress government regarding the reduction in value added tax imposed on petrol and diesel.“Why is the Punjab government not giving relief to people by reducing VAT on fuel?,” BJP Punjab chief Ashwani Sharma on Saturday questioned the Channi government. “All states have reduced the prices of fuel. But this government has done nothing so far,” former chief minister and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said, according to a PTI report. He earlier on Saturday demanded that the government reduce prices by ₹10.The BJP earlier this week attacked state governments ruled by the opposition parties like the Congress and the Trinamool Congress for not reducing the VAT on petrol and diesel soon after the announcement was made by the Centre. A report by news agency PTI said that BJP and its partner-ruled states saw steeper reductions in petrol and diesel prices compared to Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal and other states which are governed by other parties.Which states have reduced VAT?Karnataka, Puducherry, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland, Tripura, Assam, Sikkim, Bihar Goa, Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Punjab and Madhya PradeshWhich states have not yet reduced VAT?Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Tamil NaduPetrol was costliest in Rajasthan at ₹111.10 per litre, this was followed by Mumbai where petrol cost ₹109.98 and Andhra Pradesh where petrol price ₹109.05.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reduces-petrol-price-by-rs-10-diesel-by-rs-5-101636277267893.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan 'implicated’, claims key witness in Mumbai cruise ship drugs case||A key witness in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs case, involving the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, claimed on Sunday that the star kid was implicated. Pagare also alleged that he heard BJP worker Manish Bhanushali — another witness in the NCB's raid on the luxurious cruise ship off Mumbai coast — talk about a ₹18-crore-deal to “settle” the Aryan Khan's case.Bhanushali was among the nine independent witnesses of the NCB, which also includes KP Gosavi, involved in the cruise ship raid which led to the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan along with others for allegedly possessing drugs.Speaking to news agency ANI, Pagare claimed that Sunil Patil, one of the founding members of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) who played a ‘key role’ in the Aryan Khan case, told Bhanushali last September about a “big game” that happened during a meeting at a hotel where he was also present.“I had given money to Sunil Patil in 2018-19 for some work and for the past six months, I was following him to get that money back. This year in September, we were in a hotel room where Sunil Patil told Bhanushali that a big game has happened.” Vijay Pagare was quoted as telling ANI in an interview.Elaborating further, Pagare claimed that Bhanushali met him on October 3 and asked him to accompany the BJP worker to get money. “While I was with him in the car, I heard them saying that a deal of ₹25 crore was scheduled but settled on ₹18 crore and ₹50 lakhs taken,” Pagare claimed in his interview.ALSO READ | 'Sameer Dawood Wankhede's private army': Nawab Malik reacts to BJP's 'twist' given to Aryan Khan case“After this, we reached the NCB office where I saw the whole atmosphere. When I reached the hotel back, I saw the news on TV that Shah Rukh Khan's son has been caught. Then I understood that there is a big mess and Aryan Khan has been implicated,” Pagare claimed.The cruise ship drugs raid case took a new turn on Saturday when BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya addressed a press conference and linked Maharashtra former home minister Anil Deshmukh with the case. ALSO READ | Nawab Malik says Aryan Khan's a kidnap and ransom case, Sameer Wankhede & Mohit Kamboj partnersHowever, Maharashtra minister and NCP  leader Nawab Malik said he will reply to these allegations what the BJP leader claimed as ‘revelations’ in his press meet scheduled on Sunday when Malik is supposed to expose some secrets hidden in a posh Mumbai hotel.A team led by NCB's Mumbai zonal head Sameer Wankhede raided a Goa-bound luxury cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 and seized a cache of drugs. Following the raid, Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3, along with his friend Arbaaz Seth Merchant and model Munmum Dhamecha, and was sent to judicial custody on October 7. After a high-profile legal battle fought by former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi and celebrated lawyer Satish Maneshinde, Aryan Khan got bail in the case from Bombay high court on October 28. Meanwhile, another key witness in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs raid case, Prabhakar Sail, gave a twist to the high-profile case by claiming that he heard private investigator KP Gosavi speak about a pay-off of ₹8 crore to Sameer Wankhede. The top NCB officer, however, denied the allegations and sought protection from any legal action. Sail was hired as a personal bodyguard by private Gosavi, who also accompanied the NCB officials to the raid. Gosavi is currently in police custody in a separate case of cheating. ALSO READ | 'Wankhede's private army': Minister reacts to BJP's 'twist' given to Aryan caseWankhede’s position was further weakened by repeated allegations by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, who accused the officer of forging his caste certificate to land a government job. He was divested of the case by the NCB last week and a special investigation team took over the case.The officer is currently facing an NCB vigilance inquiry headed by deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh, based on the allegations by Sail, Hindustan Times reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-implicated-key-witness-in-mumbai-cruise-ship-drugs-case-claims-101636267434530.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC remands ex-Maha minister Anil Deshmukh in ED custody till November 12||The Bombay high court on Sunday set aside a special court order remanding former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in judicial custody. He was sent to the custody of the Enforcement Directorate till November 12.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was arrested in a money laundering case on November 1 after 12 hours of questioning. The agency is probing a ₹100 crore extortion case against Deshmukh based on an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).On Saturday, Deshmukh was brought to Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail after the Special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court sent him to 14-day judicial custody.He was arrested based on allegations levelled against him by the former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Singh has said Deshmukh was involved in several wrongdoings, including asking Sachin Waze, another suspended officer of Mumbai Police, to collect ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants in the city every months.Deshmukh has denied all the allegations against him, but had to resign in April after the CBI registered the case.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-remands-ex-maha-minister-anil-deshmukh-in-ed-custody-till-november-12-101636269127583.html
07-11-2021||Other||NGT summons VC of Bihar’s LNMU over construction near natural pond||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on October 29 stayed the construction work around a natural pond at Darbhanga’s Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) and summoned the varsity’s vice chancellor following a complaint that the construction was adversely impacting the aquatic eco-system of the pond and the recharge of underground water.The registrar of NGT, eastern zone bench, has also ordered maintenance of status quo with regard to any construction in respect of the pond in question and served a notice to LNMU VC and the central ground water board, Patna, following a plea by Talab Bachao Abhiyan (TBA). The VC has been asked to appear in person or through a pleader in the case, which will be heard next on December 12.The NGT bench headed by judicial member B Amit Sthalekar and executive member Saibal Dasgupta noted that university authorities had laid bricks and concrete about 15 ft wide at the alluvium and about 5 feet wide at the bed of the pond, adversely affecting the aquatic eco-system of the pond and the process of recharge of underground water. “The construction work was carried out in the garb of beautification of pond”, the petitioner had alleged.Talab Bachao Abhiyan (TBA) had said in its petition that the natural pond contained wide variety of local fishes and other aquatic fauna and was once also connected with ten other ponds, but its connecting channel was blocked due to the construction of a girls hostel over two decades ago. Also Read: Asked to stop loud music, puja revellers fire at cops in Bihar’s Gaya; 3 hurtCiting photographic evidence of the recent construction, the green panel noted that a wide stretch of area around the pond had been covered by the bricks. The petitioner pointed out that laying of brick was not permissible in the area around the pond and the administration could have at least planted natural grass in a scientific and eco-friendly manner if it wanted to protect the boundary of the water body. The bench then issued notices to respondents including t he LNMU VC asking them to file their counter affidavits within four weeks.Convenor of TBA, Narayanji Choudhary told HT that another plea has been filed before the green panel for stopping the construction work around the pond and for its restoration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-summons-vc-of-bihar-s-lnmu-over-construction-near-natural-pond-101636266464772.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik says cruise party was a plot to 'kidnap' Aryan Khan for ransom||Maharashtra minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday said BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya, also known as Mohit Kamboj, was the mastermind of the drugs-on-cruise case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is an accused and that he partnered the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede in demanding ransom.Addressing a press conference, Malik said the sensational drugs bust case off the Goa-bound cruise was a case of kidnapping and ransom and not what it appeared to be. He said Aryan did not buy a ticket for the cruise party, but it was Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala who brought him there.Aryan Khan didn't purchase the ticket for the cruise party. It was Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala who brought him there. It's a matter of kidnapping & ransom. Mohit Kamboj is the mastermind & partner of Sameer Wankhede in demanding ransom: NCP leader Nawab Malik pic.twitter.com/xciL80qPM5Malik further said Kamboj and Wankhede had met outside Oshiwara graveyard on October 7, a few days after Aryan was arrested in the case.“After this, Wankhede panicked and complained to the police that they were being chased. They were lucky that the nearby CCTV was not working and we couldn't get the feed,” Malik was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Saturday, Kamboj had alleged that one Sunil Patil from Dhule, "who is closely associated with NCP leaders, including former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh", was the mastermind of the cruise drug bust episode.Meanwhile, Wankhede's father has reportedly filed a defamation suit against Malik in the Bombay high court and sought ₹1.25 crore in damages.Malik further said one Kashiff Khan had invited Maharashtra minister Aslam Sheikh to the cruise party and had the Congress MLA and guardian minister of Mumbai attended the event, it would have been called ‘Udta Maharashtra’ ( on lines of the movie ‘Udta Punjab’ which was based the drug menace in the northern state).  He said Khan is a partner of Wankhede and was present at the party. “Kashiff Khan forced our minister Aslam Shaikh to come to the party and was also planning to bring children of various ministers of our government to the party. If Aslam Shaikh had gone there it, would have been Udta Maharashtra after Udta Punjab,” Malik said.“A paper roll that was a brand of Fashion TV was seized in the case and it is being said the drug is consumed through that roll. Why was the owner not arrested? The owner of this brand is Kashiff Khan. He is a partner of Wankhede and was present at the party,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/now-nawab-malik-says-aryan-khan-s-is-a-kidnap-and-ransom-case-101636261586670.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||2 dead in tempo-container crash on Mumbai-Nashik highway||A tempo driver and cleaner died in a road accident in the early hours on Sunday on Mumbai - Nashik highway in Maharashtra’s Thane district. The tempo with number plate MH 04 HD 0532 was heading towards Thane from Nashik when it rammed into a container trailer near Kharegaon, Kalwa on Mumbai - Nashik highway at around 5:40 am, the police said. The driver of the tempo, Salman Khan ,34, and cleaner Firoz Khan, 32, died at the spot. The container driver also suffered injuries in the crash. Police and fire brigade personnel reached the accident spot with an emergency tender, one crane and two quick response vehicles. “The front portion of the tempo, carrying chickens, was completely damaged in the incident. The driver and the cleaner died on the spot after suffering severe injuries,” said an officer of Kalwa traffic police. Also Read: Two dead after blaze at a residential building in Mumbai“My tempo and the container was heading to Thane. The container driver applied a sudden break, owing to which my tempo collided with the container. My driver and cleaner died in the incident and around 200 chickens were lost in the incident, “ said Mohammad Ali,38, the tempo owner’s business partner. A municipal official said that the road could be cleared of the two vehicles at around 7.15 am. The bodies were handed over to Kalwa police officials,” said Santosh Kadam, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC),Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-died-in-tempo-and-container-collision-at-mumbai-nashik-highway-101636261903599.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede's father files defamation case against Nawab Malik, wants ₹1.25 crore in damages||The father of Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede has reportedly filed a defamation suit against Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik in the Bombay high court and sought ₹1.25 crore in damages. According to a report in India Today, Wankhede’s father Dhyandev Kachruji Wankhede wants a permanent injunction restraining Malik and others “acting under his instructions” from publishing, writing or speaking in the media about the family. Malik is scheduled to hold a press conference later in the day.Breaking : NCB's zonal director #SameerWankhede's father has filed a defamation suit in the #BombayHighCourt against cabinet minister #NawabMalik and sought ₹1.25 crore in damages. pic.twitter.com/wHYzirPCBtThe suit reportedly states the Maharashtra minister has done “irreparable loss, damage, harm, prejudice to the name, character, reputation and societal image of plaintiff and his family members”, besides destroying the practice of the senior Wankhede's daughter Yasmeen, a criminal lawyer who has nothing to do with the case.Malik has levelled several allegations against Wankhede, who was recently removed by the NCB from heading the sensational drugs-on-cruise case in which Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is an accused. He was also in-charge of a case in which Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan is involved.Also read | Sameer Wankhede not completely out of picture, will assist in Aryan Khan caseAmong the several charges that the cabinet minister has brought against the NCB officer are extortion and fraudulent use of caste card to obtain his job.The NCB has also initiated a vigilance probe against Wankhede even as it stated that the move to shift the six cases from Mumbai team to its Delhi unit was only an administrative decision.Also read | Was called peddler's wife; kids lost friends: Open letter of Nawab Malik's daughterWankhede had earlier moved the high court stating that he was being personally attacked by the Maharashtra government. The court had, however, disposed of his petition for an arrest shield after the state told the bench that its inquiry was still at a preliminary stage and it would give the officer a three-day notice before taking coercive action against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-s-dad-files-defamation-case-against-nawab-malik-report-101636258393626.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar: Residents fume over J&K admn’s move to station CRPF men at community halls||The Jammu and Kashmir administration’s decision to station additional CRPF personnel in community or marriage halls of Srinagar has triggered resentment from locals and political leaders of the UT.The residents have expressed their opposition after at least two major community halls were occupied by CRPF in the past few days. They have demanded an alternative accommodation for the security personnel. “A few days back, some cops came to see if they could accommodate CRPF men in our local community hall. This is an absurd decision whosoever had taken it. People organise all their important functions in these halls. They are indispensable to the community life in the city,” said a resident of Nowpora, not wishing to identify his name. A resident of Khanyar said these halls are amid the congested localities and any militant activity and the response from the forces would be deadly for the surrounding locals. “We fear the consequences,” he said. Srinagar has 24 community/marriage halls managed by its municipal corporation, many of which are in the Old City area. Even government campaigns like vaccination drives, Aadhaar enrolments, and relief distributions are held at these centres.These halls have now been assigned to CRPF by the administration with the help of local police. CRPF spokesperson Abiram Pankaj said they have no say in where their additional troops would be accommodated. “CRPF’s accommodation is arranged by civil administration. These places have been assigned by the police to us and we have no choice. It is their prerogative. We only see whether the basic facilities are alright,” he added. “Now we have come to know that people are facing some issues. It is up to the city SSP,” he said. However, calls and messages to Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole and Srinagar SSP Sandeep Choudhary did not elicit any response.The CRPF spokesperson said, “The security scenario here changed after October 1. That is why more troops have been brought in from north and south Kashmir.”Srinagar MC commissioner Athar Aamir Khan refused to comment on the issue. “This is a very sensitive issue and I cannot comment on this,” he said. Meanwhile, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti said, “After placing security bunkers at every nook and corner of Srinagar, CRPF personnel have been pushed into marriage halls which is the only private space left for people here. Every day, more draconian laws are brought in with the sole purpose of suffocating people into silence.”Srinagar mayor Junaid Mattu, in a tweet on Friday, said the MC wasn’t consulted on this decision and added that he has spoken to divisional commissioner for other options.NC vice-president and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah said, “My government built community/marriage halls and demolished bunkers in Srinagar. It’s disappointing to see the security situation in the city has now regressed so much that new bunkers are being constructed and marriage halls are being used as barracks for security forces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-residents-fume-over-j-k-admn-s-move-to-station-crpf-men-at-community-halls-101636252422095.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tarigami: Internet shutdown bringing back painful memories of 2019||Former J&K legislator and CPI(M) general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami on Saturday expressed pain over the internet shutdown in some parts of the city and said it brought back painful memories of the communication blockade in 2019. Tarigami on Saturday said, “There are reports that internet access is shut for most of the day in many areas and services resume mostly after 10pm when they are least required. This has hugely impacted students, who are not able to attend their online classes as the internet remains shut down during day hours.” The former four-time legislator in a statement said due to this unannounced ban businessmen, doctors, media personnel and other professionals are also suffering immensely. “The 2019 communication blockade led to huge economic losses and unemployment. The latest curbs on the internet are bound to aggravate the situation. The curbs on 4G internet in Kashmir are contrary to government claims of creating opportunities for all citizens by harnessing digital technologies through the Digital India initiative,” he said, adding that it’s high time that internet services are restored throughout Kashmir without any further delay. People will punish arrogant BJP govt: MirJ&K Pradesh Congress Committee chief GA Mir said “people of Jammu and Kashmir will punish the arrogant BJP government at the Centre as reflected in the recent byelections in the country which resulted into immediate reduction of huge taxes on petrol and diesel”.Lauding the people of Himachal and other states for “showing the mirror to the arrogant Modi government”, Mir said people will “punish the BJP in Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere in the country in the coming elections”.Addressing a meeting of senior Congress leaders as part of the 50th year celebrations of the 1971 war, he briefed the functionaries, party’s district presidents, frontal wings and corporators about the series of functions to be held from Sunday till December 16 to commemorate the Vijay Diwas. He said a commemoration committee headed by former defence minister AK Antony as chairperson and Praveen Davar as national coordinator is holding series of yearlong programmes in the country to celebrate the country’s victory.A function will be addressed by Davar on Sunday at JK Plaza and another at Ploura Jammu rural on Monday.The meeting was also briefed about the nationwide ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan’ from November 14 to 29 besides membership drive which will be inaugurated in Jammu and Kashmir by AICC incharge, J&K affairs, Rajni Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarigami-internet-shutdown-bringing-back-painful-memories-of-2019-101636251702071.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Stringent curbs may return to Srinagar as Covid pockets emerge||Stringent restrictions may return to parts of Srinagar if the spurt in Covid cases in some pockets of the city is not contained, Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz Asad said on Saturday. A day after eight more containment zones were added in the city, Asad, along with other administrative and health officials, visited various parts of Srinagar and conducted flash Covid tests of people not following the pandemic-related protocols.Asad said that he would not like to see Srinagar becoming the cause of the third Covid wave in the Valley. “The Covid cases are increasing. There are certain places like Lal Bazaar where we have seen 18 cases in the past one week, 12 cases in Chanapora, 15 in Bemina and other pockets from where the infections are getting reported constantly,” Asad told the media during his tour. He said that so far, the region has been saved from the third coronavirus wave. “I would not want an invitation to be given to the third wave. The limits on social functions and marriages should not be violated and I want to appeal to all to wear masks and avoid public places,” he said. Of the 1,009 active coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir till November 5, more than half are in Srinagar. This is the only district which is reporting 40 to 60 cases daily, around half of the 100-odd infections in the entire union territory.Asad said that some three-four pockets of the city are under scanner from where cases are constantly rising.“If there is no decline in cases from those pockets then we will have to impose more restrictions in a localised manner,” he said.There are 82 containment zones in Srinagar, eight of which were added on Friday.“Eight micro containment zones were declared yesterday and if cases are not controlled in these micro containment zones, then we will have to impose further restrictions,” he said.On the criticism from people that the government itself was organising big gatherings and not following Covid-19 protocols in the city, the DC said that they were doing everything for the people. “Government works for people and if we are on the road, some 10-15 people will be with me. There is no alternative to this. We are trying to control Covid. Wherever we think we need to take action, we do that,” he added.“There may be some events which are held for the public which are necessary and the Covid protocols are kept in mind in those functions,” the DC said.Although Jammu and Kashmir recorded its lowest Covid count in eight months in October, the union territory has been witnessing a slow and consistent rise in active cases over the past two weeks — majority of which is contributed by Srinagar.The active cases in J&K had been on the decline, reaching its lowest ebb on October 20 with 800 cases. However after October 20, the active cases slowly went up and reached 1,009 on November 5, an increase of 26% in 16 days.J&K reports highest daily Covid cases in 45 daysJammu and Kashmir reported 151 Covid cases on Saturday, highest daily total in 45 days.Of the total cases, 135 were reported in Kashmir valley with Srinagar, which is witnessing a spurt in cases, being responsible for 79 infections. The Jammu division saw 16 infections. On September 23, the UT had recorded 172 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 69 with active positive cases reaching 1,091. Officials said with 79 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 14 cases in Baramulla and 12 cases in Budgam, with no or single-digit cases in the other 16 districts. Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 554 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 160 and 85 such cases, respectively. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 81,729 vaccines were administered, taking the number of overall doses administered in the UT to 1.51 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,27,380, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.35%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,32,911 and the death toll stood at 4,440.The officials said that 41,649 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,146 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 851 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stringent-curbs-may-return-to-srinagar-as-covid-pockets-emerge-101636251401924.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mutilated body of 5-year-old boy found in Shimla, leopard attack suspected||Himachal Pradesh Police’s two days of frantic search on Saturday led to the recovery of the mutilated body of a five-year-old boy, who had gone missing from his house in Shimla’s Down Dale locality adjoining the forest. The police had found the pair of trousers of Yograj about 100 metres away from his house. The forest and local police teams had launched a search operation which ended after 40 hours when the boy’s body was recovered in the forest area of Down Dale. Over 50 police and forest department team members were engaged in the search operation. Shimla’s Sadar station house officer (SHO) Sandeep Chaudhary said the autopsy would be conducted on Sunday morning and legal proceedings would be carried out accordingly after the report is received. “On Friday, the police had recovered the pants of the child nearly 100 metres below his house. Today, skull bones, some parts of the body and clothes were recovered from the spot,” he added. “The search operation was launched soon after the matter was reported to the police. It is difficult to conclude whether the child was attacked by an animal,” the SHO said. Kedarnath, father of the child, suspected that leopard had taken away Yograj. “Since his body parts have been recovered from the forest area, it’s certain that some wild animal killed him,” he added. This is the second such incident in three months in Shimla. In August, a five-year-old girl was taken away from Kanlog locality and mauled to death by a leopard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mutilated-body-of-5-year-old-boy-found-in-shimla-leopard-attack-suspected-101636251102010.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram pulls up HP bureaucrats over delay in development projects||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday pulled up state’s bureaucracy over delays in execution of projects. “The government would not tolerate laxity of any kind in the execution of development projects and would not hesitate in taking stern action against the erring officials,” Jai RamThakur said while giving a clear message to bureaucracy at a meeting of administrative secretaries of HP government here. This comes a couple of days after the Congress defeated BJP candidates in the bypolls to Mandi Lok Sabha seat and Fatehpur, Jubbal and Kotkhai and Arki Vidhan Sabha seats. ‘Misgovernance’ of the Jai Ram Thakur government is said to be one of the factors that went against the BJP in the recently concluded bypolls. Jai Ram asked the officers to lay special thrust to ensure that the development projects and issues related to common people were redressed on priority. The CM also directed the officers to resolve the issues of recruitment of various categories, JOA(IT), JBT, PTI, NTT which have been delayed due to one reason or another. Special focus must be laid on recruitments on compassionate grounds as this would not only benefit the family members of the deceased but also provide employment to the needy, he added. Jai Ram said that all development projects which have been hanging fire due to cases pending in the NGT must also be expedited. “Projects particularly related to various departments are not only being delayed but the people are also not getting the benefits of these projects in time. The delay is resulting in cost escalation,” he added. The CM said that special focus must be laid on achieving the targets related to various development projects. He said that work on projects of PWD in respect of NABARD and PMGSY should be completed in time. He also asked the officers to maintain better coordination between various departments so that progress of the projects does not get hampered. He also directed the officers to ensure proper maintenance of various roads in the state.Jai Ram said a special emphasis must be laid on the effective implementation of the chief minister’s announcements. He said that slackness in this regard would be viewed seriously. He also directed the administrative secretaries to identify chronic issues of their respective departments so that these could be redressed at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-pulls-up-hp-bureaucrats-over-delay-in-development-projects-101636250861957.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Echo of BJP defeat in Himachal heard in national capital: Congress||BJP’s defeat in the recently concluded bypolls is a turning point in the politics in the country as its impact was seen up to the national capital, Congress media department chairperson and Shillai legislator Harshwardhan Chauhan said on Saturday.He was addressing a press conference at Dharamshala, where he said that people of Himachal didn’t get carried away in emotions and voted on the burning issues facing the country. “The echo of the defeat that people of Himachal handed to the BJP has been heard in Delhi,” he added. Chauhan said this was not a small election. “People of 20 assembly segments cast their votes which is one third of Himachal. The Congress not only won all the four seats, but its vote share has gone up considerably. The Congress got 49% votes while the BJP only 28%,” he added.The Congress leader said that the BJP has always played the politics of region and religion and this time too tried to divert the attention from real issues.He said rising inflation and unemployment were some of the key issues in Himachal.People of Himachal have vented their anger against the government on these issues, he said. Youth of the state was struggling to get jobs while the current regime was recruiting people from outside the state in key government departments, he added. He also asked chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to step down on moral grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/echo-of-bjp-defeat-in-himachal-heard-in-national-capital-congress-101636250741854.html
07-11-2021||Bangalore||BBMP allows reopening of Anganwadi centres, playschools within its limits||Keeping in place all the COVID-19 protocols, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has allowed reopening Anganwadis and playschools from November 8 within the limits of BBMP as per recommendations of the Technical advisory committee.Also Read | Karnataka withdraws night curfew imposed due to Covid-19As per an order issued by BBMP on Saturday, it said that the COVID-19 protocols will be followed in the schools and the physical classes will resume in the areas where Testing Positivity Rate is less than 2 per cent."All teachers should be fully vaccinated. They have to take consent letters from children's parents," the order said.Also Read | Covid-19 pandemic: Karnataka school shut after 33 students test positiveIt further stated that the schools will be open for two hours--10 am to 12 pm. "Parents who send their children to playschools should also be fully vaccinated," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bbmp-allows-reopening-of-anganwadi-centres-playschools-within-its-limits-101636248447733.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Water supply likely to be hit in several areas today. Details here||In what comes as a potential worry for citizens of the national capital, water supply will remain affected today (that is, Sunday, November 7) across several parts of Delhi due to an increase in ammonia pollution in the Yamuna river impacting operations at treatment plants.In a press note posted from its official Twitter handle on Saturday evening, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) informed media agencies of the possible supply disruption and said it had already taken steps for rationalisation of water throughout the national capital to meet the shortage.Also Read | DDA study to assess water demand in land pooling areas in DelhiThe board said that due to an increase in ammonia pollution in the Yamuna, pumping from Sonia Vihar, Bhagirathi, Wazirabad, Chandrawal, and Okhla water treatment plants have been affected. As a result, water supply in multiple areas of Delhi was affected on Saturday evening and is likely to carry over on Sunday morning and evening as well, according to the statement.The DJB said water supply in east Delhi, north-east Delhi, south Delhi, parts of areas under the New Delhi Municipal Council, and Malviya Nagar PPP areas may be affected.Press Note !!@htTweets @timesofindia @NBTDilli @TheDailyPioneer @ANI@PTI_News @JagranNewspaper @PunjabKesariCom @DDNewslive @ABPNews pic.twitter.com/Aq9gkfEyWzThe statement further specified the areas where residents are likely to face the disruption in water supply.“East Delhi, North East Delhi, South Delhi, part of NDMC area, and Malviya Nagar PPP areas such as Saket, Pushp Vihar, Katwaria Sarai, Lado Sarai, Khirki, Saidulajab, Gokulpuri, Sonia Vihar, Babarpur, Tahirpur, Dilshad Garden, Nandnagari, Shandara, Laxmi Nagar, Chitra Vihar, Geeta Colony, Mayur Vihar area, New Kondli, Dallupura, Trilokpuri, Surajmal Vihar, Kanti Nagar, Yamuna Vihar, Karawal Nagar, Jafrabad, Jhilmil, Mandawali area, Shakarpur, Vivek Vihar, Karkardooma, Jagatpuri, Shalimar Park, Krishna Nagar, Patparganj, Preet Vihar, Vishkarma Park, Lalita Park, Pandav Nagar, Seelampur, Shastripark, Bhrampuri, Gandhi Nagar, Sarai Kale Khan, Okhla, Batla House Ext., Kalandi Colony, Badarpur, Sarita Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Mehrauli, Greater Kailash, South Extn., Lajpat Nagar, Jal Vihar, Lodhi Road, Kaka Nagar, Civil Lines, Hindu Rao Hospital, Kamla Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Karol Bhag, Pahar Ganj and NDMC areas, Old & New Rajinder Nagar, Patel Nagar(East & West), Baljeet Nagar, Prem Nagar, Inderpuri, Parts of Cantonment areas, Kalkaji, Govindpuri, Tugaikabad, Sangam Vihar, Ambedkar Nagar, Prahladpur and adjoining areas, Ramleela Ground, Delhi gate, Subhash Park, Model Town, Gulabi Bagh, Punjabi Bagh, Jahangirpuri, Moolchand, Burari and adjoining areas.”The Delhi Jal Board also advised the public to exercise caution and make judicious use of water, in view of a potential shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-water-supply-likely-to-be-hit-in-several-areas-today-details-here-101636246013432.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Drugs case: Nawab Malik to address press conference today||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik will address a press conference on Sunday, four days after teasing yet another expose in the ongoing drugs controversy in the state. “I will address a live press conference tomorrow, Sunday 7th November 2021, at 10am. Venue-Noor Manzil, LBS Marg, Kurla, Mumbai,” the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said in a tweet on Saturday. I will address a live Press Conference tomorrow, Sunday 7th November 2021 at 10 am.Venue - Noor Manzil, LBS marg, Kurla, MumbaiIn an earlier tweet, attacking Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who was leading the probe into the drugs-on-cruise case, for which, several people, including actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, were arrested and later given bail, the minister posted, “A member of Sameer Dawood Wankhede's private army just held a press conference to misguide and divert from the truth, albeit unsuccessfully. I will reveal the truth tomorrow.” A member of Sameer Dawood Wankhede's private army just held a Press Conference to misguide and divert the attention from the truth albeit unsuccessfully. I will reveal the truth tomorrowMalik was responding after a press conference was addressed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Bharatiya, in which the latter alleged that a man, close to several NCP leaders including former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh, was the real ‘mastermind’ behind the drugs-on-cruise case. Deshmukh is currently being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with an alleged money laundering case.Also Read | 'Sameer Dawood Wankhede's private army': Nawab Malik reacts to BJP's 'twist' given to Aryan Khan caseSeparately, another BJP leader, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, too, had earlier announced he would give evidence after Diwali of what he said were Malik's connections with the underworld. This came after the 62-year-old Uttar Pradesh born politician accused Fadnavis of shielding drug peddlers and holding ‘high-end’ parties at a five-star Mumbai hotel during his term as the CM.Also Read | Was called peddler's wife; kids lost friends: Open letter of Nawab Malik's daughterMalik, who is Maharashtra's minority affairs minister, has emerged as a key figure in the controversy, levelling series of charges against NCB officer Wankhede. The federal agency, on Friday, transferred six cases, including the Aryan Khan case, from its Mumbai zonal unit to a special investigation team (SIT) of its operations branch in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugs-case-nawab-malik-to-address-press-conference-today-101636243414839.html
07-11-2021||Bhopal||Woman dies by suicide in MP, kin allege rape||A 20-year-old woman died by suicide in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district, with her family alleging that she was raped and the images of the assault were circulated, which prompted her to take the extreme step. The police, however, said that they had no information about the sexual assault.A relative of the woman said her husband came to know about the alleged assault on Thursday after a villager informed him that obscene photos of his wife were being circulated on WhatsApp.“My brother asked her about the photos, she told him that a labourer raped her a few weeks ago. She didn’t inform anyone about the assault due to social stigma. On Tuesday, the labourer came to her house with two others and tried to assault her again. When she foiled their bid, he circulated the images of the assault,” the woman’s brother-in-law said.The police maintained that they were carrying out a thorough investigation. “We came to know about the suicide of the woman but didn’t receive any information of rape,”Bagchini police station in-charge Praveen Tripathi said.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/woman-dies-by-suicide-in-mp-kin-allege-rape-101636239510579.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Parties tap into power of social media to reach out to voters||Social media, mobile apps and big data are being tapped into a big way as political parties step up their campaign for the Chandigarh municipal corporation election. While social media tools such as WhatsApp, Telegram and Facebook are being used to share the party vision, big data is being used to know the electorate better and run a “sharper” campaign. The MC will go to the polls in December. Staring at anti-incumbency, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is banking on a campaign message focused on “development” to retain its majority in the House. BJP state president Arun Sood said the party’s social media strategy is one of the three pillars of its campaign. “We will not go for large public gatherings this time around. Personal contact, door-to-door campaign and social media will be our three pillars,” he said. The party has created booth-wise WhatsApp groups for all the 595 booths in the city. The voters of a pooling booth are made members of these groups. “As there is a limit on the number of members in a group, we try to include the lead member of every family in the area. The booth pradhan is the group administrator. He knows the local issues and has the data of all people in the locality,” said Sood. Weaved around its development plank, the BJP has shot small duration videos showcasing its “achievements” in the past five years. These videos, generally tailored to a particularly area, are then being shared on these groups. “We have created 60-90 second videos on 50 development achievements,” said the party present.Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is encouraging its party workers to create videos concerning different issues of their wards and the city. These videos will be shared on different social media platforms, particularly WhatsApp and Telegram groups. Bikram Dhawan, senior vice-president, AAP, Chandigarh, said: “We have created WhatsApp group in different wards for party workers. Telegram groups have also been created as they give more flexibility. The groups will also help us have a two-way communication with the electorate.” For the Congress, a control room has been created in its Sector 35 city headquarters. HS Lucky, chief spokesperson, Chandigarh Congress, said: “Our dedicated social media team is ready and is managing the control room. In coming days, we will step up the momentum of our social media campaign with videos and text messages. Satirical videos on inflation and other public-related issues are already doing very well with people.” The party has also made WhatsApp groups in wards and is also encouraging its workers to communicate with voters in other groups, such as those of resident welfare associations. Big dataWith its focus still on the membership drive, the AAP has created a specific mobile app for its workers to help expand its party base in the city and create a wide database. “The app has detailed information about the electorate in every ward of the city. After interacting with people, we can also add more details about a family and create specific profiles. With more information about people, like what issues concern them and what type of candidate they want, we can create a sharper campaign strategy in the days to come,” said Dhawan. The app also helps the party keep a tab on the performance of its workers in the membership drive. Even in the last election, parties had made use of data related to electorate and social media. However, this time around, the focus is on streamlining the message, said party insiders. “The social media use pattern has changed a lot since the last election. Different social media platforms are being used to approach different sets of electorate. The message is also being made crisper as people don’t even have time to watch small videos as their WhatsApp and Telegram groups are already full of messages,” said Mahendra Kumar Nirala, convener, IT Cell, Chandigarh BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-parties-tap-into-power-of-social-media-to-reach-out-to-voters-101636236330432.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Need-based changes: 3 special invitees included to CHB panel||The three non-official members of the Chandigarh Housing Board’s (CHB) board of directors have been included as special invitees to the committee constituted to examine requests for further need-based changes to residential units. They are former mayor Poonam Sharma, Chandigarh Resident Association of Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri and BJP leader Surinder Bahga. As per an order issued by the UT Adviser Dharam Pal, they will now be able to participate in meetings of the committee. CHB’s board of directors had constituted the eight-member committee on September 14 under the chairmanship of its secretary. CHB’s chairman, chief engineer, chief architect, architect, executive engineer (design), executive engineer (public health), executive engineer (electrical) and executive engineer (enforcement) are also members. Notably, the non-official members had last week supported the demand of long-time allottees for a one-time settlement for all violations. They also recommended an increase in the floor area ratio. The members favoured an amnesty scheme in Chandigarh on the lines of the Delhi module. In Delhi, there were 5 lakh residents facing demolition/cancellation orders for additions made to their houses. As it was not possible to demolish all such houses that had come up in the last 20 to 30 years, they increased the FAR and regularised the unauthorised constructions while charging one-time usage charges and never gave the legal right for extra construction beyond permissible limit. “A similar situation has risen in Chandigarh, as more than 60,000 residents are living under the threat of demolition /cancellation of their houses as they have covered extra area beyond permissible, but within boundary line,” they submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/needbased-changes-3-special-invitees-included-to-chb-panel-101636235430078.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||AQI back to moderate in Chandigarh||The city’s air quality index (AQI) finally turned moderate on Saturday, settling around 145 by late evening. The AQI had crossed 400 on Thursday (Diwali night) but had later dipped below 100. However on Friday, as many people burst crackers again, the AQI again went up to 315 as per the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) data. AQI past 300 is categorised as poor and it said to cause respiratory illnesses on prolonged exposure.While the city has two Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS), this spike was only seen at the Sector 22 observatory which is more centrally located in the city as compared to the Sector 25 observatory. CPCC member secretary Debendra Dalai said, “Not many crackers were burst on Friday but temperature had gone down on Friday night, so it is likely that temperature inversion played some role in this as well. Rest we urge people to follow the cracker ban as it is in their best interest.”The AQI had gone down to poor from 7 pm onwards and it took till midnight for the AQI to come down in the moderate bracket (below 200). It dipped below 100 into the satisfactory bracket at 5am on Saturday. Following this, the AQI alternated between satisfactory and moderate hereDry weather to continueDry weather is also likely to continue in the city as per the Met department. Maximum temperature dipped from 29.2 degrees on Friday to 28.3 degrees on Saturday. The minimum temperature went down from 12.7 degrees on Friday to 12.4 degrees on Saturday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 28 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 12 degrees and 13 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aqi-back-to-moderate-in-chandigarh-101636235070517.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||East MCD fines NCR transport body ₹50k for dust at RRTS site||The Shahdara south division of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Saturday imposed a fine of ₹50,000 against National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) for not having sufficient dust control measures at a construction site in east Delhi’s Anand Vihar.The officials said the penalised project is the construction of the Rapid Rail Transit System (RRTS) by the NCRTC near the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal (ISBT).Neeraj Kumar, junior engineer, Shahdara south division, EDMC, who issued the fine under Section 491 of the DCC Act, said the NCRTC has been directed to pay compensation of ₹50,000 for polluting the environment. “The fine is to be paid by bank cheque or demand draft, drawn in favour of commissioner, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, within five days at the zonal office building. Since the offending construction was found in a plot area of more than 500 square metres, the environmental compensation was kept at ₹50,000,” he said.The NCRTC, however, said that all norms prescribed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to mitigate pollution are being religiously followed at all RRTS construction sites, including Anand Vihar.“Anti-smog guns are operational round the clock to curb the dust, apart from regular sprinkling of water to settle the dust. Excavated soil and construction material are duly kept covered. C&D waste is being disposed of as per prescribed norms. Mechanized cleaning of roads through brooming machines is being done on a regular basis. High-pressure tyre washing facilities are also in operation to remove mud and dust from heavy truck tyres. The site is duly barricaded (2 to 4 mt height) near the smog tower at Anand Vihar to isolate it, the NCRTC said in a statement.“A dedicated team of environment and safety experts is duly monitoring these steps round the clock to ensure their effectiveness,” it added.Delhi’s air has been in the severe category of the air quality index since Diwali ( November 4), owing to a sharp increase in stubble burning in neighbouring and large-scale violations of the firecracker ban in Delhi on Diwali. The Delhi government on Saturday dispatched over 100 water tankers to sprinkle water on the roads to mitigate dust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-mcd-fines-ncr-transport-body-50k-for-dust-at-rrts-site-101636234806254.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area logs 136 more dengue cases||The tricity recorded 136 dengue cases on Saturday, of which a major chunk, 95 cases, came from Mohali. Chandigarh reported 25 cases while Panchkula had 16. However, no new death due to the disease was reported on the day. A mosquito-borne viral, the disease peaks between September and November every year. In October this year, it claimed 33 lives, including 31 in Mohali. The total number of cases in Mohali this year has reached 3,168, followed by 1,035 in Chandigarh and 676 in Panchkula. Mohali reports 10 new Covid casesThe tricity also logged 12 fresh cases of Covid on Saturday, of which the maximum came from Mohali. While Mohali had 10 cases, Panchkula and Chandigarh reported one each. Mohali’s cases surfaced from Dhakoli (7) Gharuan (1) and Kharar (2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-136-more-dengue-cases-101636234830020.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | Era of blood sport’s power||With the recent demise of Rai Shiv Chand of Bhallan, Nangal, at the ripe old age of 90, a distinctive era of the ‘power shikar’ culture embracing apex elites of the political, bureaucratic, army and erstwhile nobility came to an unheralded end. Chand was an influential jagirdar and a shikar chieftain who organised wild boar hunts across the Sutlej flanks and Shivalik ravines in peerless fashion from the 1960s-’80s. His house guests for a juicy boar barbeque attracted none less than politicians PS Badal, Captain Amarinder Singh, former Western Army commanders, Lt Gens KP Candeth and PN Hoon, the ‘flying Sikh’, Milkha Singh, the erstwhile hill rajahs and the cream of the Punjab IAS and IPS.“We organised 300-400 beaters, 150 hunting dogs and 40-50 guns for a boar shoot on the then CM Badal’s request in 1978,” Chand’s son, Tikka Yashvir Chand, told this writer. During that hunt, a shikari shot a sambar, which was banned under law. A Sambar poaching case was registered against Chand, which dragged on. But then apex bureaucrat and an inveterate partridge shikari, the late Kamal Nain Singh, came to Chand’s rescue.A chairman of the block/panchayat samitis, the popular Chand had told this writer before his death: “My modus operandi was simple. I would tell villagers: lend your shoulder to VVIP shoots by coming as beaters, boar trackers etc. A successful shoot helped me greatly to get their ‘works’ done with the government.” True to his word, following the proverbial Sunday shoot, Chand would land at the Civil Secretariat, Chandigarh, on Monday. His grand shikars paid handsome dividends: a red carpet would replace the proverbial red tape for his long list of ‘mere lokaan de kam’.Sporting handlebar moustaches, a 30.06 Winchester rifle and a tongue laced with saucy wit, Chand’s shikar recounts speared the high and mighty. The time when a sozzled hill rajah urinated in his pyjamas at Chand’s country mansion after a boar shoot as he could not get the strings undone in time. That IAS officer KS Bains was such a poor shot at flying partridge that it took a Herculean effort to keep lips locked. Chand was eye-witness to the ‘flying Sikh’ abandoning a sinking country boat on the Sutlej, leaving six-year-old Jeev in the lurch.The son of Rai Bahadur Hari Chand, an MLA of the Punjab assembly before and after Partition, Shiv Chand was appointed member, State Wildlife Advisory Board, in 1985, 2002 and 2017. He was sacked overnight in 2018 after he wrote a letter to Amarinder detailing a ruling heavyweight’s indulgence in ecological destruction and the sand mafia. Diwali bonanzaA ramble along the serene Sukhna Lake Nature Trail yields sightings of birds, animals and insects, apart from an occasional serpent. One creature to consistently defy a clear view is the Sukhna’s golden jackal. These agile creatures -- disreputed as ‘darpok gidhars’ in Punjabi lore -- are nevertheless a doughty species adapting to almost any environment.Their stealth presence at the Sukhna is revealed dramatically by eerie howls emitted at dusk and dawn, vocalisations that humans are more familiar with than the animal itself. Burrows engineered by Indian crested porcupine and inhabited jointly in relative harmony with rock pythons are situated off the trail and deeper in the Sukhna jungles. But some of these burrows bear signs of vicious conflicts with jackals, who seek to evict the residents and turn the multi-chambered, ready-made subterranean dwellings into dens for rearing pups.Well-known tricity IT entrepreneur, angel investor and international marathoner Munish Jauhar had attempted to photograph the jackals over the past year, but all he got for his exertions were visions of vanishing fur. Then, on Diwali, in the forenoon, lady luck smiled on Jauhar upon his venturing to the trail for a relaxing ramble.There he spotted a jackal equally enjoying the lonesome trail bereft of humans due to the festivities. The jackal was not edgy as normal and was sniffing the clean, cool air. Adopting a stealthy approach, Jauhar’s long lens was at last enabled to capture the Sukhna’s ‘sharmilee spirit’. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-era-of-blood-sport-s-power-101636234710958.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers stall Sooryavanshi screening at 2 multiplexes in Zirakpur||High drama was witnessed outside two multiplexes, Dhillon Plaza and Cosmo Plaza, in Zirakpur on Saturday as a group of farmers, protesting against agricultural reforms, reached there to stop the screening of Akshay Kumar-starrer Sooryavanshi .In August too, farmers had stopped the screening of Akshay Kumar starrer Bell Bottom. Farmers alleged that the film Sooryavanshi favours PM Narendra Modi, who according to them is “anti-farmer” as he has passed “Tughlaki” bills which will ruin the future of farmers. The farmers said Akshay Kumar had become a “puppet in the PM’s hands” because of which they are opposing the screening of his film. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), Mohali, vice-president Kirpal Singh Siau said, “Narendra Modi has planned to ruin the future of farmers, while film actors like Akshay Kumar are blindly following in his footsteps. We will not allow his films to run in Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-stall-sooryavanshi-screening-at-2-multiplexes-in-zirakpur-101636234410459.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | The quiet dignity of the hero of Bangladesh||A few years after I retired, I was invited by my alma mater, Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering, Secunderabad, to share my thoughts on professional ethics in the corps with trainee officers. I had to take an early flight from New Delhi to be able to address the officers in a two-hour post-lunch session. I was standing patiently in the ‘economy’ check-in queue, when I spotted a tall handsome gentleman in a light-coloured suit and regimental tie, whose face looked familiar, a few steps ahead in the jumbled line. Soon, I realized that he was none other than lieutenant general Jagjit Singh Aurora (retd), the hero of Bangladesh.We had met very briefly at the India International Centre on an earlier occasion. The decorated three stars general, who had many firsts to his credit, was considered an epitome of civilized behaviour, man of spotless integrity and a highly-rated professional soldier. He was cool and calm and waited patiently for his turn. After confirming my position with the lady behind me, I stepped out and said, “Good morning, sir.” Needless to say, he was pleased to meet me and also recalled meeting me earlier.Suddenly, a self-important woman with sunglasses perched dangerously on her forehead arrived from nowhere and attracted glances from one and all. She behaved as though she owned the airport and looked down at the rest of us with an ‘I could not care less’ attitude. I saw two youngsters pushing autograph books towards the woman, who turned out to be a south Indian actor. I also realised that the staff manning the business-class counter was going out of the way to be extra nice to the passengers. I felt helpless at my plight and continued waiting for my turn till a burly Sikh at the counter rudely snatched the ticket from my hand. Normally I’d have taken objection to such a conduct, but good sense prevailed and I held my peace. Sometime later, I observed a number of people running around in obvious excitement. It took me some time to understand the reason. A short, fat man in his forties, with marigold garlands around his neck, was waiving furiously at his supporters who were raising slogans outside the gate. The burly Sikh at the ‘economy’ counter, who had not bothered to even look at me, while handing over the ticket to me only a few minutes earlier, had taken upon himself the responsibility of escorting the ‘neta ji’ to a safe place, away from the prying eyes of ordinary mortals like me. People were shoving each other to shake hands with the VIP, while an important-looking lady requested someone to take her snap with the leader. He was the centre of attraction and was busy acknowledging the greetings of people gathered around him. The crowd kept adding and ‘neta ji’ seemed to be enjoying every bit of attention he was getting. Pretty soon it was time to board the flight. However, ‘neta ji’ did not have to go through the mandatory security check and was followed by a couple of people who helped him to get to the aircraft. The Lt-Gen and I took our respective seats. On my request, a fellow passenger exchanged his seat so that I could sit next to him. We traveled together and exchanged views, on obvious topics like our political system, governance, and corruption. I often wonder why a small-time politician from God knows which political party who, in all probability, lacked almost every trait civilized human beings are characterized by was so important and a gallant soldier, who along with many others was responsible for helping his countrymen live free with dignity, was neglected. No one had noticed and recognised the man whose photographs were splashed in all newspapers of the world during the 1971 Indo-Pak conflict. He had politely taken his own turn in the queue in the ‘economy’ class but a starlet and the rowdy politician had hogged all the limelight. Que sera sera!colcheema1942@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-the-quiet-dignity-of-the-hero-of-bangladesh-101636234349768.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||MACT awards ₹18 lakh relief to Panchakula road mishap victim’s family||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Panchkula, awarded ₹18 lakh compensation to a road mishap victim’s family. The petition was filed by the wife and five children of the victim, Ramcharan of Shamtoo village of Panchkula, stating that they were on the verge of starvation following his death.The victim’s wife, Reena Devi, 33, stated that on February 22, 2019, Ramcharan was heading to Sarawan village of Yamunanagar on motorcycle. His nephew, Gurmeet, and uncle, Puneet Kumar, were following him on another motorcycle.As they reached Bhurewala village of Ambala, a speeding bike rammed into the victim’s two-wheeler, leaving him grievously injured. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he was declared brought dead.The petition was filed against Jasbir Singh of Khera village in Ambala, who was riding the bike that led to the mishap, Hoshiar Singh of Panchkula, the owner of the bike, and insurer United India Insurance Company Ltd, Panchkula.Ramcharan’s family stated that he was a band master of a brass band and used to earn ₹15,000 a month. The family further stated that his death had pushed them on the verge of starvation.The defendants Jasbir Singh and Hoshiar Singh pleaded that the accident took place due to rash and negligent driving by the victim himself.The Insurance Company, in its separate written statement, took various preliminary objections. It stated that Jasbir was not holding a valid and effecting driving licence at the time of the alleged accident and that the insured violated the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. It also stated if any accident took place, it was on account of rash and negligent driving of victim himself.After hearing both sides, the court awarded compensation of ₹18,86,000 payable by all the respondents jointly and severally together with costs; and interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of institution of the petition till realisation.The tribunal added that since the offending vehicle was duly insured, the primary responsibility to pay compensation amount shall be that of the insurance compan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mact-awards-rs-18-lakh-relief-to-panchakula-road-mishap-victim-s-family-101636234169778.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Random Forays | The inimitable charm of book launches||Some of my most memorable moments have been spent while attending book launches and basking in their literary glows. People who make it convenient to be present at a book launch, despite the pulls, pressures, deadlines and targets of today’s world, generally feel elevated afterwards.Book launches are occasions to savour and relish. No such event leaves the audience feeling morose, shaken or put off. Barring the usual exceptions, book launches are feel-good, uplifting and elevating experiences. The author in question usually looks and behaves like a newly-wed, glowing at all the praise which inevitably comes his or her way. He blushes quite often too. Guests who are invited to deliver speeches are typically erudite, expressive and distinguished individuals. Such luminaries make it a point to praise not only the book but also the author to the skies. At times some suggestions for the author’s future journey will also be offered, especially by those who have long traversed the same dusty pathways.The lighter side of a book launch also deserves a mention or two. Most attendees are there not so much for the love of books but for the love of the host. And the host usually is the writer himself. He will thus keep an eye on the doorway to see who all have actually popped in, knowing well that an invitation to cocktails would have ensured more footfall. Book launches are normally morning or afternoon affairs. Tea, coffee and cakes are more the norm at these dos than the bubblier stuff. Some individuals show up just to be seen at an intellectual gathering for a change. Others simply want to exchange glances with the author who is on stage and mark their presence. They will then make their exit asap, since they are usually headed to more entertaining jaunts thereafter. Why waste an opportunity to have some real fun now that they’re all dressed up?But to be fair, such escapees are not many in number. A large portion of the gathering at a book launch will genuinely enjoy the whiff and feel of an embalming afternoon, well aware that coffee and conversation are in the offing. Such human beings will also share some of the author’s glee at having accomplished the life long objective of becoming a published writer. Even those who have been there and done that before will never tire of the adulation and affection that they receive at their umpteenth book launch.Our Chandigarh Literary Society has organised dozens of these launches and continues to do so, thereby giving fledgling authors the hope that they too, one day, will be propelled to the stage and to the limelight. Which brings me very humbly to the subject of the recent launch of “It’s Still A Wonderful Life” published by Ferntree, which, happily, is a collection of 120 of these random forays. This column is as much the reader’s property, as it is mine or the Hindustan Times’. Together we have traversed five long years, and the upheavals, highs and lows of life have been encapsulated by this columnist to the best of his ability. The endeavour of this column has been to foray into as many territories as possible without treading into the unknown. Thus, from love and relationships to social media and governance, one has been able to paint a largish canvas.The aim, above all, has been to leave the reader with some hope for the future, some balm for the mind, and some calm for the soul. Thus, to choose the title of one of these pieces to be the title of the book, was not a tough decision.An author’s life is not just about writing, though it is primarily that. It is also about editing, getting published, promoting one’s work and then basking in glory, however dimly lit the horizon may be.“Success comes to a writer, as a rule, so gradually that it is always something of a shock to him to look back and realize the heights to which he has risen”, said my favourite man of words, PG Wodehouse. Book launches are celebrations which assure writers that “It’s still a wonderful life”, after all!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-the-inimitable-charm-of-book-launches-101636234109849.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | Singing it anew: Song of Malwa’s Rani Rupmati||This fortnight, our journey is to Malwa, but the one in the south-east of Punjab - the volcanic upland beyond the Vindhya Range in Madhya Pradesh. To tell you the truth, one did not know like many other Punjabis that Malwa existed elsewhere other than the one in their own state. One recalls a mushaira at our city’s Tagore Theatre, way back in the 70s, where the late poet, Ali Sardar Jafri, referred to the Malwa region of central India as he recited his famous love couplet: ‘Har ashiq hai Sardar yahan, har mashooqa Sultana hai’. (Here every lover is Sardar and every beloved a Sultana’. He was playing on his own name and that of his wife, but many of us desi folks thought that he was referring to us sardars and our own Malwa region of Bathinda fame. He had to clarify that his intent was to pun on his own name and that of Baz Bahadur, the Sultan of Malwa.Yes, one is suddenly in the throes of the love legend of Rani Rupmati and Baz Bahadur, which stepped out of history into myth way back in the 16th century. The reason being that the Rani, famed for her beauty and often referred to as the lotus lady, has returned to retell her story. Believe it or not, but this is what poet and scholar Priyadarshi Thakur ‘Khayal’ says of his debut novel in English titled ‘Padmini of Malwa: The Autobiography Of Rani Ruupmati’. The extra ‘u’ in the name is to get the phonetics right. Doing research on this tragic story of love, for we in India enjoy our love tragedies just as much as the western world does its love comedies, the author almost gave up till Rupmati appeared in person to dictate her story to him. Believe me, such things do happen to writers for their imagination is more vivid than the rest. So, the author humbly affirms that it is the Rani telling her story and he is merely her scribe. He adds, “Love and marriage between individuals from different faiths and communities not entirely at peace with each other was an extremely sensitive subject in the Rani’s time, and continues to be so, to this day. On behalf of Rani Rupmati, this scribe therefore asks his readers for the humanity and understanding that this story deserves.”A riveting taleBaz Bahadur was the last independent sultan of Malwa and a musician to boot. Rupmati was poet, singer and musician with Raag Bhoop Kalyan to her credit, besides being an exceptional beauty. These star-crossed lovers of the times of Mughal emperor Akbar lost each other with the Rupmati taking her life at the age of 21, after six years of a passionate union, and Baz fleeing Mandu after being defeated by Adham Khan, who had been sent by the emperor to conquer Mandu.Priyadarshi tells the story so well that one cannot put down the novel, once one starts reading it - right from Rupmati’s childhood to her last breath. Fact and fable come together with such appeal and creativity that one is almost transported to those times in the forest of Malwa and the building of the palace of Mandu with its Reva-kund because his love wants to catch a view of the Narmada River for it was on its banks that she grew up and in local parlance it is called Reva. What is interesting is the handling of the condition of women in the feudal times when battles were fought over their bodies.Rupmati, like other women of her times, are mere objects for the men who own them by birth or abduction. Here the courageous young Rupmati chooses her own path and follows the heart’s desire. Even the great love between the two has to deal with this contradiction. Rupmati, like other women of her times, are mere objects for the men who own them by birth or abduction. Here the courageous young Rupmati chooses her own path and follows the heart’s desire. Even the great love between the two has to deal with this contradiction. Referring to the self-immolation by Rani Padmini of Chittor, Baz, says: “I have got my Padmini without much ado…” The era with its mood and frailties is captured with finesseLegends never dieFact or fiction, legends never die and more so those of love. The story of Rupmati and Baz Bahadur has been told over and again in folk songs, ballads and poems over the centuries. In 1975, SN Tripathi made a feature film Rani Rupmati with yesteryear stars Nirupa Roy, goddess of the mythological films of yore, playing Rupmati and Bharat Bhushan, Baz. A song from the film composed by Tripathi and written by Bharat Vyas and sung by Lata Mangeshkar and Mukesh, respectively, is evergreen even today: ‘Aaa laut ke aaja mere meet, tujhe mere geet bulate hain’ (Return to me my love, My songs call out to you). Madhya Pradesh tourism thrives in Mandu as a holiday destination for lovers and bards still sing ballads to the tragic lovers. This year, it has started its own cultural festival.nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-singing-it-anew-song-of-malwa-s-rani-rupmati-101636233810222.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to transfer management of internal market parking lots to traders||The municipal corporation is all set to transfer the management and running of parking lots in all internal markets to the market associations concerned.The market associations will either run these parking lots free of cost or charge nominal rates. MC will be signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the associations to lay down the modalities for parking handover and operation.All markets on the V4 (internal) roads are to be transferred to the associations.Confirming the development, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said an agenda on the issue will be submitted before the MC General House meet.The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM), an umbrella organisation of 80 market associations, has been holding meetings with MC officials on the issue. “There are two models and corresponding two MoU shortlisted. We will either operate the parking free of cost, or charge at cost to cover expenses, which will come at around ₹5 for car parking and ₹2 for scooter parking. The final decision on the issue will be taken by the House,” said Charanjiv Singh, nominated councilor and president, CBM.There are around 60 such markets, though under MC, but are not being managed by it. There is a lot of chaos in the internal markets. MC’s attempts to bring these parking lots under the purview of private parking contractors, has been opposed by the market associations. Associations contend that handing over the parking to contractors will increase parking rates, making the markets unattractive for shoppers.“The associations would manage these parking lots better than the private contractors. We don’t have any profit in running parking. Our aim is only to organise the parking in a better way so that visitors don’t face any hassles. In our experience, better organised market parking make these more attractive to shoppers,” said Singh.The market associations will pool their own fund if required to cover the expenses of managing these parking spaces.Notably, the city has currently, 89 parking lots under the management of private contractors. These cover all the main markets, office centres, commercial and institutional areas. The charges here are ₹12 for car and ₹5 for two-wheelers.The working and efficiency of these parking contractors have come under scanner in recent times. MC has repeatedly fined the parking contractors for failing to manage the parking lots properly and as per their contract with the MC.“The market associations can do a better job as they are the stakeholders in the market. Handing over the parking to market associations is a win-win situation for the MC, associations and the shoppers,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-transfer-management-of-internal-market-parking-lots-to-traders-101636233629646.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz | How old is Chandigarh? 55 or 70? Residents agree to disagree||Is Chandigarh 55 or 70 years old? Last week, the UT Administration celebrated 55 years of City Beautiful’s foundation; some official releases used the word formation. On November 1, 1966, the city was designated a Union Territory, the joint capital of Punjab and the newly created state of Haryana. The administration marked November 1 as the city’s formation/foundation day, but some residents disagreed. Their contention: The foundation stone of the city was laid in 1952, and this should be considered its formation day, and not when it got the status of a UT. “If it’s about the city, it’s 70 years since its formation. The change of legal nomenclature or jurisdiction happened on November 1, 1966, but it shouldn’t be considered as its foundation day,” said a resident. A senior official contended, “On November 1, 1966, the city was declared a UT and by convention, it is considered the foundation day. So, the administration followed the tradition.” Cops crack down on cracker ban violators Enforcing the ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in Chandigarh this Diwali kept UT cops on their toes. Residents flocked to neighbouring Mohali, where crackers were easily available, and the ban went up in smoke on D-day. The 600 cops deployed to maintain law and order on Diwali night ended up chasing cracker enthusiasts, who would scurry for cover the moment they heard the siren of a police vehicle. Ex-minister Balbir Sidhu visits Mohali gaushala on Diwali On Diwali, former Punjab minister Balbir Singh Sidhu took time out to offer prayers at the Bal Gopal Gaushala in Balongi, Mohali, and later fed cattle fodder. A three-time Congress MLA, he is set to contest the assembly elections from Mohali early next year. A sweet gesture from SP With 600 Chandigarh Police personnel on law and order duty in the city on Diwali, superintendent of police (SP), city, Ketan Bansal was seen meeting and greeting his men on the ground. Bansal distributed sweets to the cops on duty and completed the celebrations. Rough patch on road to Chandigarh’s glitzy mall Chandigarh’s Elante Mall buzzes with customers from across the region once the festive season arrives. But the one impression that many visitors take back is of the potholed and broken road leading to the mall in Chandigarh’s Industrial Area. There is one patch that is always in need of repair and drives visitors to take the wrong way, leading to accidents. Weather god ensures city breathes easy this Diwali While the air quality index (AQI) in Chandigarh fell in the severe category on Diwali night, the weather god ensured that the city woke up to clean air on Friday. According to pollution control officials, at its peak, the air quality had gotten much worse than previous years, however winds blowing in the region from the northwest ensured that pollution was reduced. Diwali was celebrated relatively early before the temperature fell and air quality was back to normal within hours. NEET result finally out after long wait The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) result for admission to medical colleges in the country was declared last week after giving students sleepless nights. While the Supreme Court had given the National Testing Agency the green signal to release the results last week itself, students had to wait till Monday evening. The results were emailed to students and all emails weren’t sent out at the same time due to which many students had to wait anxiously even while their peers were already celebrating. The coaching centres were also in a fix, checking with their toppers and verifying the results in a race against the clock, while the deadline of newspapers drew near. Excitement back at PU as students prepare for fests College students have begun preparing for the zonal youth festivals of Panjab University. The university has 12 zones, including Chandigarh, and the festivals will be held in this month itself. Students excelling in zonal festivals will participate in the inter-zonal youth festival in December. The students had missed the youth festival last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic but excitement is back on the campus again this year. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-how-old-is-chandigarh-55-or-70-residents-agree-to-disagree-101636232911080.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pune cricket tournament: Chandigarh eves lose fifth tie in row||Playing in their fifth and last league game against Mumbai, Chandigarh lost the contest by a huge margin of 112 runs in the inter-state one-day cricket tournament in Pune on Saturday.Batting first, Mumbai hammered 300 runs losing six wickets in 50 overs. Mumbai were propped by centuries from RS Chaudhari (129) and H Kazi (102). For Chandigarh, medium-pacer Priyanka scalped four wickets, giving away 42 runs. In reply, Chandigarh women were bowled out for 188 runs in 49.2 overs. Chandigarh women had a dismal tournament, losing all their league games. Led by Amanjot Kaur and coached by Nagesh Gupta, the Chandigarh team lost to Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Railways in the previous matches. Brief scoresMumbai: 300 for 6 in 50 overs (RS Chaudhari 129, H Kazi 102, Priyanka Guleria 4 for 42) beat Chandigarh: 188 all out in 49.2 overs (Palak Rana 74, Amanjot Kaur 37, Saniya H Raut 3 for 19) by 112 runsChandigarh men lose third game on trot
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy: Prabhsimran’s ton sets up Punjab win over Goa||Riding on Prabhsimran Singh’s brilliant 61-ball knock of 119 runs, Punjab recorded a fine 81-run win over Goa in the Elite Group A league game during the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy in Lucknow on Saturday. Batting first, Punjab scored 197 for 4 in 20 overs. Prabhsimran hammered 119 runs while Shubman Gill made 40 runs. For Goa, Shubham Ranjane (2 for 27) was the most successful wicket-taker. Replying, Goa could not achieve the target and scored 116 for 8 in 20 overs. For Punjab, Siddharth Kaul (3 for 21), Harpreet Brar (2 for 12) and Mayank Markande (2 for 29) bowled well. Punjab eves drub Rajasthan Buoyed by Kanika Ahuja’s knock of 90 runs and Neelam Bisht’s four wickets, Punjab recorded a fine two-wicket win over Rajasthan in a match played during the inter-state one-day cricket tournament in Bengaluru on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/syed-mushtaq-ali-t20-trophy-prabhsimran-s-ton-sets-up-punjab-win-over-goa-101636232189345.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula Citizens’ Welfare Association seeks uniform parking rates||Seeking uniformity in parking rates, members of the Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA), Panchkula, have written to Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner, Panchkula.The association said the parking fee in Sectors 8, 9, and 10 was ₹10 as it was charged by the child welfare department (Red Cross) while on the other hand, the municipal corporation (MC) was charging ₹12 per vehicle for Sectors 14 and 20.In the government hospital, the parking fee is as high as ₹20 per vehicle. “This is a bad move taken by the two departments controlled by one government in one city,” SK Nayar, president of the association, said.He added: “The DC had assigned the parking responsibility of Sectors 8, 9 and 10 to the Red Cross under the control of the child welfare department in shape to provide financial aid through the parking fee and the rates were fixed at ₹10 for each vehicle. The rates have been increased by the MC in the parking lots under its control. It is an unjustified action initiated by the Panchkula MC.”The association has demanded that the MC should streamline the disparity of charging the parking fee in the public interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-citizens-welfare-association-seeks-uniform-parking-rates-101636232009181.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU murder: Preliminary report suggests Prof’s wife died of strangulation||Though cops are yet to identify the accused in the murder of Seema Goyal, wife of Panjab University (PU) professor BB Goyal, preliminary post-mortem suggests she was strangulated to death. In his statement to police, Prof Goyal said that on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, his wife was sleeping in a bedroom of the ground floor while he was in a room on the first floor. Their daughter was not present in the house. On Thursday, around 7:30 in the morning, he received a call on his mobile phone from his milkman, who told him to collect milk packets left at the main gate. When he came down to the ground floor, he was unable to open the main door. He then went to the gate using the kitchen door and later found that the main door was locked from outside. On entering the house again, he went to his wife’s room, and reportedly found her lying unconscious on the bed, with her hands and legs tied with a cloth. She was rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where she was declared brought dead.Marks on neck, head A senior official of Chandigarh police, privy to the investigation, said, “There were strangulation marks on the victim’s neck and some injuries on her head. As per preliminary findings, asphyxia was the cause of death but we are waiting for the complete report.”No sign of forced entry Senior police officials added that investigations so far do not suggest forced entry, however, they have found the mesh doors of the kitchen and a bedroom in which Seema was found murdered, tampered with. “The investigations do not suggest forced entry but the mesh of two doors were slightly removed, so entry by opening the door bolts cannot be ruled out,” added the senior police official. Police added that even closed-circuit television cameras in the area have so far been unable to throw up any clues about the accused. Sources said no one has been seen entering or leaving the house in the footage. Superintendent of police (SP, City) Ketan Bansal said, “Two teams are looking into the CCTV footage gathered from the area. We have also collected the mobile dump data. Statements of family members and relatives are being recorded.” No trace of victim’s mobile As per police sources, there is still no trace of the victim’s mobile phone though they have searched the entire house and even used technical surveillance methods.The couple lived with their daughter in an independent house that shares its rear boundary wall with the vice-chancellor’s official residence, a high-security area on the campus. A case was registered against the unknown assailant under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the police station in Sector 11 on statement of BB Goyal, who was sleeping on the first floor of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-murder-preliminary-report-suggests-prof-s-wife-died-of-strangulation-101636231889131.html
07-11-2021||Other||Woman, daughter found murdered in Amritsar||Amritsar Sharanjit Kaur, 34, and her 10-year-old daughter, Rozleen Kaur, were found murdered in the courtyard of their house situated in Baba Bakala village on Saturday; with the woman’s son, Abhijot Singh, found to have been locked in a room inside the house. Baba Bakala Chowki in-charge Paramjit Singh said, “As per the statement of Sharanjit’s brother Prabhjot Singh, her husband Rajinder Singh who is constable in the army, has an affair with a woman.” On Prabhjot’s complaint, a case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC has been registered against Rajinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-daughter-found-murdered-in-amritsar-101636231469005.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Garbage heaps an eyesore in Ludhiana after Diwali||Even as residents deep cleaned their houses ahead of the festival of lights, heaps of garbage continued to be an eyesore at secondary dumping sites and along roads after the municipal corporation’s mega cleanliness drive phased out after Diwali on November 4. The accumulated garbage spread across the roads in Shivpuri, Dugri, and Model Town among other areas disturbing the flow of traffic on Saturday. Residents, shopkeepers and commuters also faced a harrowing time. The foul smell that pervaded the area also added to locals’ woes. Shopkeepers have been raising the issue of open dumping time and again, but to no avail. The mega cleanliness drive that had been launched with much fanfare on November 1, ahead of Diwali, has not helped rein in open dumping of garbage across the city. Besides, the MC’s tall claims of installing static compactors under the Smart City Mission have also fallen flat. The proprietor of a shop near the Shivpuri dumpsite, Sandeep, said, “The dump occupies a portion of the road. As large amounts of trash are dumped at the site it eventually spreads out, littering the roads and the area around our shops. The unhygienic conditions affects both – our health and our business.” “When we take up the matter with MC officials, they ask us to name an alternative site. The staff deputed at the dump site also misbehaves with residents,” he alleged. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had also inspected the different dump sites across the district, including the defunct static compactor site near the Dugri Canal Bridge on November 2 and directed authorities to expedite the process to lifting the garbage on a daily basis.A resident of Guru Gyan Vihar, Gurmeet Singh, said,” Heaps of garbage can be seen at Dugri Point on any given day. Authorities claim that the compactors have developed a snag, which shows their lackadaisical approach. As the dump site is situated near the traffic lights, it is difficult to stand at the signal due to the foul smell.”Officials, however, say that around 1,100 metric tons of garbage is generated in the city on a daily basis, which increases to over 1,700 metric tonnes on Diwali, which increases the pressure on dump sites. MC health officer Vipal Malhotra said, “Though half-day leave was given to the staff on Diwali and Vishwakarma Day, but the lifting process was not hit. On Saturday, too, MC staff and the contractor company’s staff were lifting the garbage from different points. Work will continue till midnight to clear the dump sites.”The city has around 40 secondary dump sites. The waste collected from houses is dumped at the secondary dump sites, from where it is shifted to the main dump site of the MC at Tajpur Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/garbage-heaps-an-eyesore-in-ludhiana-after-diwali-101636231289701.html
07-11-2021||Other||Pass order to stop extension of BSF jurisdiction: SAD core panel||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday asked Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to take a firm decision in the state cabinet on stopping the deployment of border security force (BSF) in the state. SAD also demanded an executive decision to stop the implementation of the three farm laws passed by the centre, last year. The issues were taken up in the party’s top decision making body, the core committee, meeting held on Saturday, chaired by the party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. “The Congress government in state is befooling the people of Punjab by offering a Vidhan Sabha resolution on these two issues, while the fact is the government is empowered to stop the implementation of the Centre’s orders on issues which fall under the state government’s jurisdiction,” said Sukhbir. “It is for the executive to decide what its administrative machinery would allow or disallow in the state. The Vidhan Sabha resolution is at best an expression of intent,” said a resolution passed by the SAD Core Committee. On the core committee proceedings, principal adviser to the SAD president Harcharan Bains, said party leaders also slammed the decision of the Centre to extend the provisions of J&K anti-terror act to Punjab also, calling it an assault on federalism. According to Bains, the core committee also blasted Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for endorsing the elevation of Jagdish Tytler in the party by the high command. Another resolution by the core committee condemned the repression unleashed on the peacefully protesting SAD workers outside the CM’s residence on Saturday. The core committee also demanded a compensation of ₹50,000 and ₹15,000 per acre respectively to farmers and farm labour affected by the crop damage due to Pink Bollworm.“The compensation of ₹12,000 announced by the Channi govt is a joke on farmers and farm labour,” said the committee. Another resolution came down heavily against the closure of a large number of agricultural markets in Punjab, said BainsBalwinder Singh Bhundar, Bibi Jagir Kaur, Prem Singh Chandumara, Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Daljit Singh Cheema, Bikram Singh Majitha, Sikander Singh Maluka, Hira Singh Gabria, Jagmeet Singh Brar, Gulzar Singh Ranike, Surjit Singh Rakhra and Baldev Singh Mann were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pass-order-to-stop-extension-of-bsf-jurisdiction-sad-core-panel-101636230628934.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Two dead after blaze at a residential building in Mumbai||Two people succumbed to their burn injuries after a fire broke out at a 15-storey residential building in Mumbai’s Kandivali (West) late on Saturday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. The fire started in a flat on the 14th floor of Hansa Heritage around 8:30 pm, he added. “The fire probably started due to a diya kept in the balcony of one of the houses on the 14th floor. Due to high wind speed, the fire spread to 15th floor. So far, five people have been rescued,” said Mayor Kishori Pednekar. Two people with severe burns died during treatment, BMC said. The fire was doused after midnight, the mayor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-dead-after-blaze-at-a-residential-building-in-mumbai-101636230320671.html
07-11-2021||Other||Factionalism in Batala Cong: Sekhri claims Bajwa poses life threat to him||Batala Factionalism has reared its head in the Batala Congress again with former MLA Ashwani Sekhri accusing Punjab cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa of ‘posing a life threat’ to him with the help of criminal elements. Sekhri claimed that he will write to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the Congress high command, complaining about the behaviour of Bajwa, who is the serving MLA from the adjoining constituency Fatehgarh Churian.Batala, the assembly constituency of Gurdaspur, has history of such war of words between Sekhri and Bajwa. To quell this, Sekhri was seen as having been placated with appointment as chairman of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC). He also termed Bajwa as super chief minister. Responding to the allegations, Bajwa said, “Whatever is he saying about me makes no sense. Nor is he speaking the truth.”Both the leaders are in feud for long time. Despite being elected from the adjoining constituency, Bajwa takes interest in Batala, which is the stronghold of Sekhri, a prominent Hindu face of the party in the Majha region. The three-time MLA is also staking claim of the party ticket for upcoming assembly elections.After getting made a Punjab minister in 2017, Bajwa started increasing his influence in segment and managed to put his loyalists at the helm in the Batala municipal corporation, Improvement Trust and the Market Committee, thereby marginalising Sekhri. In September last year, Sekhri had filed a police complaint against Bajwa for ‘ignoring’ Covid-19 norms. Sekhri lost the 2017 assembly elections to SAD candidate Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal by 500 votes.After Sekhri planned to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), recently, the then CM Captain Amarinder Singh gave him the key post of PHSC chairman. Bajwa then sided with the anti-Amarinder faction at the state level. After this, Bajwa’s wings were clipped and his loyalists removed from the Batala local bodies. This paved the way for the re-emergence of Sekhri. However, exit of Capt Amarinder has again resulted in the revival of Bajwa and he ensured his loyalists get the key posts again.Now, despite the post, Sekhri is feeling suffocated in his bastion. His aides are not sure that he will get the party ticket, even as Bajwa has made it clear that he will contest from Fatehgarh Churian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/factionalism-in-batala-cong-sekhri-claims-bajwa-poses-life-threat-to-him-101636230268682.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur reports 13 more Zika cases, tally climbs to 79||Thirteen new cases of Zika virus were reported in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur on Saturday, taking the tally of the mosquito-borne disease in the district to 79, health officials said.The first case of the Zika virus in Kanpur was confirmed on October 23. An IAF warrant officer suffering from fever was admitted to the Air Force hospital. His samples were sent to SGPGIMS (Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences) in Lucknow, where it was confirmed that he was infected with the Zika virus.The Union health ministry then sent a high-level multidisciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh to monitor the situation.A high alert has been sounded in the periphery of hangars of the IAF station, said a senior health officer. Twelve localities in Kanpur have, so far, reported cases of the virus.All the new cases have been reported from the localities around the India Air Force station in Chakeri area of Kanpur, said district magistrate Vishakh G Iyer. “We are regularly monitoring infected persons the way we had kept a vigil on Covid-19 infected patients”.In view of the rising cases, chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a high-level meeting on Saturday. “Infection with the Zika virus is spreading rapidly in Kanpur. Considering the seriousness, special caution is required. Dengue testing should also be intensified. Arrangements should have been made in all hospitals. The health of each patient should be continuously monitored,” he said.Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of infected Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. According to the World Health Organisation, Aedes mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon or evening. In the normal course, the symptoms of the Zika virus disease are mild and include fever, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain and rashes.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-reports-13-more-zika-cases-tally-climbs-to-79-101636229953061.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||PUTA condemns delay in house allotment||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has condemned the delay by the university in the house allotment for teachers in G-type, F-type, T-1 and T-1 (flats) on the campus.The PUTA executive in its last meeting took a note of the issue after which the body wrote to the vice-chancellor (VC) urging him to clear the file at the earliest. Giving an ultimatum to the VC, they said the body would protest on November 8 if the file was not cleared by the VC till November 7. “The PUTA executive took a serious note of the manner in which the vice-chancellor has manipulated the issue of finalisation of the seniority list of teachers for G-type, F-type, T-1 and T-1 (flats), which was cleared by the DUI, chairperson of the house allotment committee, by keeping the file pending for a long time despite umpteen requests made by PUTA president and secretary in person,” reads the PUTA letter to the VC.The letter also stated that PUTA had also learnt that the vice-chancellor had in an unauthorised manner constituted a committee over and above the syndicate with the mala fide intentions to delay the process and extract a decision of his choice.PUTA said the teachers had been waiting for counselling for house allotment for so long and the last counselling for these houses was held in August 2020. They have urged the VC to clear the file by November 7 or else PUTA will hold a protest in front of the VC office on November 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/puta-condemns-delay-in-house-allotment-101636230148594.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Miffed over daughter’s elopement , Ludhiana man steals son-in-law’s SUV||Upset that his daughter had married the man of her choice against her family’s wishes, a Malerkotla resident stole his son-in-law’s borrowed car. The accused, Rachhpal Singh and his son Maninderdeep Singh, drove the SUV to Sangrur with intention to sell it. However, they were intercepted by the police and the vehicle was recovered. The complainant, Jagtar Singh, said he had married Rachhpal Singh’s daughter, Balpreet Kaur, two years ago against her family’s wishes and though they were on talking terms, the accused had nursed a grudge against him. Jagtar said he had taken his son, who was not well, to Jarkhar village in Dehlon on October 31 and had borrowed his friend, Zora Singh’s SUV for the trip. “My in-laws knew we were going to visit the gurdwara and the accused stole the vehicle when we went inside to pay obeisance. I immediately sounded to the police and lodged an FIR,” he said.Head constable, Malkit Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police had lodged an FIR under Sections 379 (theft), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Initially, the accused drove to Uttar Pradesh, and were caught when they came to sell the vehicle. They admitted that they stole the vehicle to teach Jagtar a lesson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/miffed-over-daughter-s-elopement-ludhiana-man-steals-son-in-law-s-suv-101636229908627.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PU non-teaching body polls on Nov 10||The election to the office-bearers of the Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA) has been scheduled for November 10. The election of the Panjab University Class ‘C’ Staff Association (PUCCSA) will also be held on the same date. This comes after the election of the PU teachers’ body (PUTA) was held in the last week of October. The elections of both PUSA and PUCCSA were earlier scheduled to be held in April but were postponed by the university due to the pandemic. According to a recent notice issued by the returning officer, the polling will be held from 9 am to 4 pm for both bodies and the counting of votes will be held on November 11 after which the results will be declared. Previously, the election was postponed twice in April due to the pandemic. Now the candidates who are contesting in these polls have started campaigning again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pu-non-teaching-body-polls-on-nov-10-postponed-twice-in-april-due-to-pandemic-101636229850904.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hopeful of reduction in VAT, Punjab petroleum dealers defer protest||Even as the Punjab government has already declared that it is considering reducing VAT on petrol and diesel, the Punjab Petroleum Dealers’ Association (PPDAP) executive body is putting on hold its agitation till the matter is decided by the Punjab cabinet.Paramjeet Singh Doaba, president, Punjab Petroleum Dealers Association, said, “We are hopeful that VAT on petrol and diesel will be reduced to bring prices on par or less than the neighbouring states. However, if VAT remains higher in Punjab, the movement shall resume after a meeting of the Punjab state executive body.”According to the association, petrol pump dealers are facing losses due to the higher VAT on petrol and diesel compared to the neighbouring states and Chandigarh. The non-revision of dealer margins from the last four years and state-owned oil marketing companies (OMCs) offloading their expenses onto dealers and locking supplies is hitting dealers badly.In the absence of margin revision and high fuel prices, the dealers in the state had earlier decided to limit their work timings for a single shift only from 7 am to 5 pm from November 7 for 15 days to cut their expenses and cover up losses.The Punjab government still hasn’t taken a call on VAT and petrol pump dealers in Mohali are facing losses with fuel in Chandigarh and Chandigarh being sold much cheaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hopeful-of-reduction-in-vat-punjab-petroleum-dealers-defer-protest-101636229728411.html
07-11-2021||Other||Punjab reports 12,000 farm fires in 3 days||Patiala With almost 4,000 cases of farm fires reported on Saturday, the spike is turning Punjab’s air toxic as major cities like Patiala, Sangrur and Ludhiana now have a visible layer of smog. Over the past three days, 12,301 cases have been reported; this is around 37% of 32,734 cases reported to date this season. In 2019, 4,741 active fire events were captured, with 3,858 in 2020.In the figures to date, 2020 had seen 52,890 cases much higher than this year. The number, however, is expected to spike this year, as untimely rain has delayed the harvest of paddy this year. Sangrur has reported 608 farm fires, the highest in Punjab; Barnala 351; Bathinda 252; Moga 422; Ludhiana 398 and Patiala 266. “After the Majha region, now the spurt of farm fires is in the Malwa region. The air quality is set to deteriorate for the next few days, as farmer unions oppose the central laws by burning straw,” said an agricultural department official.As far as the AQI is concerned, Patiala, Ludhiana, Bathinda recorded AQI above 300 (meant to denote emergency health situations). There is visible smog in the air of Patiala, Sangrur, Ludhiana and adjoining areas. The Punjab government has deputed 8,000 nodal officers to check farm fires, however, they fail to make any mark as no official is acting against farmers due to their stir that will soon complete a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-reports-12-000-farm-fires-in-3-days-101636229548520.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Slashing fuel price cruel joke, says former Chandigarh MP Pawan Bansal||Terming the cut in petrol and diesel prices as a “cruel joke”, senior Congress leader and former Chandigarh MP Pawan Kumar Bansal on Saturday said the relief was “too little, too late”.Bansal addressed meetings of Congress leaders and workers at the Rajiv Gandhi Congress Bhawan, Sector 35, and later, a public meeting in Sector 34 organised by the area councillor, Ravinder Kaur Gujral.Bansal said, “The prices were increased by ₹30 to 40 and relief given is ₹5 to ₹10 which is very less. The BJP-led Central government has become totally insensitive towards the common man.”Subhash Chawla, president, Chandigarh Congress, said, “The BJP-led municipal corporation has failed on all fronts.”Ravinder Kaur Gujral, area councillor, said, “The BJP cheated the residents by increasing water tariff and levying other taxes on them.” Meanwhile, HS Lucky, general secretary and chief spokesperson, city Congress, said the party would be stepping up its campaign in the coming days and lots of prominent party leaders would be coming to the city.AAP new joiningsFormer vice-president of the BSP Shiv Kumar Nathi along with his brother Deshraj Shanawar and his supporters joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) here on Saturday.AAP co-in-charge Pradeep Chhabra formally inducted Shiv Kumar and his supporters into the party fold.Chhabra said the joining of Shiv Kumar had strengthened the AAP in Ward No 7, as Kumar had secured a lot of votes in the municipal corporation elections held in 2011 and is known as an honest leader among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/slashing-fuel-price-cruel-joke-says-former-chandigarh-mp-pawan-bansal-101636229489146.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kirron Kher inaugurates community centre in Mauli Jagran; Devinder Babla questions timing||A new community centre in Mauli Jagran was inaugurated virtually by city MP Kirron Kher here on Saturday. She also laid the foundation stone of another community centre to come up in Sector 35.Constructed on 1.10 acres, the community centre in Mauli Jagran will cover an area of 11,400 sq ft. It has a parking facility for 50 cars and was constructed at a cost of ₹3.18 crore.For the reconstruction of the existing community centre in Sector 45-C, a plot of 0.76 acres has been earmarked. Estimated to cost ₹4.82 crore, it will be a two-storey building.Notably, in the next 12 days, from November 6 to 17, at least eight projects are either scheduled to be inaugurated or their foundation stone is to be laid. The MC election code of conduct is expected to be imposed after November 17. The MC elections are due in December this year.The projects include Mauli Jagran community centre opening, Sector 45 community centre foundation stone laying, opening of an auditorium at Sector 38, Mahila Bhawan, inauguration of green belt in 49-C&D, foundation stone laying of 24x7 water supply project in Manimajra, the inauguration of a community centre in Sector 38, foundation stone laying of a community centre in Kajheri and foundation stone laying of C&D waste plant automation.Meanwhile, the leader of opposition in the House and Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla questioned the timing of the launches. “For five years they were asleep and now they are on an inauguration and foundation-laying spree. Even those community centres, whose work has not been completed yet, are hurriedly being inaugurated with an eye on votes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kirron-kher-inaugurates-community-centre-in-mauli-jagran-devinder-babla-questions-timing-101636229190669.html
07-11-2021||Other||391 death spots dog Punjab’s roads in 12 districts||Chandigarh Punjab’s 12 districts have 391 death spots on the national highways and state highways; of these, 256 are on the national highways and remaining on 135 on state highways. The identification of these spots started two years ago, with the initiative of the Tandarust Mission, Punjab, that a private organisation is funding. The survey in the remaining ten districts of Punjab is underway and after its completion, the total number of fatal spots is expected to touch 800. According to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), a road accident black (death) spot on the national highways is a stretch on the highway of 500-600metre on which either five road accidents have taken place over the past three years or mishaps involving fatalities/grievous injuries or 10 fatalities within the same time frame. The report pinpoints ten most deadly spots in these districts, where 261 deaths have occurred in three years from January 2017 to December 2019, of which the most fatal spots are Malakpur T-point in Ropar district where 54 deaths have occurred due to accidents, Gurdwara Nabha Sahib, Mohali (46) and Tajpur-cut-Samrala Chowk-Vardhman Chowk, Ludhiana (31). Subsequent to this report compiled by the Punjab Road Safety and Traffic Research Centre, Mohali, the NHAI has started taking corrective steps on the roads it has built. Authority added that works to the tune of ₹300 crore have been identified. 13 deaths a day from 2011-2019, state police recordFrom 2011 to 2019, 42,658 persons had died in road accidents, with a daily average of 13 deaths, record with the state police shows. There were 58,269 accidents on the state’s roads in which 42,658 people lost their lives and 35,606 were injured. The year 2016 was deadliest, when 6,952 accidents took place and 5,077 lives were lost. “Road fatalities is the product of human error, road indiscipline, bad road engineering, and inadequate traffic management. The NHAI is spending about ₹300 crore this fiscal to improve accidents black spots, in addition to constructing large number of bypasses and vehicular underpasses at identified spots,” said NHAI adviser Kahan Singh Pannu. He suggested that state government should also strengthen traffic police manpower in proportion to the increased density of vehicles and employ new traffic control technologies. Dr Navdeep Asija, traffic adviser, with the State Road Safety and Traffic Research Centre told HT, “Scanning FIRs related to all the accidents is a tedious process and work remaining districts is going on. Identification of deadly spots and deaths in accidents from cases registered is done by our team,” he added.He added that national highways comprise 4.6% of 72,000-km road network in the state, on which 80% of accidents take place. “The NHAI has asked state to provide data so that corrective steps could be taken,” said Asija. The deadliest hours on the road, in which 20% of fatal accidents take place is between 6 pm and 9pm; in terms of area classification, rural areas of the state account for 59% of accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/391-death-spots-dog-punjab-s-roads-in-12-districts-101636229188569.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali man stabbed to death on Diwali; police yet to arrest accused||The police are yet to arrest the accused who had stabbed a migrant to death when he had gone to buy crackers for his children on Diwali night. The deceased has been identified as Raje,34, of Behlolpur village in Mohali. The deceased, who hailed from Bihar, used to stay with his wife and children in a rented accommodation in the village. Raj Kumar, the nephew of the deceased, told the police that on November 4, Raje had come to his house at 3 pm to borrow his motorcycle. He had told him that he was going to buy crackers for his children. At 5:45 pm, Raj Kumar received a call from an unknown number informing him that his uncle had been stabbed. When he reached the spot he found his uncle lying in a pool of blood. He was stabbed multiple times in the chest. Raj Kumar rushed his uncle to the civil hospital, Phase 6, Mohali, where he was declared brought dead. Rajpal, SHO, Balongi, said he was stabbed in the chest in a deserted area at Jhampur village. A case has been registered under Section 302 of the IPC against unidentified persons. The body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-man-stabbed-to-death-on-diwali-police-yet-to-arrest-accused-101636228948288.html
07-11-2021||Other||Check activities of smugglers, DGP tells border district SSPs||Jalandhar Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on Saturday directed all border district SSPs to maintain a strict vigil along the border and check the activities of listed smugglers on a regular basis. The DGP has also asked commissioners and SSPs to prepare dossiers of gangsters/smugglers and their associates and ensure action against them under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Border SSPs have also been told to divide their districts into sectors and depute a gazetted officer for every sector, who will be personally out on the Night Domination.The DGP, who was chairing a crime review meeting with officials of Jalandhar Range and Border range at PAP Complex, directed all the CPs/SSPs to adopt a zero tolerance policy against drugs, illegal mining and corrupt practices. During the meeting, the DGP also directed CPs/ SSPs to launch a crackdown against the drug smugglers/suppliers and bootleggers and ordered district chiefs to nab all Proclaimed Offenders (POs) and Bail Jumpers of NDPS cases in their jurisdiction at the earliest. He also issued directions to review traffic management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/check-activities-of-smugglers-dgp-tells-border-district-ssps-101636228828290.html
07-11-2021||Other||Farmers object, Moga cinemas don’t screen ‘Sooryavanshi’||Moga Three cinemas in Moga that were to screen Bollywood star Akshay Kumar’s latest movie, ‘Sooryavanshi’, decided not to run it after the farmers opposed it. Nirmal Singh, leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Kadian, said, “We have told cinema owners that they can play anything except Akshay Kumar movies. Akshay had criticised our agitation and supported farm laws by speaking the language of BJP. Therefore, we will not let play his movies in Punjab.” DSP Barjinder Singh said, “The film was scheduled to run in three cinemas, Orbit, Neelam Nova and Chookha Empire in Moga. In view of farmers’ opposition, owners have decided not to screen ‘Sooryavanshi’.” Meanwhile, farmers protested in Handiaya town of Barnala as well, alleging that the actor had extended his support to the BJP government and opposed farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. The protesters said that they will continue opposing the movies of Akshay Kumar and actress Kangana Ranaut. Sikander Singh, one of the protesters, alleged, “Akshay Kumar tweeted against the farmers’ opposition of the three farm laws, but extended support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We will not allow screening of Kumar’s movies because he is anti-farmers and anti-Punjabi.”Gurwinder Singh, another farmer, said, “Akshay is saying whatever the BJP is asking him to say. We will oppose Akshay and Kangana’s movies until the black laws are repealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-object-moga-cinemas-don-t-screen-sooryavanshi-101636228468412.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 25 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Saturday reported 25 fresh Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 6,02,517, according to a medical bulletin. The death toll remained at 16,562 as no new Covid-related fatality was reported in Punjab, it said. Of the fresh cases, Mohali reported 10, followed by eight in Jalandhar and two each in Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, the bulletin said. There are 219 active cases in the state, while 21 people have recuperated from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,85,736, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-25-fresh-covid-cases-101636228348440.html
07-11-2021||Kolkata||Firecracker tied to dog in Bengal, set alight; tail, leg blown off||The left hind leg and the tail of a street dog were blown off after some unidentified miscreants allegedly tied a firecracker to it and set it alight on Diwali night at Kharagpur in West Bengal.The incident took place on November 4 when people were celebrating with fireworks and crackers. Locals said that they spotted the dog with a portion of its left hind leg and the tail blown off. Remnants of the cracker were still tied to it.“It was a friendly street dog which the locals used to feed. Whoever did it took advantage of the animal’s trust. A firecracker was tied to it and when it exploded it ripped apart a portion of the hind leg and the tail,” said Kushal Tiwari, a local who rescued the dog.Animal lovers have condemned the incident and demanded exemplary punishment. “This is shocking. How can any person do such things to an any animal? He should be arrested,” said Arpita Deb, a dog lover.Police have started an inquiry into the case and the dog is undergoing treatment at an NGO. Nobody had been arrested till reports last came in. The incident, however, triggered outrage on social media after photos of the maimed animal went viral.“We have not received any official complaint. But as soon as we came to know of the incident a team went to the spot to enquire. We are trying to identify the person,” said an officer of the Kharagpur town police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/firecracker-tied-to-dog-in-bengal-set-alight-tail-leg-blown-off-101636225283255.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t hoard DAP, says Punjab agri minister Nabha||Owing to acute shortage of di-ammonia phosphate (DAP) in the state, Punjab agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha on Saturday said strict action will be initiated against the dealers and state’s agricultural cooperative societies found indulging in hoarding and black-marketing of the agro-fertiliser. The DAP is a key input used as a basal dose for the rabi crop particularly wheat and these days farmers are sowing the crop, for which the ideal time is up to November 15. “We need a total of 5.5 lakh tonne of DAP for the entire rabi season out of which 4.8 lakh tonne is required for wheat crop,” said an officer of the state agriculture department, adding that so far 1.72 lakh tonne has been sold to farmers and remaining goes pending. Currently, the state has 67,000 lakh tonne in the stocks.“Licence of retailers and cooperative societies will be cancelled if found indulging in malpractices,” said Nabha, hinting of action against some the retailers found indulging in malpractice. Nabha said 50 rakes of the DAP of have been promised by the Centre, which will add up 1.5 lakh tonne to the stocks.“About 1.5 lakh tonne DAP is deficient this year as compared to previous year during same period. Out government is trying its best to arrange adequate stocks of DAP,” added the minister, attributing shortage to increase in the DAP prices globally. He appealed to retailers, cooperative societies and the individual farmers not to hoard DAP as it will lead to panic buying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-hoard-dap-says-punjab-agri-minister-nabha-101636228050264.html
07-11-2021||Other||Appellate tribunal stays Punjab’s PPA termination notices to four power plants||Patiala The Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) has stayed the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) termination notices that the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had served to four private power generating plants with effect from October 31. The notice were served to Damodar Valley Corporation and its three entities.The plants that had been served notices were Damodar Valley Corporation’s Durgapur (200MW share), Raghunathpur (300MW share), Bokaro (200MW share) and Meja Urja Power Project (85MW share). The PSPCL had taken this decision after the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) gave a ruling that power from the generating stations of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), Kolkata; Pragati Power Corporation Limited and Meja Urja Nigam Power Private Limited, aggregating to 885MW, was costly. The APTEL, however, stayed the proceedings of scrapping the PPA in four different appeals. “Prima facie, we have serious doubts as to the invocation of the Regulation 13 of 2012 Regulations, vis-a-vis, long-term PPAs which have been in position since 2006. In the above facts and circumstances, we do find a prima facie case for interim protection to be afforded to the appellant, balance of convenience lying in its favour, the non-grant of such relief likely to result in irreparable loss. In the facts and circumstances, we stay operation of the Orders of the State Commission in so far as it results in the PPA of the appellant with PSPCL in-operational. For clarity, we add that PSPCL will continue to be obliged to procure electricity from the appellant in terms of the PPA till further orders,” the stay orders read. Pertinently, the PSPCL’s proposal of procurement of 885MW of power on long-term basis from Meja, Pragati-III and DVC’s Raghunathpur, Durgapur and Bokaro stations at ₹5.53, ₹4.82, ₹4.61, ₹4.44 and ₹4.39 per unit, respectively, was rejected by the PSERC. The ruling said that it would not be an economically viable proposition, particularly so, when much cheaper power is available in the market. The PSERC had added that the PSPCL should buy power at not more than ₹3 per unit, including fixed and variable cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/appellate-tribunal-stays-punjab-s-ppa-termination-notices-to-four-power-plants-101636228048709.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||10 cattle succumb to foot and mouth disease in Sangrur village||Ten head of cattle died due to foot and mouth disease at Ladda village near Sangrur town in the past two days. Teams of the animal husbandry department visited the village and collected samples on Saturday.Jagroop Singh, a dairy owner, said that nine cows and a buffalo succumbed to the disease within two days. “The government has not sent doses of vaccine for the past two years. I was honoured by the chief minister for dairy farming in 2018 but I had to face ₹10 to ₹12 lakh loss due to the government’s negligence,” he added. Dhuri senior veterinary officer Dr TP Singh said: “It is suspected that the cattle died due to the foot and mouth disease. Samples have been sent to a Jalandhar laboratory,” said Dr Singh.“We have already started symptomatic treatment of the cattle,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-cattle-succumb-to-foot-and-mouth-disease-in-sangrur-village-101636227868333.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Day after gherao, BJP MP Jangra says farmer agitation on its last legs||A day after the car of Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra was gheraoed and attacked by protesting farmers in Haryana’s Hisar district, the BJP leader said farmers were being misguided by the Opposition and the agitation was on its last legs. Jangra was in the city to participate in an event to mark Vishwakarma Day celebrations at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan on Saturday. Anticipating farmer protests, heavy police presence was seen at the venue.“There will be a major change in Punjab politics in the coming time and OBC category residents, who comprise around 42% voters will support the BJP in forming the government,” he said, adding that an OBC Commission will be constituted in the state should the saffron party come to power.Asserting that PM Narendra Modi and the BJP-led Union government have been working for the betterment of farmers and the BJP is working to implementing Swaminathan report through farm laws, he said, “The farmers have been misguided by the Congress, communists and other opposition parties as the farm laws have been implemented for their overall growth. The Union government is also open to make some changes as suggested by the farmers.”“The agitation is approaching its end. Only a few farmers can now be seen protesting at the borders of Delhi. The agitation will also come to an end in the state,” said Jangra. On any proposed alliance with former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s new party, the Punjab Lok Congress, Jangra noncommittedly said that options are always open in politics. Former president Giani Zail Singh’s grandson Inderjeet Singh had organised the event under the banner of All Vishwakarma Ramgarhia Foundation. State chief slams state government for not reducing VAT on fuelAccusing the Congress government in the state of fooling the public with tall promises ahead of the assembly polls, BJP state chief Ashwani Sharma slammed chief minister Charanjit Channi for not reducing VAT on fuel. “The Congress has been asking the Union government to slash excise duty and now when the Modi-government has reduced it, the state government should also reduce VAT on fuel. Their reluctance exposes the hollowness of their promises.” “The Congress government has failed to perform in last four-and-half years and even Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu has been highlighting the same. The subsidy announced on power has also been announced till March as the government only wants to woo the voters,” said Sharma.Farmers group stages protest While Jangra was claiming that the farmer agitation was approaching its end in the state, a group of around six farmers staged a protest outside the venue at Ferozepur Road amid heavy police deployment. Also, around a dozen farmers staged a protest against the BJP state chief outside the Circuit House. The farmers were, however, stopped by the police at some distance from both the sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-gherao-bjp-mp-jangra-says-farmer-agitation-on-its-last-legs-101636227808605.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sukbhir, others booked for trying to lay siege to Channi’s residence||Chandigarh Police on Saturday booked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other senior leaders under non-bailable offences for obstructing and causing injuries to the government officials. A number of party leaders and workers were injured when the police cane-charged them when they tried to lay siege to the residence of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi demanding a reduction of value added tax (VAT) on fuel. The police later took Sukhbir, party leaders and worker into preventive custody at the Sector 39 police station. They were later released and a case under Sections 332 and 353 (obstructing and causing injuries to the public servants) of IPC was registered against them. Led by Sukhbir, Akali protesters raised slogans against the state government for not giving relief to people in petrol and diesel prices by reducing taxes on fuel. Sukhbir slammed the Congress government for not slashing the tax on fuel. “All states have reduced the prices of fuel. But this government has done nothing so far,” he said. He demanded slashing of the retail prices of fuel by ₹10 per litre. The protesters also demanded from the government an adequate compensation to the farmers whose crop was damaged because of recent rains and hailstorm. “Farmers have not received compensation and the state government is sleeping. Farmers have suffered a loss of ₹50,000 per acre. We came here to awake the state government,” Sukhbir said, asking Channi to meet the affected growers. “Farmers are facing a shortage of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) needed for sowing of their crops,” said Sukhbir. The SAD chief accused Channi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of “fighting” with each other rather than resolving issues of the people. He also asked them about their stand on the appointment of Jagdish Tytler as a permanent invitee to the Delhi Congress’ new executive committee, which was done recently. Tytler for long has been named as one of the main accused in anti-Sikh riots of 1984. Sukhbir was accompanied by other senior Akali leaders, including Bikram Singh Majithia and Daljit Singh Cheema, in his sit-in on the road leading to the chief minister’s residence. Police later detained the Akali leaders and several workers. The opposition held the protest after the Union government slashed excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 on Diwali-eve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukbhir-others-booked-for-trying-to-lay-siege-to-channi-s-residence-101636227688462.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||BSF recovers 11kg heroin along border in Fazilka||Faridkot The Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday recovered 11kg of heroin near the India-Pakistan border in Fazilka district. A spokesperson said while conducting operational duties along the border, BSF troops recovered 11kg of the contraband suspected to be heroin from the agricultural field on Indian side of the barbed wire fence near the Zero Line along the India-Pakistan border in the area under the 52 Battalion of the BSF in Abohar Sector. “The consignment was concealed inside paddy crops and was discovered while harvesting by the farmer,” he added. After receiving information, the BSF undertook a combing operation and heroin was found in 20 packets lying near the border fence at Chak Khewa village of Fazilka district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-recovers-11kg-heroin-along-border-in-fazilka-101636227508170.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to elect new president, office-bearers on November 29||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will hold its annual general house session on November 29 to elect new office-bearers. The decision was taken at the SGPC’s executive committee meeting chaired by its chief Bibi Jagir Kaur in Chandigarh on Saturday.The general house will elect president, senior vice-president, junior vice-president, general secretary, and members of the executive committee at the Teja Singh Samundari Hall, Amritsar. As per the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, the SGPC president and other office-bearers are elected in November every year, and it is necessary to announce the date of election 21 days in advance. Disclosing the other important decisions taken at the meeting, Bibi Jagir Kaur said an institution dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur would be set up in Tarn Taran to provide free education to 200 Sikh girls. “The needy and bright Sikh girls from the Majha area would be admitted to this institution and similarly 200 Sikh girls would be provided free education at Mata Gujri Ji College at Kartarpur,” she said. The SGPC is already providing free education to 200 Sikh girls in Mata Sahib Kaur Girls College at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib in the Malwa area, most of whom belong to Jammu and Kashmir. The SGPC would also provide hostel and food to the girls. The SGPC chief announced ₹1 lakh each to families of three women farmers who were recently killed after being crushed by a tipper at Tikri border and ₹50,000 each to those who received injuries in the accident. She said the executive committee has also approved to display portrait of former general secretary of SGPC Jathedar Kuldeep Singh Wadala at the Central Sikh Museum. Printing press to be set up in Canada The SGPC president said a printing press would be set up in Canada for printing the holy scripture of Guru Granth Sahib. A delegation of the SGPC sent to Canada had submitted its report, according to which the process of setting up a press would start soon. The SGPC delegation held meetings with more than 70 gurdwara management committees in Canada, she said. After analysing the opinions of each of the committees, a place would be finalised for setting up the printing press in Canada. The land and other facilities have been offered to the press at four places in Canada, and the final decision will be taken after consultation with Akal Takht jathedar. After Canada, efforts would be made to print Guru Granth Sahib in Europe, Australia, and USA, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-elect-new-president-office-bearers-on-november-29-101636227388126.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana private sector job quota to kick in from January 15||One year after the state assembly passed it, the BJP-JJP government in Haryana on Saturday ordered that the law providing for 75% reservation for locals in new private sector jobs will come into force from January 15 next year.The state assembly had passed the controversial piece of legislation titled the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill on November 5 last year, and the governor gave assent to the Bill on March 2 this year.The delay in implementation of the law has been on account of framing of the Rules, officials said. The newly-enacted law provided for 75% reservation in private sector jobs to those having a resident certificate (domicile).The law will be applicable for a period of 10 years. The state government had also relaxed the residency (domicile) requirement from 15 to five years for a person to get a bona fide resident certificate in state to provide some flexibility to the private companies in hiring.Salary limit for jobs available reducedIn a measure to placate the industry, the state government on Saturday also reduced the upper limit of gross monthly salary for jobs which will come under the ambit of private sector job quota law. As per a notification, jobs having a gross monthly salary of not more than ₹30,000 will be up for hiring from among local candidates.The Bill passed by the assembly last year had capped the gross monthly wages for jobs available for hiring at ₹50,000.However, following ‘feedback’ from industrial houses and entrepreneurs, the state government decided to reduce the salary cap.More exemptions in the offingIt is learnt that as an industry-friendly measure, companies, firms and establishments which come into being or set up after the commencement of the law will be exempted for a year from hiring 75% local candidates by the state government.Also, any hiring from within (internal hiring) by a company or an establishment will be exempted from the law. These provisions will be a part of the rules being framed under the Act. Officials said the rules for implementing the Act will also notified soon.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the need of the hour is to create a harmonious environment for industry as well as the youth along with creating a right balance between the progress of industries and the economy.‘Law may not pass legal test’Legal experts said the new law is in contravention of the Constitution and will not withstand judicial scrutiny. Former Haryana advocate general Ashok Aggarwal had said domicile can never form the basis of employment.Aggarwal said if public employment cannot be given on the basis of domicile how can private jobs be. The government is not the employer in private sector jobs, he said. He added that only a small percentage of low-end jobs can be reserved and that too for special reasons.While tabling Bill in assembly, the government had modified its Section 23, a provision which gave it an overriding effect over any other law, a broad provision having the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament. Section 23 in the Bill was modified to provide overriding effect on any other state law.However, issues raised by the law and legislative secretary during vetting of the proposed law still holds good, legal experts said. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana, experts said, was in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before the law and Article 19 (1)(g) which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.The private sector job quota move was piloted by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana. The controversial piece of legislation did not find much support from the BJP quarters initially. In fact, Khattar had once sounded non-committal on the prospect of enacting such a law.Sources said since the BJP government at the Centre has a different view on the matter, it was surprising how the governor assented to the Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-private-sector-job-quota-to-kick-in-from-january-15-101636227148350.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Channi lays foundation stone of Bela-Paniyali bridge over Sutlej||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday laid the foundation stone of Bela-Paniyali bridge over the Sutlej river. The bridge will be completed within a period of 18 months. With the construction of the bridge, to be constructed at a cost of ₹114 crore, the distance between Doaba region and Chandigarh will reduce by 20 to 25 kilometres.Speaking on the occasion, the CM said the bridge will open new vistas of progress for the area residents. He said this will bring industry in the region thereby giving a major push to economic growth in the area.Besides the 12 metre wide and 1,188 metre long bridge, another 42 metre bridge over the Bist Doab river will be constructed at a cost of ₹10 crore, said the CM, adding that the road connecting three historically important towns for Sikhs, including Fatehgarh Sahib, Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib, will be named after Mata Gujri. Channi said to impart employment-oriented education to the youth, Guru Gobind Singh Skill University is coming up on same road at a cost of ₹500 crore. On the occasion, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal announced a grant of ₹10 crore each for laying of AstroTurf at Chamkaur Sahib and Kharar. PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-lays-foundation-stone-of-bela-paniyali-bridge-over-sutlej-101636227028029.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege probe on right, fast track, Channi’s retort to Sidhu||A day after Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu questioned the intent of the state government on sacrilege cases, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said action will be taken against the guilty as the investigations into the desecration cases are already on the right and fast track. Without naming Sidhu, Channi said: “Though I belong to a poor family, I am not weak. And whosoever is guilty will be punished.” “All those who pushed the Punjab youth into drugs would not be spared. With the opening of report against the drug mafia, all big sharks would be exposed,” the CM said on the sidelines of the groundbreaking ceremony of a bridge over Sutlej. Reiterating his government’s commitment to stamp out corruption from public life, Channi said every decision is taken for the overall development and prosperity of the state, besides welfare of its people with absolute sincerity and determination. He said clean and transparent administration was exemplified when none of any shopkeeper/vendor was harassed during Diwali for money.Lambasting the Shiromani Akali Dal, Channi said previous SAD-BJP government had always ignored the interests of the state. He also accused the Akalis of conniving with the BJP for indulging in ugly game of politics, thereby fanning hatred by playing caste and religion cards. “Several self-styled common men (aam adami) have surfaced nowadays just for politicking, who are not even remotely connected with the basic problems and needs of the people,” he said. Speaking on the occasion, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said Channi can feel the pulse of the poor people because he (Channi) himself had passed through the pangs of penury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacrilege-probe-on-right-fast-track-channi-s-retort-to-sidhu-101636226728061.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana woman steals newborn girl from civil hospital, held||An unidentified woman, who abducted a newborn girl from Lord Mahavira Civil Hospital in Ludhiana on Saturday afternoon, was arrested within hours of the incident. The baby’s father, Narinder Kumar of Islamganj, said his wife Rani had delivered a girl 15 days ago at the civil hospital. Both of them had been discharged from the hospital, but his wife developed some complications, after which she was readmitted to the mother-child ward of the hospital on October 27.His mother-in-law who had been attending to her grandchild at the hospital had handed her over the accused woman, while she helped Rani use the washroom. Later, the accused and the baby were nowhere to be found in the mother-child ward, he said. The parents raised the alarm and a police party from Division Number 2 and Division Number 3 reached the spot and scanned CCTV footage, but to no avail. The woman could not be seen exiting the hospital, and the cops believe she fled through the damaged compound wall behind the mortuary. Some CCTV cameras were found to be non-functional. Congress MLA Surinder Dawar also came to the hospital and asked the police to use all resources to trace the missing child.Assistant sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, in-charge of the Civil hospital police post, said as per patients the woman appeared to be in her early 40s and was accompanied by a four-year-old boy who had been spotted roaming around the ward since morning. The patients assumed that she had come to visit someone in the ward.In the evening, locals spotted the accused near the hospital with the newborn and alerted the cops. The police arrested the woman and recovered the child. The accused, a resident of Sunet village, said she was being treated at the hospital and had taken away the baby by mistake and had returned to hand over the baby to its parents.Inspector Satpal, Division number 2 station house officer, said the woman has been changing her statements frequently. The police are trying to figure out how the woman, who was accompanied by a four-year-old boy, managed to enter the mother-child ward on the second floor of the hospital, unnoticed by the staff. The father of the newborn has alleged that the staff of the hospital was involved in the crime. History of lapses On February 11, a woman had abducted a newborn girl from the civil hospital after befriending the mother and offering to take the child for a round of the wards. The woman had been arrested seven days after the incident, and the child was also recovered. A similar incidence was reported on September 23, 2017 when a woman posing as an employee of the Khanna civil hospital had stolen a newborn boy from the Civil Hospital in Khanna on the pretext of administering a vaccine. The accused had sent the mother of the child to get something to eat and fled with the child. Hours after the incident, the Khanna police had arrested three women and recovered the newborn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-steals-newborn-girl-from-civil-hospital-held-101636226668562.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Will chop off hands’: BJP MP after Haryana protesters confine Grover||A day after Haryana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president and former state minister Manish Grover, BJP general secretary (organisation) Ravindra Raju and other senior leaders of the saffron party were locked up for hours at a temple in Kiloi village in Rohtak, BJP’s Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma on Saturday threatened to chop hands and gouge eyes of anyone who raises a finger at Grover.Sharma led a protest march against leader of Opposition and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son Deepender Singh Hooda and accused them of backing those who confined the senior BJP leaders at a temple on Friday.“The Congress tried to hold our leaders hostage yesterday. This is frustration of Bhupinder and Deepender for losing the Lok Sabha polls. We won the Rohtak Lok Sabha seat due to Grover. Deepender and Congress should be note that if anyone raises a finger at Grover, we will chop their hands and gouge their eyes,” the MP said.“The days of Hooda family are gone and they are confined in some areas of Rohtak and Jhajjar. Some people of these areas are backing them with a hope that Hooda will become chief minister again. But this is not going to happen because BJP will rule in Haryana for the next 25 years,” the MP added.Addressing the BJP workers, Grover said three youths had barged into the temple at Kiloi village at around 11am when he was listening to the live telecast of PM Narendra Modi’s speech from Kedarnath Temple.“The alcoholic youths said this is Grover, who is responsible for Deepender’s defeat in the Lok Sabha polls and this is the right time to teach him a lesson. My colleagues and party workers asked me to leave the temple as the situation got tense but I refused. With the support of my party workers and Khap representatives, we returned home safely,” he said.“Bhupinder Singh Hooda has been trying to divide the society and he did the same a few years back. Neither had I apologised from anyone nor will I apologise in future. Some people of the Hooda and Nandal Khaps came to me and requested to wish everyone ‘Ram-Ram’ from the balcony and the matter was resolved thereafter,” he added.Reacting to Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma and former minister Manish Grover’s statements, Congress chief whip in Haryana assembly and local MLA BB Batra said the MP’s statement is unacceptable in a democratic setup.“How can an elected MP threaten people to chop their hands? This is clearly a violation of law and order and police should take cognisance of the matter. The BJP leader’s statement shows that they have no faith in democracy. If anyone tried to hold them hostage, they should file a complaint before the police. The BJP leaders want to rule with sticks,” the Rohtak MLA added.While Deepender could not be reached for a comment, Bhupinder Singh Hooda said he did not want to comment on such “irresponsible statements”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-chop-off-hands-bjp-mp-after-haryana-protesters-confine-grover-101636225707976.html
07-11-2021||Kolkata||‘Why is he not quitting party?’ Dilip Ghosh’s jibe at Tathagata Roy||Bharatiya Janata Party’s national vice president Dilip Ghosh lashed out at veteran party leader and former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy, asking him to leave if he was upset with the party’s style of functioning. “If he is so upset and ashamed of all that is happening within the party, why is he not quitting the party?” Ghosh said on Saturday before flying to Delhi to attend the party’s central working committee meeting. “You (Tathagata) did nothing for the party in recent times. But the party did everything for people like you,” he added. Roy, however, refused to comment saying that he would not want to attach importance to what Ghosh said. “Ghosh would never understand my reply. It would be a futile effort. Hence I am not giving any importance to this,” Roy tweeted. Ever since the BJP’s debacle in the recently held West Bengal assembly elections, Roy mounted attacks on some senior leaders including Ghosh, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash. “The responsibility for this debacle will rest squarely on the shoulders of KDSA (Kailash Vijayvargiya – Dilip Ghosh – Shiv Prakash and Arvind Menon) team,” Roy tweeted on November 2. The TMC secured a thumping victory in the West Bengal Assembly election held earlier this year, bagging 213 of the 292 seats and stopping the BJP’s tally at 77. Roy, who headed the Bengal unit of the BJP between 2002 and 2006, also courted controversy recently after he tweeted a photo collage of a dog and West Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya. BJP state president Sukanta Majumder, however, steered clear of the controversy saying that it was the “prerogative of the central leadership”. Last month, Roy had told reporters that he was ashamed of some top-level leaders as, ahead of the Bengal assembly polls, they were swayed by the glamour factor while inducting people into the BJP and did not take experience and chances of winning into consideration. Recently, Roy retweeted a tweet by a party worker in which the latter said that he was ashamed of a senior party leader for how he was praising a Tollywood actor. Meanwhile, in another setback, actor-turned BJP leader Joy Banerjee sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi while hinting that he may join the TMC. “Inspired by Narendra Modi, I joined the BJP on March 6, 2014, but on November 6, 2021, I sent a letter to Modi to quit the party. The BJP is no more connected to the people. I have always worked with people, be it films or politics. Given a chance, I would like to work with the party which is working for the people,” he said. Senior BJP leader Rahul Sinha said that the party has failed to stand beside Banerjee and is gradually losing connect with many other leaders and workers following which they are getting frustrated. “I don’t know the grievances of Banerjee. He was distressed. The party didn’t connect with him and should have stood beside him,” said Sinha. The TMC took a jibe at the BJP saying that no mentally stable person would be able to stay in the BJP and hence leaders are quitting the party. At least five BJP legislators have quit the party to join the TMC since May this year. “No mentally stable person can stay in the BJP. Leaders are quitting the party. Banerjee’s decision didn’t come overnight. He has been raising several issues inside the party over the past many days. The BJP leaders have no faith in the party. If they can’t keep faith how could citizens have faith?” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson and party’s state general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dilip-ghosh-asks-veteran-party-leader-tathagata-roy-to-leave-party-101636225649327.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||NAS exam: 210 schools from Ludhiana district to participate||A total of 210 schools from Ludhiana district have been selected to participate in the National Achievement Survey (NAS) examination scheduled for November 12 throughout the country. Students of Classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 from government and private schools will take the exam.According to a senior official, representatives of the central government shortlisted the schools on the basis of a set criteria. As many as 337 field invigilators have been appointed for the exam in Ludhiana, including teachers, lecturers, block mentors, district mentors and representatives from the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET). “There will be two invigilators for Class 3 students and one each for Classes 8 and 10,” an official stated.District education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra on Saturday chaired a meeting with the field invigilators at a KVM senior secondary school here, where the teachers were briefed about their roles.Meanwhile, a special training session was held for the field invigilators, school nodal officers and block nodal officers by Subodh Verma, district mentor for English, Sanjeev Taneja, DM for math and Jasvir Singh, DM for science.“Training was imparted pertaining to OMR sheets, IDs of the students, teachers and other important aspects of exam. The state education department has left no stone unturned to prepare the students and teachers for NAS and we are hopeful of bagging the top spot in the country,” said Samra.The department had also distributed NAS booklets to teachers and students so that they can prepare for the exam. With just five days left for the exams, schools have started revision.However, a few teachers criticised the NAS, terming it a political agenda to woo voters in the state. A teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The mainstream syllabus has been completely neglected. It is a matter of great concern that students in many schools have not got their NCERT textbooks, but they have been bombarded with NAS booklets”.He added that the teachers made mockery of the NAS revision tests, as they fill the OMR sheets themselves to portray excellent results. “There is lot of political pressure on the education secretary to get the top result in NAS, even if teachers have to ignore the mainstream syllabus,”the teacher stated.The newly-appointed Punjab secretary of school education, Ajoy Sharma, had recently had held a special meeting with all district education officers of the state. He asked them to take responsibility for ongoing NAS preparations in the state, following which Ludhiana DEO directed the field teams appointed to check NAS preparations at schools to take their visits seriously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nas-exam-210-schools-from-ludhiana-district-to-participate-101636225587858.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industrialists take dig at Centre over rising prices of raw materials||Taking a sarcastic dig at the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) led central government over rising prices of raw materials, industrialists performed a “tikka ceremony” for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Union minister of steel Ramchandra Prasad Singh on the occasion of Bhai Dooj. Their indefinite protest outside the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) office on Gill road entered its fifth day on Saturday.Terming it “Gandhigiri”, they also sought wisdom for everyone including Modi, Shah and the general public by reciting “bhajans”. Seeking the formation of a regulatory commission at the Union level to keep a check on the rising prices, representatives of industrial associations including UCPMA, Knitwear and Textile Club, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association and Bicycle Research And Development Organisation (BRADO) participated in the protest. They said that they will only vote for the party which work to fulfill their demand.The industrialists rued that price of raw material including steel, paint, nickel and fuel are being increased arbitrarily in the country, but the Centre is turning a blind eye towards the problem. Due to this, they are struggling to survive and are forced to hike the prices of their end products. Stating that steel prices have almost doubled in the last two years, they also termed the move to slash fuel prices politically motivated.UCPMA general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva and propaganda secretary Rajinder Sarhali stated that before coming into power, Modi had made tall claims that he can bring inflation under control. But, the government is now turning a blind eye towards the skyrocketing prices.Sachdeva stated that they had also protested on Diwali and Vishwakarma day, as the industry will not be able to survive for long under these circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianaindustrialists-take-dig-at-centre-over-rising-prices-of-raw-materials-101636225468947.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers seek FIR against MP Jangra, to gherao Hansi SP office||The farmers on Saturday continued their protest at Narnaund police station in Haryana’s Hisar district demanding registration of a first information report (FIR) against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra and his associates for allegedly attacking a farmer and injuring him.They are also demanding withdrawal of the FIR lodged against three farmers identified as Harsh Deep Gill, Kailash and Sudhir of the district and 60 others under Sections 147, 149, 148, 341, 186, 353, 427 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly vandalising Jangra’s car when he had gone to inaugurate a community centre (dharamshala) at Narnaund on Friday.The protesters have given an ultimatum to the Hansi police to accept their demands, otherwise they will gherao the Hansi SP’s office on November 8.Talking over the phone, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) state youth president Ravi Azad said they have given two-day time to the Hansi police to lodge a criminal case against the BJP MP and his associates for “attacking and injuring” farmer Kuldeep Rana.“Kuldeep is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hisar and is admitted in the ICU. He underwent an operation for four hours, which remained successful. We also want the false cases registered against farmers to be withdrawn,” he said.“Injured farmer Kuldeep Rana’s wife will file a criminal complaint against MP Ram Chander Jangra and his associates. If police fail to lodge an FIR against Jangra and withdraw cases against our farmers, we will gherao the Hansi SP’s office on November 8,” he added.The farmers have erected tents and started dharna inside the Narnaund police station since Friday night demanding registration of an FIR against the BJP MP and his associates.Farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws on Friday gathered near a community centre in Hisar’s Narnaund where the BJP MP Jangra was scheduled to take part in a programme. As the MP had reportedly called the protesters “jobless alcoholics from villages”.Hundreds of farmers had gathered near the venue carrying black flags and chanted slogans against the MP. In a scuffle between the Haryana Police and the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws, the windshield of the MP’s car was also smashed.The MP accused the farmers of smashing the windshield of his car while the protesters blamed the police.In the entire incident, farmer Kuldeep Singh Rana, of Satrod Khurd village in Hisar district, had sustained injuries and the protesters had rushed him to a nearby hospital where his condition is said to be critical. A few policemen also got injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-seek-fir-against-mp-jangra-to-gherao-hansi-sp-office-101636225407979.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab minister donates ₹10L to ICMR project to save lives of heart attack patients||Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday announced a financial assistance of ₹10 lakh for the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) project which focuses on timely intervention in case of heart attacks to save precious lives.Presiding over an event at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ashu said that the indomitable spirit demonstrated by the healthcare sector during the pandemic is inspirational.Dr Bishav Mohan from DMCH said that the ICMR project is being run successfully at 11 health centres in Ludhiana and the financial support will help strengthen the program further and save more lives. He added that in the coming days, the same project would also be launched at community health centre in Jawaddi and Rural Health Centre in Pohir.He said that the project aims to save precious lives from heart failure by administering the clot-buster drug tenecteplase within the golden period (first 90 minutes) of the onset of symptoms. He said that not everyone cannot afford to buy tenecteplase drug used to dissolve blood clots in the heart because of its high cost (around ₹25,000- ₹30,000) and under the project, it is administered free of cost.Those present on the occasion included councillors Mamta Ashu and Sunny Bhalla, DMCH secretary Prem Gupta, Dr Sandeep Puri, Dr GS Wander and Dr Rajesh Mahajan.33% people confuse heart attack with acidity: ExpertsIn 33% cases, a person who suffers from a heart attack, mistakes the sudden deterioration of health due to acidity and gastric issue, stated senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan.In most cases, people ignore such symptoms. “He added that 95% lives can be saved from the heart attack if the patient receives the treatment within three hours and 80% lives can be protected if the drug is administered within six hours,” said Dr Mohan.He said that erratic lifestyle, pollution, genetic issues, stress, diabetes and obesity are some of the common reasons behind increased the number of heart attacks. “Fortunately, in Punjab, the incidents of heath attacks due to excessive smoking are less, but findings have shown that extreme workout if the body is not accustomed to it and high intake of protein supplements -which also lead to the thickening of blood- have also become the leading causes of heart attack,” said Dr Mohan. He added that ECG is very important to get timely treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-minister-donates-10l-to-icmr-project-to-save-lives-of-heart-attack-patients-101636225288695.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Get set to give 25-30 lakh Covid-19 shots each day in UP: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked the state health machinery to gear up to give 25-30 lakh shots daily of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine, in the next two months.“In the next two months, the state government targets to administer 25-30 lakh vaccine doses daily. The additional chief secretary (health) should prepare and speed up arrangements by talking to all the CMOs (chief medical officers) in all the districts,” Yogi said, according to a statement issued by the state information department.He said that till Friday, the state had given 13.28 crore shots of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine while 3.37 crore people have got both doses of the vaccine. Of the targeted age group for the vaccine, 67.18 % population have got at least one dose of it while 22.9% have got both shots.At the Covid-19 review meeting at his residence, Yogi also said that only seven fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours in the state while the total active cases in the state were 83.Zika virusRegarding Zika virus in Kanpur, Yogi said that the cases were rising fast in Kanpur and under the circumstances, special alertness was required. At the same time, testing for dengue needed to be stepped up.“Keep a constant vigil on the condition of patients, conduct surveillance, and for prevention, engage in widespread cleanliness and sanitisation”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/get-set-to-give-25-30-lakh-covid-19-shots-each-day-in-up-yogi-101636225168111.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar promises ₹12,000 per acre relief to farmers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday visited Jharauti village in Sonepat and met farmers whose crop got damaged due to waterlogging.Addressing a gathering, Haryana Khattar said his government will compensate ₹12,000 per acre to farmers for their damaged crop.“We will also waive-off one-month tubewell bills of farmers. The previous government used to give cheque of ₹10 per acre for the damaged crop. Our government has decided to pay crop insurance amount to the companies for the farmers owning up to two acre land,” Khattar said.“While the farmers having land holding from two to five acre will have to pay 50% of crop insurance amount while the state government will bear 50% cost. Those owning more than five acre land will bear the insurance amount of their crop,” the CM added.Khattar also took an aerial view of the damaged crop in Ganaur, Kharkhoda and Gohana areas in district.“We have received nearly 9.5 lakh complaints on the chief minister’s window, of these eight lakh have already been redressed. Also, to uplift education standards, we have opened 137 schools for young kids and 40 senior secondary schools across state,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-promises-rs-12-000-per-acre-relief-to-farmers-101636225111064.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three of family killed in road mishap in Kaithal||Three members of a family were killed in a road mishap near Padla village in Kaithal district on Sunday.Police said the deceased have been identified as Gobind Singh, 32, his son Lovejot Singh, 12, and Gobind’s mother Phoolwati, 50. They belonged to Seonsar village in Kurukshetra district.Police said the accident took place on Saturday morning as the three were returning to his village on a bike from Gobind’s sister’s house at Sulhera village in Kaithal. A bike coming from the opposite direction hit their bike near Padla village in Kaithal.They were rushed to a hospital and doctors declared Lovejoy and Phoolwati dead while Gobind was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh but he succumbed to the injuries on the way to Chandigarh, said Godind’s brother Prithvi.As per the complaint, police have registered an FIR under Sections 304-A and 279 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against motorcyclist Bhupinder Singh, of Rahta village in Karnal district, and investigation is on, said Kaithal Sadar police station in-charge Birbhan.Police said Bhupinder had also sustained injuries in the accident and has been hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-of-family-killed-in-road-mishap-in-kaithal-101636224874906.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Mega legal services camp on November 9||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), in collaboration with the district administration, will hold a mega legal services camp on November 9 at Gulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna, on the eve of Legal Services Day.Chief judicial magistrate-cum-DLSA secretary PS Kaleka said that during the camp, the National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) and various government departments including health, revenue, regional transport authority and PSPCL will put up stalls and provide necessary information about the several schemes and programs to the people.Kaleka said that applications from the citizens will also be accepted and forwarded to respective departments so that they can avail of various benefits, if they are found eligible. He added that the departments’ representatives will also deliver services to beneficiaries on the spot during the camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mega-legal-services-camp-on-november-9-101636224873435.html
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Doctors honoured for contribution during Covid pandemic||Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) chair Sukhwinder Singh Bindra on Saturday honoured several doctors of Fortis Hospital for their role amid the Covid pandemic. Bindra said that fortitude displayed by doctors was a great example for the people.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFS3 Ludhiana players to compete in judo nationalsThree players from Ludhiana have been selected for the Sub-Junior Cadet National Judo championship, which will be held at Chandigarh University, Mohali, from November 7 to 13. Radhika will play in the 44-kg weight category, Prince in the upto 50-kg category and Ishroop in the 78-kg plus category.DD Jain students bag varsity positionsThe students of Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women brought laurels to the institution by clinching university positions in the BVoc (hospital administration and management) sixth semester exams. Manpreet Kaur bagged the third position in the university by securing 85.57% and Rashmi came eighth with 79.33%.SAVJC celebrates founder’s dayShri Atma Nand Jain School Committee celebrated the 152nd birthday of Jain Acharya Vijay Vallabh Surishwar as founder’s day on Saturday. Surinder Dawar, MLA, Ludhiana central, was the chief guest. Devotional songs and dance performances were presented by the students. The students were honoured by the chief guest for their achievements in academic, cultural, and sports activities.Eco-friendly Diwali celebrated at BVM, USNDiwali was celebrated at BVM, USN, in an eco-friendly way. Poster making, diya decoration and rangoli competitions were organised to enhance the creative skills of the students. An inter-house quiz based on the Ramayana was organised for students of Classes 6 and 8. Chattopadhyaya should be made DGP: Mayor’s OSDAmid political turmoil in the Punjab Congress over the appointment of the director general of police (DGP), Congress leader and mayor Balkar Sandhu’s officer on special duty, Parminder Mehta, has written to the party high command demanding that Sidharth Chattopadhyaya be appointed DGP, as demanded by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Sidhu. Addressing a press conference at his office in Daresi on Saturday, Mehta stated that Chattopadhyaya is an honest officer and he will help the state in getting rid of the menace of drugs. Also, the cases of sacrilege will be resolved. He stated that chief minister Charanjit Channi has been working for the betterment of the state and its people and appointment of Chattopadhyaya will further benefit the state.AAP holds march to woo voters ahead of assembly pollsSlamming the Union and state governments for pulling the wool over the eyes of the public on issues like fuel prices, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) district unit led by Atam Nagar constituency in-charge Kulwant Sidhu organised a “jhaaru (broom) campaign” at Gol market in Model Town on Saturday. A march was conducted in the market area and slogans were raised to woo voters ahead of the assembly elections. “It is the time for all of us to unite against the nonchalance of the governments towards the welfare of the people of Punjab and show them that it is the time for change,” said Sidhu, while adding that the fuel prices were first increased drastically and now a marginal relief has been given by the Union government just for political benefit. Further, the state has also failed to reduce the VAT on fuel, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-doctors-honoured-for-contribution-during-covid-pandemic-101636224508538.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||Mathura’s Bhai dooj: Brothers and sisters take dip in Yamuna||Agra ‘Bhai Dooj’, which falls two days after Diwali and which is better known as ‘Yam Dwitiya’ in Braj, is celebrated in a unique way in Mathura. On this day, men holding the hands of their sisters throng the coveted Vishram Ghat on banks of river Yamuna and take a dip in the river to escape the curse of untimely death. They also offer prayers to the brother and sister duo ‘Yamraj’ (God of death) and ‘Yamuna’ ( pious river) on the day. Vishram Ghat was aflutter with activity on Saturday as a sea of devotees turned up all through the day. Brothers and sisters had a dip in the river before offering prayers at a temple having idol of both Yamuna and Yamraj. Security measures were in place and and boats were lined up to mark the limit of access. Precautionary steps were taken and police deployed for smooth movement of devotees. “This is the only temple of Yamraj – the God of death and the brothers coming here to offer prayers need support and presence of their sisters to make a prayer. What they get in return is ‘mukti’ (release) from ‘phans’ (curse) of untimely death, a boon sought by sister Yamuna from her brother Yamraj, for brothers having dip in river with their sisters on this day of ‘Yam Dwitiya’,” said 68-year-old Gopeshwar Chaturvedi, a renowned environmentalist and patron of ‘Shri Mathur Chaturved Parishad’ who has been witnessing the ritual since long. Chaturvedi informed, “They take a dip in the Yamuna and then go to the temple of ‘Yamunaji-Dharamraj’ on Vishram Ghat, which is believed to be a rare temple dedicated to the God of Death. The sisters pray to Yamraj to release their brothers from the tentacles of death and pardon him for his wrong-doings so that he enjoys both a long life as well as a good afterlife. The ritual of bathing begins early after ‘Yamuna Aarti’ at 3 am. Devotees reach a day in advance to attend the aarti.” There are a lot of visitors from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan and proceedings start in the early hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mathuras-bhai-dooj-brothers-and-sisters-take-dip-in-yamuna-101636224329608.html
07-11-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh woman dies while hospital staff celebrates Diwali||A nurse was suspended and a show-cause notice was issued to a doctor after a 26-year-old woman allegedly died due to negligence of the staff in the maternity ward of a government hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Sagar district, an official said on Saturday. What prompted the action was a media report about some staff members lighting fireworks in the corridor outside the ward and being careless about attending to the patient hours before her death. The woman died at Bundelkhand Medical College and Hospital on Thursday night. Subsequently, a video of staff celebrating Diwali with fireworks circulated on social media. A nurse was suspended, a show-cause notice was served to a doctor and warning letters were issued to five interns on the basis of the media report and videos, said the college's spokesperson Dr Umesh Patel on Saturday. The five interns were also removed from duty in the labour room and operation theatre in the gynecology department, he said. The warning letter cited the news report which claimed that the woman died due to the staff's negligence. “After watching the video footage and receiving information from the staff, this incident (as reported in local media) was found to be true,” the letter said. The woman's husband has filed a complaint alleging that his wife died after she was administered some injections following delivery, said City Superintendent of Police (CSP) Ravindra Mishra. The woman had given birth to a baby, as per the complaint. Her viscera was sent for forensic investigation but no offense has been registered yet as the report was awaited, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-woman-dies-while-hospital-staff-celebrates-diwali-101636220816183.html
07-11-2021||Bhopal||MP rape survivor dies by suicide after accused posts screenshots online||A rape survivor died by suicide after the accused posted the screenshots of a video of the heinous act on WhatsApp in Morena district of Madhya Pradesh, the deceased girl’s brother-in-law said on Saturday. The 20-year-old girl from Kanchpura village of the district consumed poison on Thursday night after her husband informed her that her photos were going viral in the village. She was rushed to the district hospital where she died on Friday while undergoing treatment. The husband informed his elder brother about the reason behind her death. Talking to HT over the phone, the brother-in-law said, “My brother and the woman got married last year. My brother works as an attendant at a petrol pump. On Thursday, a villager informed him that obscene photos of his wife are going viral on social media.” “My brother asked his wife about the photos, she told him that a labourer named Bhola, who was working at an under-construction house in the neighbourhood, raped her a few weeks ago. He threatened her with dire consequences. She didn’t inform anyone due to social stigma,” he said.The brother-in-law said on Tuesday, the labourer came to her house again with two others and forced her for sexual favours. The woman scolded them and asked them to leave her house. The labourer showed her a video of the act, which was shot by him secretly and threatened her of posting it on social media. The woman didn’t pay attention to his threat and ran outside her house. The labourer fled the spot but later took circulated the screenshots of the video through WhatsApp. The brother-in-law added that after the post mortem, police didn’t come to register the statement to know the reason behind her death. “If the police don’t come, we will file a complaint against Bhola,” said the brother-in-law. Bagchini police station in-charge Praveen Tripathi said, “We came to know about the suicide but didn’t receive any information of rape and circulation of photos. The family is in trauma therefore we have not registered their statements yet.” Morena superintendent of police, Lalit Shakyawar, said, “We came to know that labourer Bhola used to visit her. Now, family members claimed that the woman was raped by the labourer. Police are investigating the claims of the family members. Further sections of the Indian Penal Code will be added after investigation”. (With inputs from Shiv Pratap Singh from Morena)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-rape-survivor-dies-by-suicide-after-accused-posts-screenshots-online-101636224088914.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||1 killed after fire breaks out from diya lit for Diwali in Kandivli||A level-one fire was reported in a ground-plus-15 Heritage Hansa building in Kandivli (West) at 8.33pm on Saturday. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s disaster management cell, one person has died has died in the incident, while another has suffered injuries. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said an earthen lamp kept in the balcony of a 14th-floor house is likely to have caused the fire.Two people who had suffered injuries in the incident were rushed to the civic-run Shatabdi Hospital, where one was declared dead on admission. The injured person is undergoing treatment. The identities of the victims are awaited. Pednekar, who visited the spot in Kandivli, said, “What I have come to know till now is that the fire probably broke out due to a diya kept in the balcony in one of the houses on the 14th floor. Due to the high wind speed, the fire later spread to 15th floor. The fire brigade rescued around five people from the building. Fortunately, the fire station was nearby and hence, the call was attended at a very early stage after the fire broke out.”Meanwhile, MFB has disconnected the electricity connection of the building. The incident also disrupted traffic on Mathuradas Road, where the building is located.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-killed-after-fire-breaks-out-from-diya-lit-for-diwali-in-kandivli-101636223489145.html
07-11-2021||Lucknow||UP’s economy near normal now, claims govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday claimed that the state’s economy was returning to near normal with its total revenue collections going up by ₹997.33 crore for October, year on year. The revenue collected in October 2021 was ₹11,670.12 crore against ₹10,672 crore collected in the same month last year.“The state government’s revenue collections show that the state’s economy, adversely affected by Covid-19, is returning to near normal. Our revenue collections are going up consistently every month now. The relief given by the state government in the VAT on petrol and diesel has been appreciated by all sections of society,” said minister for finance Suresh Khanna while releasing data of revenue collections.A close scrutiny of the revenue collections, however, shows that the state government’s collections of ₹11,670.12 crore in October 2021 were only 81.6% of the target for the month ( ₹14,303.26 crore). The state government’s GST and VAT collections were ₹6,358.76 crore, about 75.4% of the target for the month ( ₹8,431.01 crore). Its excise collections remained ₹2,638.10 crore, about 105.9% of the target of ₹2,490.00 crore.The state government’s collections in the transport sector were only ₹580.32 crore about ₹44 lakh less than ₹580.25 crore collected in the month last year. Collections in the transport sector were 65.3% of target for the month ( ₹888.25 crore). The non-tax collection was also down from ₹284.77 crore in October 2020 to ₹224.42 crore in the same month in 2021, about 49.9% of the target of ₹450 crore.The state government’s total tax collections in 2021-2022 (April 1 to October 31, 2021) were ₹77,655.04 crore, about 74.8% of the target of ₹1,03,833.25 crore for the same period. Its total tax collections in the first seven months of 2021-2022 were only 41.7% of the annual target of ₹1,86,345.00 crore.“Although the state government’s revenue is rising there are areas of concern, which include the transport sector. This shows that the automobile sector is not doing so well in the state. Another area of concern is non-tax revenue. The state government will therefore have to pay more attention to areas of concern,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of department, economics, Lucknow University.“The relief given in the VAT recently will also have an impact on the state government’s revenue in months to come. The state government should therefore make efforts to augment revenue in coming months,” Tyagi further said.The state will go into poll mode for 2022 assembly elections. The state government proposes to present a vote on account for the first few months of 2022-2023 in the state legislature. As the state government will not be able to mobilise additional resources to augment revenue, it will have to keep a close watch on revenue recovery under various heads in the coming months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-economy-near-normal-now-claims-govt-101636223428867.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||Pollution impact: After Diwali, Delhi doctors report spike in breathing trouble||With Delhi’s air quality plummeting to hazardous levels after Diwali, doctors in the city have reported a 20% increase in the number of patients complaining of respiratory trouble such as shortness of breath, wheezing, and incessant coughing. To complicate matters, the prevalent air pollution levels may adversely impact people who have recovered from Covid-19, said doctors. “There has been a 20% increase in the number of patients with chronic lung conditions reporting exacerbated symptoms over the past 15 to 20 days because of the changing weather – there were rainy days, hot days, and cold days. However, the pollution levels shot up after Diwali – whether due to firecrackers, crop burning, or vehicular pollution – and we saw an additional 10% increase in the number of patients in the last couple of days,” said Dr Sandeep Nayar, head of the department of respiratory medicine at BLK-Max hospital. Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant of pulmonary and critical care at Indraprastha Apollo hospital, said, “There has been nearly 20% increase in the number of patients coming in with exacerbations of their chronic respiratory conditions since Diwali.” A study by the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), for which data was collected between 2017 and 2019, shows that even on “good” air days, small increases in pollution levels sends more people to the emergency department. The study found that there is a nearly 20% increase in the number of patients who need emergency care when PM2.5 level is recorded between 50 and 100µg/m³. At its peak – between October and January –hospitalisations go up by 40%. The high pollution levels are likely to impact more people this year as a significant proportion of people who recovered from Covid-19 might not have completely healthy lungs, Dr Chawla added. “People who had severe Covid-19, especially those who were admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), will definitely suffer more due to the pollution. Some are likely to see asthma-like bronchial hyper reactivity. Nearly 20 to 30% of the post-Covid-19 patients will suffer the effects. And this will not just be limited to this year but in the time to come as well. The impact [of pollution] will be more in patients with low lung efficiency,” he said.Dr Nayar said, “The lungs of several Covid-19 patients might not have recovered fully. Exposing them to high levels of pollution is like hitting someone on an existing wound. In fact, I have seen several Covid-19 recovered patients who were fine till last month but have started experiencing some symptoms since.”Over 1.4 million people have had the infection in Delhi so far, according to official data. Several global studies have already shown that people living in areas with high levels of pollution are more likely to die of Covid-19 – such as the study that reported 12% mortality in Northern Italy where pollution levels are higher in comparison to 4.5% from other parts of the country. A study from the Harvard University has also shown that with every 1 μg increase in PM 2.5 long term exposure, Covid-19 mortality went up by 8%. “Both Covid-19 and pollution primarily affects the lungs. High levels of pollution may result in chronic conditions that predispose people to severe Covid-19; lungs damaged by severe Covid-19 are more likely to be affected by pollution. Just like every year, we have started seeing an increase in patients coming in with shortness of breath, cough, wheezing, chest pain, and sputum as soon as the pollution levels went up,” said Dr BK Tripathi, professor in the department of medicine at Safdarjung hospital. Senior officials of Delhi’s environment department said that the government started issuing regular health advisories in 2016 after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in a 2015 order asked the Delhi government to identify pollution hot spots and define the health impact that residents of those areas could face because of prolonged exposure to toxic air.“The health impacts are definitely critical and for a healthy human being these impacts might not be seen immediately, but for the more vulnerable sections such as people with chronic ailments, children and senior citizens exposure to such high levels of poisonous air can be a problem. With Covid-19, these risks are much higher,” a senior environment department official said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily health advisories, only ‘good’ air days as per Indian air quality standards (AQI in 0-50 range) results in “minimal health impact” in people. As the AQI levels start rising to the ‘satisfactory’ (AQI in 51-100 range), “minor breathing discomfort” could be visible among “sensitive people. In the ‘moderate’ AQI range, the air quality monitoring body warns that signs of “breathing difficulty could be seen among people with lung problems, asthma and heart diseases”, with prolonged exposure to ‘poor’ air (AQI between 101 and 150), breathing discomfort might be experienced among “most people”. The CPCB advisories also say that in ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ AQI range — usually recorded in the national capital during winter, when frigid conditions coupled with external and local pollution start worsening the city’s air quality — residents can experience respiratory illnesses and serious health impacts to those with existing diseases. Before the NGT order, CPCB conducted a comprehensive study in 2008, which identified a significant association of pollution with adverse health outcomes. It was found that residents in Delhi had a 1.7 times higher prevalence of respiratory symptoms as compared to someone living in a rural area. The findings also showed that lung function was reduced in 40.3% of individuals in Delhi as compared to those in rural areas. Bhavreen Kandhari, environmental activist and co-founder of Warrior Moms, a group of women fighting air pollution in India, said, “My daughters live with a very high risk of developing respiratory infections that stem from Delhi’s excessively polluted air. For children to have the lungs of a smoker by their teens, through no fault of their own, just by breathing air is absolutely unacceptable. We need governments to listen to us. Keep our children safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-impact-after-diwali-delhi-doctors-report-spike-in-breathing-trouble-101636223369217.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||Man forces biryani seller in Delhi to shut shop on Diwali, police file case||A man, who claimed to be a member of a right-wing group, allegedly forced an eatery in north Delhi’s Burari to down shutters on Diwali, the owner of the shop said on Saturday, a day after the police registered a case on their own, as a video of the incident did the rounds online.In the video, a man is heard abusing and making derogatory comments towards employees of Aalam Muradabadi Biryani in Burari’s Sant Nagar.The man in the video identified himself as Naresh Suryavanshi, and claimed to be a member of a right-wing group. In it, he is heard threatening employees for opening the eatery, which sells non-vegetarian food, on Diwali.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video but the owner of the eatery, Makrub Alam, said the video was recorded at his shop. Other shopkeepers stepped in, after which the man fled, said Alam.“He seemed drunk. There were three people inside my shop. Around 7.30pm, he came and threatened us for opening the shop on Diwali day. He claimed to be from a right-wing group. All our Hindu brothers (other shopkeepers) came to the shop and defended me. They scolded that man, after which he fled. I did not want the issue to be blown out of proportion and shut my shop that evening. It is open now. We had not seen him before and have not seen him after that evening,” said Alam. He said the man recorded the video himself.Police said they had not received any distress call and were not informed of the incident, but filed a case suo motu on Friday, after the video went viral. “He [the man in the video] is not from our area,” said Alam. “He must have posted it on social media. On Friday, the station house officer of the local station visited me and started the probe. He said the police would register a case and find that man,” he added. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said, “We have registered a case under IPC Section 285A. The probe is on.” Alam said he has run the shop for six years, and had never been harassed before. “We did not call the police initially because the market association dealt with him at the spot,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-forces-biryani-seller-in-delhi-to-shut-shop-on-diwali-police-file-case-101636223367747.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||CBSE issues guidelines for classes 10 and 12 Term-1 exams in the OMR format||In order to help Class 10 and 12 students who will be appearing for their board exams using the optical mark recognition (OMR) sheets for the first time, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Saturday shared information on the new mode of assessment and also issued a set of dos and don’ts for students.Keeping in view the unprecedented scenario arising out of Covid-19 pandemic, the CBSE, earlier this year, announced that it would conduct the board examinations in two parts this year. The format for the Term-1 examinations will be objective, multiple-choice questions (MCQs) and the exams will begin for Class 10 on November 30 and for Class 12 on December 1. There are over 2,100 CBSE-affiliated schools in Delhi.According to the circular issued to principals on Saturday, the details of the candidate will come filled on the OMR sheets. “The candidate has to write a question paper code in the upper right corner in the space provided for the same. Question paper code will be written on the question paper…Only blue/black ballpoint pens are to be used for filling in the desired information and for giving responses...Use of pencils is strictly prohibited,” the CBSE said in the circular, adding that in case candidates used pencils for filling the OMR sheets, that will be deemed as “use of unfair means” and action will be taken against the student(s) accordingly.The board further said, “For giving a response, 4 circles — a, b, c, and d — are given next to each question in a row. Candidates once confident about the correctness of reply should darken the (appropriate) circle with a pen. After four circles are over, a box is given in the same row. Candidates have to write the correct option in that box — a, b, c or d — whichever the answer is.”If the box is empty and the response is marked only in the circle, the board said it will be deemed that the “question was not been attempted” by the student. However, if the response is given in the box and the circle is left blank, it will be deemed that the “question has been attempted”. If the circle, box, and the last circle for the question number are all left blank, it will be considered that the “question has not been attempted”.“Schools are requested that based on the information provided by the CBSE, practise sessions be organised for students. Prior to the practise sessions, teachers must also get well acquainted with the OMR sheets,” controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said.The duration of the examination will be 90 minutes and it will cover only the rationalised syllabus of Term-1. The question papers will be sent by the CBSE to schools along with the marking scheme, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbse-issues-guidelines-for-classes-10-and-12-term-1-exams-in-the-omr-format-101636215806347.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi cabinet approves policy to insulate bare electricity wires||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has directed the electricity department to convert all 11kV bare electrical wires in the city into insulated ones to ensure safety of people, especially during the monsoon, and also directed officials to expedite the ongoing work of shifting all overhead cables in the capital to below the ground.The Delhi cabinet on Friday approved a policy to convert bare wires into insulated conductors, a statement from the office of the chief minister said. “As a responsible and sensitive government, it is our duty to provide safety as well as facilities to the people of Delhi at every level. In view of this, this policy has been brought forth so that the people of Delhi can be saved from the possible danger to life and property that bare conductors pose,” Kejriwal said.The government said about 2,264km of bare conductor network will be converted into an insulated network by the three discoms Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL), BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) and BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL). Kejriwal said the government is also working on shifting all overhead electrical wires underground. “The power department at present has a policy on shifting high tension (11KV, 33KV and 66KV) and low tension (400V) power transmission lines which are life threatening. This was approved by the Delhi cabinet in August 2018. On the lines of the policy of shifting HT and LT lines approved by the Delhi cabinet, the electricity department has prepared a draft policy for conversion of 11 kV bare conductors to insulated conductors,” the statement said.Of the 2,264km of wires, TPDDL will convert 1,270km, BYPL will convert 29km and BRPL will convert 965km of bare wires into an insulated network.The finance department has given ₹25 crore to the power department in financial year 2021-22 for the project under the ”Jagmagaati Delhi (shining Delhi)” programme.The conversion will be undertaken in areas including regularised unauthorised colonies, urbanised villages and resettlement colonies or colonies established under a 20 point programme in rural areas; or rural areas such as Lal Dora and extended Lal Dora.“Unauthorised colonies with name and registration number and Khasra number of the respective revenue village or area through which the 11 kV bare conductor is passing, have also been included,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-approves-policy-to-insulate-bare-electricity-wires-101636215566230.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt orders probe after collapse at Green Park multilevel car parking||The state government has ordered an inquiry into the collapse at an automated car parking facility in south Delhi’s Green Park on Tuesday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday. Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said the Delhi government has asked the director of local bodies of the state urban development department to investigate the incident through the public works department (PWD). “The Kejriwal government will not tolerate any wastage of taxpayers’ money and negligence in public security. Taking serious cognisance of the matter, I have ordered the director of local bodies to conduct an investigation through the PWD and submit a report within 15 days. This is to ensure that the lapses are identified and action is taken against the culprits,” he said. Four platforms in the city’s first automated parking lot at Green Park allegedly malfunctioned due to a technical fault during a maintenance operation around 5.30pm on Tuesday, damaging at least two vehicles. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said its technical team repaired the glitches on Wednesday. South Delhi mayor Mukesh Suryan said he already has ordered a probe to investigate the causes of the malfunction, adding that the private company operating the facility will be blacklisted if found to be at fault for the collapse. On Saturday, Sisodia alleged that the SDMC collected “huge sums” from shopkeepers near the facility on the pretext of parking conversion charges to build the structure. “Shops were sealed and the parking space was constructed. But within a year, the parking space was mired in corruption allegations and began to collapse, resulting in damage to several cars,” he said. The deputy chief minister criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) handling of the three municipal corporations in Delhi and failing to “end corruption” in them. Civic body elections in Delhi are scheduled to take place early next year. “Electric floor plates have started to fall apart inside the parking lot, damaging many cars. Several people have suffered heavy losses, as a result. Fortunately, nobody was harmed. It is obvious that the facility could not last even a year because of BJP’s rigging and corruption,” Sisodia said. Spokespersons of the Delhi BJP did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-orders-inquiry-into-platform-collapse-at-green-park-multilevel-car-parking-101636215266026.html
07-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt extends free ration scheme by six months, urges Centre to do so too||New Delhi: The state government will distribute free, additional ration to lower-income group residents of the city for another six months, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday, adding that he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to extend the Centre’s free ration scheme for the same period. “The Delhi government is extending its free ration scheme to the poor for six months. I urged the Central government to also extend its ration scheme for six months by writing a letter to the Prime Minister. People are in a lot of trouble right now. It would not be right to let go of their hand at this juncture,” Kejriwal said in a statement on Saturday. The move came a day after Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pande said the Centre was not planning to extend beyond November 30 the free ration scheme, which was launched as a social net for the poor during the coronavirus pandemic.The Delhi government in a Cabinet meeting chaired by Kejriwal in May last year decided to give extra free ration to the needy. According to the eligibility prescribed under the National Food Security Act (NFSA, 5kg of food grains are distributed to residents from lower-income groups, including migrant workers, unorganised workers, construction workers, domestic helpers and those who do not have ration cards. This includes 4kg of wheat and 1kg of rice per person per month. Since then, about two million people in Delhi have received rations as part of this programme. Kejriwal in his letter to the PM wrote that during Covid-19, the central government had given free ration to every cardholder across the country in addition to the ration being made available every month. “The Delhi government made the monthly ration supply free from its own end… Due to these steps by the central government and Delhi government, the poor got a lot of relief during the pandemic. These schemes by both governments are ending in November. The central government has announced that this scheme will not be extended after November,” he said in the letter.He added, “There is backbreaking inflation in the country at this time. The common man is finding it difficult to get two square meals. Many people lost their jobs during the Corona period. They have no means of earning. In such a situation, I request you that the Central Government further extend this scheme of giving additional free ration to the people for six more months. The Delhi Government is extending the scheme from its own end to provide people free additional ration for six months. It will be very kind of you to do the same as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-extends-free-ration-scheme-by-six-months-urges-centre-to-do-so-too-101636214906049.html
07-11-2021||Mumbai||Delhi NCB team in Mumbai to take over Aryan Khan case||A six-member special investigation team (SIT) of the Delhi operations branch of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrived in the city on Saturday to take over probe into six cases, including the cruise drug bust case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested, from its Mumbai zonal unit headed by Sameer Wankhede. The six-member team is headed by the NCB’s deputy director general Sanjay Singh. NCB chief SN Pradhan on Friday issued an order transferring the six cases from NCB’s Mumbai zonal unit to the operations branch from its headquarters. The SIT was constituted to take over from NCB Mumbai zonal unit six cases in order to conduct deeper investigation, to find out forward and backward linkages, NCB said in a release on Friday. “We have taken over six cases as per procedure. There is nothing to say as of now,” Singh said in Mumbai. When asked about Wankhede, he replied, “Wankhede continues to be the zonal director, Mumbai and we will definitely take his help in the investigation.” The SIT will start investigating the cruise drugs case from where point where actor Ananya Panday was questioned on October 25, an NCB officer said. The list of the six cases also includes the drugs case against Sameer Khan, son-in-law of Maharashtra cabinet minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik. Khan was arrested by NCB in first of week January 2021 and was released on bail on September 28. The SIT will also probe the case involving actor Armaan Kohli. An NCB team led by Wankhede had raided Kohli’s Juhu residence on August 28 and recovered a small quantity of cocaine. Kohli was arrested on September 29, and continues to be behind bars. A fourth case to be probed by the SIT was registered by the agency’s Mumbai zonal unit on July 25 when it arrested three persons – Sameer Mukhtar Sayyed alias Sam Langda, Zakir Sayyed alias Zakir Takla alias Zakir Chikna and Mohammad Amed Shamsuddin Shaikh and allegedly seized 1.2kg of charas, an intermediate quantity of mephedrone along with ₹17.5 lakh in cash from them. NCB claimed that Sameer Merchant alias Sam Langda was a notorious, organised drug mafia member. The fifth case on the list was registered in September when NCB recovered an intermediate quantity of mephedrone, whereas the sixth case related to the recovery of mephedrone from Dongri area in south Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delhi-ncb-team-in-city-to-take-over-aryan-case-101636214426819.html
