08-11-2021||Delhi||‘The city will become a jungle’: Delhi HC pulls up authorities over hawking plan||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday observed that if anyone is allowed is allowed to come and hawk in the national capital, then the whole city will become a jungle.“There has to be a plan. There has to be a survey by a committee, nothing of that has happened. The plan has not even been prepared. It cannot be that in the meantime the whole city is open. Anybody can walk in and start hawking and vending. The whole city will become a jungle… This cannot be permitted,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Amit Bansal remarked.The court, while hearing a plea by the New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) seeking removal of unauthorised hawking in the CP area, stressed on the need for proper implementation of the Street Vendors Act to have an organised activity of vending.The court directed local authorities, including the municipal corporations, to initiate the process of preparing the statutory street vending plan under the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act.“The steps taken in this regard be placed before the court on the next date of hearing,” the court said.The court also asked the authorities, including the Delhi government and the municipal bodies, to take help from the experts of Public Works Department, School of Planning and Architecture, IIT and other planning bodies to formulate a street vending plan which would set the specifications for density of vendors and norms for walkways in markets.“You need to implement the Act properly. There is no street vending plan. The way the constitution of the Town Vending Committee (TVC) has been done is actually shocking. We are dealing with the NDMC area and without CP area, it does not have its character and meaning,” the bench said.“We take the Act, the rules and the scheme are good, the problem is in the implementation. Our objective is to not take it adversely. We want all the wings of administration, whether the GNCTD or corporations, to implement the provisions of the Act, then to our mind, we will have a city where it will be an organised activity of vending,” said the court, adding that street vending is an age-old activity.The court, on October 11, had directed the removal of illegal encroachers and vendors from the CP area and directed the authorities to ensure that the area remained clean.The petitioner, represented through senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli, sought that the authorities be directed to ensure the areas are kept free from encroachments by illegal hawkers and vendors.The court was informed by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi Police, that drives have been carried out by the NDMC and police for removal of illegal encroachers and five FIRs have been registered. He said the court’s order was fully complied with by the authorities.The NDMC counsel also said illegal hawkers and vendors were removed but the drive needs to be carried daily.Regarding the Regal Cinema building, Ralli informed the court that earlier no action was taken against illegal hawkers sitting there and a removal drive was carried on November 6 after he informed the authorities that action has to be taken there also.The court observed that it was conscious of the fact that vendors also have fundamental rights but pointed out that it is not absolute. The bench said its concern was that it has to see and balance it with the rights of other citizens.“We want to ensure all wings of administration, be it MCD or Delhi government, shall implement the Act in its letter and spirit,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-city-will-become-a-jungle-delhi-hc-pulls-up-authorities-over-hawking-plan-101636396021296.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Guest faculties’ protest against Punjab govt enters 8th day||The protest of the Guest Faculty-cum-Assistant Professors Association of Punjab against the state government’s advertisement for the recruitment of new assistant professors entered its eighth day on Monday.Around 22 guest faculties of Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, held a protest at the college. Falwinder Verma, an assistant professor at the college, blamed the state government for adopting poor administrative and educational policies.“The new posts have been created in lieu of the assistant professors already teaching at government colleges in the state. The new candidates will he hired and we will lose our employment. The government should have created new posts. There are a total 906 guest faculties working in these colleges for the past 20 years and instead of being regularised, they will be shunt out soon,” said Verma.He added that the government now wants the guest faculties already recruited in these colleges to compete with the new candidates and appear in the common test scheduled this month.“Many teachers are in their early 50s or 40s. They were recruited after appearing in tests around 20 years back. How can the government expect them to compete with the young brains? This is totally unfair as our families will be affected adversely,” he added.Manvir Singh, guest faculty deputed in fine arts department, said, “We started working for a salary of ₹7,000. We supported the government in its bad times and now its policies will damage our lives. We will intensify the struggle and will reach Chandigarh if our demands are not met.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-guest-faculties-protest-against-punjab-govt-enters-8th-day-101636395963264.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Govt college teachers protest against delay in implementation of 7th pay scale||The teachers of SCD Government College held a three-hour long dharna on Monday to protest the delay in implementation of the 7th pay commission and de-linking from the UGC pay scales.The protestors accused the state government of neglecting their benefits, even as the 7th pay commission has been implemented in the entire country except in Punjab.A delegation of the teachers recently met education minister Pargat Singh and education secretary Krishan Kumar to highlight the issue. “They agreed to take up the legitimate demands of the teachers, but nothing conclusive has come of it. The apathetic attitude of the government and the higher education department is the reason behind so many talented people leaving Punjab,” said a teacher.The teachers added that the repercussions of the regressive measures of the successive state governments, for the past many years, has reduced education to a sorry state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-govt-college-teachers-protest-against-delay-in-implementation-of-7th-pay-scale-101636395783402.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Commission for Women sends notice to JustDial for helping ‘sex rackets’||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday said they issued a notice to Justdial — an Indian tech firm that provides a digital directory for a range of services — “to investigate its role in promoting sex rackets in spas” in the Capital. The commission has also issued a notice to the Delhi Police crime branch, asking them to register a case in the matter.In a press statement issued on Monday, the DCW said the commission had received “several complaints” of alleged prostitution rackets being run from spas in the city, which prompted them to set up a team to look probe the allegations. The team used JustDial and asked for contact details of spas operating in south Delhi.“Within 24 hours, the team received over 15 calls and 32 WhatsApp messages from spas, with pictures of more than 150 young girls, along with the rates of their ‘services’. While the team only requested details for spa service, the same was automatically construed as a request for sex and the so-called spas immediately provided details regarding the illegal prostitution activities they were indulging in,” said the DCW statement. The commission asked the Delhi Police’s crime branch to register an FIR. It also issued a notice to the managing director (MD) of Justdial Limited, seeking their presence before the commission on November 12, along with details explaining the company’s policy for background checks of the ‘spas’ listed with them. They have been also asked to inform the details of the spas which sent the commission’s team the messages for providing sexual services as well as the amount of money taken by Justdial to list them on their site. Justdial could not be reached for comment on the matter.DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal said, “The blatancy and impunity with which prostitution rackets are operating in the Capital is shocking. We have summoned Justdial to investigate their role in the matter and have also issued a notice to Delhi Police for immediately registering a FIR and arrest the people involved. The commission is against objectification and commercial sexual exploitation of girls and their and shall leave no stone unturned to stop it.”A police officer, who did not want to be named said, “Action will be taken as per the law once we receive the notice and conduct an inquiry into the allegations”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-commission-for-women-sends-notice-to-justdial-for-helping-sex-rackets-101636395661204.html
08-11-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh: AAP for bringing petrol and diesel under GST||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh in-charge of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Rajya Sabha MP, Sanjay Singh on Monday demanded the Central government to bring petrol and diesel under ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), and attacked the BJP government on rising prices of essential commodities. Petrol and diesel are still under the old taxation system of VAT and are yet to be brought under the GST. “The Centre has done precious little to bring down prices of petrol and diesel. Their prices are still very high. The Centre must bring petrol and diesel under the GST to control their price. Without doing this, prices of these two products cannot be controlled,” Singh told media persons. Singh also demanded to increase the amount for purchasing two pairs of uniform, a pair of socks, a sweater and a school bag, from ₹1,100 to ₹3,000 per student, which the Yogi government would transfer into the bank accounts of parents of each student studying in government-aided schools. Recently, the state government has ordered to transfer ₹1,100 directly into the bank accounts of parents of each student studying in government schools. The AAP has decided to contest the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and has also announced names of probable candidates for over 100 assembly constituencies. As its first promise to electorates of the state, the AAP has announced 300 units of free electricity for every household. With this, the AAP aims to make inroads into UP where the ruling BJP is facing tough challenge from Samajwadi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-aap-for-bringing-petrol-and-diesel-under-gst-101636395241107.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Booster shot to Covid-19 vax drive in Lucknow; DM sets Nov-end deadline||The district magistrate divided the city into 24 sectors to boost the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination in the state capital, on Monday. Besides, the DM also appointed sector in-charges from the police and health department.DM Abhishek Prakash directed the health department to complete the vaccination by the end of the month. He also appealed to the people to come forward for the second dose of vaccination which is the only way to fight the deadly Covid-19 infection.The DM ordered the sector in-charges to ensure that Covid-19 vaccination is carried out effectively in their respective areas. He also directed the health department to ensure availability of wheelchairs, walking sticks, drinking water facility and a shaded area for people visiting the centre.Earlier, the DM had also launched 24 mobile vaccination vans to carry out on-the-spot vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/booster-shot-to-covid-19-vax-drive-in-lucknow-dm-sets-nov-end-deadline-101636394941047.html
08-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj: BJP set to form next UP govt, win more seats in assembly polls: Pradhan||PRAYAGRAJ: Union education minister and UP election in-charge of BJP, Dharmendra Pradhan, on Monday claimed that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would form the next government in Uttar Pradesh by winning more seats in the upcoming state assembly polls than it did the last time. The BJP has been entrusted with the responsibility to serve the people of the state and the party is doing the same, said the Union minister. “It is the BJP government which has made UP a developed state. Law and order have improved in UP and the rule of law has been established,” said Pradhan, who was in Sangam city to attend few events, including convocation function of Allahabad University and a BJP party meeting. He added that the UP government managed Corona efficiently and the economy has come back on track. Faith of the people of the state is in BJP and PM Narendra Modi, he added while interacting with media persons during his visit. “The faith of the people is also in chief minister Yogi Adtiyanath and also in deputy CMs Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma. These are our plus points and, on this basis, BJP will form the BJP government once again in the state by winning more seats than the last time,” Pradhan added. The Union minister also met Nishad Party president Sanjay Nishad at Circuit House and said that many issues have been discussed. He said that Nishad Party is now part of NDA. Regarding Sanjay Nishad, he said that he is a good colleague and “we will fight the assembly elections in UP together”. He said that in the coming days, a major event would be organised by the ‘Machuara Prakosth’ (fishermen cell) in which members of Nishad Party, Apna Dal and NDA will be present along with BJP. Home minister Amit Shah will also participate in this programme, he added without elaborating more about the proposed event. While addressing the meeting of mandal presidents and in-charges of five districts of Kashi province, the minister said that the party is being strengthened at the mandal and booth level. The responsibility of taking the public welfare schemes of the government to the people is also on the shoulders of the organisation.PHOTO CAPTION: Union Minister of Education and UP election in-charge of BJP Dharmendra Pradhan (second from right) at the meeting of the BJP mandal presidents and mandal in-charges of five districts of Kashi province in Prayagraj on Monday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-bjp-set-to-form-next-up-govt-win-more-seats-in-assembly-polls-pradhan-101636394766040.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: PGI’s Apex Trauma Centre starts admitting patients||The Apex Trauma Centre of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) that was converted into Rajdhani Covid Hospital was opened for general trauma patients from Monday. “Till 2 pm 7 patients were admitted at the centre. The hospital is back to normal functioning of pre corona times. The emergency, OPD and wards have become operational from today. The trauma related services are now available 24X7. All the OTs to treat patients have also become operational,” chief medical superintendent of PGI professor Gaurav Agarwal said.Agarwal said, “The state-of-art trauma centre located in Vrindawan colony is one of the best in country.”PGI director professor RK Dhiman said, “The Rajdhani Covid Hospital treated and cured over 3000 Covid patients during the last 18 months. Now the Covid Hospital has been shifted to main building as the cases have declined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-pgi-s-apex-trauma-centre-starts-admitting-patients-101636394762595.html
08-11-2021||Other||Addict kills mother for refusing money to buy drugs in Ludhiana||Ludhiana An addict beat up his elderly mother to death with sticks for not giving him money to buy drugs in the wee hours of Monday in Punia village of Samrala. After the murder, the accused fled from the house leaving body of his mother in the veranda of the house. Villagers found the body on Monday morning and informed the police. Police have booked Jagjivan Singh alias Jaggi, 35, elder son of the victim Bhinder Kaur, 60, for murder. The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Dalbir Singh, the younger son of the victim.Samrala SHO inspector Kulwant Singh said the accused, who is a drug addict, used to thrash his mother for money for buying drugs. The villagers heard some noise from their house about 4.30am, but did not pay heed as it was a routine affair. The inspector added that when investigated they found blood stained stick near the body.Dalbir Singh said, “My unemployed elder brother used to harass our mother for the money. In the wee hours of Monday he demanded money, and when she refused, he thrashed her to death with sticks and fled.” The SHO added circumstantial evidence suggested murder. The husband of the victim is an alcoholic and did not return home since Saturday. The accused Jagjivan is married and has two daughters. Due to his addiction, his wife had left the house two years ago with her daughters and started living in her maternal home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/addict-kills-mother-for-refusing-money-to-buy-drugs-in-ludhiana-101636394760976.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Pollution action plan to be enacted in entirety as air quality hovers around ‘severe’ levels||The city on Monday continued to be engulfed under a blanket of polluted air, recording an air quality index (AQI) of 369 (‘very poor’), even as the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) ordered the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) in its entirety, including measures listed under the ‘severe’ air quality.In its sixth meeting on Grap implementation on Monday, the CPCB took the decision taking into consideration the India Meteorological Department’s forecast of northwesterly winds for the next five days, which may lead to a higher contribution of stubble burning to the pollution. The air quality is expected to fluctuate between the ‘severe’ and the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category over the next few days.In Gurugram, the air quality was in the ‘severe’ category of CPCB’s classification for three days after Diwali. The air quality improved slightly on Monday and reached the ‘very poor’ zone, with PM 2.5 as the prominent pollutant.The minutes of the CPCB meeting stated, “It was observed that due to sudden and unforeseeable change in meteorological factors, substantially high emissions on account of bursting of firecrackers and other local sources, and high contribution of stubble burning, the air quality of Delhi declined to ‘severe’ category but is in ‘very poor’ category now (on Monday).”The CPCB ordered 60 agencies in the National Capital Region (NCR), including the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF), deputy commissioner of Gurugram traffic police, chief executive officer Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), to implement “actions under severe category, in addition to steps listed under very poor and poor to moderate AQI categories” with immediate effect.S Narayanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said that an order for implementing measures under the ‘severe’ category of Grap will be issued and all orders of the CPCB would be followed.Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer of HSPCB for Gurugram north, said, “In the past three days, since air quality reached ‘severe’ category, we enhanced sprinkling of water and mechanised cleaning of hotspots across Gurugram to control further deterioration of air quality. We have been continuously coordinating with all agencies like district administration, urban local bodies, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran and even private agencies, like industrial associations and builders, to implement these activities. All ground staff have also been informed to share pictures along with time and location as soon as they carry out sprinkling of water on roads.”The actions under ‘severe’ Grap mention increasing the frequency of mechanised cleaning of roads and sprinkling water on roads, identifying road stretches with high dust generation, ensuring that all brick kilns remain closed, as per directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers, maximising the generation of power from existing natural gas-based plants to reduce the operation of coal-based power plants and intensifying public transport services, with the introduction of differential rates to encourage off-peak travel.On Monday, Gurugram also recorded a minimum temperature of 13.9 degrees Celsius (°C), the lowest of the current winter season, while the maximum temperature was 27°C, which was three degrees below normal. Officials said that the normal minimum temperature is 12.6°C.“This is the first time this season that the minimum temperature has gone below 15°C, which means that we are approaching winter. Over the next three to four days, the minimum temperature will keep reducing gradually by 0.3-0.4°C daily. Due to this, air quality can get impacted. South Haryana might see cloudy skies due to formation of cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, but it will not rain,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pollution-action-plan-to-be-enacted-in-entirety-as-air-quality-hovers-around-severe-levels-101636394702628.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: Pregnant women to be given Covaxin in special drive||The district health department will conduct a dedicated Covid-19 vaccination drive for pregnant women at 37 session sites on Tuesday, wherein doses of the Covaxin vaccine will be administered, officials said on Monday. This will be in addition to vaccinations at the usual session sites and the door-to-door vaccination drive. “We have chosen Covaxin for this drive as through this vaccine, we can ensure that pregnant women get their first and second doses of Covid-19 vaccine faster during their pregnancy term. If a woman gets infected with coronavirus during pregnancy, then there could be chances of premature delivery with the baby’s weight being less than 2.5 kilograms. In some cases, the risk of fatality also increases, due to which we want to make sure that pregnant women are vaccinated faster,” said Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer. Singh said that if a pregnant woman, unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, gets infected with Covid-19, they will receive the remaining doses only after the delivery. For this drive, 7,400 doses of the vaccine will be available on Tuesday, with 3,700 for each dose. This is the second time that a dedicated vaccination drive is being conducted for pregnant women in the district.In addition to this drive, vaccination will continue at the 43 fixed vaccination sites across the district on Tuesday, officials said. The first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 36 centres, while the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at five centres. Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic, while door-to-door vaccinations will be carried out at 196 localities on Tuesday. On Monday, 14,208 people were given the Covid-19 vaccines in the district, with 3,703 people being administered the first dose and 10,505 being given the second dose of the vaccines. Meanwhile, in anticipation of the third wave of Covid-19 infections and augmenting health infrastructure, the state health department has sought feasibility reports from 11 districts, including six districts of south Haryana, for construction of 50-bed Covid-19 hospitals adjacent to the district Civil Hospital, as part of the Central government scheme in this regard. Rajeev Arora, the health secretary for the state, said, “Our first focus is to increase the pace of vaccination across the state with different methods, such as vaccination at fixed sites, door-to-door vaccination, special drives; but we also have to prepare in case there is a third wave of Covid-19. During the festive season, we saw that the vaccination pace was slow and people have also become more relaxed as cases have come down. But we are conducting surveys to understand the bed capacity in different districts and increase it as per the need.” Arora said that the chief minister is scheduled to conduct a review meeting on Friday with all deputy commissioners to take stock of the vaccination status and health infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-pregnant-women-to-be-given-covaxin-in-special-drive-101636394700993.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Namaz row: Muslims seek more mosques, action over ‘hateful sloganeering’||Reiterating the demand for more land parcels to build mosques, representatives of Muslim groups on Monday informed the Gurugram administration of their decision to refrain from offering Juma Namaz (Friday prayers) at a designated site in Sector 12A to avoid conflicts with right-wing organisations. They, however, sought action against people for allegedly making provocative speeches and raising communal slogans during Govardhan Puja rituals at the site last Friday.Members of the Muslim community also sought police protection to offer namaz at the other designated sites, citing scarcity of closed spaces for offering Friday prayers. Members of the Muslim community, after holding meetings on Monday, decided to offer namaz at 28 sites designated by the district administration.Altaf Ahmad, a member of Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch and spokesperson for Gurgaon Muslim Council, said that they have requested the deputy commissioner to take cognisance of the provocative speeches. “The videos have gone viral and have brought disrepute to our nation. Hence, the hatemongers should be booked immediately for hurting religious sentiments of the Muslim community,” he said. Mohammad Adeeb, a former Rajya Sabha member, who is leading a 21-member committee to resolve the ongoing issue, said that they have assured the administration of their continued support in resolving the Juma Namaz issue in a “pragmatic and peaceful manner.” “There are only 13 mosques in Gurugram city for a population of over five lakhs (0.5 million). Given there are such few and far off masjids, with capacity of hardly a few hundred, praying once a week in the open is a desperate necessity and not preferred by the devotees,” Adeeb said. Members of the 21-member committee, constituted last Saturday, said that they will not visit the Sector 12 site on Friday to avoid confrontation with right-wing groups who participated in Govardhan Puja. Members said they will also meet Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday to apprise him of the situation and to seek the government’s assistance for setting up an adequate number of mosques in Gurugram. The group plans to meet residents’ welfare association members (RWAs) and members of political parties to apprise them of the needs and challenges of the community and to build mutual trust, members said. Adeeb said that Muslim groups have voluntarily and pre-emptively reviewed their prayer sites and relocated if the congregations caused any problems, such as traffic disruptions. “The Muslim community has been seeking both private and government land for constructing mosques, which has not been forthcoming. One of the only two operational masjids in New Gurugram is under litigation in Supreme Court, despite legitimate allotment. We have urged the administration to review the allotments and the places of worship that have come up in Gurugram over the past three decades, as the fewest and most inadequate are of masjids,” he said. Ahmad said that a delegation of the city’s Muslims discussed the ongoing issues with the deputy commissioner on Monday and was assured of protection at the designated sites.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that the administration is trying to stabilise the ongoing issue and ensure communal harmony in the city. “We have formed a special committee and heavy police deployment is done at all namaz sites. Strict action is being taken against anyone disrupting namaz,” he said. A senior police official, requesting anonymity, said that they have not received any complaints about alleged sloganeering against the Muslim community. “We will take action once we receive a written complaint,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-row-muslims-seek-more-mosques-action-over-hateful-sloganeering-101636394641085.html
08-11-2021||Other||Post Covid-19 pandemic; foreign tourists start visiting Varanasi||VARANASI With life returning to normal post-Covid-19 pandemic, foreign tourists have started arriving in Varanasi. Around 150 foreign tourists visited Varanasi in the last two months (September and October), according to a senior officer, department of tourism. Most of the foreign tourists, who visited Varanasi during this period, were nationals of USA, England, Israel, Poland, Mozambique, Japan, Russia, France, Germany and Romania, the officer said. “However, many of the tourists are travelling to Varanasi from cities like Riahikesh, Bangalore and Delhi where they were staying temporarily. They now prefer shorter journey as they got stuck in many cities when the Covid-19 had broken out over 17 months ago,” said the officer. According to the tourism department, many tourists also reached Varanasi via Nepal. Most of them spent around four to seven days and went back. At present, around 30 tourists are in Varanasi and they can be seen sitting on ghats. On Monday, some foreigners were seen at Tulsi Ghat. They were enjoying traditional ‘Naag Nathaiya Leela’ being performed in river Ganga. It is held every year few days after Deepawali. Naag Nathiaya depicts Lord Krishna’s victory over serpent Kalia. A group of local artists of Kashi performs it in the mid of river Ganga. Regional tourism officer Keertiman Srivastava said, “Post Covid-19, around 100 tourists have visited Kashi. Gradually, the foreign tourists have started coming to Varanasi but their number is very little. I hope more tourists will visit the city in near future.” He said that before March 2020 (when Covid-19 outbreak occurred), on an average, over 35,000 foreigners used to visit Varanasi every month during the peak season which begins in September and ends in first week of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/post-covid-19-pandemic-foreign-tourists-start-visiting-varanasi-101636394221090.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||₹15 crore extortion case against Param Bir Singh: Maharashtra CID arrests 2 cops||The Maharashtra crime investigation department (CID), which is probing multiple cases against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, has arrested two serving police officers in a ₹15 crore extortion case.Inspectors Nandkumar Gopale – who is currently posted with the police training centre, Khandala – and Asha Korke – posted at local arms, Naigaon – were named the co-accused along with Singh in the first information report (FIR) registered with the Marine Drive police station on the complaint of Bhayander-based developer Shyamsunder Agrawal. There are at least three other police personnel, including two deputy commissioner of police (DCP)-rank officers, who were named accused in the case.CID in a statement said that after collecting evidence, it arrested Gopale and Korke on Monday and would produce them in a local court in Mumbai on Tuesday.Special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap said that the accused officers had allegedly extorted cash worth ₹50 lakh through a hawala operator from Sharad Agrawal, the nephew of the complainant, by threatening to arrest his uncle in a false case. The hawala operator is an old associate of Sanjay Punamiya, one of the accused in the case and Agarwal’s ex-business partner, Jagtap said.“The CID officers have managed to obtained scientific evidence against the two officers that indicated that they have accepted ₹50 lakh in cash,” Jagtap added.The CID is probing an FIR filed on Agarwal’s complaint at Marine Drive police station. Agrawal had alleged that early this year, Juhu police had filed an extortion case, accusing him of having links with underworld don Chhota Shakeel. Later, the police applied Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in the case. Agrawal claimed that based on this false case, Singh and his subordinates extorted money from him at the behest of Punamiya, who is the main accused in the case.A few days later, Gopale, who was then Mumbai crime branch unit 9 in-charge, raided Agrawal’s Bhayander and Vile Parle residences. During these raids, the accused police officers had illegally seized some partnership documents and other papers without making any official entry. Later, the photocopies of these documents were found from Punamiya’s possession, stated the FIR filed by Marine Drive police. Singh is wanted by multiple law enforcement agencies and the CID is probing at least three of the five FIRs filed against him.There have already been two non-bailable warrants issued against Singh. A look-out circular (LoC) has also been issued against the former Mumbai Police chief. Apart from this, two open inquiries have also been initiated against the 1988-batch senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) over the corruption allegations made against him by two serving police inspectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-crore-extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-maharashtra-cid-arrests-2-cops-101636394160923.html
08-11-2021||Kolkata||Guv’s order triggers drama before oath-taking by TMC’s bypoll winners; CM steps in||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee called state Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Monday to convince him to allow assembly speaker Biman Banerjee to administer the oath of office to four Trinamool Congress legislators, elected on October 30 by-poll, after the governor wrote to assembly secretariat authorizing the deputy speaker to administer the oath, officials familiar with the development said. After Banerjee’s call, the Governor reportedly changed his decision and allowed Biman Banerjee to administer the oath.In September, Dhankhar took away the power of the speaker to administer oath and vested it with himself. On Monday, he wrote to the assembly secretariat saying deputy speaker Asish Banerjee can administer the oath on his behalf as he would not be able to attend the oath-taking ceremony at the assembly house on Tuesday.As this caused an embarrassment for the speaker and the ruling party, chief minister Mamata Banerjee stepped in on Monday evening, top TMC leaders said.According to the convention, it is the speaker who administers the oath to legislators while the Governor administers the oath of office to ministers.“The Governor first said he was delegating the power to the deputy speaker as he would not be able to attend the ceremony. When Mamata Banerjee personally called him up, Dhankhar agreed to empower the speaker to administer the oath of office to Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, Udayan Guha, Brajakishore Goswami and Subrata Mondal. Another unnecessary crisis was averted,” a senior TMC leader, who is known to be close to the Bengal CM, told HT. The TMC won Khardah, Dinhata, Santipur and Gosaba, securing 75% of the overall votes polled in these polls. Partha Chatterjee, cabinet minister and leader of the TMC’s legislative party, wrote to Dhankhar, requesting him to administer the oath of office to the winners. “The Governor informed us that he cannot come. We will make some arrangement,” Chatterjee said at the assembly house on Monday afternoon when the drama unfolded. Mamata Banerjee stepped in hours after Chatterjee wrote to the governor again, requesting him to empower the speaker.Raj Bhawan officials did not comment on the incident.“I will not make any comment. Wait till tomorrow and see what happens,” the speaker told HT on Monday evening.Assembly officials said on condition of anonymity that a note from Raj Bhawan reached the office of the speaker a few days before the September 30 assembly by-poll at Kolkata’s Bhabanipur and polls at two seats in Murshidabad district. The letter cited Section 188 of the Constitution which empowers the Governor to administer the oath.Article 188 deals with the oath or affirmation of lawmakers. “Every member of the Legislative Assembly or the Legislative Council of a State shall, before taking his seat, make and subscribe before the Governor, or some person appointed in that behalf by him, an oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the Third Schedule,” it says.Mamata Banerjee, who was defeated at Nandigram six months ago, contested and won her old Bhawanipore seat. The Governor came to the assembly and read out the oath on October 7.To continue as the chief minister, the TMC president needed to be sworn in as a member of the assembly by November 4. Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the Bhawanipore seat in the March-April polls, stepped down for her. He successfully contested the Khardah seat which fell vacant after TMC’s Kajal Sinha died after winning it.The Governor’s decision forced the TMC to reschedule Mamata Banerjee’s oath-taking, which was initially planned for October 4.On October 1, the government had written to the Governor, asking him to authorize the speaker to conduct the programme but Dhankhar sought a gazette notification on the Bhawanipore bypoll results. Partha Chatterjee and Tapas Roy, the assembly’s deputy chief whip, met the speaker on October 4 and sent a formal request to the Governor to come to the assembly on October 7. A gazette notification on the Bhawanipore results was also issued. The Governor subsequently agreed to attend the ceremony. Biman Banerjee and Dhankar had earlier clashed over the latter’s request for a live telecast of his speech at the assembly. The speaker did not allow this. The speaker has also complained that Dhankhar was interfering in his work.In a strongly worded letter sent to the speaker on September 15, the Governor said, “Under Article 176 of the Constitution, I addressed the assembly on February 7, 2020, and July 2, 2021. On both occasions, in an ‘emergency’ kind of a situation, the address was blacked out.”“I would urge you to engage in soul-searching, believe in constitutional essence and spirit, and dictate the actions and conduct duly mindful of constitutional prescriptions and propriety demanded by the office you hold,” Dhankhar added.Former principal of Presidency College and constitutional expert Amal Mukhopadhyay said, “Since 1952, the standing convention is that governors authorize assembly speakers to administer the oath of office to legislators. The speaker is the master of the House. The Constitution says that any member of the assembly can be appointed by the governor for the job. But ignoring the speaker in this case, and appointing the deputy speaker as his representative to administer the oath, was a wrong move on the part of the governor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/guvs-order-triggers-drama-before-oath-taking-by-tmc-s-bypoll-winners-cm-steps-in-101636393742812.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Men should not interfere in work of women sarpanches: Maha minister||Maharashtra industries minister Subhash Desai on Monday said men should not interfere in the work of women sarpanches and let them learn through experience. Delivering a valedictory speech at the conference of woman sarpanches, organised by the Aurangabad Zilla Parishad Aurangabad and MLCs Ambadas Danve and Manisha Kayande, the minister said the representation of women in local governing bodies is going up. "This representation is more than 50 per cent in Aurangabad as far as the number of women sarpanches is concerned. This means villagers have shown more faith in women. If a woman is backed for a good cause, there will be no need to search women candidates during elections," the Shiv Sena leader said. He said men should less interfere in the work of women sarpanches and they be allowed to learn by experience. Desai said the state government was planning to bring a rule mandating senior officials to visit gram panchayats and explain new schemes to members. He said women sarpanches should visit their offices and go through letters and resolutions issued by the government. Minister of employment guarantee scheme Sandipan Bhumre said the government is giving a good amount of funds to build roads up to farms in rural areas. "The Employment Guarantee scheme is the only portfolio which didn't see any cut in funds amid the pandemic. Now leaders in western Maharashtra are giving examples of infrastructure development in the Marathwada region," he said. Danve said of the total 862 gram panchayats in the Aurangabad district, 585 panchayats are led by women, which shows that the number of gram panchayats led by women is more than the reservation (50 per cent) granted by the Constitution. Speaking on the occasion, a woman sarpanch said the mistakes of computer operators lead to exclusion of the needy from various schemes of the government. "Sarpanches should be given the authority to deposit the salary of these operators instead of doing it through their appointing agency," Sarpanch Varsha Jadhav said. She said members of gram panchayats should also be trained. "The disbursement of funds by gram panchayats is done online. But there is a fear about the possible misuse of digital signatures. I feel the work of gram panchayats should be allowed in offline mode to some extent," she said. Vanmala Nikam, the sarpanch of Gondegaon, said her village boasts of the first air-conditioned bus stop in Maharashtra. Vahegaon sarpanch Vaishali Shinde underlined the issues of growing addiction among youth and child marriage. "More schools are needed to stop marriages of underage girls," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/men-should-not-interfere-in-work-of-women-sarpanches-maha-minister-101636392885264.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC suggests courtrooms in jails, automated gates to enhance security||Proposing a slew of measures for enhancing security in the district courts of the national capital, the Delhi high court on Monday said special courtrooms may be created within jails to hold hearings related to high-risk prisoners, so that their physical appearance before the courts is reduced.While hearing a suo motu petition, taken up after jailed gangster Jitendra Maan Gogi was shot dead inside the Rohini court in September, a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said the appearance of high-risk prisoners before the courts should be ensured, as far as possible, only through the virtual mode.When and if they are required to be physically present, the court suggested that proceedings be conducted inside vulnerable witness deposition courtrooms or inside jails. To facilitate such hearings, prison authorities will have to create a well-equipped courtroom in each jail complex, the bench said. It, however, clarified that these were “suggestions and not directions”.The court said it expected the full cooperation of the Delhi government, police and lawyers to enhance the safety and security of courts and suggested the strict regulation of entry to judicial complexes by deploying an appropriate number of personnel, based on a security audit.It proposed that the state government be accountable for allocation of budget for the purchase of security devices and as the police have the expertise, they should purchase them under intimation to the government and the court.The bench clarified that it will issue appropriate “directions” to the authorities after all stakeholders have first perused the suggestions “summarised” by it.The court said based on the suggestions received from Delhi Police and various lawyer bodies, it made its own “summary” which may be put into practise. The police commissioner will put together a team of experts for a security audit of courts and deploy an appropriate number of personnel accordingly, the court said.It suggested that everyone, including advocates, be subjected to frisking, which is “quick and efficient”, and all are made to pass through metal detectors. No baggage may be allowed inside courts without being scanned. The court also suggested placing all court complexes under round-the-clock CCTV monitoring, issuing “stickers” to vehicles that may be permitted entry inside a court complex and installing under vehicle scanning systems as well as automated gates to tackle crowds.The court further said the Bar Council of Delhi should devise a mechanism to issue non-transferable identity cards having a QR-code or a chip to lawyers.During the hearing, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma said the police have already conducted a safety audit and the Security Unit of Delhi Police has taken over the responsibility of court security. ASG Sharma highlighted that during Diwali, certain lawyers in Rohini courts raised objections to being subjected to security checks.“You (Bar bodies) should pass a resolution so that there may not be any negative reaction. Lawyers should have faith in leaders; otherwise no work will be done,” the chief justice said.On September 24, jailed gangster Jitendra Maan Gogi, who was produced before the Rohini courts in connection with a case trial, was gunned down inside the courtroom by two men posing as lawyers. The two assailants were killed in the retaliatory firing by the police. Police later said the gunmen were suspected to be members of the Tillu gang, Gogi’s rival outfit.That same day, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana had expressed deep concern over the shooting inside the crowded courtroom and advised the Delhi high court chief justice to talk to both police and the Bar associations to ensure that the functioning of the courts is not affected. The matter will next be heard on November 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-suggests-courtrooms-in-jails-automated-gates-to-enhance-security-101636393500826.html
08-11-2021||Other||PRTC owes Punjab govt ₹285 cr in road tax||Patiala Even as the state transport department is taking action against private transporters for defaulting on road taxes and permits, the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), one of the state-run transport undertakings (STUs), has turned out to be major a defaulter of road tax. The PRTC’s tax dues are ₹285 crore and has not been paid for years. More than 90% of its total fleet of 1,113 buses are plying on roads without paying any road tax. Due to non-payment of road tax, the government has also stalled a grant-in-aid of ₹267 crore allocated to PRTC, six months ago.“The department should also taken action against PRTC for defaulting on ₹285 crore in tax. When private buses are not allowed to operate without paying taxes, then why are such privileges being allowed to state undertakings,” a private transporter claimed. Punjab transport minister Raja Warring said it is completely a government affair and understanding between finance and transport department. “The PRTC owes road tax towards government but at the same time, the government is yet to clear pending free-travel dues of the PRTC to the tune of ₹ ₹167 crore. Therefore, it is between two government departments and will be resolved soon,” Warring said. Since taking charge, Warring has tightened the noose against tax defaulters and impounded and challaned over 260 buses due to non-payment of taxes, illegal permits and other documents. Following the action against private players, the department has collected nearly ₹3.65 crore as part of pending government tax.“The corporation has been directed to pay road tax first in order to get allocated grant,” said a PRTC official. Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener of PRTC-linked trade unions, however, said if the government could waive dues of the power corporation and other departments, then it should also follow the same procedure for road tax. “Not only free or concessional travel dues, the Punjab government owes PRTC ₹60 crore for providing free bus service to women,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prtc-owes-punjab-govt-rs-285-cr-in-road-tax-101636393200751.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Woman’s solo effort: Driving change among women, for women||Moving Women (MOWO) Social Initiatives Foundation has launched ‘Moving Boundaries’, a campaign to encourage women to pick up driving skills and remove roadblocks to increase their job prospects.Under this campaign, Jai Bharathi, 39, the founder of MOWO, is touring India on her motorcycle since October 11 for a period of over 40 days, covering over 20 cities, travelling a distance of 11,111 km to create awareness and encourage women to learn driving to increase their job opportunities in the transportation sector, including as taxi and e-rickshaw drivers, or, as delivery agents for e-commerce companies.Bharathi reached Lucknow on the current leg of her tour on Sunday. Starting from Hyderabad, she has covered Bengaluru, Chennai, Kochi, Goa, Pune, Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad, Udaipur, Jaipur and New Delhi. Next on her destination itinerary is Varanasi, Patna, Guwahati, Kolkata, Ranchi, Bhubaneshwar, among others.Commenting on ‘Moving Boundaries’, Bharathi said, “Women all over the world face restrictions on their mobility. They are unable to travel long distances to acquire a decent education or take up jobs which involve complex or unsafe commutes which results in a restricted pool of job opportunities.”“I am very excited to take on this 40-day journey on my motorbike across the country to meet women from all strata and hold workshops to make driving an aspirational and achievable employment choice for them. Creating a safe environment where women have access to reliable transportation and they can drive their own vehicles to earn a living, is a great way to increase employment opportunities for women in a sector that has been predominantly male-centric,” the rider said.“The campaign seeks to promote awareness on the importance of women acquiring driving skills and travelling safely to expand their horizons in all aspects of their lives. The focus is on enabling women to not only learn driving but also own electric vehicles to generate income which in turn can also reduce carbon emissions from transport,” she said.As part of the campaign, a WhatsApp-based chatbot has been rolled out for women who would like to learn driving a two or three-wheeler vehicle or apply for a job as taxi, auto or delivery rider. The chatbot will connect them to nearby partner organisations like Even Cargo which offer training and employment opportunities to women. The chat support is available in multiple languages.Shell Foundation, a UK-based charity and the UK government are part of the Moving Boundaries project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/womans-solo-effort-driving-change-among-women-for-women-101636393141804.html
08-11-2021||Other||Major spike in Punjab farm fires; 10,000 cases in two days||Patiala With paddy harvest set to end, a major spike in the farm fires in Punjab, especially in Malwa belt, has begun. Over 9,500 cases of stubble burning have been reported over the 48 hours leading to 5pm on Monday. In Sangrur, Barnala, Patiala, Ludhiana and adjoining regions, the case count is rising like wildfire. Monday (till 5pm) saw 4,397 cases, with 5,199 instances counted to Sunday. To date, Punjab has seen 42,330 cases, of these 70% have been reported over the past 10 days. “There is major spike in the evening, and number is set to cross above 10,000 over the two days,” said an official, adding that the numbers were similar to those recorded last year. A thick layer of smog has engulfed Malwa. Sangrur recorded 625 farm fires, followed by 580 in Moga, Ferozpur recorded 406, Barnala 332, Ludhiana 398, Patiala 275 farm fires.Highest cases on Nov 8 over 3 years On Monday (November 8), 4,793 cases were reported; the corresponding on the same date for 2020 was 3,453 and 335 in 2019. In terms of area, Patiala recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 337; it was 419 in the morning, which highlights massive farm fires during night hours. Ludhiana recorded 313 AQI, while Jalandhar recorded 314 AQI. An AQI between 300-400 is very poor; with 400-500 severe. “We tried our best to convince farmers, but they are adamant to burn it citing that diesel cost is too high to clear fields using machinery. If you have to stop farm fires, then you have to give some incentive to farmers for handling of paddy straw or provide them platform where they can sell it. This is missing in Punjab, so we see farm fires even as we have distributed bailers, mulchers and other machinery,” said an agricultural department official. He said that wherever the Biomass based power plants are erected, there are minimal farm fires, as such plants buy paddy straw.Farm union leader Balwinder Singh said farmers are burning straw due economic reason as in-situ and ex-situ handling of straw is costly affair. Beside that there is very little window left between harvest of paddy and sowing of wheat, thus burning straw is easiest way to clear field. “If the government wants us to handle straw, we should be paid extra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/major-spike-in-punjab-farm-fires-10-000-cases-in-two-days-101636392720945.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Security guard held for demanding ₹30 lakh extortion from Delhi businessman||A 29-year-old security guard was arrested for allegedly demanding extortion of ₹30 lakh from a businessman using jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana's name, police said on Monday.Mahavir Sharma, a resident of west Delhi's Pitampura, tried to extort money from the businessman, who was his former employer, to take revenge after he was removed from his job for indiscipline about six months ago, they said.Police said in August this year, Shrama sent two handwritten letters through courier to the office of the businessman in Rohini demanding money.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said a handwritten letter was received in the office of the businessman on August 5 through courier. The letter contained a demand of ₹30 lakh as extortion in the name of gangster Neeraj Bawana.The matter was reported to police on August 14 at south Rohini police station, based on which an FIR was registered in the matter.During the probe, the courier service was identified and CCTV footage of the area was scanned to identify the accused. Employees who were removed from their jobs like Sharma were also questioned, police officials said.The accused sent another letter demanding extortion on October 30 and the details of the letter helped the investigation team in identifying the extortionist, they said."Our team identified the extortionist and traced his location in Shalimar Bagh from where he was arrested while he was performing duty of an armed guard at a bank in the area" the DCP said"He confessed his involvement in the case and disclosed that he had worked as a guard in the office of the complainant company and was removed from there on grounds of indiscipline about six months ago," he said.Sharma, who hails from Alwar in Rajasthan, is living in Delhi since 2008 and has been working as a security guard at various establishments. In 2019, he obtained gun licence from Delhi, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/security-guard-held-for-demanding-rs-30-lakh-extortion-from-delhi-businessman-101636391339275.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||68% of new cases in Maharashtra are from 27 municipal corporations||The urban areas governed by the municipal corporations accounted for 68% of the Covid-19 caseload on Monday. Maharashtra on Monday recorded 751 new Covid-19 cases, of which 511 were from the 27 municipal corporations of the state.Thirteen districts and eight municipal corporations including Malegaon, Nandurbar, Hingoli, Parbhani, Nanded, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim recorded zero deaths on Monday, even as 27 districts reported zero deaths in the past 24 hours. Most of the cases have been recorded from Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli and Pune Chinchwad Municipal Corporations. During the peak of the second wave on April 18, when the cases numbered 68,631, these 27 municipal corporations accounted for 52.47 % of the total cases in Maharashtra, as they numbered 36,017 infections.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate attributed the bulk cases on the density of the population. “The urban areas are highly populated and show high density of population, owing to which they are reporting the majority of the cases. However, if we look at the overall picture, we have been able to control the Covid-19 infection rate effectively,” said Dr Awate.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, blamed space constraints and the citizens for the high caseload. “It is almost impossible to maintain social distancing in cities. In addition, we are seeing that citizens are not adhering to Covid-19 guidelines as many are not wearing masks and are crowding the markets. Even mass gatherings have started,” said Dr Shaikh.The case tally of the state stood at 6,618,347 on Monday, while the toll touched 140,403. On Monday, 1,555 patients recovered from the infection. The test positivity rate was 1.22%, as 751 positive cases were reported following 61,720 tests. The state has 13,649 active cases currently, of which Mumbai has 3,599 active cases, followed by Pune (2,985) and Ahmednagar (2,225).Mumbai recorded 206 new cases and five deaths on Monday, taking its Covid-19 toll to 16,281.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/68-of-new-cases-in-maharashtra-are-from-27-municipal-corporations-101636390931811.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Dahanu cop suspended for knocking down couple||The assistant inspector of Dahanu police station, has been suspended for allegedly knocking down a couple, riding a bike, on late Friday night, near Chinchani bypass road.According to police, the cop Suhas Karmate’s car had collided with a bike, injuring a couple Arvind Save, 58, and his wife Surekha, 50, who were returning to their Tarapur residence from Chinchani on Friday night. Post the collision, Karmate drove the car 18km to Dahanu police station even after the tyre and tube of the left front wheel gave way. He later abandoned the car near Dahanu police station and fled from the spot.Senior inspector Srikant Koli of Vangaon police station said, “We have seized the car and booked Karmate under sections 279 (rash driving), 337, 338 (causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 134 (a)(b) (duty of driver to rush injured to nearest hospital), 184, 187 of the Motor Vehicle Act. He has sent a notice to be present before the Dahanu court after the charge sheet is filed.” Save is undergoing treatment at the Nanavati Hospital for his injuries while his wife has been rendered first aid. “We have also instituted a departmental inquiry against Karmate,” said Koli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dahanu-cop-suspended-for-knocking-down-couple-101636389960103.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj cops seeking village watchmen’s help for peaceful assembly polls||Ahead of the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, cops in rural areas of Prayagraj district have started meeting village watchmen asking them to keep an eye on trouble mongers and for curbing rumours that could lead to violence or unrest and inform police in case there is any dispute in their villages. The assembly polls in the state are likely to be held early next year. Besides preparing a list of people who may try to create trouble, the police are keeping tabs on those having past records of causing disturbance during polls. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj, Sarvashreshtha Tripathi said village watchmen are eyes and nose of police in rural areas, especially in remote villages. Cops in rural areas had been asked to coordinate with village watchmen and take their help ahead upcoming assembly polls, he added.Tripathi further said station house officers (SHOs) in rural areas had been asked to hold meetings with village watchmen and ask them to immediately inform police in case they spot any suspicious person, criminals, mischievous and anti-social elements in their areas.“Moreover, they will also coordinate with police and inform them about any criminal activity and disputes among villagers. As minor disputes may take serious turn later, police will immediately take appropriate or precautionary measures to avoid any untoward incidents in future,” the SSP added.On Sunday, Handia police held a meeting with all village watchmen under their jurisdiction and asked them to remain on alert. Besides instructing them to keep a close watch on criminals and suspicious activities in their areas, the watchmen were also asked about the problems they were facing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-cops-seeking-village-watchmen-s-help-for-peaceful-assembly-polls-101636389900290.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Air pollution: Agra worst in country, other UP cities too fare badly, says CPCB||Almost the entire state continued to reel under ‘unbreathable’ air with at least eight UP cities recording ‘severe’ air quality, as per the data released by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Monday. Agra with AQI (air quality index) of 486 recorded the worst air quality across the country. Vrindavan in adjacent Mathura district recorded AQI of 475, the second worst in the county.Other West UP districts including Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Greater Noida as well as Kanpur recorded ‘severe’ AQI. AQI over 401 is considered severe and is known to have adverse impact on human health on exposure, according to experts.The state capital recorded AQI of 338 while AQI in Kanpur was 404. As per CPCB data the major pollutants in the region were PM10, PM2.5 and gases from vehicular emissions.The UPPCB had recently sent a fresh advisory to districts administrations to check the rise in air pollution. Efforts are also being made to prevent stubble burning and illegal construction activities. “We are keeping tabs on the situation and are taking measures to reduce air pollution. We are planning to impose monetary fines for causing air pollution. Efforts are also being made to make people aware about the issue,” said Ram Karan, regional officer of UPPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/air-pollution-agra-worst-in-country-other-up-cities-too-fare-badly-says-cpcb-101636389004976.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram woman goes to meet friend. She leaves her with 4 friends who rape her||JAIPUR: A 30-year-old woman who travelled to Rajathan last week to meet her female friend in state capital Jaipur was gang-raped by four men known to her host on Sunday and dumped along the road in an unconscious state.Police said the five accused including the woman’s friend have been arrested.Superintendent of Police, Dausa, Anil Kumar, said the rape survivor, a resident of Gurugram, told the police that she went to Jaipur on Friday, November 5, to meet her friend, also a divorcee like her, and stayed with her for two days. Her friend suggested that they take a trip to visit Dausa, a district bordering Jaipur to the east. Her four male friends also joined them for the trip on Sunday. On the way, they consumed liquor in the car. At one point, the rape survivor told the police, her friend made some excuse to get off the car and didn’t return. The four men took her to an isolated place along the Jaipur-Dausa highway and took turns raping her. When she tried to make them stop, they threatened her, even beat her.They eventually dumped her by the roadside near Vijori village.Kumar said the woman was spotted lying unconscious around midnight by a bus driver who informed the police. Police took her to a hospital for medical examination.Kumar said teams were constituted after she gave a statement and the five accused including her female friend were traced and placed under arrest. They will be produced before a judge on Tuesday. Her female friend has been booked for conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-woman-goes-to-meet-friend-she-leaves-her-with-4-friends-who-rape-her-101636388819890.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Amid fears of 3rd wave of Covid-19, Mumbai bans mass gatherings at seafronts for Chhath||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Monday that mass gatherings at seafronts in Mumbai will be banned for Chhath Puja as the threat of a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic looms large.The BMC said it will make artificial ponds in several areas across the city. The regional offices concerned will be responsible for making these ponds and filling them once the festivities are concluded. Offices have to ensure that there is no overcrowding in these artificial structures and all Covid-19 norms are followed."Considering the heavy crowd which generally gathers at seafronts in Mumbai for Chhath Puja, it would be difficult to adhere to the pandemic norms, especially social distancing. Therefore mass gatherings at sea fronts need to be avoided and the police department should ensure that there won't be such gatherings," according to the BMC's revised guidelines.The number of devotees for indoor celebrations has been restricted to 100. On the other hand, a maximum of 200 people can take part in outdoor celebrations."The limit for the open-air ceremonies will be 50 per cent of the capacity but a maximum of 200 people. Similarly, the limit for ceremonies to be held at an indoor office is 50 per cent of the total capacity, but a maximum of 100 people," the guidelines also stated.Only those people who are fully vaccinated are allowed to participate in mass Puja locations and thermal screening have to be installed in such venues.The BMC said that festivities during Chhath Puja have been restricted due to Mumbai registering over 1,700 Covid-19 infections between October 1 till November 6.The city has so far recorded 758,673 cases and 16,281 deaths due to the viral disease. On Monday, the daily tally remained above the 200-mark after 206 infections were recorded while five more patients died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-fears-of-3rd-wave-mumbai-bans-mass-gatherings-at-seafronts-for-chhath-101636383660453.html
08-11-2021||Other||11 held for thrashing cop in Bihar||Three more people were arrested Monday in Bihar’s East Champaran district in connection with the incident on Diwali night when an assistant sub inspector was tied to a pole and thrashed by miscreants in a village where he had gone to apprehend gamblers, police said.East Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha said a total of 11 people have been arrested so far.On November 5, a video clip began circulating on social media, purportedly showing assistant sub inspector Sita Ram Das tied to a pole and being thrashed by a group of people.Das was eventually rescued by a police team, which reached the village, Dharampur, after being informed, the SP said. “A case was lodged with nine people as named accused and 200 others unidentified,” said Vivek Jaiswal, station house officer (SHO), Sagauli. In the video, miscreants are also heard hurling expletives at the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-held-for-thrashing-cop-in-bihar-101636387739842.html
08-11-2021||Other||Bihar hooch deaths: Toll at 33 after two more die||The toll in suspected cases of hooch deaths in Bihar climbed to 33 on Monday, with two fresh casualties reported from Samastipur.In all, 17 people have been arrested in three districts of West Champaran, Gopalganj and Samastipur since first death was reported on November 2.With the latest deaths, the toll in Samastipur district has risen to six. Separately, West Champaran and Gopalganj have recorded 13 and 14 deaths, respectively, in the twin hooch tragedies around Dipawali earlier. Shashank Shubhankar, district magistrate (DM), Samastipur, confirmed two more deaths in Patori block since Sunday evening. “Prima facie, deaths were caused by liquor. However, we are waiting for medical reports to reach a final conclusion,” he said. Fresh deaths in Samastipur were reported a day after four people, including two jawans, allegedly died after consuming spurious liquor at Rupali Chak of Patori block on Friday night. Meanwhile, the Samastipur police have arrested three accused, including a woman, in this connection. Confirming this, Samsatipur superintendent of police (SP) M S Dhillon said on Monday, “They were local suppliers. We are looking for their common supplier.” In Gopalganj, district police on Sunday arrested one Guddu Sah, taking the total number of arrests to 11 in connection with a case registered with Mohammadpur police station in which 13 people died after they allegedly consumed spurious liquor between November 2 and 6.“Sah was one of the main suppliers of liquor in Mohammadpur area. Apart from the seizure of vehicle used in the supply of liquor, ₹7.5 lakh has been recovered from the possession of Guddu Sah,” said Anand Kumar, Gopalganj superintendent of police.“Three liquor manufacturing units have been busted and 1356 liters of liquor seized during the drive,” the SP said. In West Champaran, 51 people were detained and 400 litres of liquor seized in past 24 hours, said a press release. “So far, three have been arrested, while three others have been detained in Nautan incident (in which 14 people died between November 4 and 6 in West Champaran),” said Upendra Nath Verma, superintendent of police (SP), Bettiah. Around 110 people have also been arrested in raids in past four days, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-hooch-deaths-toll-at-33-after-two-more-die-101636387382565.html
08-11-2021||Pune||PMC zeroes in on 2 organisations to sterilise stray dogs||PUNE: To rein in the growing population of stray dogs – currently estimated at 220,000 , up from 150,000 lakh in 2017-18 – the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has zeroed in on two private organisations and is awaiting the standing committee’s nod to begin work at the earliest.The said organisations will handle the entire process of picking up stray dogs, neutering them, and then dropping them off at the same place where they were picked up. The PMC’s health department has taken the decision in response to a series of complaints about stray dogs intimidating citizens and leading to accidents in various parts of the city as also to augment the sterilisation of stray canines.A health officer of the PMC said, “Animal Welfare Association, Navi Mumbai; and Jivaraksha Animal Welfare Trust are the two organisations selected out of the six tenders we received. They have to set up the infrastructure in their own/private space to pick up the stray dogs in their vehicle/s, sterilise them, vaccinate them and drop them in the same area where they were picked up. They will be paid ₹1,549 per dog.”According to the health department, they have been working on two types of tenders; one where the NGO Canine Control Care works on a ‘no profit, no loss’ basis to ensure that the dogs are sterilised. The NGO works in the Mundhwa, Baner and Naidu areas. A PMC van carrying a volunteer and a person to pick up the dog/s goes to bring in the stray/s for sterilisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-zeroes-in-on-2-organisations-to-sterilise-stray-dogs-101636387380895.html
08-11-2021||Other||CRPF jawan from Bihar killed in Sukma fratricide||One of the four CRPF jawans killed in an incident of fratricide in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district Monday morning hailed from Bhojpur district in Bihar and was to visit home on November 14, his kin said.Rajmani Kumar Yadav, 33, is survived by mother Ramrato Devi, wife Rinki Devi, three sons and two daughters.Rinki said she had a talk with her husband over a video call late Sunday evening. “He told me he would come on November 14. He showed me a bag purchased by him for his mother and asked me what I wanted,” Rinki said, fighting tears. Rajmani’s nephew Bunty said his uncle got married in 2006 and joined the CRPF in 2011. Rajmani’s father was a sub-inspector. He died in a road accident while on a patrol in Araria a few years agoBunty’s father Manjay Yadav is also in police, posted as hawaldar in Katihar district. The family’s native village is Samardah in Bhojpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crpf-jawan-from-bihar-killed-in-sukma-fratricide-101636387379608.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC takes poll position on Chhath Puja celebrations||Ahead of the Mumbai municipal corporation election scheduled for early 2022, at least two of the city’s political parties eyeing north Indian votes made the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) change its decision on Chhath celebrations on November 10. The civic body announced on Monday that it will set up artificial ponds for puja across the city. Chhath is an ancient Hindu festival dedicated to the sun god, and is primarily celebrated by north Indian communities from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The civic body in a circular issued on Monday, November 8 stated that it will bear the cost of construction and filling up of artificial ponds to be used in the puja one week after the Congress and BJP had made the demand. Last week, a BMC circular stated that citizens celebrating Chhath should avoid beaches. It also said the celebration should be conducted at artificial ponds and that these should be constructed and paid for by private organisers. However, both BJP and Congress demanded that artificial ponds should be set up at BMC’s expense, just like it does for the Ganpati festival and sent letters to or met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to direct BMC to set up artificial ponds at its expense. On Monday, the BMC issued a revised circular. “Citizens should prefer going to artificial ponds for celebrating Chhath puja and the BMC administration is hereby directed to set up artificial ponds for the same at its expenditure,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-takes-poll-position-on-chhath-puja-celebrations-101636387319729.html
08-11-2021||Other||Governance paralysed due to Sidhu, Channi infighting, claims Chugh||Chandigarh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Monday said that infighting between Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu has made a mockery of democracy in the state. Chugh claimed that the entire governance in Punjab stood paralysed due to the instability in the CMO, which has been under attack from the PCC president for the past six months.“The Congress high command has been, amusingly, watching the cat fight in Punjab without doing anything even as the working of the constitutional offices has been paralysed,” he said, alleging that the Congress had failed on all fronts in the state under the ‘rule of mafias’. He demanded that during the current assembly session, the Congress government should fulfil its promises made in the election manifesto including that of waiving ₹90,000 crore farmers’ loan, providing jobs to 60 lakh people and providing mobile phones. Chugh said it was unfortunate that instead of passing resolutions for fulfilling promises made in the election manifesto, the Channi government was contemplating passing a resolution against the extension of BSF jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/governance-paralysed-due-to-sidhu-channi-infighting-claims-chugh-101636386778936.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Five years of demonetisation: Opposition demands apology from Centre||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition partners have taken a dig at Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi-led Central government on the occasion of the its completion of five years of demonetisation.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the Centre should apologise to the nation for the ‘failure of demonetisation. “In the past five years, terrorism has increased manifold in Kashmir. The circulation of black money has gone up as well. The note ban was a complete failure and an economic disaster. Thousands of people have lost their lives and jobs due to the decision. The Central government must apologise to the nation for demonetisation,” Raut said.“It’s been five years since the demonetisation was announced by Modiji. Nothing has been achieved so far, neither black money came back to the country, nor has corruption dipped. Terrorism too has not reduced. Modiji had asked for three months, now he should tell us which square to come to…” Malik tweeted. He was referring to PM Modi’s address to the people asking for 50 days of hardship, after the demonetisation was announced in November 2016.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said, “The demonetisation led to the loss of hundreds of lives, left lakhs of people unemployed and resulted in the dip in the GDP. Nothing that was promised has been achieved from the demonetisation. Modi does not utter a word now about his failed decision.”Nationalist Congress Party leader and state minister Nawab Malik have said that the PM should take responsibility for the failure.BJP has, however, hit back at the ruling parties for undignified remarks against the prime minister. Leader of Opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar said, “The country has benefited from demonetisation. The tax bracket has widened, bringing unaccounted money under taxation. It has helped in improving the economy. Farmers, women, tribals have been benefitted the most from the decision. The language Malik and others are using for the PM is not appropriate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-years-of-demonetisation-opposition-demands-apology-from-centre-101636386359490.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Roadmap for trillion-dollar economy: UP likely to invite bids again to appoint consultant||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh government is soon likely to reinitiate the process of inviting bids for the appointment of a consultant to work out a roadmap to make the state a trillion-dollar economy. There was a question mark over the fate of the process of appointment of consultant following cancellation of bids on technical grounds on March 22, 2021. As the decision to re-invite the bids comes about eight months after the cancellation, questions were also being raised over whether the state government would follow the same timeline of 2020-2025. “We understand a decision to reinitiate the process of bidding has been taken at the highest level. We will float the bids once the decision is communicated to us,” said a senior officer of state government. As more than one and a half year period had already gone by in the processing of floating bids, amending and subsequently cancelling them, there were indications that the timeline to achieve the objective may be amended. “The decision to float the bids has to be comprehensive. We will obviously rework the timelines when we invite the bids again,” said the officer. The state government’s decision to cancel the bids came when it was zeroing down on the selection of the consultant. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first floated the idea about making the state a trillion-dollar economy. Speaking at the UP Investors Summit-2018, Modi had said Maharashtra too had set a target to become a trillion-dollar economy. “Can Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh compete with each other to become the trillion-dollar economy? Will UP government compete with other states? More the competition, more will be the investment. This will result in creation of more jobs and strengthen the concept of cooperative federalism,” said Modi at the summit on February 21, 2018. Soon, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his team began working to give some shape to the idea. The state government invited suggestions and held discussions with leading institutions. On June 19, 2020, it floated bids for the appointment of a consultant. The UP government decided to revise the Request for Proposal (RFP) document and the timelines and the bidders were asked to submit their e-bids by October 9, 2020. The revised RFP expected the selected consultant to perform the “Herculean task” of taking the size of UP’s GSDP to trillion dollars. In all, the state government received eight bids. A premier management institute of the country also submitted the bid. Four of the bidders qualified the technical round and their financial bids were opened on November 27, 2020. However, the cancellation of bids was soon announced. “If the state government invites fresh bids to prepare a roadmap to make UP a trillion-dollar economy by 2025, its target will become more difficult to achieve as one a half years of the five-year period have already passed. Moreover, 2021 has not been good for growth of the economy primarily due to Covid-19,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of department, economics, Lucknow University.As per the state government’s statistics, UP’s GSDP had been pegged at ₹17.39 lakh crore in 2020-2021. Taking 2020-2021 as the base year, the GSDP will need to grow at about 44% per annum to achieve the target of 1-trillion dollar economy. “This level of increase in the GSDP appears to be beyond the realm of reality,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/roadmap-for-trillion-dollar-economy-up-likely-to-invite-bids-again-to-appoint-consultant-101636385699437.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Munmun Dhamecha moves Bombay HC seeking changes to bail conditions in drugs case||Mumbai cruise ship drugs case co-accused and model Munmun Dhamecha approached the Bombay high court on Monday, seeking modification of certain bail conditions imposed on her while she was released from prison late last month.Among others, Dhamecha requested the high court to permit her to attend the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) office in Delhi, where she resides, instead of Mumbai from where she was arrested, news agency PTI reported. The Bombay high court granted bail to Dhamecha on October 28 along with co-accused Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Seth Merchant, on certain conditions, including that the accused had to attend the Mumbai office of the NCB every Friday between 11am and 2pm. Another requisite for the bail is that the accused would not to leave Mumbai without informing the investigating officer and provide itinerary for their travel. In her plea filed in the high court through advocate Kashif Ali Khan Deshmukh, Dhamecha said she was a resident of Madhya Pradesh who had moved to Delhi for work. The plea said Dhamecha does not have any residence in Mumbai, PTI reported. “The above condition imposed will have a drastic effect on her professional life as well as her social life, as she would be required to travel to Mumbai every week,” the plea said, adding that it would be “highly impractical and unworkable” for Dhamecha. Dhamecha has also contended that if the conditions have to be judiciously followed, then she will have to communicate each and every movement to the NCB as she would constantly be shuttling between Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, which is outside the territorial limits of Mumbai. Her plea states that considering she is a resident of Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, there would be no specific itinerary that can be communicated to the investigating officer of the case. Dhamecha has sought relaxation of a bail condition wherein she is required to inform the IO and submit the itinerary. The plea is likely to be taken up for hearing by the high court next week.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/munmun-dhamecha-moves-bombay-hc-seeking-changes-to-bail-conditions-in-drugs-case-101636379730711.html
08-11-2021||Pune||62-year-old Pune woman duped of ₹4.4 lakh by online friend||PUNE A 62-year-old woman from Pune was duped of ₹4.4 lakh by an online friend who lured her with gifts in April.The accused made an account in the name of one Dr Dominik Gobel and sent a request to the complainant on April 8. She accepted it and they started speaking on the social media platform, after which they progressed to a messaging application.The accused told the woman that it is his birthday on April 24 and that he was sending her a gift for his birthday. However, after some days, the accused told the woman that the gift was stuck at customs on its way into India.The woman made multiple payments on April 19, April 20, and April 22, according to police. A total of ₹4,42,500 was paid by the woman through RTGS, before she realised that she was being duped.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 6(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at Chaturshrungi police station. Police inspector (crime) Vijaykumar Lambture of Chaturshrungi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/62yearold-pune-woman-duped-of-4-4-lakh-by-online-friend-101636385580736.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Aedes aegypti, Albopictus mosquitoes have highest density in Kanpur’s Chakeri’||The teams from the National Malaria Research Institute (NMRI) and the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) have found unprecedented density of infected Aedes aegypti and Albopictus mosquitoes in entire Chakeri stretch which is currently plagued with Zika virus infections.The mosquito density could be as high as 1.06 per 10-man hours or the Aedes mosquito or its larvae could be in two-three houses of the total 100 houses, said health officials aware of the findings.Additional director, health, Kanpur division, Dr GK Mishra said the Aedes mosquito had become dominant and its density in Chakeri was a source of worry particularly after the genome sequencing confirmed Zika virus RNA in one of mosquito samples sent to NMRI, Delhi. “It is acknowledgment that mosquitoes in Chakeri are carrying Zika virus,” said chief medical officer, Kanpur, Dr Nepal Singh.During the monsoon, the health department study finds, the density has been 0.93 per 10-man hours. This means the said mosquitoes or their larvae were found in one or more than one- and-a-half houses.Last year the density was 0.660 per 10-man hours or one in 200 houses had Aedes mosquitoes or their larvae, said the officials, adding that it showed the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes had substantially increased in one year.Three years ago, this mosquito was responsible for the worst outbreak of dengue in Kanpur which had recorded around 900 dengue related deaths. The report of malaria control department, Kanpur, seen by HT, says two species of the infected mosquitoes Aedes aegypti and Albopictus have the highest concentration in Kanpur.The malaria-causing Anopheles mosquito has a density of 0.025 per 10-man hours or it has been found in one house of every 400 houses, says the report. While the Culex mosquito that leads to filaria has zero density in urban pockets but 0.012 per 10-man hours in rural Kanpur pockets such as Ghatampur and Sarsaul.Following this finding, the NCDI team has preserved 150 more mosquitos and would collect 100 more in next two days. The mosquitos would be kept in cold and room temperature. CMO Dr Nepal Singh said a test would be conducted for a week to determine the reach of Zika and its effect in Kanpur.After detection of first Zika virus case on October 23, Kanpur has so far reported 89 cases while neighbouring Kannauj district has reported one case, taking the tally total cases in Uttar Pradesh to 90. Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of Aedes aegypti mosquito. According to the World Health Organisation, the Aedes mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon or evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aedes-aegypti-albopictus-mosquitoes-have-highest-density-in-kanpur-s-chakeri-101636385279280.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||FIR against ‘concerned KDMC officials’ for allegedly insulting National flag||The Bazarpeth police in Kalyan have registered an FIR against ‘concerned civic officials’ in connection with an alleged insult to the Indian Tricolour after a flag with election-related artwork was spotted on the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) building on Sunday.According to the Bazarpeth police, the FIR was registered on Monday based on a complaint by local Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader, Rupesh Bhoir. In his complaint, Bhoir has said that he had gone to the KDMC office for some work when he saw a replica of the Indian flag near the main entrance to the premises. “The replica had the image of an Electronic Voting Machine (EVM) on one side of the Ashok Chakra in the middle and an image of a human finger with ink on it to denote that the person had cast their vote on the other side,” police inspector Rajendra Ahire, Bazarpeth police station, said. Bhoir subsequently took pictures of the replica and made inquiries, after which he found out that the replica with the artwork had been placed at the spot to raise awareness about the upcoming KDMC elections. The KDMC is currently conducting a special drive to help first time voters to register themselves. Bhoir subsequently submitted the photographs and a written complaint to the police.“I later learned that the replica was removed from the spot after I submitted a complaint. However, this is a gross disrespect towards our national flag and I will not rest till strict action is taken against those responsible,” Bhoir said.On Monday, the police registered a case under the Prevention of Insults To National Honour Act, 1971.“For now, the FIR has been registered against ‘concerned KDMC officials’. We will ascertain who exactly was responsible for the artwork and these individuals will be named as accused. Further course of action will be decided on completion of inquiries,” Ahire said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-concerned-kdmc-officials-for-allegedly-insulting-national-flag-101636385107780.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad high court CJ accorded warm welcome at Lucknow bench||Chief Justice, Allahabad high court, Justice Rajesh Bindal was accorded a warm welcome by full bench at Lucknow the bench of the high court on his arrival here for the first time on Monday. In the welcome ceremony, judges of the high court, senior lawyers, members of the Awadh Bar Association of the Lucknow high court and officers of the high court registry were present. The central and the state governments were represented by their counsel. Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal also addressed the gathering on the occasion. Among others who expressed their views included senior judge of the Lucknow high court Justice Ramesh Sinha; state advocate general Raghvendra Singh; assistant solicitor general of India SB Pandey and president, Awadh Bar Association, Rakesh Chaudhary.“In his address, the chief justice assured not to differentiate between Bar and Bench. He also assured to consult Bar on important issues,” said Rakesh Chaudhary, president, Awadh Bar Association. In his address, Chaudhary said: “At the outset, I welcome Hon’ble Justice Rajesh Bindal, the Chief Justice of this Hon’ble High Court at his Lordship’s first sitting to the Lucknow seat of the high court.” “I must also congratulate his Lordship on behalf of the Oudh Bar Association and on my own behalf on his appointment as the Chief Justice of this Hon’ble High Court, the largest high court in the country not only in terms of strength but also in terms of infrastructure,” added Chaudhary. The Awadh Bar Association hosted the welcome ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-high-court-cj-accorded-warm-welcome-at-lucknow-bench-101636384861673.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Railways may reduce AC local train fares||In a bid to increase the ridership of air-conditioned (AC) local trains on the Central and the Western Railway lines, the railway ministry is likely to undertake a reduction in fare prices and introduce more amenities soon.Reduction in fare of the AC local trains along with steps to ‘popularise’ them and restructuring of their routes are some of the measures that are being studied by the Railway Board, the apex body of all zonal railways.The fare structure of the suburban AC local trains will be based on metro fare structure finalised by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) or the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).Earlier, the Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) had suggested the fare structure of AC local trains on par with metro fares in Mumbai and Delhi.Chairman of the Railway Board Suneet Sharma who visited the Central and Western Railways on Monday stated that the feedback regarding AC local trains has been received from the zonal railway officials and passengers.“We want to increase the patronage of the AC local trains as the new trains will be coming in both Central and Western Railway lines. The logistics regarding fare structure and routes are being studied and decisions will be taken accordingly,” said Sharma.Further, the railway ministry has plans to convert all local train services to AC local trains in the future.Meanwhile, Sharma inaugurated a locomotive for the Kalka- Shimla railway track at Parel and also inspected the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), its executive lounge and the newly inaugurated restaurant on wheels at the P’D Mello entrance of the station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-may-reduce-ac-local-train-fares-101636384559798.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Kandivli fire: 14th floor flat had many wooden items; cause yet to be ascertained||After the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) recorded eyewitness accounts as a part of its probe into the fire that broke out on Saturday at Hansa Heritage in Kandivli (West), it is now examining the possibility behind the blaze. Earlier, there officials suspected that a diya lit in the balcony set a curtain ablaze in a 14th floor flat and spread to the 15th floor.The fire brigade on Monday came to a conclusion that the blaze spread rapidly throughout the 14th floor flat owing to a large number of wooden furniture and decoration items in the house. The fire brigade also found considerable renovations done to the house and that the flat had medical machinery operating on electricity, as two senior citizens from the family, who lost their lives in the incident, were bedridden. The fire brigade is expected to submit its report in the next few days.Moreover, as seen in the blaze that occurred at Curry Road’s Avighna Park, the firefighting system at Hansa Heritage, too, did not draw water from the tank and was hence non-operational during the operation.“The system at the Kandivli high-rise was being supplied water from an overhead tank. Owing to gravity, water was available in the firefighting system only for the first few minutes after the blaze broke out. Once the pressure ran out, the firefighting system did not work and the blaze was doused using MFB’s machinery,” chief fire officer Hemant Parab said.Parab said, “We learnt that the family had moved in only six months ago. As a part of the renovation, wooden panelling was done and their safety door was also wooden. Moreover, as was the case with the apartment at Avighna Park [where a massive fire had gutted two flats on the 19th floor] there appears to be a false ceiling. Our investigation is ongoing. Now we are looking at other reasons on why the fire could have started.” As per Parab, an eyewitness recalled seeing the lamp dousing off well before the fire broke out. Five members of the family were rescued from the flat. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued a statement on Monday reiterating that it is the responsibility of the owner or occupier of the building to ensure fire safety in its premises and that the fire extinguishing system, equipment and alarm system in all the buildings – especially the tallest ones – are operational, in compliance with the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Act, 2006. BMC has warned that action will be taken against buildings if they fail to comply with the norms. The civic body has also warned residents against using flammable material for unnecessary interior decorations work and altering fire protection systems and electrical structures. “In view of the fire accident on October 22 at One Avighna Park and the loss of life and property caused by it, BMC appeals to all concerned to prevent fire-related accidents under section 3(1) of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Act (sic),” BMC said in a statement.On Monday, BMC reiterated that all occupants or owners of buildings must submit the bi-annual certificate to MFB, following an audit of the firefighting systems of the buildings. The statement said, “Residents living in high-rise buildings should ensure from time to time that fire extinguishers are installed and operational and proper trained manpower are available to handle them. Fire safety drills should also be conducted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kandivli-fire-14th-floor-flat-had-many-wooden-items-cause-yet-to-be-ascertained-101636384139222.html
08-11-2021||Other||Four Tarn Taran cops suspended for letting off two drug smugglers||Tarn Taran Four policemen, two constables and two head-constables, have been suspended for letting off two drug smugglers after taking ₹40 lakh in bribe. They had been booked on Sunday; they also face a departmental probe now. The accused headconstables, Sukhwinder Singh and Malkiat Singh, and constables, Arpinderjit Singh and Arshdeep Singh, had caught Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, and Jaspal Singh, of Bhitewind village in Amritsar, from Ranjit Avenue area in Amritsar on August 20 this year with 21kg opium. The action against the cops resulted after the accused Ranjit Singh was again arrested by the police last month for drug smuggling. During interrogation, he revealed the August 20 incident to the police; the accused did not even sow the recovered opium on record. The two constables have been arrested, with the headconstables still absconding. On Monday, the constables were presented before a local court in Tarn Taran and remanded to three-day police custody. Police have also applied for the production warrant of Ranjit and Jaspal, with the 21kg opium and ₹40 lakh drug money yet to be recovered. DSP City Barjinder Singh said, “Our teams are working to recover the contraband and the money.” A police source added that the accused cops were likely to be dismissed from service, if found guilty in the departmental probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-tarn-taran-cops-suspended-for-letting-off-two-drug-smugglers-101636383539171.html
08-11-2021||Other||Yogi promises relief to people forced to ‘leave Kairana’||Ahead of the UP Assembly elections, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday visited Kairana in western UP’s Shamli district and promised compensation and security to some families who were allegedly forced to leave the town between 2014 and 2016. The BJP had claimed that scores of Hindu families had left the town after receiving threats from criminals. The claim, however, was contested by others. The alleged exodus from Kairana was a big issue in the 2017 Assembly elections. Yogi Adityanath, along with cabinet ministers Suresh Rana, Sidharth Nath Singh and western UP BJP president Mohit Beniwal, met families of traders allegedly killed by gangsters and those who left the town because of the reign of terror unleashed by gangster Muqeem Kala and others. The meeting with the group of people was held at the house of one Vijay Mittal, whose grandfather Moolchand had left his native place Kairana. “I have sought a report from the district administration about the families which were harmed and their members killed here in the previous Samajwadi Party regime,” Adityanath said, adding that action has been initiated against the guilty. “The government will give some compensation to the victim families so that they could again carry out their business and economic activities,” Adityanath told reporters. He said Kairana was once considered a major industrial town of the country and a centre of classical music. “Towns like Kairana and Kandhla faced repercussions of the criminalisation of politics in the early 1990s and the politicisation of professional criminals. Hindu businessmen and other Hindus were forced to migrate from here on a large scale,” he alleged. “After 2017, due to our government’s policy of zero tolerance towards crime and criminals, many families have returned,” he claimed. Adityanath said when he came to the town in 2017, people had demanded the strengthening of the police outpost and a PAC battalion. “The work of strengthening the outpost has already been done and today I came here for laying the foundation of a PAC battalion camp,” added Yogi Adityanath. The CM insisted that people should stand against anti-social and criminal elements. “These anti-social elements would be exposed only after people rise against them,” he said, assuring the families that the government would initiate stern action against criminals. Briefing the Yogi Adityanath, minister Suresh Rana said that “the law and order situation during the Samajwadi Party’s rule was dismal and members of the victims’ families appreciated the efforts of the BJP government for improving the law and order situation in the town.” “One of them said it was difficult to move out after 5pm during SP rule because criminals were fearless. But the situation has changed now and criminals surrendered in police stations,” added Rana. The families of three traders -- Vinod, Raju and Shankar -- were also invited at Vijay Mittal’s house where they interacted with the CM. Trader Vinod was allegedly killed by the Furqan gang and thereafter Raju and Shankar, were killed by dreaded criminal Mukeem Kala in broad daylight after they refused to pay him extortion money. Killings of three traders in a span of 10 days in 2014 had unleashed a reign of terror in the town, which reportedly led to exodus of many people, said locals. The CM said that the BJP believed in making lives of people peaceful and fearless and construction of a PAC battalion camp in the town would provide them a more secure and safe atmosphere. In June 2016, the then BJP MP Hukum Singh had claimed that close to 350 Hindus had left Kairana over alleged threats and extortion by criminal elements belonging to a particular community. Later, the Kairana police had claimed that a spot verification of 150 addresses revealed several reasons for the migration, including better business and job prospects. Locals said 25 to 30 families who left Kairana town had returned while others were still staying outside. Speaking to mediapersons, Yogi Adityanath said a few families had returned and others would also come back in the changed atmosphere. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-promises-relief-to-people-forced-to-leave-kairana-101636383418477.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||5.35L still to take first vaccination dose against Covid in Thane: TMC||While the neighbouring Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has claimed to have completed 100% vaccination target with the first dose, the vaccination drive in Thane is still lagging behind.More than 5.35 lakh people have still not taken even a single dose of the vaccine till date, says the health department of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). The corporation has now chalked out different initiatives to ensure that the entire population is vaccinated with at least the first dose by November 30.As per the health department records, around 11,74,990 people have taken their first dose, which is around 69%, while 6,75,753 lakh people have taken their second dose. Around 4,99,237 are still to take the second. The department informed that 5.35 lakh have not taken even a single dose.Thane mayor, Naresh Mhaske, said, “We have started a campaign ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (knock on each door), wherein health workers, Asha workers and nurses will go to each house to find out how many of them have not taken their doses. They will also immediately vaccinate those residents who have not taken their first dose or are due for the second. We have formed 167 teams for the same.” An awareness campaign will also be taken in Mumbra and Rabodi where the vaccination per cent is low.Mhaske added, “The awareness drives will be held even in schools and colleges through the teachers. Students will take the message of vaccination back home and appeal to their parents to get vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/535l-still-to-take-first-vaccination-dose-against-covid-in-thane-tmc-101636382759106.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Woman falls into open Somwar peth well, rescued in 10 minutes||PUNE: Fire brigade officials rescued within 10 minutes, a woman, 42, from Dandekar (Mote) wada at Somwar peth, who had fallen into an open well on Monday. Pramod Sonawane, station duty officer, said, “Our fire official jumped into the well and with the support of a rope, we pulled out the woman. The operation was completed within 10 minutes.”“The woman was admitted to the KEM hospital for a check-up. She had no injuries. Bringing out a living person from a well is more difficult than pulling out a dead body as more precautions need to be taken,” Sonawane said.The fire brigade received a call at 12.11pm and reached the spot soon after at 12.17pm, with the woman being rescued at 12.22pm.“An uncovered well in the wada premises is unsafe. It is a big well and to avoid such mishaps in future, covering it with a net is a must,” Sonawane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-falls-into-open-somwar-peth-well-rescued-in-10-minutes-101636382580075.html
08-11-2021||Pune||MSRTC flash strike leaves passengers stranded on Monday morning||PUNE For Sharad Nigade, a senior citizen, it was a difficult day as he couldn’t get an ST bus to travel to Kalyan for his pension-related work. So he had to return home and wait till the indefinite strike started by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) ends. “As last week was Diwali I had planned to go to Kalyan for my pension work and so I came to Swargate ST stand in the morning to catch a bus. Here I came to know about the strike and there were no buses going towards Mumbai. I cannot pay such a high fare for a private bus, as I get a ticket concession on the MSRTC buses being a senior citizen,” said Nigade. Like Nigade, thousands of passengers were disappointed on Monday as they were not able to travel to destinations. Some choose to go by private buses or private cabs. For the last 10 days MSRTC workers and unions are protesting various demands. A Kruti Samiti of unions was formed to have a conversation with the state government. Apparently the main demand of merging the MSRTC into the state government was compromised according to workers, so now all workers (apart from union members) have spontaneously started a strike from Sunday midnight. All 13 MSRTC depots in the Pune division were closed on Monday and no buses went on the roads. It is estimated to be a single-day loss of around ₹60 lakh for the division. Around 120,000 passengers travel daily from the 13 depots. “There are several unions who earlier started the protest for various demands, but when they had a meeting with the state transport minister and other state government officials our main demand of merging the organisation into the government was sidelined. So we are now not supporting any of the unions and have started the strike on our own,” said Sanjay Mundhe, a driver from the Swargate depot. Given that it was Monday morning, a rush of passengers was seen at the Swargate and Shivajinagar ST stands. ST buses from other division depots were also coming in to drop passengers. Another passenger Balasaheb Nikte, who had come along with his wife and three-year-old daughter said, “There is a wedding in our family at Virar and we need to go there urgently. As there are no buses going, we have to look for another option now. I booked the tickets online yesterday for around ₹1,000 and now to travel separately I need to spend double.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-flash-strike-leaves-passengers-stranded-on-monday-morning-101636382159040.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Those trying to grab govt properties will have to pay for it: Yogi||LUCKNOW In a scathing attack on the Samajwadi Party and its jailed leader Mohammad Azam Khan, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the government’s policy was clear on development and progress of all without any discrimination of caste, creed, or religion but at the same time the government will take stern action “if anyone tries to disrupt festivals, celebrations, peace and harmony.“If people try to grab government properties, they will have to pay for it,” the CM said at an event for inauguration and foundation laying of several projects in Rampur. SP Lok Sabha member from Rampur and nine-time MLA, Azam Khan is in jail since February 2020 and has over 80 cases filed against him including those of land grabbing and criminal intimidation.“In Rampur, the government acted against 147 ‘bhoo mafia’ and freed 640 hectares land from them,” he said, hinting towards Azam Khan. “India is a country of heritage and it is our responsibility to save and conserve the world’s oldest heritage. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country is moving towards the establishment of ‘Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat’ and it is in that series that Article 370 was abrogated in J&K and work towards making a glorious Ram temple in Ayodhya began,” said the CM. He said: “Our festivals too are part of this heritage. But some people do not like it and they had conspired to destroy Rampur’s heritage. And that’s why we had been coming here again and again to protect it and will not let any bhoo mafia (land-grabber) grab properties. Rampur should become part of the overall process of development, better law and order agenda of the state and the central government. In the last 4.5 years, the state government sanctioned projects worth ₹3,000 for Rampur district alone.”Taking a jibe at the SP, Yogi said: “Not only did we treat Covid patients at home and in hospitals, but also those who are in jail. While PM Modi toured the country during Covid, we spent time amid people helping them during Covid. They (SP leaders) stayed in home isolation and did not even care for their own people infected with Covid.” Azam Khan was infected with Covid in jail.Yogi said the state government had also decided to work towards reviving dilapidated sugar mills in the district. “When the government works towards development without discrimination, then people and poor benefit irrespective of caste, creed, or religion,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/those-trying-to-grab-govt-properties-will-have-to-pay-for-it-yogi-101636381258986.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||36-year-old arrested for raping 5-year-old neighbour in Raigad||The Roha police in Raigad district have arrested a 36-year-old man for raping his five-year-old neighbour on the day of Diwali. While the incident happened on November 4, the family learnt about it only on Sunday after which an FIR was registered and the accused was arrested on Monday.On the day of the incident, the survivor had gone behind her house to collect mud in order to make a ‘fort’ as a tradition of the festival. Even after an hour, the child had not returned and hence her grandparents, with whom she stayed, started looking for her. After sometime, the accused brought the child home saying that he found her fallen near a nullah.“The child was crying throughout and didn’t say anything then. While changing her dress, the grandmother found her bleeding. The grandparents went the next morning to ask the accused what had happened. The accused denied allegations and later fled and that’s when the family realised that he had done something to her. After a day, the girl started bleeding again and was then admitted to hospital wherein the grandparents told them about her missing and the incident,” police inspector Trupti Borate said. The survivor stayed with her maternal grandparents as she had lost her mother while her two brothers stayed with her father in their hometown. After the FIR was registered, the accused was traced to his sister’s house and arrested.“The girl is still in a state of shock and hasn’t spoken to us yet while the accused has confessed to his crime,” Borate added.The accused was arrested under IPC sections and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and remanded to police custody till November 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/36yearold-arrested-for-raping-5-year-old-neighbour-in-raigad-101636381141012.html
08-11-2021||Pune||NCP MP Amol Kolhe going into “seclusion” over mental, physical stress||PUNE The Nationalist Congress Party’s MP from Shirur, Amol Kolhe, announced plans to go into ‘’seclusion’’ due to “mental and physical stress”. In a post on social media, Kolhe said during his days in seclusion, he will take an ‘’overview’’ of some ‘’extreme decisions’’ taken by him. As Kolhe’s post went viral on social media, it fuelled speculations about his next political move. ‘’Time to overview: For last some days, months and year, I ran unconsciously, took some extreme decisions and unexpected steps. But while doing all this, had to do a lot of balancing act, time management and had gone under stress and because of all this, I am now exhausted mentally and physically,’’ the actor-turned-politician wrote in the social media post. Kolhe said meditation and contemplation were needed to get rid of mental stress. ‘’Will have to think about the decisions taken (in the past) and perhaps need rethinking too and for that (I ) am going into seclusion,’’ he said. Kolhe stated that he will remain incommunicado for some time. ‘’We will meet again soon with new elan and energy’’, he added. He also underlined that he was going in for ‘’contemplation’’ and not to a ‘’contemplation camp’’. In the 2019 general elections, Kolhe defeated Shiv sena candidate Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil. Kolhe, who was with Sena before the Lok Sbha elections, had become a household name in Maharashtra by essaying the character of Chhatrapati Sambhaji in a television serial “Swarajyarakshak Sambhaji” and Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj in”Raja Shiv Chhatrapati”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncp-mp-amol-kolhe-going-into-seclusion-over-mental-physical-stress-101636380540410.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Patiala institute confers honorary degree to BMC chief||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation chief Iqbal Singh Chahal has been awarded the degree of Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa) by the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology (TIET), Patiala, for his work in leading the fight against the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic for Mumbai.Chahal, a varsity alumnus, who is IAS batch of 1989, was honoured on Monday, for restructuring the Covid response mechanism in Mumbai and successfully managing the massive requirements of critical supplies in the megacity.Addressing the students, Chahal said handling the Covid waves were very challenging but he and his team kept calm, executed their strategies and planned in a streamlined manner. “The death rate was 8% in the peak of Covid waves especially in slum areas but we managed to bring down it to 0.8%,” Chahal said. He added that they launched a special campaign ‘Chase the virus’ following which they focused on testing and providing immediate medical assistance to Covid patients. He said he was given a free hand by the chief minister which helped him in taking quick decisions. “My engineering background helped me to place a system driven by technology and data,” Chahal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/patiala-institute-confers-honorary-degree-to-bmc-chief-101636380538828.html
08-11-2021||Pune||BJP threatens stir over Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro work not starting||PUNE Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Monday visited the Pune Metropolitian Region Development Authority (PMRDA) office and demanded that work on the Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar metro route begin within a week, or the part would launch an agitation. BJP members, under the leadership of MP Girish Bapat and Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole, met PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase. Bapat said, “All the administrative permissions have been received for this project. Even 98 per cent of the land is in but work has not getting started. If the project gets delayed, it will raise the project cost which will ultimately need to be paid by citizens.” Meanwhile, the PMRDA administrative office, off the record, said that almost all the administrative works for the project has been completed as has the basic surveys. The contractor has also planned the work on ground. Within the next few days, citizens will be able to see the actual work on the ground. The Shivajingar to Hinjewadi metro line is being executed by the PMRDA on a PPP (private –public partnership model). Tata is executing the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-threatens-stir-over-hinjewadi-to-shivajinagar-metro-work-not-starting-101636380180223.html
08-11-2021||Pune||PM Modi pegs “Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas-Sabka Vishwas” call on inspiration from wari||PUNE Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the annual Pandharpur “wari” (pilgrimage) is a symbol of social harmony and equality without any discrimination. It is also an inspiration behind his call for “Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas-Sabka Vishwas” (everyone’s support, everyone’s development and everyone’s trust), he said. “There is no discrimination in the pilgrimage on the lines of caste. Every pilgrim is equal and lives with the spirit of brothers and sisters. Everyone has one ‘gotra’ that is Vitthal gotra. So when I say Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas-Sabka Vishwas, it is inspired from the same tradition,” Modi said, after laying the foundation stone for the four-laning of five sections of the Shri Sant Dnyaneshawar Maharaj Palkhi Marg (NH-965) and three sections of the Shri Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg (NH-965G), via a video conference call. The PM said sentiments possessed by warkaris (pilgrims) inspire everyone to work for the development of the nation.About 221km of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi Marg from Diveghat to Mohol, and about 130lm of the Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg from Patas to Tondale–Bondale, will be four laned with dedicated walkways for the palkhis on either side, at estimated costs of ₹ 6,690 crore and ₹4,400 crore respectively. The wari is a pilgrimage undertaken by devotees of Lord Vitthal to his temple in Pandharpur. Palanquins (palkhis) venerating Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram are carried to Pandharpur from Alandi and Dehu in Pune district by the warkaris, who cover the 250km distance on foot. Commenting on women’s participation in the warkari movement, the Prime Minister said women take part in the yatra with the same zeal as men. “This is a reflection of the power of women in the country. Pandhari ki wari symbolises equality of opportunity. Warkari movement considers discrimination inauspicious and this is its great motto,” said the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister said that most warkaris come from the farmer community and these sons of the soil - dharti putras - have kept the Indian tradition and culture alive. “A true annadata unites society and lives in society and lives for society. You are the cause as well as a reflection of society’s progress,” the Prime Minister said.Call to cleanlinessPrime Minister Narendra Modi made an appeal to make Pandharpur the cleanest pilgrimage centre in the country, also inviting villages along the route of the palkhi to plant trees, as it will help the warkaris with shade. After laying the foundation stone and dedicating various National Highway and Road projects to the nation through video conference, the Prime Minister wished for three blessings from the warkaris. “I am appealing everyone to undertake three things for these palkhi routes and pilgrimage centres. First is to start planting the trees along the palkhi route now. When the road work is completed, the trees will also grow and offer respite to warkaris from the scorching sun. Second is to set up drinking water facilities along the walkway. Third is to make Pandharpur the cleanest pilgrimage site in the country,” he said. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who also attended the programme, said, “It is good that the central government has undertaken this important project. Maharashtra government will extend its support to all the initiatives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pm-modi-pegs-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-sabka-vishwas-call-on-inspiration-from-wari-101636379578659.html
08-11-2021||Pune||24x7 water project: PMC asks contractors to impose fines for shoddy road reinstatement||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked contractors of the 24x7 regular and equitable water project to impose fines for shoddy reinstatement of roads after receiving complaints from various parts of the city.The corporation initiated the 24x7 regular and equitable water project to resolve the problem of irregular, uneven and insufficient water supply in the city. The project was approved in February 2018 with the total project cost being ₹2,550 crore, out of which ₹200 crore was raised by the civic body through bonds. The project involved digging roads, laying down 1,600 km of water pipelines, and installing 35,000 lakh water meters. The actual project work began in December 2018 with 550 km of water pipelines being laid down and 53,000 water meters being installed in different parts of the city till date. While work is still underway in the Kalas, Dhanori, Sahakarnagar, Sadhashiv peth, Bajrirao road, Katraj, Kondhwa, Jambhulwadi, Bibvewadi, Aundh, Balewadi, Pashan and Dhyari areas, the PMC has received complaints of poor reinstatement work from various parts of the city.Aniruddha Pawaskar, chief superintendent engineer of the water supply department of the corporation, said, “We received complaints from citizens as well as our engineers about poor reinstatement work. In the Sahakarnagar area, we gave instructions to the contractor to follow standard procedure and complete reinstatement of the road after laying down the water pipelines. We also instructed the contractor to impose fines for substandard work.”Nandkumar Jagtap, superintendent engineer who is handling the 24x7 water supply project, said, “We are monitoring the work of road reinstatement of the 24x7 water supply project. We have received complaints about uneven road surfaces, rough surfacing, and lack of cement concretisation. Based on the complaints, we have instructed contractors to carry out the work in a proper manner so that people will not face problems.”Earlier too, the PMC had imposed fines of more than one lakh per day for slow work on the water supply project. The contract for the project was awarded to Larsen & Toubro Limited (L&T) and Jain Irrigation. Currently however, only L&T is working on the project. Pradeep V G, senior official of L&T, could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.The aim of the project is to provide safe and equitable water supply to all citizens for the next 30 years along with 24 hour distribution of water every day; reduction of water losses and non-revenue water; and ensuring of technological, economic and environmental sustainability of the water supply service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/24x7-water-project-pmc-asks-contractors-to-impose-fines-for-shoddy-road-reinstatement-101636378798999.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Essentials of a lockdown qualified job certificate||The time is not far when applying for jobs, one would be required to submit a lockdown qualified certificate (LQC) that could be self-attested and would have certain parameters with evidence to support one’s claim while being hired. For example, the medical certificate would corroborate your work from home (virtual) and work for home (physical) status. For ascertaining physical parameters, the medical certificate would say Vitamin-D deficient because of no outside exposure; caroused fingers due to doing the dishes, gardening and handyman’s repair work; loss of weight due to no-armchair luxury but standing and moving most of the time while working; fair complexion due to staying indoors; and dark circles due to stress and overwork. Your bandwidth subscription to prove your virtual work from home would be required, besides your use of internet for other jobs such as gaming, using social media, and watching films on Netflix, Prime Video, SoniLIV or Hotstar, to ascertain your claims of adhering to the complete lockdown protocol. They might also need your net banking and Paytm or PayPal transactions, to confirm if you went to the bank to withdraw money, or stayed home getting things online. To find out if you have really worked in the kitchen, an ability test, ‘Smell n’ Tell’, would be conducted to ascertain the claims in your LQC by making you smell and tell various fragrances, perfumes, aromas, smells etc, to confirm if you have been working in the kitchen, and are well aware of the scents of coriander, cumin, ginger, cardamom, carom seeds and fennel besides the smells of garlic and onion. Also, if you are aware of the taste of milk having been overboiled and got a black layer deposited at the bottom of the pan. You must know the curd having gone sour enough to turn your nostril drift to the other side, with a jerk of the neck. Also, you should be able to tell if it’s the right stink of a drainpipe or rotting mangoes. Such sharpness of smell and taste, should confirm your acquired sharpness of working in the kitchen. Well, the CCTV camera installed at your house may help the employer find out your LQC claims of having answered the doorbell yourself to receive couriers. Your Facebook and Instagram updates, compared with your pre-corona times, should not show you in many dresses since you may have to show that your wardrobe hasn’t been used at all for any weddings, parties or gatherings to attend. Speedometers of vehicles registered in your name should confirm they did not move out at all and the last reading recorded with the service station stood there only. Now the most important parameters: If you’ve had your vaccination doses; if your eyes and dental check-up are still pending; if your hair has grown enough not having been to a salon for a hairdo; and lastly, your videos to confirm if you beat thalis, clapped talis, and burnt diyas. rajbirdeswal@hotmail.com The author is a Panchkula-based retired IPS officer, a commentator and an advocate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/essentials-of-a-lockdown-qualified-job-certificate-101636378318543.html
08-11-2021||Patna||Remember your pledge, says Nitish Kumar in a counterattack on Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who has been under attack from opposition leaders over deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor in the state, on Monday hit back at them, underlining that it is also the responsibility of the Opposition to ensure implementation of prohibition but they have hardly contributed in this endeavour.“This (checking trade of illicit liquor) was not an individual’s responsibility. It’s for a public cause. All those, who took the pledge to enforce total prohibition should keep a watch on it and play an active role to check the scourge (liquor consumption),” the chief minister said, referring to the 2016 pledge by lawmakers not to consume liquor and encourage people to enforce total prohibition before the government notified Bihar as a dry state.Chief minister Nitish Kumar banned the sale and consumption of liquor in the state in April 2016 when his party, Janata Dal (United) was in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress as part of Bihar’s grand alliance. RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, now leader of opposition in the assembly who has been fronting the opposition attacks over the hooch deaths, was his deputy chief minister till 2017 till the JD (U) exited the alliance and teamed with the Bharatiya Janata Party.Kumar next took a swipe at Tejashwi Yadav on Monday for criticising the government for its failure to check liquor consumption, wondering why the RJD leader only issued statements and didn’t take a concrete step.“Why don’t you (Tejashwi Yadav) come forward and catch those trying to violate the (prohibition) law? Or, they should at least inform the committee, instead of issuing statements to the Press,” the chief minister said. His parting shot came next: It is his (Tejashwi’s) fault that he did not get enlightened despite working with me,” the chief minister told reporters after his Janata Darbar, a weekly programme where people approach him to address their grievances.Nearly 40 people are suspected to have died due to consumption of spurious liquor and about 100 still undergoing treatment over the last week. Most of the cases were reported from six districts; Gopalganj, West Champaran, Siwan, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur and Hajipur.On his part, Nitish Kumar said, he has convened a high-level meeting of ministers and officials on November 16 to analyse how the liquor trade was continuing despite the ban.“Activities of all districts with respect to action taken to check liquor flow will be reviewed. The DGP (director general of police) and the chief secretary have been asked to keep watch on all issues and take action against all those found guilty,” said Kumar. Kumar said a massive awareness drive against liquor consumption will also be planned during the November 16 meeting. In an apparent reference to some BJP leaders nudging the government to review the prohibition law in the context of its effectiveness, Kumar said the ban was enforced after evaluating all aspects. “Initially, it was believed the ban will result in a loss of about ₹5,000 crore to the state exchequer. The next year, the loss came down to ₹1,200-1,300 crore. The same was compensated. However, the ban worked effectively to check violence within the family,” said Kumar.Reiterating the government’s resolve to develop Nalanda University as a premier academic institute in the world, Kumar said the government proposed to offer an additional 70-acre land to the varsity to raise further infrastructure. “The university is surrounded by prime historic locations connected with Both Gaya, Rajgir and Patna. New roads are being built to have faster access to it from Gaya and Patna. An infra-rich medical college and hospital have been made at Pawapuri to cater to the students and visitors to the university,” said the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/remember-your-pledge-says-nitish-kumar-in-a-counterattack-on-tejashwi-yadav-101636377838535.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||High court asks Nawab Malik to respond to defamation case by Sameer Wankhede’s father||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik to respond to the defamation suit by Dhyandev Wankhede, father of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede’s, wherein he has sought ₹1.25 crore in damages from Malik within a day. Though Malik’s advocate informed the court that the suit was served to them on Sunday, the court held that if he (Malik) could respond to the tweets, he should do so in the suit as well.The single-judge vacation bench of justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing Dhyandev’s suit seeking interim relief in the form of deletion of articles, tweets and interviews from both digital and electronic media, was informed by advocates Arshad Shaikh, Ranjit Agashe, Krishnan Iyer and Saurabh Tamhankar that a temporary injunction was also being sought against Malik and those under his instructions from publishing, writing and speaking on any media. Advocate Shaikh informed the bench that every day Malik was making defamatory statements or posting something or the other against his client and his family members, hence, had moved the defamation suit. Shaikh submitted that on Monday morning Malik had posted a defamatory tweet against the sister-in-law of Wankhede. Referring to the claim by Malik that Wankhede’s father was Dawood Wankhede, Shaikh informed the bench that Wankhede had to clarify that his father was a Hindu and his mother a Muslim, however, such claims were lowering the reputation of his client in the eyes of the public.In October, Malik had come out with a birth certificate purportedly of Wankhede, which showed the father’s name as Dawood Wankhede, however, the claim was refuted by Wankhede and he clarified that his father was a Hindu and his mother a Muslim. The suit states that the tirade by Malik was aimed at Wankhede as Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB in January for allegedly trading in contraband. Dhyandev has further stated in the suit that the daily insinuations through press releases and interviews by Malik and his family members were tortious and defamatory and the same had caused irreparable damage, harm and prejudice to him and his family members and loss to their name and societal image too. The suit also claims that Malik calling the Wankhede family fraud and questioning their religious beliefs had also affected the criminal law practice of his lawyer daughter Yasmeen. Senior advocate Atul Damle representing Malik submitted that as the suit was received by his client on Sunday, he did not have any instructions to make a statement to the contentions raised in the suit. Damle further stated that the suit was defective as Dhyandev could not be speaking on behalf of his adult children.After hearing the submissions, the bench directed Malik to file an affidavit in reply to the suit by Tuesday and posted the hearing of the suit to November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-asks-nawab-malik-to-respond-to-defamation-case-by-sameer-wankhede-s-father-101636377778603.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||'Haryana responsible for frothing in Yamuna': Gopal Rai amid BJP's criticism||As the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) censured the Delhi government over the formation of toxic foam in the Yamuna river, Delhi's environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday blamed the Haryana government for the frothing. Rai said that leaders of the BJP should seek answers from their party-led government in Haryana.On the first day of Chhath Puja on Monday, devotees took a dip in the toxic Yamuna river near Kalindi Kunj and expressed disappointment over the bad quality of water.Also Read| Amid toxic foam & pollution concerns, BJP MP celebrates Chhath at Yamuna bankMeanwhile, BJP leaders have been protesting against the Delhi Disaster Management Authority's October 29 order where it banned celebrations at the banks of Yamuna.Earlier on Monday, party leader Pravesh Verma defied the DDMA's ban and launched celebrations at Yamuna's banks. He vowed to make a ghat there and celebrate the festival on November 10.“I think the people of the BJP are frustrated… The L-G took the DDMA decision (to not allow Chhath Puja on the Yamuna banks) and Haryana released water in the river. The L-G belongs to the BJP government (at the Centre) and the party is (also) in power in Haryana," Delhi environment minister Rai told reporters on Monday.Alleging the BJP has nothing to do with Chhath Puja celebrations, Rai said that the party never made arrangements for the festival earlier.Also Read| Delhi: Water supply restored after ammonia spike in Yamuna impacts operationsIn a sharp attack on BJP leader Manoj Tiwari, Gopal Rai also said that Tiwari should speak to his party's government in Haryana about the frothing. "Delhi doesn't release water in the Yamuna, Haryana does," Rai reiterated his point.Earlier, Manoj Tiwari accused the Delhi government of not allowing Puja on the banks of Yamuna as the latter wanted to cover up the frothing due to high pollution.“Arvind Kejriwal has been saying since 2013 that his government will make the Yamuna fit for bathing in five years. Today, Delhi's air and water both are poisonous. They did not allow Chhath celebrations on the Yamuna so that no one can see how poisonous the river has become,” Tiwari told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/haryana-responsible-for-frothing-in-yamuna-gopal-rai-amid-bjp-s-criticism-101636373215091.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Tyre shop near Tajpur Road Chowk gutted in fire, no casualties||Goods, furniture and machinery worth lakhs were gutted as fire broke out at a tyre shop near Tajpur Road Chowk on National Highway-44, on Sunday afternoon. No casualties were reported as the shop was closed at the time and the owner had gone to Anandpur Sahib with his family.Short-circuit is believed to be the reason behind the fire.Owner, Parminder Singh, said the shop is under closed-circuit television camera surveillance and he had remotely assessed the situation through his phone around 4pm. Half-an-hour later, he received a call from his neighbours that a fire had broken out in the shop. The neighbours had also informed the police and fire brigade by then.A JCB machine and battery-operated cutters were used to break open the shutters of the shop, for easing the firefighting operation. Leading fireman Rajan Singh said two fire tenders were pressed into service and the operation lasted for over two hours. The shop owner said, “The incident could have been averted if the shop had been opened on Sunday. We normal keep the shop open till late Sunday afternoon but had closed it as we were going to Anandpur Sahib. But we consider ourselves fortunate that there were no injuries or casualties.”He added that he is yet to calculate the loss, but it is estimated to be around ₹70 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-tyre-factory-near-tajpur-road-chowk-gutted-in-fire-no-casualties-101636377238566.html
08-11-2021||Indore||Indore: Food dept official caught taking ₹15,000 bribe||A junior supply officer of the food department was caught by Lokayukta police while allegedly taking a bribe of ₹15,000 from a salesman of a ration shop in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city on Monday, an official said. The accused, identified as Dharmendra Sharma, was caught red-handed at an under-construction garden near his house when he took the money from the salesman of the ration shop situated in Chandan Nagar area of the city, Lokayukta police's deputy superintendent Praveen Singh Baghel said. Enraged over the officer's unjustified demand, the ration shop's salesman had complained to the Lokayukta police about it, the official said. The accused allegedly demanded ₹15,000 every month from the shop owner and threatened that if he did not pay him, then he will get it closed by pointing out several discrepancies in the establishment, he said. A case was registered against the accused under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The official said the accused was not arrested, but was asked to sign a bond to ensure his appearance before the Lokayukta police whenever he is called in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-food-dept-official-caught-taking-rs-15-000-bribe-101636376383695.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court directs MSRTC employees to withdraw strike; high-level committee to resolve grievance||The Bombay high court (HC) directed the state government to resolve the issue of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees who are demanding that they be treated as state government employees amicably by forming a high-level committee. The committee formed on Monday comprised an additional chief secretary and principal secretary of the finance department, additional chief secretary of the transport department, and managing director of the MSRTC as coordinator, as per the recommendations of the high court. The bench has directed the employees of the unions of MSRTC to forthwith withdraw the strike and resume duties.The vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the petition filed by MSRTC, was informed that the petitioner sought an order which would restrain the employees and staffers affiliated to the Sangharsh ST Kamgar Sanghatana from participating in proposed strikes from midnight of November 3.The bench, in its earlier order last week, had restrained the employees and staffers from resorting to striking work, however, as they had breached the order an amicable solution needed to be found to resolve the issue.“Admittedly, the workers of the MSRTC demand that they should be treated as employees of the state government. For this reason, workers of MSRTC, as stated in our earlier orders, are on strike. Though by our earlier orders, we have directed the workers to resume their duties and the order has been breached, an attempt has been made to amicably resolve the above issue raised by the workers by requesting the government to sympathetically consider the demand of the workers of the MSRTC.”The bench then directed the setting up of a high-level committee on Monday to achieve the amicable solution and directed the committee to not only meet the representative of the respondent trade union but all the 28 unions and to complete the exercise within 12 weeks and inform the court of the progress every fortnight. Thereafter the court directed that a report consisting of recommendations by the committee be prepared and placed before the chief minister after which the chief minister should submit his opinion/views to the court. The HC, last week had directed MSRTC employees to refrain from participating in the strikes from midnight of November 3 until further orders as it would cause hardships to travellers who relied on ST buses to go to their hometowns during the Diwali festival season.However, after the court was informed that some employees and staffers had breached the HC order and only 191 of the 250 depots were functional on November 4 which caused inconvenience to passengers the HC had issued notice to a union leader and warned of stern action.After the constitution of the committee on Monday, the bench directed the employees of the unions of MSRTC to forthwith withdraw the strike/agitation and resume their duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-directs-msrtc-employees-to-withdraw-strike-high-level-committee-to-resolve-grievance-101636376278630.html
08-11-2021||Noida||21K engineering aspirants registered for admissions so far: Maharashtra CET cell||Around 21,280 students have already registered for admissions to first-year engineering courses, the Maharashtra common entrance test (MH-CET) cell has revealed. On Monday, the state admissions authority for admissions to undergraduate professional courses released the information brochure for courses, including Bachelor of Engineering (BE), Bachelor of Pharmacy (B Pharm), Bachelor of Architecture (B Arch), Bachelor of Hotel Management (B HMCT) and Bachelor of Planning for the 2021-22 academic year. “We started registrations for first-year engineering students on November 2, followed by registrations to B Arch as well as nine agricultural courses. The information brochure will explain every detail of the admissions process to interested candidates,” said a senior official from the state CET cell. The information brochure helps with information on total intake capacity for various courses, requirements for eligibility certificates if any, admissions process, reservation quotas, common admission process (CAP) allotment stages, as well as other miscellaneous provisions. “Results for MH-CET were announced on October 27 and we started the student registration process for UG engineering course in less than a week. Students can finish the registration process by November 18 and the first merit list will be announced on November 22,” added the official. While engineering aspirants are busy with the admissions process, UG medical, dental and para medical course aspirants will have to wait longer. Not only has the information brochure not been released, registrations too are yet to be kicked off. “While results for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) were announced last week, we are still waiting for state-wise results to be provided to us. Once we receive that list, we’ll start the student registration process and release the admissions schedule as well,” said the CET official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/21k-engineering-aspirants-registered-for-admissions-so-far-maharashtra-cet-cell-101636375858240.html
08-11-2021||Pune||No water supply to parts of Pune on November 11||PUNE There will be no water supply to Pune Camp, Koregaon Park, Mundhwa, Kharadi and Wanowrie areas on Thursday (November 11), as per the officials of the water department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).The department issued a press note on Monday regarding the same. These areas are dependent on the Cantonment water treatment plant.As the PMC, as electric work will be undertaken at the cantonment water treatment plant so the supply will be affected to these areas on Thursday.The other areas where the water supply will be affected are the Pune station area, Mula road, Tadiwala road, Race Course area, Kondhwa, Hadapsar, Mohammadwadi, Kalepadal, Solapur road and Satavawadi areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-to-parts-of-pune-on-november-11-101636375558425.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi visits Kairana, promises relief to people “forced to leave town”||MEERUT Ahead of the UP Assembly elections, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday visited Kairana in western UP’s Shamli district and promised compensation and security to some families who were allegedly forced to leave the town between 2014 and 2016. The BJP had claimed that scores of Hindu families had left the town after receiving threats from criminals.The claim, however, was contested by others. The alleged exodus from Kairana was a big issue in the 2017 Assembly elections.Yogi Adityanath, along with cabinet ministers Suresh Rana, Sidharth Nath Singh and western UP BJP president Mohit Beniwal, met families of traders allegedly killed by gangsters and those who left the town because of the reign of terror unleashed by gangster Muqeem Kala and others.The meeting with the group of people was held at the house of one Vijay Mittal, whose grandfather Moolchand had left his native place Kairana. “I have sought a report from the district administration about the families which were harmed and their members killed here in the previous Samajwadi Party regime,” Adityanath said, adding that action has been initiated against the guilty.“The government will give some compensation to the victim families so that they could again carry out their business and economic activities,” Adityanath told reporters.He said Kairana was once considered a major industrial town of the country and a centre of classical music. “Towns like Kairana and Kandhla faced repercussions of the criminalisation of politics in the early 1990s and the politicisation of professional criminals. Hindu businessmen and other Hindus were forced to migrate from here on a large scale,” he alleged.“After 2017, due to our government’s policy of zero tolerance towards crime and criminals, many families have returned,” he claimed.Adityanath said when he came to the town in 2017, people had demanded the strengthening of the police outpost and a PAC battalion. “The work of strengthening the outpost has already been done and today I came here for laying the foundation of a PAC battalion camp,” added Yogi Adityanath.The CM insisted that people should stand against anti-social and criminal elements. “These anti-social elements would be exposed only after people rise against them,” he said, assuring the families that the government would initiate stern action against criminals.Briefing the Yogi Adityanath, minister Suresh Rana said that “the law and order situation during the Samajwadi Party’s rule was dismal and members of the victims’ families appreciated the efforts of the BJP government for improving the law and order situation in the town.” “One of them said it was difficult to move out after 5pm during SP rule because criminals were fearless. But the situation has changed now and criminals surrendered in police stations,” added Rana. The families of three traders -- Vinod, Raju and Shankar -- were also invited at Vijay Mittal’s house where they interacted with the CM.Trader Vinod was allegedly killed by the Furqan gang and thereafter Raju and Shankar, were killed by dreaded criminal Mukeem Kala in broad daylight after they refused to pay him extortion money. Killings of three traders in a span of 10 days in 2014 had unleashed a reign of terror in the town, which reportedly led to exodus of many people, said locals. The CM said that the BJP believed in making lives of people peaceful and fearless and construction of a PAC battalion camp in the town would provide them a more secure and safe atmosphere. In June 2016, the then BJP MP Hukum Singh had claimed that close to 350 Hindus had left Kairana over alleged threats and extortion by criminal elements belonging to a particular community. Later, the Kairana police had claimed that a spot verification of 150 addresses revealed several reasons for the migration, including better business and job prospects.Locals said 25 to 30 families who left Kairana town had returned while others were still staying outside. Speaking to mediapersons, Yogi Adityanath said a few families had returned and others would also come back in the changed atmosphere. Yogi also addressed a public meeting in Kairana after laying the foundation stones of a Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) camp and other welfare projects, including construction of a polytechnic, a hospital, worth ₹425 crore.The CM lashed out at the previous governments and accused them of doing nothing for the welfare of people. “They were least bothered about providing even basic amenities to people. During the rule of previous governments, there were no procurement centres for crops and there was shortage of fertilizers,” he said. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-visits-kairana-promises-relief-to-people-forced-to-leave-town-101636375438363.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi dengue tally rises to 2,708; toll reaches 9||The cases of dengue in Delhi continue to rise as the city added 1,171 infections in the past week, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation said. It further said that Delhi has at least 2,708 cases of dengue. The national capital also reported 9 deaths due to dengue so far, with three deaths in the previous week.The Centre earlier last week formed teams to assist nine states and Union territories including Delhi, where the dengue caseload is high, and sent high-level teams to support them implement public health measures to control and manage the outbreak.The teams will support states and Union territories to build an effective public health response. The teams will also report to the Centre on the status of vector control, availability of kits and medicines, early detection, availability and use of insecticides, the status of anti-larval and anti-adult vector control measures among other steps.Delhi in October reported nearly 1,200 cases in October alone, the highest number of cases recorded in the month in the last four years, according to official data. The death toll was also the highest recorded in a year in Delhi since 2017 when the cumulative death count officially reported was 10.The SDMC also set up a 15-bed dengue treatment facility at the Tilak Nagar Colony Hospital on Friday.Neighbouring city Noida also reported a large number of dengue cases last week. The tally due to dengue rose to 521 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday. The Uttar Pradesh district has 51 active dengue cases, and one death so far.The authorities said that they are conducting anti-larval measures to keep the dengue situation in check. However, medical experts said that with oncoming winters the cases are supposed to decrease further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dengue-tally-rises-to-2-708-toll-reaches-9-101636375108902.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati says SP ‘contemptuous of great men born among Dalits and backwards’||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati sharpened her attack on Samajwadi Party (SP) and its leader Akhilesh Yadav on Monday when she alleged that the SP was contemptuous of "great men born among Dalits and backwards" and remarked that the people from these communities should not expect anything from Yadav and his party.She also alleged that the SP-led governments in Uttar Pradesh changed names of many institutions and schemes earlier owing to "hatred" towards backward castes.“Since the beginning, the SP has been contemptuous of the great saints, gurus and great men born among the Dalits and backward. A special example of which is the new Ambedkar Nagar district created out of Faizabad district. They (SP) also opposed making Bhadohi a new district out of Sant Ravidas Nagar and even its name was changed by the SP government,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet."Similarly, the names of many institutions and schemes of UP were changed mostly due to casteist hatred. In such a situation, how can their followers expect respect and security from SP no matter how much drama this party does now for the sake of their vote?," Mayawati said in another tweet.The tweet comes after a flurry of BSP lawmakers left the party and switched over to SP, including senior leaders Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar. Both of them were earlier expelled for "anti-party" activities even as they won from their assembly constituencies in the previous legislative elections.Mayawati had earlier expressed caution that BSP turncoats would weaken the SP. “The SP should know that by taking such selfish party-hoppers, the ticket-seekers within its fold are only going to make its workers angry, many of whom are in touch with the BSP. These people are going to inflict severe damage to the party from inside during the polls,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-says-sp-contemptuous-of-great-men-born-among-dalits-and-backwards-101636372800714.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Uphaar fire: Ansal brothers sentenced to 7 yrs jail for tampering with evidence||A Delhi court on Monday sentenced real estate barons Gopal and Sushil Ansal for tampering with evidence related to the 1997 Uphaar Cinema fire that left 59 people dead. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma also fined them ₹2.25 crore each while directing that they be taken into custody.“I think it is very hard to reach out to this decision given the complexities involved. After some thinking over some nights and nights, I have come to this conclusion that they deserve punishment,” Sharma said while pronouncing the order.On October 8, the court convicted the Ansal brothers for tampering with evidence.Also Read: SIT arrests prime accused over fake Covid-19 testing scam at MahakumbhThe court also held two of their employees, PP Batra and Anoop Singh, and former court staffer Dinesh Chand Sharma guilty. The Ansal brothers along with Dinesh Sharma, Batra, Har Swaroop Panwar, Singh, and Dharamvir Malhotra were booked in the tempering case. Panwar and Malhotra died during the course of the trial.The court earlier framed charges against seven accused of abetment of offence, causing disappearance of evidence, criminal breach of trust by a public servant, and criminal conspiracy.In the main fire case, the Ansals were convicted and sentenced to two years in jail by the Supreme Court in 2015.The apex court released them as they had already served the jail term on the condition that pay ₹30 crore fine each to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capital.On October 8, while convicting the accused in the tampering case, the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate’s court said, “The manner in which they subjected the process of law to desecration is no less defiling the justice administration system.”It held that their “high handedness” for “securing benefit in the trial sans documents by any means shows the scant regard which they have for the justice delivery system”.“The brazen attitude of the accused is reflective from their conduct as, after the destruction of evidence, they vehemently opposed the prosecution plea for adducing secondary evidence,” the court said.A fire broke out at the Uphaar Cinema in Green Park during the screening of Hindi film Border on June 13, 1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uphaar-fire-ansal-brothers-sent-to-jail-for-7-yrs-for-tampering-with-evidence-101636373578470.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||New Delhi sees three more dengue deaths; toll reaches nine this year||Three more deaths due to dengue have been reported in New Delhi, taking this year’s toll to nine, according to a weekly report released by the municipal corporations on Monday. With 1,171 new cases added to the tally in the week ending November 6, New Delhi’s total caseload has crossed the 2,000-mark.The capital reported 2,708 cases of dengue till November 6.The tally is now inching close to the number of cases in 2018 - 2,798. The toll is inching close to the one in 2017 - 10.In 2015, New Delhi reported the worst dengue outbreak that affected nearly 16,000 people and killed 60.There was only one dengue death in New Delhi last year, two in 2019 and four in 2018, according to official data.Last week, five deaths were added to the tally after an investigation by a death audit committee. The committee received reports of 34 deaths in September and October, of which most were from neighbouring states. Nine of these deaths were still to be investigated by the committee and are likely the ones that have now been added.With dengue cases on the rise, the Delhi government in mid-October made all vector-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria, and chikungunya notifiable, meaning all hospitals, clinics and diagnostic centres have to mandatorily report the cases. This was a long pending decision, with the capital aiming to eliminate malaria in 2022.Delhi government officials said they were using the provisions of new notification to ask hospitals for data on all fever cases along with hospital beds available for them to ascertain the availability of beds and the need for escalation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-sees-three-more-dengue-deaths-toll-reaches-nine-this-year-101636372858398.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu questions Punjab govt delay in challenging blanket bail to Saini||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday questioned the Charanjit Singh Channi government’s failure to file a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court, challenging the blanket bail granted to former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini by the Punjab and Haryana high court on September 10. Also read: Punjab deputy CM’s son-in-law appointed addl advocate generalReferring to the Behbal Kalan police firing case of 2015 in which two Sikh protesters were killed when they were sitting on dharna seeking action in the sacrilege cases, Sidhu said in Chandigarh, “It has been seven years since, and justice is still awaited.” He referred to Saini as the prime accused in the case and said that with a blanket bail to him, the sacrilege case can’t move forward. Addressing the media after the proceedings of the first day of the two-day special session of the Vidhan Sabha were adjourned to resume on Thursday, Sidhu hit out at the incumbents of the posts of the director general of police (DGP) and advocate general for inaction. The special session has also been called to discuss and decide on the cancellation of power purchase agreements (PPAs) with privately owned thermal plants in the state set up when the SAD-BJP government was in power. On Sunday, the cabinet announced the extension of the session by a day. HC gave six months to complete Kotkapura probe“I’m speaking today because it’s been six months since the high court asked the state to complete investigation into the Kotkapura firing incident of 2015. On April 9, the court had given six months’ time. So far nothing has happened in the matter,” Sidhu said. In Kotkapura also, police fired on the protesters leading to injuries to a number of people, when they were seeking action in the sacrilege cases. Wants report on drug case to be made public Sidhu asked the government to make public the drug case report, which is kept sealed with the high court, in the November 11 sitting of the assembly. “No one stops the government from disclosing facts of the investigations,” he said. Sidhu raised similar issues over micro-blogging site Twitter on Sunday, a day after advocate general APS Deol, in a statement, accused him of obstructing the functioning of the state government and the AG’s office. APS Deol’s appointment remains sticking point The standoff continues between Sidhu and Channi, who took over as chief minister in September 2021 following the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh, over Deol’s appointment. As a lawyer, Deol represented Saini, who headed the state police at the time of the sacrilege incidents and police firing on protesters seven years ago. Sidhu is opposed to Deol’s appointment for this reason and has been pressing for his removal. He had resigned from his post on September 28 and later indicated the AG’s appointment was one of the reasons he quit. While withdrawing his resignation as Punjab Congress president last week, Sidhu put Deol’s removal as a precondition for resuming his duties. Role of 40 Congress MLAs questioned “Those who sought the removal of Capt Amarinder Singh from the post of chief minister for inaction in the drugs and sacrilege cases are sitting silent now,” Sidhu said, hitting out at a section of ministers in the Charanjit Singh Channi government. He also questioned the role of 40 Congress MLAs after the present dispensation took over, “as they raised a voice seeking Amarinder’s removal and threatened to break into Saini’s house. Why are they not speaking when the present dispensation is not acting, now?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-questions-punjab-govt-delay-in-challenging-blanket-bail-to-saini-101636371598142.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jolt to Punjab Congress: Gurdaspur leader Raman Bahl to join AAP||In a jolt to the ruling Congress in Gurdaspur district, senior party leader Raman Bahl on Monday resigned as chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSSB) and is set to join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday. Also read: Punjab deputy CM’s son-in-law appointed addl advocate generalBahl had not been allotted the Congress ticket in the 2017 assembly elections from Gurdaspur constituency, which is represented by Brinderjit Singh Pahra at present. Bahl had lost hope of getting the ticket for the 2022 elections. Though he did not cite any reason in the resignation letter, he expressed disappointment over party affairs. “The Congress has almost discarded its ideology and core issues. Traditional Congressmen are getting no space in the party. They have been ignored. On the other hand, people who have come from other parties are placed at the forefront. Naturally, traditional Congressmen will feel suffocated. The influence of money and muscle power has increased,” he said over phone. Bahl said that his family has been in public service for a century. “My grandfather joined public life in the presence of freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai. My father represented Gurdaspur four times in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. People are well aware of our services to the party and I don’t need to explain,” he said. Former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh appointed him as chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board on March 25, 2018, and a year and a half of his tenure was left. Bahl, the son of former minister Khushal Bahl, is a Gurdaspur-based lawyer. He has been president of the Gurdaspur Municipal Corporation twice and was a Panjab University senate member from 2008-12. He also served as senate member of Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, from 2004-06. At GNDU, he remained a member of the syndicate for a year. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 assembly elections from Gurdaspur on a Congress ticket. His father, who died in 2014, was elected MLA from Gurdaspur assembly constituency in 1972, 1977, 1992 and 2002 and remained minister in the governments headed by Giani Zail Singh, Beant Singh, Harcharan Singh Brar and Capt Amarinder Singh. Though he did not disclose his next course of action, sources close to him said he is joining the Aam Aadmi Party in his bastion in the presence of central party leaders from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jolt-to-punjab-congress-gurdaspur-leader-raman-bahl-to-join-aap-101636370278116.html
08-11-2021||Other||Designation plates of police offices, stations in Almora to be decorated with Aipan folk art||In a first of its kind initiative, Almora police are all set to decorate designation plates of its offices and police stations with Aipan folk art of Uttarakhand in an attempt to encourage the folk art of the hills and provide self-employment to artisans. “We decided to decorate designation plates with the folk art of the hills -Aipan- leaving behind the usual way of preparing the plates. We have prepared such plates with the help of folk artists, particularly women artists,” said Pankaj Bhatt, senior superintendent of police, Almora. Aipan is an established folk art from Kumaon in Uttarakhand. It is drawn mainly on special occasions like weddings, festivals and other household ceremonies and rituals. It is said that such an art form on houses bring good fortune and deters evil from entering the houses. Earlier, it was drawn mainly on walls and floors of houses but now it is also drawn on objects of daily use and clothing. Aipan is painted at the entrance of the house, in the courtyard and on the walls of the house. The colour for the art is made from rice flour, geru (brick colour) and other materials used in worship. The art form has great social, religious and cultural importance in the hill state. Bhatt said, “We conceived the idea of using Aipan during the Kumbh fair when we were asked to provide bronze pots decorated with Aipan art by our higher authorities. We thought that if we apply this traditional art on designation plates, it will not only encourage these folk artists but will also give our police stations and offices a Kumaoni cultural look.” “These plates have already been put up at different branches of the police offices and soon they will reach our police stations in the district,” Bhatt said. Photo: Designation plate of SSP using Aipan artform . Designation plates prepared for distribution in Almora district’s police offices and stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/designation-plates-of-police-offices-stations-in-almora-to-be-decorated-aipan-folk-art-101636370158359.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: In Maharashtra, politicians have broken the Omerta Code||Earlier this week, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit chief Chandrakant Patil suggested to the chief minister to hold an all-party meeting to bring sanity to what he called “vitiated political atmosphere” in Maharashtra. Patil blamed the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) as major contributor to the present crisis. There can be a disagreement on who initiated it. But indeed, Maharashtra’s current political climate is impaired to a point where it is looking beyond repair. In the past, there were occasional aberrations when political slugfest was on display. However, it was often temporary and keeping in mind the political mileage ahead of polls. In normal course, politicians from different hues always safeguarded the interests of each other even if they spoke against rivals in public. It began earlier this year with the February 25 bomb scare outside Antilla, the South Mumbai residence of Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani. What followed later was the arrest of “encounter specialist” assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, allegations of extortion by shunted Mumbai commissioner of police Param Bir Singh against the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Singh is currently in hiding and Deshmukh behind bars. If several Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers and legislators are being investigated for alleged corrupt actions, it only indicates politically charged atmosphere in Maharashtra where party rivals are bringing out fresh “material” each day to accuse each other. Back in 2009, when the then Congress-NCP government tweaked a policy to help sugar barons producing power from bagasse, the opposition BJP was conspicuous by its silence. The sugar factories, mostly being controlled that time by Congress-NCP politicians, successfully pushed ahead their demand of selling electricity in the open market by withdrawing the previous order that mandated these mills to sell 50% of the generated power to state owned power utility. While these factories were getting various kinds of help from government in terms of funds and loans, they were allowed to earn maximum profit. The silence of prominent state BJP leaders, including late Gopinath Munde and Eknath Khadse (who is now with NCP) was conspicuous. But then it indicated how the tweaking is benefiting everyone. Years later, the arrangement seems to have ended, no matter if vendetta is reason for it. Going by what is currently unfolding on the political canvas in Maharashtra suggests politicians have ended an unwritten rule that whatever they may say against each other in public, no one will ever cross the line. There was a time in Maharashtra, harsh political rivals were good friends in personal lives. The tale of Bal Thackeray-Sharad Pawar or Gopinath Munde-Vilasrao Deshmukh friendships may have sounded extraordinary if we were not living in these times. For the MVA constituents - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - the current situation may have helped come out of the crisis as it has brought three partners closer. Stitched together after the assembly elections in a set of circumstances unique to Maharashtra’s politics, the MVA government was initially seen floundering as lack of coordinated strategies, weakening authority of the leadership, growing disgruntlement among its constituents and the inability to set a narrative. However, as key members of the cabinet such as deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Anil Deshmukh, who later had to resign, faced inquiries by the central agencies, the three partners have realised it can be anyone tomorrow, a reason they need to be more united than before. For the BJP, the current political atmosphere may not suit its dream of returning to power once again anytime in the near future. The entry of central agencies has only disturbed the narrative the party was trying to shape in the state in order to portray MVA as example of governance failure. But for common citizens, the situation may hold both – good and bad. With politicians breaking the Code of Omerta, citizens can expect more rot that will help clean the system. However, till the system becomes clean, we will have to face political tamasha, which is affecting the public governance. Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-in-maharashtra-politicians-have-broken-the-omerta-code-101636368717367.html
08-11-2021||Pune||NCB witness Kiran Gosavi's police custody extended in cheating case||The police custody of Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness in the NCB cruise raid case and an accused in a cheating case registered with Faraskhana police station of Pune city, was on Monday extended by a day by a Pune court.Gosavi will be in the police custody of the Pune city police till November 9.The investigation officer (IO) of the case has submitted before the court that they have recovered a total of ₹1 Lakh from the accused Kiran Gosavi in a cheating case and ₹2 lakh more is yet to be recovered from his possession.The IO further informed the court, "The accused is not cooperating in the investigation. There are details that need to be retrieved from his social media accounts but he is not sharing the login credentials with the police. Hence the police demanded 3 days police custody extension of Kiran Gosavi however the court has granted an extension of one-day police custody."Earlier, Gosavi was sent to police custody till November 8.On October 28, Gosavi, a key witness in the Mumbai cruise drugs case in which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested, was held by Pune City Police in connection with a cheating case of ₹18 lakh in the year 2018.He had duped one Chinmay Deshmukh, promising to give job in Malaysia and collected ₹18 lakh. Deshmukh was sent on a tourist visa to Malaysia and according to the complainant (Deshmukh), Gosavi had assured him that the tourist visa would be converted once he lands in Malaysia. But he had to return to India before the expiry of the tourist visa.Deshmukh had filed a complaint against Gosavi in 2018 and a chargesheet was filed in the case.Since then, he was on the run.On October 31, the Pune Police lodged one more case against Kiran Gosavi, an NCB witness in the drugs-on-cruise case, at Wanowarie Police Station for threatening victim and conspiracy related sections.The Pune City Police informed that Gosavi has been booked under sections 420, 409, 506(2), 120(b) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arms act 3(b) for threatening victim and conspiracy related sections.This was the third case lodged against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncb-witness-kiran-gosavi-s-police-custody-extended-in-cheating-case-101636368287106.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Respond within a day to lawsuit filed by Wankhede’s father, HC tells Malik||The Bombay high court on Monday directed Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik to respond within a day to the ₹1.25 crore defamation suit that Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede’s father, Dhyandev Wankhede, has filed against him. The suit has sought deletion of Malik’s articles, tweets, and interviews.Malik has levelled a series of allegations against Sameer Wankhede. He has claimed the officer is a Muslim and used a fake caste certificate to get a government job under the Scheduled Caste category. He tweeted a copy of a birth certificate, which he claimed to be that of the officer and showed his father’s name as Dawood K Wankhede.Dhyandev Wankhede’s lawyer, Arshad Shaikh, told the court that Malik was making defamatory statements and posting something or the other against his client and his family daily and hence the defamation suit has been filed. Shaikh informed the court that the officer had to clarify that his father is a Hindu and his mother was a Muslim. He added Malik’s claims were lowering the reputation of his client. Shaikh submitted that on Monday Malik posted an allegedly defamatory tweet against Sameer Wankhede’s sister-in-law.Also Read: Malik alleges link between Wankhede’s sister-in-law and drugs businessMalik on Monday questioned whether the sister-in-law was involved in the drug business. On Sunday, he alleged Wankhede was part of a plot to “kidnap” actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan, for ransom. Aryan was among those arrested following NCB’s raid on a cruise ship last month. Malik called Bharatiya Janata Party worker Mohit Bharatiya, also known as Mohit Kamboj, the “mastermind” of the cruise ship drug raid case. Malik said the NCB’s raid on Goa-bound cruise ship Cordelia on October 2 was “a plot to kidnap Aryan Khan for ransom, of which Mohit Bharatiya Kamboj was the mastermind”. He alleged Kamboj was part of Wankhede’s “private army” which routinely extorted people for money by threatening them. Malik added Wankhede allegedly set a trap for Aryan with the help of Kamboj’s brother-in-law, Rishabh Sachdeva. He added the “private army” will be exposed as the state government has formed a special investigation team to investigate his allegations.In his plea, Dhyandev Wankhede linked Malik’s tirade to his son-in-law Sameer Khan’s arrest in January for allegedly trading in contraband. Malik has maintained Khan was framed and that a court’s order granting him bail vindicated them.The plea said Malik’s claims have also affected the criminal law practice of Dhyandev Wankhede’s daughter, Yasmeen. Dhyandev Wankhede has also sought a temporary injunction against Malik and those under his instructions from publishing, writing, and speaking to any media.Senior advocate Atul Damle, who represented Malik, submitted as the suit was received by his client on Sunday, he did not have any instructions to make a statement. He added the suit is defective as Dhyandev Wankhede could not be speaking on behalf of his adult children.After hearing the submissions, a single-judge vacation bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar directed Malik to file his reply to the suit by Tuesday and scheduled the hearing in the matter for November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/respond-within-a-day-to-lawsuit-filed-by-wankhede-s-father-hc-tells-malik-101636368237626.html
08-11-2021||Patna||­Nitish Kumar calls high-level meet on Nov 16 over liquor ban in state||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has called a high-level meeting to deliberate further on the liquor ban that exists in the state since 2016, news agency ANI reported on Monday.Kumar had held a review meeting on Saturday, which the Janata Dal (United) chief informed via Twitter. Earlier, he had warned of strict action against those involved in sale and consumption of liquor in the dry state after the celebrations for Chhath Puja are over.“It is for people to see and judge. If you indulge in such activities, the result is before you. We will take action. Some people are doing bad work by making spurious liquor. Raids are on and I am going to review the entire scenario once the Chhath festival is over,” he had said.Notably, liquor has been prohibited in Bihar since 2016.This comes after at least 20 people died over the past few days from consuming spurious liquor. The incident in which an Army man and a Border Security Force (BSF) personnel are also among the victims, has put Kumar under the radar with the opposition claiming that a nexus exists in Bihar wherein state government officials are also involved.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and Bihar’s leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav said that the liquor ban is only confined in the words of Kumar. “Instead of taking strict action against the officials, Mafiosi and illegal traders; CM Nitish Kumar keep on cautioning the people from not consuming the liquor,” he alleged, adding that the state police had seized two trucks full of illegal liquor from the school of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister in the cabinet but “no reference” of the person was present in the First Information Report (FIR).Also Read | Bihar liquor deaths: RJD leader says Nitish Kumar govt involved in 'syndicate’Meanwhile, Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra pointed out that it was high time the state government re-evaluate the Prohibition Act, and if it is at all effective.The case gained spotlight after it was reported on November 4 with a total of 10 fatalities in Bihar’s West Champaran and Gopalganj districts. As of now, at least 20 people have died in both the districts and police have said that they are awaiting a post-mortem report to reach any conclusion. “Prima facie, these deaths appear to have occurred due to the consumption of poisonous substances,” West Champaran’s superintendent of police Upendra Nath Verman said.A station house officer (SHO) Manish Kumar and one chowkidar have been suspended in the matter so far. Also, four persons, including two women have been held and five others have been detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-calls-high-level-meet-on-nov-16-over-liquor-ban-in-state-101636366802335.html
08-11-2021||Kolkata||'Will force Mamata to reduce VAT on fuel': BJP hits out at West Bengal govt||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday targeted the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal for not slashing the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. The BJP threatened that it would force chief minister Mamata Banerjee to reduce VAT on fuel prices.The BJP had earlier announced that it would take out rallies in West Bengal for five days starting Monday, demanding a reduction in VAT. On Monday, BJP leaders clashed with police in Kolkata after the party workers were stopped from proceeding. Several leaders and workers of the opposition party in West Bengal were detained during the clashes, a police officer told news agency PTI.Also Read| ‘Will ask Mamata to reduce tax if…’: TMC leader counters BJP on petrol prices“We’ll force chief minister Banerjee to reduce the VAT. Police might try to stop us but we’ll fight them,” state BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar said, adding that the TMC government stopped the BJP rally because they were "afraid."Echoing Majumdar's remarks, the leader of opposition in Bengal Suvendu Adhikari said that rallies will be held at any cost.Pointing out that the TMC's double standards have been exposed, Adhikari, a former protege of Mamata Banerjee told PTI, “Not just the Centre, several other states have slashed taxes to bring down the fuel prices, but the TMC government which pretends to be pro-people is yet to do the same.”BJP leader Dilip Ghosh also hit out at the TMC by saying that the latter was most worried about the surge in fuel prices, but now it did not even issue any response in this regard. “Reduce the VAT if you (TMC) are so concerned about people's problems,” Ghosh said.On the eve of Diwali, the Centre announced a reduction in central levies on petrol by ₹5 a litre and diesel by ₹10 a litre, which was seen as a major relief for consumers amid the spike in fuel prices. Till now, over 20 states and Union territories have undertaken a commensurate reduction of VAT.However, several opposition-ruled states including West Bengal, Delhi and Maharashtra among others have not reduced VAT.Also Read| BJP questions Opposition ruled states for not cutting excise on fuel pricesIn Bengal, the ruling TMC accused the Centre of indulging in cheap politics over fuel tax as its inertia in stemming the skyrocketing prices of petrol, diesel and LPG had been exposed. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said on Saturday that the cut in VAT was too little, too less.Maintaining that the revenue realised from fuel tax by the Centre is far more than that of states, Ghosh further suggested that some parity should be maintained.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/will-force-mamata-to-reduce-vat-on-fuel-bjp-hits-out-at-west-bengal-govt-101636362734186.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Uphaar fire tragedy: 7-year jail term for Ansal brothers for tampering evidence||A Delhi court on Monday awarded seven-year simple imprisonment to real estate barons Gopal Ansal and Sushil Ansal in a case of tampering with evidence in the Uphaar cinema fire tragedy case. Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma of the Patiala House Court also imposed a fine of ₹2.25 crore on each of the Ansal brothers.Out on bail, the convicts were taken into the custody soon after the order was pronounced.While pronouncing the judgment, Sharma said he spent nights thinking about the case, following which he reached the conclusion that the real estate barons deserved punishment.  “I think it is very hard to reach out to this decision given the complexities involved. After some thinking over some nights and nights, I have come to this conclusion that they deserve punishment,” the magistrate said.On October 8, the court had convicted the Ansal brothers along with two of their employees among others in the case related.The case is related to tampering with the evidence of the 1997 fire tragedy in which 59 lives were lost. The Ansal brothers were convicted and sentenced to two years in jail by the Supreme Court.The apex court had, however, released them on the period already undergone in the jail on the condition that they paid ₹30 crore fine each to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capital. The Ansal brothers were booked along with a court staff, Dinesh Chand Sharma, and other individuals PP Batra, Har Swaroop Panwar, Anoop Singh, and Dharamvir Malhotra in the tampering of evidence case.Panwar and Malhotra died during the course of the trial.The fire had broken out at the Uphaar cinema during the screening of the Hindi film 'Border' on June 13, 1997, killing 59 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uphaar-fire-tragedy-7-year-jail-for-ansal-brothers-for-tampering-evidence-101636364537869.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||4 in 5 families in Delhi-NCR affected by air pollution: Survey||Amid rising pollution levels in the national capital and adjoining areas, a survey conducted by a community social media platform has found that four in five families in the region have someone facing one or more ailments due to contaminated air.The survey conducted by LocalCircles also said that 91 per cent of Delhi residents believe authorities were completely or partially ineffective in enforcing the ban on transportation, distribution and sale of crackers this Diwali.More than 34,000 responses were received from residents of Delhi, Gurgaon, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad for the survey, a statement said.Out of the respondents, 66 per cent were men and 34 per cent women, it said.In the survey, the respondents were asked the kind of ailments faced by them since the last week as the Delhi-NCR's air quality turned severe.“In response, 16 per cent respondents said they were experiencing sore throat or cough or both, another 16 per cent said runny nose, congestion or burning eyes, while 16 per cent said they were facing breathing difficulty,” it said.Only 20 per cent of the respondents experienced “no impact” of the polluted environment. On an aggregate basis, four in five families in Delhi-NCR are now experiencing one or more ailments due to polluted air, the statement said.There were 24 per cent people who experienced all the above mentioned issues, while eight per cent experienced at least two of the symptoms.Nearly 22 per cent of the respondents said they or someone in their family have already visited doctors or hospitals regarding air pollution-related ailments.Meanwhile, only 28 per cent families in Delhi-NCR plan to use air purifiers and 61 per cent anti-pollution masks to cope with the current situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4-in-5-families-in-delhi-ncr-affected-by-air-pollution-survey-101636361344693.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Defamation suit: Bombay HC asks Nawab Malik to file reply on Wankhede's plea , adjourns hearing||The Bombay high court on Monday adjourned to November 10 the hearing on a defamation suit filed by Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede, father of the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik.The court also asked the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader to file a reply on Wankhede's plea by Tuesday.Defamation suit filed by Dnyandev Wankhede (in file photo), father of Mumbai NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, against Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik adjourned for 10th November. HC has asked Nawab Malik to file a reply on Wankhede's plea by tomorrow. pic.twitter.com/IiJTc0gdwdThe senior NCB officer’s father has filed the ₹1.25-crore defamation suit against Malik for posting what he termed as “derogatory comments on social media against my son and family”. He also sought a permanent injunction restraining Malik and others “acting under his instructions” from publishing, writing or speaking in the media about the family.Also read | ‘Would’ve been Udta Maharashtra’: Nawab Malik's latest claims on drugs bust in 5 pointsMalik has levelled several serious allegations against Wankhede, including extortion and fraudulent use of caste card to obtain his job. The minister has accused the NCB officer of indulging in an extortion attempt in the drugs-on-cruise case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son is an accused and jailed for more than 20 days.He has also alleged that the sensational drugs bust case off the Goa-bound cruise was a case of kidnapping and ransom and Wankhede had partnered with BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya in demanding the ransom.On Monday, Malik continued his tirade against Wankhede alleging that the latter’s sister-in-law was involved in drugs business. Soon after, Wankhede responded saying he had nothing to do with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamation-suit-bombay-hc-asks-nawab-malik-to-file-reply-on-wankhede-s-plea-101636359123107.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Smog mode on: From kadha to humidifiers, Delhiites combat pollution||The days after Diwali are always followed by ones engulfed in heavy smog and pollution and this year is no different with air quality deteriorating to ‘severe’ category. Despite a blanket ban on firecrackers, there were many areas in the city where firecrackers were burst and this as well as the fumes from farm fires have created havoc in the Capital, making the air quality hazardous. From sipping on kadha’s and ashwaghandha, using essential oils and humidifiers, to even moving out momentarily, delhiites have their own checklist to protect themselves from city’s poor air quality. ‘Finding it difficult to breath’“It’s very sad to see that despite multiple warnings, Delhites did not pay attention to the pollution warning. It just goes on to say how insensitive we have become. The air quality was already bad before Diwali and now it is worse. I woke up 6am on the next morning of Diwali, finding it difficult to breath. With God’s grace, I do not have any respiratory problems, imagine what people with respiratory issues must be going through,” says Neha Mehra, a teacher from Mayur Vihar.‘Stocked up on kadha’Well, Delhiites have resorted to home remedies to help themselves stay fit and healthy during this time. “I was anticipating that the pollution levels will go up after Diwali. Winters are literally deadly for me because of this. I have trouble breathing normally for weeks. So I am making sure to have the humidifier on all the time. Besides this, I had already stocked up on kadha, and I am having a cup of that everyday. I am also steaming with essential oils and have kept air purifier plants at home too. I have sinusitis so nothing works apart from antiallergic but I still believe in building immunity with natural ways,” says Harsha Yadav Malik, a consultant who works at an IT firm in New Rajinder Nagar.‘Wearing N 95 masks’Neha Singh, a senior manager from IP extension, says, “The smog situation in Delhi is bad and we have already started consulting a nutritionist to make sure that we are taking in the right nutrients to remain healthy. She has suggested us to have a drink with Ashwagandha in it every day and we are following this. Besides this, we are making sure to wear N 95 masks, because, besides protecting us from Covid, these also protect us from the smog. And also, we are only going out when absolutely required.”‘Can’t stay in Delhi’And some are even leaving the city! Anshu Aanand, an HR professional, Sarvodaya Enclave says, “My in-laws live near Nainital and we will be going to live with them for a while. We can’t be staying here in Delhi with the pollution, it’s crazy. On Diwali, there were so many crackers and seven-month-old was so scared and she kept crying. She didn’t know what was happening and she was not being able to sleep also at night. We cannot even take her out now because of the pollution.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/smog-mode-on-from-kadha-to-humidifiers-delhiites-combat-pollution-101636358936382.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Was your kin involved in drugs biz: Nawab Malik asks Sameer Wankhede||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik launched a fresh attack on Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Monday when he asked if the officer’s sister-in-law was involved in “drug business” and shared screenshots of a case pending against her in a Pune court.In a tweet on Monday Malik shared screenshots of a 2008 case registered under Section 3458 of the Prevention of Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in which Harshada Dinanath Redkar was shown listed as “respondent and advocate” along with two other persons.The screenshots were from ECourts Services, a government portal which lists the cases before the sessions courts, city civil courts, and the magistrate courts across the country.“Sameer Dawood Wankhede, is your sister-in-law Harshada Dinanath Redkar involved in the drug business? You must answer because her case is pending before the Pune court. Here is the proof,” Malik tweeted.The regular criminal case is before the Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) in Pune. The first hearing, according to the website was held on February 18, 2008. The next date of hearing is listed as March 18, 2022. The state of Maharashtra is listed as the petitioner in the case, which indicates that the state has filed a regular criminal case against the three respondents.Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar responded to Malik’s tweet stating that her husband had no relation to the case and that the matter was sub-judice.“I know you have lot of questions regarding a tweet Mr Nawab Malik has put on his Twitter handle. I would like to say that my sister was and continues to be a victim in this case. According to our legal team, it is not prudent to comment as the matter is sub-judice. My sister is going to tackle Mr Malik’s tweet legally. Shri Sameer Wankhede has no relation to this case whatsoever,” Kranti said in a tweet on Monday.Wankhede said that was in inducted into the Indian Revenue Service (IRS) in 2008, and only married Kranti, Harshada’s sister, in 2017.The Bombay high court on Monday directed Malik to submit an affidavit in response to a defamation suit filed by Wankhede’s father, Dnyandev and posted the matter for hearing on November 10.Separately, the metropolitan magistrate’s court on Monday issued notice to Malik on a criminal defamation complaint filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary Mohit Kamboj. The court noted that prima facie Malik’s statements harmed the complainant’s reputation.In the past month Malik, a state minister from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has levelled serious allegations against Wankhede and the NCB over discrepancies in the investigation of a drug raid, led by Wankhede, on a cruise ship on October 2, which led to the arrest of 20 persons, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23). Last month, Malik claimed that Wankhede had forged a caste certificate to get a position in the IRS as a candidate from the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. He also claimed that the Wankhedes were Muslim, and shared photos of Sameer Wankhede’s first wedding which was conducted as a ‘Nikah’ ceremony. Wankhede and Dnyandev, a former police officer, denied the allegations.On Sunday, Malik held a press conference during which he claimed that Wankhede was part of a plot to kidnap Aryan for ransom, along with Kamboj (also known as Mohit Bharatiya). Malik claimed that Kamboj and Wankhede came up with the plot with the help of Kamboj’s brother-in-law, Rishab Sachdeva. Kamboj filed a defamation complaint on October 26 in which he stated that Malik had “purposefully and intentionally defamed” him and his brother-in-law Rishab Sachdeva during a press conference held on October 9.Dnyandev filed a ₹1.25 crore civil defamation suit against Wankhede on Sunday and sought a permanent injunction restraining Malik and others “acting under his instructions” from publishing, writing or speaking in the media about the family.On Saturday, Kamboj had held a press conference claiming that an NCP worker named Sunil Patil was the “mastermind” behind the drug raid on October 2. The following day, Malik levelled a similar accusation against Kamboj and claimed that the latter was part of Wankhede’s “private army” which regularly extorted money from people. He said that the raid was “fake”.Malik has also questioned the presence of Kiran Gosavi –who has several cheating cases against him – as well as BJP office-bearer Manish Bhanushali as independent witnesses in the drug raid case. The raid on the cruise ship Cordelia led to the recovery of 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of Mephedrone, 21 grams of Charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) and a sum of ₹1.33 lakh. Aryan’s friend, Arbaaz Merchant was found carrying 6 grams of charas in a plastic pouch tucked away in his shoe.Most of the 20 persons arrested, including Aryan and Merchant, are out on bail.Maharashtra textiles minister Aslam Shaikh on Monday clarified that he too was invited to the cruise party by Fashion TV head Kashiff Khan, but that he did not know him personally. Shaikh was responding to the remarks made by Malik on Sunday who claimed that Shaikh, Mumbai’s guardian minister was invited by Khan, who “insisted” he join the party. Malik said on Sunday that there was a conspiracy to frame Shaikh and children of political leaders from the ruling party in a bid to defame the government. “I was invited by Kashiff, but I do not know him. He didn’t speak to me nor have I spoken to him. I do get invitations for many events as the guardian minister, this was one of them. Even as a port minister, I did not have any information about the party. I would have informed the police had I got it. The permission to the cruise was not given by department. It is the prerogative of the Centre,” Shaikh said. “There have been attempt to destabilise the state government since its formation. I do not know if there was any attempt through this particular case. If it was so, it will come to the fore in the investigation that is underway. The Aryan Khan case is being blown up on a large scale but nobody is talking about the ₹20,000-crore drugs seized from a Gujarat port [Mundra, in September]. Secondly, BJP leaders in the state have been speaking in favour of NCB and are shielding the agency against the allegations levelled against it. Why should any political party defend any agency?” Shaikh asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malik-alleges-link-between-wankhede-s-sister-in-law-and-drugs-business-101636358816379.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police team interrogates dera head in Rohtak jail||A special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police arrived at Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail on Monday morning to interrogate Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh for his alleged role in the theft of a ‘bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib)’ from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015.Also read: Day 1 of two-day special Punjab assembly session adjourned after obit referencesA jail official, requesting anonymity, said four members of the SIT, led by inspector general Surinder Pal Singh Parmar along with senior superintendent of police MS Bhullar, deputy superintendent of police Lakhvir Singh and inspector Dalbir Singh reached the Sunaria jail premises at 9.45am. “The SIT has prepared a list of questions for Gurmeet Ram Rahim and they will interrogate him. It depends upon the SIT and the accused how long the interrogation process runs,” the jail official said. Gurmeet Ram Rahim has been lodged in the jail since August 25, 2017, when he was convicted for raping two women followers and sentenced to 20 years in jail. He was later convicted of the murders of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati and Ranjit Singh, a former dera manager, in which he has got a life sentence. Security stepped up at jail Security arrangements were beefed up at the Sunaria jail premises and only vehicles with prior permission were allowed to enter the premises. SIT head Surinder Pal Singh Parmar had sent a communication to Rohtak deputy commissioner Manoj Sheoran, informing that on the direction of the Punjab and Haryana high court, the members of the SIT will visit the jail for interrogating Ram Rahim on November 8. A Faridkot court in Punjab had issued production warrants against Ram Rahim in the case of sacrilege at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village but the Punjab and Haryana high court directed Punjab Police to interrogate Ram Rahim in Rohtak jail itself, if it so desired, and directed the jail authorities to make arrangements for the SIT to question the dera head. In July 2020, after the arrest of seven dera followers, the SIT led by former inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra, had named Ram Rahim and three national committee members of the dera, Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri, as accused in the case. ‘Instigated by dera chief to avenge insult to sect’ The ‘bir’ was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of that ‘bir’ were found scattered in front of a gurdwara in the adjoining Bargari village, leading to statewide protests and death of two Sikh protesters in police firing. In its chargesheet, the SIT claimed that it was Ram Rahim who ordered to carry out sacrilege to avenge the alleged insult of sect followers by a Sikh preacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-team-interrogates-dera-head-in-rohtak-jail-101636357796312.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Why no SLP filed?’: Sidhu questions Punjab govt over blanket bail to ex-DGP Saini||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday questioned the state government for not filing a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court seeking quashing of blanket bail granted to former state police chief Sumedh Singh Saini by the Punjab and Haryana High court. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, the cricketer-turned politician also remarked that not filing the SLP was a ‘delaying tactic’ by the ruling dispensation. Also Read | Punjab: HC stays all probes against ex-DGP Saini till Feb 2022“The courts cannot be blamed for the delay as they act only upon the investigation report put up by the police,” Sidhu said, as he continued his attack on party colleague and new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, with whom he has engaged in a war of words in recent days over investigations into the 2015 sacrilege cases.Also Read | Sacrilege probe on right, fast track, Channi’s retort to SidhuThe Punjab and Haryana high court, on September 10, granted blanket bail to former Punjab Police DGP Saini, in connection with various criminal cases registered against him. As per the court's directions, the former police officer cannot be arrested till February 2022, when the northern state is likely to go to polls.Saini was the head of the police force when incidents of sacrilege were reported from across Punjab, in October 2015. With protesters taking to the streets, the police opened fire in Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan, resulting in the deaths of two agitators. However, the high court's order will also stall probe against Saini in sacrilege violence cases, among others, giving him more relief.Sidhu had repeatedly targeted former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, whose resignation in September paved the way for Channi's elevation, over investigations into the sacrilege episode; Singh resigned from the Congress on November 2, and announced his own political outfit. Sidhu, meanwhile, has shifted his attention towards new advocate general of Punjab, APS Deol, and new DGP, Iqbal Singh Sahota, over their respective roles in the probe. Deol, in fact, represented Saini in the high court, which eventually granted the latter protection from arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/why-no-slp-filed-sidhu-questions-punjab-govt-over-blanket-bail-to-ex-dgp-saini-101636353873301.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Amid toxic foam & pollution concerns, BJP MP Parvesh Verma celebrates Chhath at Yamuna bank||Parliamentarian Parvesh Verma of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday celebrated Chhath Puja on the banks of the Yamuna river at ITO in Delhi. Verma further vowed to set up a ‘ghat’ at the place and indulge in celebrations on the main day of Chhath festivities. The BJP MP’s statement and celebrations came amid severe concerns being raised over devotees taking a dip into the polluted river in which toxic foam can be seen floating at several places. For the past two days, the capital’s water supply was also hit due to rising ammonia levels in the Yamuna.Delhi: BJP MP Parvesh Verma celebrates #ChhathPuja at ITO Yamuna Ghat. DDMA has allowed the puja only on designated sites&not on Yamuna ghats"CM was voted to power by people from Purvanchal & now he's refusing to allow them.We'll make ghat here & celebrate on 10th Nov," he says pic.twitter.com/bW3KjbIIHhThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority has allowed puja festivities only on designated sites and not on Yamuna ghats keeping the health of the river and citizens in mind.Earlier in the day, devotees were seen taking a dip in the foam-filled Yamuna river near Kalindi Kunj. Monday is the first day of the four-day festival mainly celebrated by people of Bihar, Jharkhand, eastern Uttar Pradesh and Nepal.The BJP MP, however, hit out at chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for refusing to allow devotees to celebrate on the banks of the Yamuna. He said that while the Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to power with the votes of people from Purvanchal, the CM was now refusing to allow them to celebrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-toxic-foam-pollution-concerns-bjp-mp-celebrates-chhath-at-yamuna-bank-101636355665295.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Day 1 of two-day special Punjab assembly session adjourned after obit references||The opening day of the two-day special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha was adjourned within eight minutes on Monday after Speaker Rana KP Singh read out seven obituary references besides the names of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh on October 3. Also read: Lakhimpur Kheri violence: SC unhappy with UP govt report, will appoint ex-HC judge to monitor probeThe names of the four farmers were included in the obituary list after state cabinet minister Pargat Singh and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema of the Aam Aadmi Party raised the matter. The names of the seven obituary references are former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, former parliamentary secretary Ravinder Singh Sandhu, IFFCO chairman Balwinder Singh Nakai and freedom fighters Niranjan Singh and Avinash Chander. Naib subedar Jaswinder Singh and sepoy Manjit Singh were also remembered on the occasion. Both died in the line of duty fighting insurgents in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on October 11. Second day of session on November 11 The House was adjourned for a day and will resume on Thursday. The Punjab cabinet had on Sunday decided to extend the special session of the Vidhan Sabha by a day. Earlier, the assembly session had been convened on November 8. “Keeping in view multifarious legislative business/obligations, the cabinet decided to extend the 16th special session of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha by another day on November 11 (Thursday),” an official statement said.BSF jurisdiction matter to be discussed Last month, the Cabinet had approved summoning of the special session to oppose the Centre’s notification extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) along the international border and the Centre’s three farm laws. There will be off-days on Tuesday and Wednesday. On Thursday, the matter pertaining to opposing the Centre’s notification to extend the BSF jurisdiction and legislation business will be taken up. The Union government had amended the BSF Act to authorise the border guarding force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50-km stretch, up from the existing 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. All political parties except the BJP last month decided to reject the Centre’s notification of extending the jurisdiction of the BSF by calling a special session of the Punjab assembly. At that time, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had also said that the Centre’s three laws on farming would be rejected in the assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-1-of-two-day-special-punjab-assembly-session-adjourned-after-obit-references-101636353896064.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||'Your sister-in-law involved in drugs trade?': Nawab Malik asks. Sameer Wankhede responds||The war of words between Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede escalated on Monday, with the former alleging that the latter’s sister-in-law was involved in drugs business. Responding to the charge, Wankhede stressed that he had nothing to do with the case cited by Malik.Also Read | Sameer Wankhede’s father files ₹1.25 crore defamation suit against Nawab MalikIt began with a fresh attack on Wankhede, in which the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader sought to know from the NCB’s zonal director for Mumbai if the latter’s sister-in-law was indeed engaged in drugs trade. “Sameer Dawood Wankhede, is your sister-in-law Harshada Dinanath Redkar involved in the drug business? You must answer because her case is pending before the Pune court,” the minister tweeted, sharing screenshot of a document which shows Harshada Dinanath Redkar listed under ‘Respondent and Advocate.’  Sameer Dawood Wankhede, is your sister-in-law Harshada Dinanath Redkar involved in the drug business ?You must answer because her case is pending before the Pune court.Here is the proof pic.twitter.com/FAiTys156FThe screenshot also shows that the case was registered on January 14, 2008, under Section 3458 of the Prevention of Illicit Traffic in Narcotics Drugs And Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The first hearing took place on February 18, 2008, with the next scheduled for March 18, 2022, it further showed.Meanwhile, responding to the NCP leader, Wankhede questioned those linking him to the case. “I wasn’t even in the service when the case happened in January 2008. I married Kranti Redkar in 2017. How am I associated with it anyway?” news agency ANI quoted him as saying. I wasn't even in service when the case happened in Jan 2008. I married Kranti Redkar in 2017, then how am I associated with the case anyway?: Mumbai NCB Zonal Dir Sameer Wankhede (in file pic) on Maharashtra Min Nawab Malik's tweet on his sister-in-law Harshada Dinanath Redkar pic.twitter.com/cr0zXnq5VXThis latest attack by Malik comes a day after he alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Bharatiya, also known as Mohit Kamboj, was the mastermind behind the recent drugs-on-cruise case, which was being probed by a team led by Sameer Wankhede. The minister has, throughout this episode, levelled a series of allegations against the officer, including that he forged his birth certificate to secure job under the Scheduled Caste category, framed people in 26 fake cases etc.Also Read | Nawab Malik says cruise party was a plot to 'kidnap' Aryan Khan for ransomLast Friday, the anti-drugs agency transferred a total of six cases being investigated by its Mumbai unit to its operations branch in Delhi. These include the drugs-on-cruise case and a case in which Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB in January this year. Khan was granted bail on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/your-sister-in-law-involved-in-drugs-trade-nawab-malik-asks-sameer-wankhede-responds-101636348917306.html
08-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra continues to see decline in Covid-19 cases over the past week||While Maharashtra has seen a decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases over the past week, the number of daily tests carried out for the coronavirus disease has fallen as well, dropping to an average of 81,842 during the last seven days from 110,502 the previous week.The Covid-19 positivity rate has risen to 1.14% from 1.11% during the past week, but only marginally.On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded 892 new Covid-19 cases and 16 new deaths. The state’s overall tally has touched 6,617,654 infections and 140,388 Covid-related deaths. Mumbai recorded 252 new cases and three new fatalities.Also Read: Govt offices to resume biometric attendance from todayA total of 65,716 tests were done on Sunday across the state, while the number of recoveries clocked 1,063. Active cases in Maharashtra dropped to 14,526, with Mumbai leading with 3,715, followed by Pune (3,047) and Ahmednagar (2,170).The decline in cases and tests was due to the Diwali season, during which fewer people undertook testing and some sections of the health authorities treated the spell as a holiday season, according to an official from the health department.Medical experts believe cases are generally declining because a large number of people were already exposed to the Covid-19 virus. “There is an agent and susceptible hosts that drive an epidemic,” said epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil. “When the number of susceptible hosts comes down, the cases automatically show a decline. The natural form of infection induces robust immunity for a long time. A large percentage of the population has already gained immunity because of the exposure to the virus,” he said. While fears of a new coronavirus variant persist, Dr Muliyil said the country has already been exposed to different variants. “We should be fine until a new variant, which uses a completely new receptor site, comes up. I don’t think that will happen soon. The lower test positivity rate, despite a decline in the number of tests, can also be considered as a positive sign. If the positivity rate is low, it still means that the infection is less. Had the spread of infection been higher, the positivity rate would have been higher,” he said. The number of cases in the first week of November saw a decline, compared to the two previous weeks. The first week of November reported 6,576 Covid-19 cases with an average daily caseload of 939.The number of daily tests has fallen in the past one week as 572,895 tests were conducted with a daily average of 81,842. The positivity rate during this period was 1.14 %. Against this, the previous week, from October 25-31, 773,516 tests were done with a daily average of 110,502. A total of 8,633 cases, with a daily average of 1,233 and a test positivity rate of 1.11%, were recorded during this period.The first week of October witnessed 18,477 Covid-19 cases with a daily average of 2,639 cases. The week reported 966,983 coronavirus tests with a daily average of 138,140 tests. The positivity rate during the period was high at 1.99%.However, September and October reported a high positivity rate at 1.8% and 1.53%, respectively.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the positivity rate has been decreasing over time. “We have been controlling the virus and this is aptly seen through the decline of new cases, deaths and positivity rates. Authorities have been focusing on areas with a high number of patients and deaths, and providing timely isolation and medication to them.” Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild said the overall situation improved significantly. “The overall numbers along with positivity rates have declined significantly. In the majority of the districts [in Maharashtra], there are fewer cases, while in urban pockets such as in Mumbai and Pune, we see more numbers pushing the state tally up. The large-scale vaccination has done magic for overall improvement of the situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-pandemic-maharashtra-continues-to-see-decline-in-coronavirus-cases-101636345014825.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction: Punjab assembly's special session today, discussion on Nov 11||The Punjab state assembly’s special session to reject the Centre’s move to extend the Border Security Force’s (BSF) jurisdiction in the state has now been extended by one more day, the state cabinet announced on Sunday.Earlier, the session of the state assembly had been called for a day on November 8. With the cabinet decision, the second day of the session will now be held on November 11. The cabinet announced a last minute change to the schedule of the assembly according to which the day’s proceedings would be limited to obituary references while a detailed discussion regarding the BSF’s jurisdiction in the state would be discussed on Thursday.Also read | Punjab cabinet nod to slash interest rate on hiked land cost from 15% to 7.5%“Keeping in view multifarious legislative business/obligations, the Cabinet decided to extend the 16th Special Session of 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha by another day on November 11 (Thursday),” news agency PTI reported quoting an official statement from the government. “Resultantly, now the special session of the State Assembly would be convened for two days on November 8 and November 11,” it further said.The Union government in October amended the BSF Act, allowing the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a wider 50 km stretch than the previously allowed 15 km, from the international border in border states such as Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.However, the move was vehemently opposed by the state governments in Punjab and West Bengal, ruled by the opposition Congress and the Trinamool Congress (TMC), respectively. In BJP-ruled Assam, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had expressed his support to the move.In Punjab, following uproar from the state opposition parties, CM Charanjit Singh Channi on October 25 had convened an all-party meeting after which the special house session was called. The BJP boycotted the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-jurisdiction-punjab-assembly-s-special-session-today-discussion-on-nov-11-101636341678513.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||‘Irreparable, irreversible damage’: Expert warns of air pollution’s adverse effects on children’s health||As the level of air quality in Delhi-NCR deteriorated to hazardous levels post-Diwali and is now in the severe category, Dr Arvind Kumar, the Chairman of Institute of Chest Surgery at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Sunday said that air pollution triggers serious health problems in children, and causes irreparable and irreversible damage.There is smog in the air and it will continue till January, he added.While talking to ANI, Kumar, citing the "Lung Care Foundation" study, said, "More than 50 per cent of adolescents in Delhi have a higher incidence of chest symptoms, 29 per cent have asthma, 40 per cent are obese (200 per cent higher incidence of asthma). Children are suffering.""We have found that the children are coming with chest problems. They complain of having breathing problems. In short, air pollution is adversely affecting them," the doctor said.Further, Kumar said that children are also suffering from problems in the brain, lung, heart, and other organs due to pollution.Talking about air pollution and the measures that the government undertook to tackle it, Kumar said, "Installing a smog tower is a colossal waste of public money and a grave mistake. The answer lies in preventing the air from getting polluted.""Pollution has killed more people than COVID but it has not been given the kind of attention it deserves," Kumar added.Kumar also said that some drastic steps need to be taken to control pollution. "Stubble burning is one of the major areas that should be prioritised," he said.The air quality in Delhi continues to remain in the 'severe' category with the AQI standing at 436, said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) on Sunday.The pollution level in the National Capital Region (NCR), namely Noida and Gurugram, was also worrisome. Noida reported AQI in the 'hazardous' category at 575, while the air quality in Gurugram was at the upper end of the 'severe' category at 478.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/irreparable-irreversible-damage-expert-warns-of-air-pollution-s-adverse-effects-on-children-s-health-101636340711432.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rajouri braveheart’s daughter to join Haryana Police as sub-inspector||More than 19 years after her father made the supreme sacrifice for the country in Rajouri of Jammu and Kashmir, Nancy Saini of Kurukshetra will now be serving in the Haryana Police. A resident of Sector 2 of Kurukshetra, Nancy has been selected for the post of sub-inspector in the Haryana Police. Nancy’s father Mangat Ram had served in the Indian Army Service Corps. He belonged to Yamunanagar and had died in August 2002. Nancy attributed her success to her family, especially her mother Sunita Raini and brother Gaurav Saini, who supported her throughout her journey. Unfair means: Three Haryana institutions to hold hearings on Nov 9 Three polytechnic institutions of Haryana will hold hearings on November 9 into the unfair means cases registered during the examinations of Haryana State Board of Technical Education (HSBTE) held in September and October. An official spokesperson said HSBTE has prepared a consolidated list of cases and the schedule to hold hearings. “The cases from serial number 1 to 80 will be taken up in government polytechnic college in Ambala City, while cases from serial number 81 to 184 would be taken up in Chhotu Ram Polytechnic (Rohtak) and those from serial number 185 to 261 in government polytechnic education society Manesar in Gurugram 10am onwards,” he added. The list of such cases have been compiled by the board and uploaded on the official website hsbte.org.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rajouri-braveheart-s-daughter-to-join-haryana-police-as-subinspector-101636329713555.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three friends killed in Jind road crash||Three persons were killed and as many got injured after a speeding vehicle rammed into their car which later hit a tractor in Jind’s Narwana on the Chandigarh-Hisar national highway, police said on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Sonu, 20, and Deepak , both from Hisar district and Faisal of Uttar Pradesh. Three others — Kismat, Sahil Kumar and Sonu — have sustained injuries in the accident. Kismat and Sahil were rushed to Maharaja Agrasen medical college in Hisar’s Agroha, where they are undergoing treatment. A spokesperson of Jind police said the accident took place when five friends were returning to Hisar from a trip. “When their car reached near Narwana flyover, an unidentified vehicle collided with it and two of its occupants, Sonu and Deepak, died on the spot. Faisal, who was driving the tractor, was killed after the car his vehicle. Three occupants also received injuries and two of them are undergoing treatment at Agroha medical college. We have registered a case against the driver of the unidentified vehicle for rash driving and causing death due to negligence,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-friends-killed-in-jind-road-crash-101636329533556.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cities continue to reel under toxic air||Residents of most of the cities in Haryana continue to breathe polluted air with the quality remaining ‘severe’ to ‘very poor’ for the third consecutive day. As per a bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality of almost all Haryana cities, especially those located in the National Capital Region (NCR), deteriorated on the Diwali night despite a ban on the sale of firecrackers in 14 districts. As per the bulletin on Sunday afternoon, six Haryana cities, including Jind (463), Panipat (440), Hisar (428), Ballabgarh (426) and Gurugram (419), reported the air quality index (AQI) over 400 which is categorised as ‘severe’ by CPCB, while the air quality of 11 cities, including Ambala, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Sonepat and Manesar, was in the ‘very poor’ bracket with their AQI measuring between 300 and 400. With AQI value of 144, Panchkula is the only city to have ‘moderate air quality’, while residents of Palwal and Narnaul cities breathed ‘poor’ quality air with the AQI of 278 and 203, respectively. The ‘severe’ AQI affects even the healthy people and adversely impacts those with existing health conditions, ‘very poor’ air quality causes respiratory illness on prolonged exposure and ‘poor’ air quality causes breathing discomfort among most of the people on prolonged exposure, the CPCB said. With the incidents of stubble burning rising with each passing day, officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board predicted the air to remain polluted for the next couple of days. As per the officials, Haryana has so far reported 4,215 incidents of farm fires since September 15, 778 of which were detected in the past three days. The figures revealed that with 1,006 incidents of farm fires, Kaithal district is on the top, followed by 821 in Karnal, 735 in Fatehabad, 514 in Kurukshetra, 375 in Jind and 140 in Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cities-continue-to-reel-under-toxic-air-101636329293965.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Farmers continue sit-in outside Narnaund police station demanding withdrawal of FIR||Farmers’ protest outside Narnaund police station in Haryana to demand withdrawal of an FIR filed against two farmers continued for the second day on Sunday, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said.The umbrella body of farmer unions, in a statement, said if the matter was not resolved on Sunday, they would gherao the Hansi SP office on Monday. The windshield of BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra’s car was smashed after some miscreants allegedly threw lathis on the vehicle during a protest over his visit to Haryana’s Hisar on Friday.A group of protesters carrying black flags blocked Jangra’s route in Narnaund, according to the police.“The police had filed an FIR and arrested two farmers for showing black flag to BJP MP Jangra. While the farmers were released on a personal bond, the case against them continues,” the body said in the statement.The SKM said one farmer, Kuldeep Singh Rana, got seriously injured in the incident, and is still fighting for his life at a hospital. The 40-year-old owns a very small tract of land.“Farmers are demanding that the case against the farmers be taken back, and another case be filed for the injury suffered by Kuldeep Singh Rana. Farmers have announced that if the matter is not resolved by Sunday, they will gherao the Hansi SP office from tomorrow,” it said.Meanwhile, farmers in Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh will hold a protest against the state government at Jari Mandi on November 9.Apart from the demand for dismissal of Ajay Mishra Teni from the Union council of ministers in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, farmers’ demands include paddy procurement at ₹1,940 per quintal. ‘If SKM says, we are ready to march towards Parliament on Nov 26’Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Sunday said that if Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of around 40 farm unions, protesting against three farm laws, approves then BKU will march towards Parliament on November 26.He said that the final decision will be taken by SKM but BKU, Haryana has already passed a resolution to march towards Parliament.“If SKM says then we are ready to march towards Parliament. Haryana has passed a resolution with regard to this and we are fully prepared to march towards Parliament on November 26,” said Chaduni.Earlier, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait had said that they will strengthen the agitation from November 27 at protest sites by reaching Delhi borders with tractors.“Central Government has time till November 26, after that, from November 27 farmers from villages will reach Delhi borders from all around with tractors and strengthen the agitation at protest sites,” Tikait had said in a tweet.Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-continue-sit-in-outside-narnaund-police-station-demanding-withdrawal-of-fir-101636329053747.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Everyone should hold religious events inside places of worship: Vij||Amid protests by right-wing groups in Gurugram against offering of ‘namaz’ in the open, Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij said on Sunday that everyone should hold religious events inside places of worship. “Regardless of any religion, organisers of events taking place in open spaces should take permission from the administration else such programmes should be avoided,” he added. On October 29, several activists of right-wing groups were detained after they protested at a designated prayer site in Sector 12 of the Millennium City. Later, Muslim leaders decided to withdraw performing ‘namaz’ in open spaces to avoid any confrontation and submitted a memorandum to the administration in this regard. Last week, on the occasion of ‘Govardhan’ puja, some Hindu groups organised rituals at the same site, where protests had taken place, which was also attended by Delhi BJP leader Kapil Mishra. ‘Farmers don’t want to talk’As the ongoing farmers’ agitation on the Delhi borders complete almost a year and the impasse over the contentious three farm laws continues, SKM leader Rakesh Tikait has given an ultimatum to the central government to repeal the laws by November 26 or the protests will be intensified. On this, Vij claimed that the government has invited farmers for talks several times, but “they don’t want to engage in a conversation due to some unknown reasons”. Haryana has turned into an epicentre of the farmers’ stir with two out of three primary protest sites on the Delhi borders fall in the Haryana territory. Leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP alliance are already facing wrath of the protesters at every public event they attend, even in their own constituency. Recently, former minister and BJP leader Manish Grover was allegedly held captive inside a temple in Rohtak for hours, while BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra had to face farmers’ ire in Hisar where windshield of his car was also smashed during a scuffle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/everyone-should-hold-religious-events-inside-places-of-worship-vij-101636328814128.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Air quality another concern as children return to school||As more schools in Delhi reopen for in-person classes after the Diwali break, they will have to contend with hazardous pollution levels in the city, a concern schools said took a backseat as Covid-mitigation measures became their primary focus.Most heads of school said they will limit outdoor physical activity till the air quality improves.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, which reopens for in-person classes on Thursday, said, “As pollution peaks, especially after Diwali, we abort outdoor physical activity and will continue to do the same once we reopen. We have already outlined in our operating guidelines that there will be limitations on some sports and outdoor activities due to prevailing concerns around Covid-19 and pollution levels.”So far, around 70% of the students’ parents in the school have consented to let their children attend physical classes, authorities of the institution said. Most students, however, have declined to opt for the school’s transport services, likely due to the fear of Covid-19 spreading.“We are still in the process of obtaining parents’ consent. Some parents are still weighing the options, due to which responses are arriving slowly. It is possible that the pollution levels may be one of the factors due to which parents are taking their time to consent to physical classes,” said Arora.For the first few days after reopening, the school will focus on interactive sessions with students on a range of topics, including the Covid-19 pandemic and climate change.“Teachers will have detailed discussions with children on mental and physical health, climate change, and other concerns so that there is meaningful dialogue,” said Arora.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said that the institution will limit outdoor activity and hold shorter classes.“We will have classes for between three and three-and-a-half hours, so pollution shouldn’t play a major role right now. Parents are already a little apprehensive due to Covid-19, so I’d say that pollution is among the factors [we are considering]. Due to the pandemic, pollution has taken a backseat in comparison to pre-Covid times,” said Joshi.Government schools also said they will keep physical activities to a minimum.AK Jha, principal of the Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Rohini, said that while pollution was prevalent, it may not majorly impact attendance this year.“I think children will continue to visit school, especially at a time when classes have resumed after a long gap,” said Jha.He said that students had been directed to wear full-sleeved shirts and consume ‘amla’ every day. “Every year, I advise children to consume amla, so that they can stay healthy as pollution levels peak,” said Jha.M Shariq, principal of the School of Specialized Excellence in Kalkaji, said a large number of students may join classes once the Chhath festivities end on November 10. He also said that games and other outdoor activities will not take place in the institution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-another-concern-as-children-return-to-school-101636318965333.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir sees surge in Covid cases; highest number of new infections in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir reported 165 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the highest daily total in 46 days. The cases have started going up over the past few days. The administration has warned that restrictions could return to the summer capital.Of the total cases, 156 cases were reported in Kashmir valley with its capital Srinagar, which is witnessing a spurt in cases, responsible for 87 infections. The Jammu division saw nine fresh infections. On September 23, the UT had recorded 172 cases.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 103 with active positive cases reaching 1,153.Officials said with 87 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 26 cases in Baramulla.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 592 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 169 and 83 active cases, respectively.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,27,483 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.40%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,33,076 and the death toll reaches 4,440.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,146 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 851 deaths.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,33,076Total recovered patients: 3,27,483Total Deaths: 4,440Active cases: 1,153||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-sees-surge-in-covid-cases-highest-number-of-new-infections-in-srinagar-101636317175678.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||MBBS seat sale: Jammu and Kashmir police seeks sanction to prosecute Hurriyat leader, 8 more||The Jammu and Kashmir Police have moved the home department for granting sanction for prosecution against nine people, including a leader of a Hurriyat constituent and an advocate from south Kashmir, in a case related to “selling” of MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to support and fund terrorism, officials said on Sunday. The case was registered by the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK), a branch of the police’s CID, in July last year after receiving information through reliable sources that several unscrupulous persons, including some Hurriyat leaders, were hand in glove with some educational consultancies and were “selling” Pakistan-based MBBS seats and seats in other professional courses in many colleges and universities. At least four people were arrested by the CIK in August and it also named two of their accomplices who are at present in Pakistan and its occupied Kashmir areas. The CIK, after a thorough investigation, moved the Jammu and Kashmir home department and sought sanction for prosecution against the nine people under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), mandated according to the act. According to the officials, more evidence has surfaced during the probe in which it was also found that the money gathered from admissions had been passed on to some terror groups as well as secessionist groups for promoting enmity and waging war against the country. Significantly, the case could come in handy in carrying out with the provisions of banning hardline Hurriyat Conference as the chief of one of its constituents -- Mohammad Akbar Bhat alias Zaffar Bhat of the Salvation Front -- is among the nine against whom the sanction has been sought under the stringent UAPA. Some of the witnesses examined have indicated that many families approached Hurriyat leaders to avail the “programme”, a brainchild of Pakistan’s external snooping agency ISI, aimed at incentivising terrorism by compensating the family of killed terrorists by way of providing free of cost MBBS and engineering seats, the officials said. However, there have been instances where such families were disappointed as monetary consideration was given precedence over the intended objective of the “programme” run by the ISI, they said. The officials said that cost of seats ranged between ₹10 to ₹12 lakhs and in “some cases, the price was brought down on ‘sifarish’ (recommendation) of senior Hurriyat leaders, and depending upon the political heft of these secessionist leader, who intervened, concessions were extended to the aspiring student and his family”. CIK sleuths cracked the whip in August and arrested Bhat and three others for “selling” MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to support and fund terrorism. During the probe, it surfaced that MBBS and other professional degree related seats in many cases were preferentially given to those students who were close to family members or relatives of killed terrorists. There were also cases where the quota allotted to individual Hurriyat leaders were sold to anxious parents who wished their children to have MBBS and other professional degrees in one way or the other. More than 80 cases were studied in which either the students or their parents were examined for academic years between 2014-18. Searches were undertaken in about a dozen premises in the Kashmir Valley. The officials said that Bhat’s brother Altaf Ahmad Bhat and another arrested person’s brother Manzoor Ahmad Shah, were coordinating from across the border and facilitating the admissions. The two, who have been named accused in the case, had exfiltrated to Pakistan during the early 1990s for arms and ammunition training and have settled down on the other side. They played a key role on behalf of the ISI in facilitating matters pertaining to admissions under this category for this set of Hurriyat-linked persons in India as part of a nefarious design of pumping money into militancy and other terrorist related activities. -- PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mbbs-seat-sale-jammu-and-kashmir-police-seeks-sanction-to-prosecute-hurriyat-leader-8-more-101636316871158.html
08-11-2021||Other||Charitable diagnostic lab opened in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran Dubai-based philanthropist SP Singh Oberoi on Sunday announced to open more than 50 chemist stores across districts of Punjab to provide cheaper medicines, from January. Oberoi, who runs Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, was in Tarn Taran to inaugurate a laboratory that charges only 10% of the rate that private labs charge. Oberoi added that in view of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the first Sikh master, his trust had aimed to open 50 such labs and 45 were already operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charitable-diagnostic-lab-opened-in-tarn-taran-101636316631111.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Saffron bloom in Kashmir raises hopes of good harvest||Saffron bloom this autumn has again raised the hopes of a good harvest for the second consecutive year.According to officials, this year’s harvest is going to break all previous records of production. From the past two weeks, in the early hours, villagers assemble at the fields of Pampore to pluck purple-coloured flowers and the harvest gives them the hope of a bumper crop. “If everything works, this year will break all previous records and the production will surpass previous years of the saffron production,” said director, agriculture, Iqbal Choudhary. “After the compilation of the figures, the production will be much above this year,” he said.He said though the figures were compiled by the end of December, they get an idea by the harvest which had almost been completed.Harvesting began in October-end and will continue till the middle of November. And from the past couple of weeks, the meadows of Pampore on both sides of the National Highway IA wore a festive look on sunny days with families thronging to their fields to collect saffron in wicker baskets.“The almighty has been kind to us this season like last year. Though when there were predictions of snow in the last week of October, everyone got worried and were thinking that snow could prove disastrous at the peak harvest season. Fortunately, there was only rain, not snow,” said Manzoor Magray, a grower from Lethpora who has almost completed his harvest on an acre of land. “We almost completed our harvest. Now we will be drying the flowers for the final processing,” he said.Another grower Asif Javeed said most of the saffron growers had already completed their harvest in Pulwama. Within the next few days, the plucking of flowers will be over.Last year Kashmir’s saffron output crossed 13.36 tonnes, the most in a decade, thanks to the introduction of a scheme in 2010 to rejuvenate its cultivation and the launch of sprinkler irrigation. Saffron is reputed to be the world’s most expensive spice and is known as the king of condiments. It fetches between ₹1.5 lakh and ₹2.5 lakh per kg. The national mission on saffron was launched in 2010 under which root rejuvenation of the crop and sprinkler irrigation were launched.Officials claim that saffron yield in the area where the scheme was implemented had increased to 4.5 to 5 kg per hectare and Kashmir has the potential to produce 6 to 7 kg saffron per hectare. Earlier, in the 1980s, our production was over 6 kg per hectare.Officials said saffron was grown across 3,700 hectares in Kashmir compared to 5,500 hectares in the late 1980s. The ₹410-crore national mission on saffron has been implemented on 3,500 hectares. Of this, 3,200 hectares is located in Pampore and the rest in Srinagar and Budgam.The officials said the mission had helped bring more land under the saffron cultivation. Many growers had earlier started converting saffron fields into apple orchards and using them for commercial purposes because of their prime locations, mostly along the Srinagar-Jammu highway. With bumper production continuously, the growers will be again get motivated towards this golden crop. “We feel now if growers will work hard, the saffron will again be a good revenue source for us. For the last two years, the crop has been very good,” said another grower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/saffron-bloom-in-kashmir-raises-hopes-of-good-harvest-101636316511018.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Channi govt trying hard to implicate Badals in sacrilege cases: Sukhbir||Ahead of the first-ever questioning of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim in connection with the 2015 sacrilege incidents, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has accused the Congress government of trying hard to falsely implicate his family in the said cases. The special investigation team led by inspector general of police Surinderpal Singh Parmar probing the sacrilege cases will question Ram Rahim, who has been named as an accused in the sacrilege cases, at Rohtak’s Sunaria jail on Monday (November 8). Addressing the media in Phagwara on Sunday, Sukhbir said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds home portfolio, have been pressuring interim director general of police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota to implicate the Badal family in Bargari sacrilege and police firing cases. Earlier, Sukhbir addressed public meetings in favour of SAD ally Bahujan Samaj Party’s state chief Jasvir Singh Garhi who has been named as the candidate from Phagwara. “The new Congress government, too, is working on the same agenda even as officials have been replaced. I have specific information that DGP Sahota has been told to identify persons who can implicate the Badal family in the case and also told to get their false statements against Badals recorded in the near future so that the Congress government can play a drama in court,” Sukhbir, who is an MP from Ferozepur, said while issuing to warning to the police officers against any such attempts. Asserting that Channi was following the line of his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh, the SAD president said: “It seems that delivering justice to the Sikh Sangat is not the priority of the Congress government. The Congress party continues to play politics on the sensitive issue of sacrilege. It is due to this that the culprits are still at large and have not been convicted till now.” When pointed out that did he see the government closing in on Badals in sacrilege cases, Sukhbir said Congress party and its leaders, including state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, were naming Badals for the last four-and-half years. “They even constituted justice Ranjit Singh Commission whose report didn’t write a single word against the Badals. Congress party is the author of Guru Granth Sahib sacrilege,” said Sukhbir. On the ongoing row over appointments to some top offices since Channi took over as CM, Sukhbir said the appointment of advocate general, chief secretary and DGP is the prerogative of the chief minister and the party chief (Navjot Sidhu in this case) has no business to interfere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-govt-trying-hard-to-implicate-badals-in-sacrilege-cases-sukhbir-101636316450861.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur does not rule out possibility of cabinet reshuffle||Four days after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered a setback in the recently concluded bypolls to three assembly constituencies and one parliamentary seat, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday said his government would now work with more vigour for the general assembly elections slated next year-end.“The party will deliberate on the reasons for its defeat in the elections. It happens, sometimes they (Congress) win, sometimes we win. But certainly, my government will work with more vigour now,” said the chief minister after attending the party’s national executive meet virtually at the party headquarters, Deep Kamal, in the capital town.Former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, state president Suresh Kashyap and organisation general secretary Pawan Rana joined from Shimla, while BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-in-charge Sanjay Tandon joined from Chandigarh and Union minister Anurag Thakur from Delhi. Thakur did not deny the possibility of a cabinet reshuffle. “The party will deliberate on the reasons that led to electoral losses and then decide further,” the CM said after attending the meeting.“Our mission is clear and that is to win 2022 elections. Critical time does not last long,” he said, adding that the party would work on its shortcomings.Dhumal told the media that he could not campaign much as his cousin had died.“The party will sit and ascertain the reason that led to the defeat,” he said. Kashyap briefed mediapersons on the national executive meeting. The BJP national executive meeting was presided over by party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda.In the meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave mantras on how to make the party better across the country. This meeting took place after one-and-a-half years due to Covid. The day-long meeting began with Nadda’s speech and ended with the Prime Minister’s concluding speech. Several important issues were discussed in the meeting.The success of the Central government in dealing with the pandemic, the vaccination campaign and the initiative of the PM for the development of the country and his successful foreign travel were discussed in the meeting. The tremendous jump in economic activities of the country and record GST collection were also discussed.Kashyap said the upcoming agendas of the party were discussed and the state also gave the statistics of the programmes held to date. This meeting is quite helpful to fulfil all targets of the party in the coming months.CM releases book 
08-11-2021||Other||AAP slams central, state govts for DAP fertiliser shortage||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday blamed the Centre and the Punjab government for the unforeseen shortage of DAP fertilizer in the state. AAP state kisan wing president and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan alleged that due to shortage, fertilizer dealers were doing black marketing and wheat sowing was lagging behind. “This will have a devastating effect on the economy of the state and the farmers,” he said. He claimed that while the Union government delayed the supply of fertiliser to Punjab, the Congress government of Punjab had failed in arranging fertilizer on time. “In Punjab, against a requirement of 5.5 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of DAP, 1.97 lakh MTs has been released supplied in October,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-slams-central-state-govts-for-dap-fertiliser-shortage-101636316150776.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet nod to slash interest rate on hiked land cost from 15% to 7.5%||The Punjab cabinet on Sunday gave nod to reduce the interest rate on the enhanced land cost to be recovered from allottees in areas under improvement trusts. The rate of interest to be charged on the enhancement recoverable will be reduced from 15 per cent to 7.5 per cent. The decision was taken in the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday. Talking to mediapersons, Channi later said the decision will benefit 40,000 families. “The step was taken on the requests received from various Improvement Trusts,” he said, adding that it was a normal practice that farmers move court seeking higher compensation and once the enhancement is allowed, it is passed on to the allottees of plots. 2nd sitting of Vidhan Sabha session on Thursday The cabinet also decided to extend the November 8 Vidhan Sabha session by one more day. The second sitting will take place on November 11. Government sources revealed that there are important engagements fixed for Tuesday and Wednesday due to which the second sitting was scheduled for Thursday. Rules for tissue culture-based seed potato A nod was also given to ‘The Punjab Tissue Culture Based Seed Potato Rules-2021’ to develop Punjab as a standard potato seed centre. The spokesperson said that the move will lead to increase in the area under potato cultivation. With the decision, Punjab has become the first state in the country to have the facility of tissue culture-based certification, which will further boost developing Jalandhar-Kapurthala belt as the potato export hub. The cabinet also approved to introduce the ‘Punjab Horticulture Nursery Bill-2021’ in the Vidhan Sabha by amending the ‘Punjab Fruit Nursery Act-1961’. Payment of enhanced pension through cheques Approval for payment of enhanced old age pension and other financial schemes for the month of July through cheque was also accorded by the cabinet. The move is one-time relaxation in the rules and thereafter the disbursement will be done through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) as before. The state has enhanced old age pension from ₹750 to ₹1,500 per month with effect from July 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-nod-to-slash-interest-rate-on-hiked-land-cost-from-15-to-75-101636316030708.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Five more Covid deaths in Himachal, 60 test positive for virus||Himachal’s Covid-19 case count rose to 2,24,890 after 60 people tested positive for the virus on Sunday, while five more fatalities took the death toll to 3,762. The highest 19 cases were reported from Hamirpur followed by 16 from Kangra, 10 from Mandi, seven from Shimla, five from Una and three from Bilaspur. The active case count dropped to 1,216, while the recoveries reached 2,19,895 after 214 people recuperated. Three deaths were reported in Kangra and two in Mandi. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 51,110 cases to date followed by 31,699 cases in Mandi and 27,604 in Shimla. TRACKER Total Cases: 2,24,890 Recoveries: 2,19,895 Deaths: 3,762 Active: 1,216||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-more-covid-deaths-in-himachal-60-test-positive-for-virus-101636315911239.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal to set up bamboo village in Una, will create jobs for youth||The Himachal Pradesh government will promote the bamboo craft by setting up a bamboo village to create employment opportunities for youth and uplift the economy of rural areas.Rural development minister Virender Kanwar said the bamboo village would be set up on 24-Kanal land at Boul village in Una district under the National Bamboo Mission.The village will be set up with a cost of ₹1.17 crore with technical assistance from Pune-based “Bamboo India” which would transform bamboo reeds into a variety of products by promoting an eco-friendly industry.“The project aims at boosting the livelihood of unemployed rural youths by providing professional training in the art of making hand fans, furniture, dustbins, tea mugs, wall hangings, home decor and flower pots,” said Kanwar.He said the government would sponsor free training camps in bamboo-based handicrafts to around 500 village youths to enable local artisans to adapt their creativity as per the demands of the market and get a good price for their products.“The government will also set up bamboo furniture manufacturing unit at a cost of ₹22 lakh,” said the minister, adding that the authorities had shortlisted a hybrid species of an oxygen-releasing bamboo tree named “beema bamboo”, which will be planted across the state.He said an oxygen park with beema bamboo would be established with an estimated cost of ₹40 lakh at Boul village.Kanwar said besides releasing oxygen, the beema bamboo had the capacity to absorb 80 tonnes of carbon dioxide per acre every year.One matured beema bamboo after four years absorbs more than 400 kg of carbon dioxide annually from the surrounding areas. The special bamboo clone is developed by a conventional breeding method that does not involve genetically modified organisms (GMO), he said.Apart from it, he said, the bamboo plantation would be done across the state to get raw material round the year. Local farmers would be given bamboo seeds for free, while bamboo would be planted on open and barren lands under the National Bamboo Mission.A bamboo natural park will also be set up to conserve, protect and promote bamboo species available in the state and educate people about these verities and their usages.“The bamboo village will act as an institution by introducing the latest technologies in bamboo processing, skill-building, employment generation and changing the economic and industrial scenario of the entire state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-to-set-up-bamboo-village-in-una-will-create-jobs-for-youth-101636315674015.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punsup chief Pangota shot at in Patti; hospitalised||A former chairman of Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (Punsup) received two bullet injuries when fired at by three unidentified men near Patti by-pass around 5.30am on Sunday. Kuldeep Singh Pangota, 55, who served as Punsup chairman during the last SAD-BJP government, was on the way from his village to Patti city when the incident took place. Police said Pangota received bullet injuries on his leg and another under his ear. He was rushed to Patti civil hospital where his condition is stated to be ‘stable’. Pangota was driving a Toyota Innova car to Patti city when three unidentified persons in a white Mahindra Scorpio vehicle allegedly waylaid him and opened fire. Pangota, however, managed to save his life by speeding his vehicle away. “They had their faces covered and fired thrice. Their vehicle was without a number plate,” said Pangota. Patti deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kuljinder Singh said, “Investigations to find out the motive and identity of the accused in on.” A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered against unidentified attackers at the Patti city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punsup-chief-pangota-shot-at-in-patti-hospitalised-101636315671128.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Couple found dead in Pune house||PUNE A couple has been found dead in their house in Pune on Sunday afternoon by the fire brigade department.The two were identified as Sharad Bhujbal (47) and Hemu Bhujbal (42), residents of a house in Kumbharwada, Keshavnagar in Mundhwa. While the man worked as a driver, the woman worked as a house help in the surrounding areas.This was his second marriage. They had run away after he left his first wife with whom he has a son.“The doctors have preserved their viscera. It could either be death by natural causes or suicide or they could have inhaled some poisonous gas. It is difficult to say. There is no note discovered so far,” said Brahmanand Naikawadi of Mundhwa police station.A case of accidental death has been registered at Mundhwa police station pending further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-found-dead-in-pune-house-101636315550711.html
08-11-2021||Other||Chaudhary says Capt’s removal as Punjab CM a well-thought-out decision||Chandigarh/Patiala All-India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary has stated that the change of guard in poll-bound Punjab was not an outcome of ‘Antarkalah’ (internal squabbling) but of antarmanthan (brainstorming) by the Congress party. Chaudhary added the decision to replace former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was taken after much deliberation after feedback from legislators, workers and various quarters. The party wanted to make the change long before it took place, but could not do so to the situation created by the Covid-19 pandemic, he said in an interaction with journalists on Saturday night, calling it a “considered decision”. Capt Amarinder Singh was made to resign by the Congress leadership on September 18, following a long-drawn tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, four cabinet ministers and several party MLAs amid fears that anti-incumbency arising from his style of functioning could hurt the party’s chances in state assembly polls in 2022. Charanjit Singh Channi, who was among the rebel ministers, was picked as the first Scheduled Caste CM of Punjab. Chaudhary added that the biggest challenge before the Congress and the new state government (headed by Channi) was paucity of time. “We have got only 90 days. There will be only a few days for governance before the elections,” he said. He also spoke on internal democracy in the party, stating that every individual had the right to express himself. “It is for the organisational set-up to decide the level, where such views can be presented and the limit to which one can go.” The Rajasthan revenue minister was appointed Punjab affairs in-charge on October 22, in place of former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat. He had earlier worked as co-incharge of party affairs in the state in the run-up to the 2017 elections in which the Congress got almost a two-third majority. MEETS PARTY WORKERS IN CAPT’S CITADEL Chaudhary also met party workers in Patiala, the citadel of Capt Amarinder, on Monday, to gear up cadre for assembly elections. Captain’s wife and MP Preneet Kaur; mayor Sanjiv Bittu, PRTC chairman KK Sharma; Gau Sewa commission chairman Sachin Sharma; district Congress president KK Malhotra did not attend the meeting. Most leaders, MLAs and other prominent party functionaries attended the meeting. In his speech, Chaudhary asked the workers to gear up for the elections. He said that with reduction in electricity tariff and fuel, the common man in Punjab has been given direct relief. “Though the decision on Capt was delayed, we removed him as he failed to perform as CM. Now, Channi is performing well,” Chaudhary added. Responding to media queries on the absence of Preneet, Chaudhary said, “Leaders and prominent faces met me at Chandigarh, I came here to meet workers.” On being pressed for a response, “The party will decide on those who go against it,” he added. On replacing the Patiala mayor and other loyalists of Capt Amarinder in the royal city, Chaudhary refused to comment. Launching a verbal assault on Capt, Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh said, “I can assure every worker that Captain won’t be able to win a single seat. His only agenda is to defeat the Congress and we have to work to defeat this.” MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur claimed that Amarinder worked for officers, and not for Congress workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chaudhary-says-capt-s-removal-as-punjab-cm-a-well-thought-out-decision-101636315490047.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Excise department seizes truck with alcohol worth ₹34.4 lakh in Pune||PUNE The excise department’s Pune unit seized alcohol worth ₹34.4 lakh from the Warje Malwadi area of Pune on Saturday afternoon, according to a statement issued by the department.The officials seized a truck with several boxes of alcohol meant for sale only in Goa, according to Prasad Surve, divisional deputy commissioner of excise department.The driver Krishna Tulshiram Kande (30), a resident of Ambil Vadgaon in Beed area was arrested in the case registered by excise department under Sections 65(a)(e), 81, 83, 108 of Maharashtra Prohibition Act, 1949 along with Sections 420, 465, 468, and 471 of Indian Penal Code.A total 450 boxes containing 19,800 bottles and one truck were seized. Of the 19,800 bottles, 12,840 bottles contained alcohol made in Goa, and 6,960 bottles contained alcohol made in Nashik.The raid was conducted by the excise department based on an anonymous tip, that a six-wheeled truck was carrying alcohol that was meant for sale only in Goa. The truck was found to be registered in Kolhapur which shares a border with Karnataka state which is enroute to Maharashtra from Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/excise-department-seizes-truck-with-alcohol-worth-rs-34-4-lakh-in-pune-101636315310950.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Your earnest inaction subverting justice: Navjot Sidhu to Punjab advocate general Deol||Rejecting the charge of derailing the government’s efforts to ensure justice in drugs and sacrilege cases and spreading misinformation for political advantage, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday hit out at advocate general APS Deol, alleging that his earnest inaction was clearly subverting justice rather than ensuring it. Sidhu asked Deol which interest (vested or otherwise) he was acting for when he appeared for the main conspirators and procured blanked bail for them. “Are you acting at the behest of those who appointed you in this constitutional office and fulfilling their political gains? Did you advise the government to challenge the blanket bail order procured by you or any other adverse order in sacrilege cases in Supreme Court?” he said in a dozen tweets addressed to AG in which he also raised questions over the actions of his party’s government in the state. The Congress leader further said, “You appeared for the accused, now representing the State and very soon you will seek elevation as a judge so that you can decide this case. Being the highest law officer, your focus is on politics and political gains (sic)”. Sidhu’s diatribe came a day after Deol, in a statement, accused him of obstructing the functioning of the state government and AG’s office. There has been a standoff between Sidhu and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who took over the reins of the Congress government in Punjab in September 2021 following his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation, over Deol’s appointment. As a lawyer, Deol had represented former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who headed the state police at the time of sacrilege incident and police firing on protesters six years ago. The PPCC chief has been opposed to Deol’s appointment for this reason and has been pressing for his immediate removal. Sidhu had resigned from his post on September 28 and later indicated the AG’s was part of the reason he quit. He, while withdrawing his resignation as Punjab Congress president on Friday, put Deol’s removal as a precondition for resuming his duties. Telling the AG that “justice is blind but people of Punjab are not”, Sidhu, in his tweets, also said the Congress came to power with a promise to give justice in sacrilege cases, in which he (Deol) appeared before the high court for accused persons and made serious allegations against the state government. “You specifically prayed for transferring the investigation to CBI as you were afraid of their false implication in sacrilege cases on accounts of malafide, malice and ulterior motives on the part of political party in power in the state of Punjab,” he posted. The PPCC chief said the AG was now representing the same government of same political party in power and accusing him of spreading misinformation, whereas, he (Sidhu) was fighting for justice in sacrilege cases. In the drugs case, he asked Deol what was unethical by proceeding against the accused persons on the basis of STF report. “Did Hon’ble High Court stop you? High Court itself gave a copy of the STF report to our government for consideration and you are shielding the inaction of the government under the guise of your own unknown ethics,” he asked in another tweet. He also asked Deol to leave politics to politicians and focus on his personal conscience, integrity and professional ethics which his job required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/your-earnest-inaction-subverting-justice-navjot-sidhu-to-punjab-advocate-general-deol-101636315250612.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||British Sikh woman army officer Capt Harpreet Chandi sets off on solo South Pole adventure||A 32-year-old British Sikh army officer and physiotherapist is on a mission to become the first Indian-origin female to complete a solo, unsupported trek to the South Pole and is flying out to Chile on Sunday to begin her adventure. Captain Harpreet Chandi, known as Polar Preet, will be travelling 700 miles while pulling a pulk or sledge with all of her kit, battling temperatures of minus 50 degrees Celsius and wind speeds of up to 60mph. Writing on her online blog, she notes that the journey will take approximately 45-47 days during which she plans to upload a live tracking map for people to be able to follow her daily voice blogs. “I want to take as many of you as possible on this journey with me so I hope you enjoy following,” writes Chandi. Currently based at a Medical Regiment in the north-west of England, Chandi’s primary role is to organise and validate training for medics in the army as Clinical Training Officer. She is completing her masters degree in sports and exercise medicine, part time, at Queen Mary’s University in London and has been using two large tyres as a substitute for the heavy sledge she will be dragging along in Antarctica for her polar training. “Antarctica is the coldest, highest, driest and windiest continent on earth. Nobody lives there permanently. I didn’t know much about the continent when I first started planning and that is what inspired me to go there,” she explains. “Hopefully doing something that pushes me so far out of my comfort zone will inspire others to believe in themselves and push their boundaries. There are only a few female adventurers that have completed a solo, unsupported trek on this continent. It is time to add some more names, diversity and to make history,” she says. Chandi has always been keen to push the human body to its limits and sees her latest mission as part of this wider research. “Nothing is impossible. I’ve always had this idea that I can achieve something great, something that allows me to be a role model. I want my eight-year-old niece to grow up without boundaries, knowing the possibilities of what you can achieve in life are endless,” she reflects. As an “endurance athlete”, Chandi has run marathons and ultra-marathons and, as an army officer, completed large scale exercises and deployments in Nepal, Kenya and most recently a six-month United Nations peacekeeping tour to South Sudan. “Anything ambitious can feel out of reach at the beginning but every bit of training I complete brings me closer to my goal. My training expeditions in Greenland and Norway have helped prepare me and my goal is now in reach,” she declares.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/british-sikh-woman-army-officer-capt-harpreet-chandi-sets-off-on-solo-south-pole-adventure-101636314830669.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Minor’s gang-rape: Chargesheet against 19 people in Pune sessions court||PUNE A 500-page chargesheet has been registered against 19 people in a sessions court in Pune by the Pune police, in the case of the gang-rape of a 14-year-old girl in Wanowrie. Additionally, a special public prosecutor has been appointed in the case and is awaiting approval for trial in the fast-track court for child sexual abuse cases.The chargesheet was registered on October 30 in the court of additional sessions judge S P Ponkshe by sub-inspector Sudha Choudhury who is investigating the case.Advocate Pravin Chavan has been named as the special public prosecutor in the case. He is also serving as the SPP in the DS Kulkarni cheating and MPID case.“The two lodge managers among the 19 arrested have been granted bail. Rest are all in judicial custody. Of them, 16 have been named for sexual assault and the guy with whom she was travelling to Chandigarh was charged for kidnapping of the minor girl,” said PSI Choudhury.The chargesheet was registered under Sections 363, 376, 377, 363, 120(b) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The case was registered at Wanowrie police station of Pune police.While most of the accused are rickshaw drivers, two are railway employees, two are lodge workers, and one is a native of Bihar who worked in Chandigarh.One of the accused first kidnapped the girl from Pune railway station on August 31 under the pretext of dropping her home. The girl was at the railway station to meet a man from Chandigarh who did not show up.The rickshaw driver and at least 13 others took her to six locations in two days and assaulted her. The girl, in her supplementary statement, told the police that one of them recorded the crime and shared the video with others.After being captive and without a phone for two days and two nights, the girl was given her phone on September 2 and made to board a train to Mumbai. One of the accused men is a railway employee who arranged the train ticket. She was allegedly threatened to not return to Pune.In Mumbai, she called the friend from Chandigarh and he offered to take her back with him to Chandigarh. The police alerted the railway staff and they were caught before reaching Chandigarh and returned to Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minors-gang-rape-chargesheet-against-19-people-in-pune-sessions-court-101636314770541.html
08-11-2021||Other||{2015 Behbal Kalan police firing} SP facing murder charges reinstated||Faridkot Superintendent of police (SP) Bikramjit Singh, who is facing murder charges in 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing in which two Sikh protestors were killed, has been reinstated in Punjab Police. The SP, who was suspended in March 2019, has been posted as SP Technical Support Services at Chandigarh in a transfer order issued by the state government on Saturday. “Bikramjit was reinstated couple of months ago but he has been given posting now,” said an official. In September, the Punjab and Haryana high court had ordered the state government to reinstate Bikramjit. He had filed a writ petition in court seeking his reinstatement, referring to instructions issued by the state government that if an employee is placed under suspension and disciplinary proceedings are not concluded within one year, he is to be reinstated. On October 9, 2020, the special investigation team (SIT), probing the 2015 police firing cases filed a charge-sheet against four accused, including Bikramjit. In November 2020, the home department sanctioned prosecution under Section 197 (prosecution of public servants) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The government, in its order, stated that the evidence produced before it was sufficient to initiate prosecution against Bikramjit. Following this, the reinstatement of Bikramjit was put on hold. On October 14, 2015, two Sikh protesters— Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala village in Faridkot district— were killed during the protest at Behbal Kalan when they were protesting against the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. In August, 2018, the names of then Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, then SP detective, Fazilka, Bikramjit Singh, inspector Pardip Singh, who has now turned an approver, and sub-inspector Amarjit Singh Kular were added to the FIR registered for murder and attempt to murder of the IPC at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot, following the recommendations of the justice Ranjit Singh Commission that inquired into the case. The SIT has named former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal as accused and filed a chargesheet against them. Now, a trial is going on against them in a court at Faridkot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2015-behbal-kalan-police-firing-sp-facing-murder-charges-reinstated-101636314472088.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Not a single ST bus will move out of depots from midnight Sunday: MSRTC union||PUNE: In a major impact on transportation due to the ongoing Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers’ strike across the state, thousands of passengers were unable to travel to their villages and hometowns as workers from several depots in the Pune division suddenly went off work. Meanwhile, the MSRTC workers’ union announced that not a single bus would drive out of any of the depots in the Pune division from Sunday 12am.Sandeep Shinde, state president of the MSRTC workers’ union, said, “We have decided to keep 100% bus operations closed from as the state government is not ready to listen to and understand our problems. The organisation is already going through huge financial losses and the time has come for it to be merged with the state government. As Diwali vacations were underway last week, we worked so as to earn some revenue. But now the protest will get more aggressive till our demands are fulfilled.”“As of Sunday, more than 115 depots across the state are closed and this number will only increase as more and more workers join the protest,” Shinde said.Not a single state transport bus moved out from the Pune division depots at Indapur, Vallabhnagar, Narayangaon and Rajgurunagar on Sunday. The protest will spread to other major state transport stands such as Swargate, Shivajinagar and Pune railway station from Monday. Due to the strike, passengers have to travel by private tourist buses which are charging high fares.Ashok Sonawane, a passenger, said, “On Sunday, I had come to the Vallabhnagar ST stand to catch a bus for Mumbai but as the depot was not operational, I had to take a private tourist bus for Rs700 a ticket. This is like looting passengers and the state government should immediately find a solution as the common public is suffering during the festive season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/not-a-single-st-bus-will-move-out-of-depots-from-midnight-sunday-msrtc-union-101636314470658.html
08-11-2021||Other||AAP legislature party meets, finalises plan for assembly session||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a meeting of its legislature party, headed by leader of opposition Harpal Cheema on Sunday, to decide its strategy for the special session of the Punjab assembly. Party MLAs discussed the increase in the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF), power purchase agreements, sacrilege, Behbal Kalan firing, unemployment and other issues to be raised in the two-day session. “Nothing less than the cancellation of Punjab’s deadly power deals reached upon by the Badals will be accepted by the AAP,” Cheema said in a statement. The LOP said a reply would be sought from the Channi government for not arresting the perpetrators of sacrilege. “Loan waiver of farmers and labourers, unemployment, plots to the homeless, ₹2,500 pension, unemployment allowance, gifts to the youth of other states in jobs and mafia rule are some other important issues on which a reply will be sought from the chief minister,” he said. The AAP legislature party, while calling the session a frivolous one, added that the session should be held for at least 15 days with live telecast of proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-legislature-party-meets-finalises-plan-for-assembly-session-101636314050768.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Pune district collector to review all hospitals for fire compliance||PUNE A day after the fire at the Ahmednagar civil hospital, Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector of Pune, will undertake a review to check the fire audit and compliance at hospitals in the district. The district administration’s fire audit report lists 96 primary healthcare centres. Of these, 89 have completed the fire audit and 79 have gotten a fire safety certificate as well. The administration has stated that some of the centres did not get certificates primarily due to issues like staff training, and the licence for fire extinguishers not being renewed. The fire at the Ahmednagar civil hospital led to the tragic deaths of 12 senior citizens admitted to an ICU ward dedicated to Covid-19 patients.Collector Deshmukh said, “I have asked all hospitals and also PMRDA officials to join us for the review meet. Earlier, we had released funds to ensure that all hospitals under the Pune district collectorate, mainly in the rural areas, have complied as per fire norms. We will also request officials from PMC and PCMC to ensure that their hospitals are fire compliant. However, this meet will primarily focus on ongoing work at all hospitals and also the pending work that needs to be started.”Post the Bhandara fire accident on January 9, 2021, in which 10 newborns lost thier lives, the Pune administration had set a deadline for all hospitals to ensure fire compliance in the next three years. However, as of now, 80-90% of the primary health centres and about 50% of the rural hospitals and sub-district hospitals are yet to comply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-collector-to-review-all-hospitals-for-fire-compliance-101636313990900.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Noise pollution during Diwali higher than 2020, but lower than pre-Covid times in Pune||PUNE Noise pollution levels during Diwali celebrations in 2021 have risen as compared to the noise levels during the Covid-hit celebrations of 2020.However, the decibel-levels during both these pandemic years are lower than pre-Covid19 years, according to Nitin Shinde, officer of the Pune unit of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB).This observation was reiterated by Pratap Jagtap, sub-regional officer (SRO) of Pune Municipal Corporation, and Kiran Hasabnis, SRO of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).“Pollution in the city has remained lower than pre-Covid19 times, as families have not yet coped with losses suffered during the second wave, is our guess. Compared to last year, however, it has risen owing to relaxed restrictions,” said Hasabnis.The readings this year were higher on the decibel scale in two areas of PMC and one area of PCMC. The Chaphekar chowk area of Pimpri-Chinchwad recorded the highest day-time sound levels with 84.4 decibels (dB). The Lakshmi road area of Pune recorded the highest night-time levels with 74.7dB on November 4.On November 6, the highest day-time levels were recorded in Swargate at 82.7 dB, while the highest night-time levels were recorded in the Deluxe chowk area of Pimpri-Chinchwad at 67.3 dB, according to the MPCB data.The readings for the above days were lower in 2020, but higher in 2019. The data is recorded from 14 places in PMC and PCMC. The PMC jurisdiction included Sakhar Sankul area in Shivajinagar, Nal stop in Karve road, City Pride on Satara road, Swargate, Jail road in Yerawada, Khadki Bazasr, Shaniwarwada, Laxmi road, Sarasbaug, Aundh road, and University road. The PCMC jurisdiction areas included Deluxe chowk in Pimpri, Chaphekar chowk in Chinchwad, and Dange Chowk in Thergaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noise-pollution-during-diwali-higher-than-2020-but-lower-than-pre-covid-times-in-pune-101636313750574.html
08-11-2021||Pune||Air Quality Index (AQI) for Pune back at ‘good’ level on Sunday: Safar||PUNE The Air Quality Index (AQI) for Pune is back at the “good” level on Sunday, as per the System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (Safar). Safar had earlier forecast that during Diwali, the AQI for Pune city was deteriorate to a very poor level. The weather department has also forecast that the city will not witness any rainfall in the coming few days.Speaking about the air quality, BS Murthy, director, Safar and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), said that due to heavy rainfall at some places in the city, the air quality was better than forecasted.“We had forecasted poor to very poor air quality in parts of the city. However, on November 4 evening, many places in the city experienced rainfall which was intense. Due to this, the air quality was better than forecasted,” Murthy said.As per Safar, the air quality on Sunday was good at Pashan, Katraj, Hadapsar, Lohegaon, Alandi, Bhosari, Nigdi, Alandi and Bhumkar chowk. At Shivajinagar and Kothrud, the air quality was moderate on Sunday. As per Safar, PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels were 32 μg/m3 (concentration of air pollutants in micrograms per cubic metre of air).Whereas on Sunday, the PM10 (atmospheric particulate matter that has a diameter of less than 10 micrometres) was 60 μg/m3.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that there is a depression forming in Arabian Sea.“This depression is likely to intensify and move away from the Indian coast. So rainfall chances in southern and central parts of Maharashtra are likely to reduce. In Pune district as well, the chances of rainfall are likely to reduce drastically in the next few days,” said Kashyapi.However, in November alone, Pune district has reported 430 per cent excess rainfall. Maharashtra, as well, has reported 47 per cent excess rainfall in November, as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/air-quality-index-aqi-for-pune-back-at-good-level-on-sunday-safar-101636313390845.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Air quality in ‘severe’ category for third consecutive day in Gurugram||For the third consecutive day, Gurugram’s air quality was in the “severe” category with an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 419 on Sunday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data.The air quality of the city has been worsening for the past three days but continues to remain in the “severe” category. On Friday, a day after Diwali, Gurugram reported an AQI reading of 472, and on Saturday, it reported an AQI reading of 456, with PM2.5 being the primary pollutant on both days.On Sunday, air quality improved slightly in the neighbouring district of Faridabad and was recorded in the “very poor” category with an AQI reading of 372, improving from an AQI reading of 449 in the “severe” category on Saturday.An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.S Narayanan, member-secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “The air quality is improving slowly in the national capital region. The Commission for Air Quality Management is also reviewing the situation continuously and is likely to issue some new directions within one or two days after a meeting. Over the next few days, the pollutants will clear out as wind speed has increased.”A weather bulletin issued on Sunday evening by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR stated that the air quality over the region is likely to improve over the next five days but remain in the “very poor” category, with PM2.5 as the primary pollutant. On Monday and Tuesday, the ventilation index is likely to be 10,000 m2/s and 14,000 m2/s respectively with a wind speed of 4-15 kilometres per hour, which is likely to help in the dispersion of pollutants. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 m2/s with an average wind speed of less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants.The bulletin also stated, “The contribution of biomass burning in PM2.5 concentration is likely to be approximately 30% on November 7 as winds are favourable for transportation of pollutants.”Meanwhile, on Sunday, residents reported industrial and scrap waste being burnt at Sector 87.Vikas Yadav, a resident of Sector 87 and member of Citizens for Clean Air, who noticed waste being burnt in the area said, “This is a plot almost 15 acres in size where waste is burnt regularly and I have been noticing it for the past four years. In the past two weeks, waste has been burnt on three different days here. The authorities concerned must intervene and find a solution to this issue as both residents and those who live as squatters in the area, are all being forced to breathe air with heavy toxins.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-in-severe-category-for-third-consecutive-day-in-gurugram-101636313270888.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Chief minister may attend Chhath Puja at Sector 10 temple in Gurugram||The Gurugram police will deploy over 500 personnel in Shakti Park, Sector 10, around Sheetla Mata Mandir and on the stretch leading to the temple as the chief minister is expected to attend Chhath Puja celebrations this year. Chhath Puja will be celebrated on November 10 this year.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that the chief minister of Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar will participate in the puja at Shakti Park in Sector 10 on Wednesday. “We have prepared a security blueprint for Chhath Puja and deployment has been discussed. Teams have been assigned duties and personnel have been deployed in plain clothes to keep a check on miscreant activities,” he said. Police said action will be taken against anyone found without a mask or not following Covid-19 protocols. According to officials of the district administration, an estimated 250,000-300,000 people from Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh live in Gurugram. Most of them will celebrate the festival at some of the prominent ghats in the city — Sheetla Mata Mandir, Chakkarpur, Maruti Kunj and Dundahera. The district administration has allocated 30 places for Chhath Puja celebrations this year, said officials. For the festival, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram has made ghats at 14 places such as Kanhai village, Labour Chowk Sector-5, Panjiri Plant, Om Vihar, Shakti Park, Devilal Colony, Sector-15 Part-II, New Palam Vihar, Community Hall Kadipur, Sabzi Mandi near Bhimgarh Khedi, Basai Talab, Saraswati Enclave, Surat Nagar Talab and Surat Nagar. The MCG will arrange water tankers, mobile toilets as well as streetlights at these ghats, said officials. The MCG has already, placed mobile toilets and made provisions for drinking water at most of these sites. “Over the week, sanitation workers will clean these spots and ensure that basic provisions such as lighting, water, and toilets are in place,” said Hari Om Atri, joint commissioner of MCG. Commissioner Rao said the traffic police will regularly tweet and update the traffic situation on social media.Officials said last year, due to the pandemic, people from the Purvanchal region held the Chhath Pooja symbolically by making ponds on the roofs of their houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/chief-minister-may-attend-chhath-puja-at-sector-10-temple-in-gurugram-101636313090446.html
08-11-2021||Pune||A toxic mix of a civic mess is the reality of life in Pune’s Hadapsar||PUNE In early 2000, when real estate was relatively cheap, property in municipal areas under Hadapsar was a must-buy, a quality life was believed to be on the horizon.Today, Hadapsar is a toxic mix of traffic jams, garbage plants and water scarcity. When the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came into power in the PMC in 2017, it promised to address all these issues. As its term now comes to end with civic elections lined up in February next year, most civic issues have remained unresolved. Take for example, the Katraj-Kondhwa road widening. The PMC has missed its September 2021 deadline for completion of the Katraj-Kondhwa road widening project as work could not move ahead due to land acquisition issues. Residents of Tilekar nagar, near the Iskcon temple along the Katraj-Kondhwa road, face traffic snarls every day. The PMC planned to construct a 3.5-km Katraj-Kondhwa road between Rajas society chowk and Khadi machine chowk. The corporation planned three grade separators and two vehicle underpasses along the stretch. The foundation stone for the project was laid on November 2, 2018, in the presence of the then Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. However, the project hasn’t moved, and with heavy vehicles opting to use the same stretch and amid rapid real estate development, the traffic situation has worsened.Vishal Dhumal , a 37-year-old and a resident of the Life Republic housing society said, “I need to travel through the Katraj-Kondwa road on daily basis. While purchasing my flat, I hoped that this road would be completed as the work had started. However, it hasn’t progressed.”Smita Iyyer, who lives near the Iskcon temple and works as private tutor said, “It is very difficult to travel on this road. There is a lot of traffic and heavy vehicles. The PMC need to do it on an urgent basis.” Umesh Gaikwad, a BJP corporator said, “In the last five years, the BJP carried out various development works. The Katraj-Kondhwa road was pending for many years. BJP members followed it and got work started. There are some issues of land acquisition and the civic administration is working on it.” The NIBM annexe which currently represents one of the classic and premium neighbourhoods in the city faces several infrastructural bottlenecks which remain to be solved till date. The area is home to several prominent business establishments and residential societies lacks road infrastructure, drainage systems and a drinking water supply system. Daljeet Goraya, director, NIBM Annexe Residents Forum, which is highlighting civic issues on a regular basis, said “The problems related to drinking water supply, good roads, street lights, rash and negligent driving, resurfacing of NIBM annexe slope, road dividers, public parks and footpaths are yet to be developed and constructed in the area. The area suffers the most and PMC is not bothered to look into infrastructure despite taking taxes. We are in talks with lawyers and contemplating of filing a PIL against the PMC administration for its callous attitude and neglecting the area for past 10 years,” he said. While traffic is mess at NIBM and the adjoining areas, Hadapsar faces another problem with garbage depots. The entire city’s garbage is brought to this area for processing, resulting in a stink and other hygiene related issues.“Instead of building plants at other locations, the PMC is erecting more processing plants at Ramtekdi,” said NCP city unit chief and local corporator Prashant Jagtap. Previously, the PMC used to dump the unprocessed garbage at Urali where people staged a protest for years, forcing the civic body to look for alternate sites. Hadapsar also has some major townships such as Magarpatta city where IT and banking firms have set up offices. Many IT professions purchased flats here to avoid congestion. While they may find it easier to reach office within the premises of the township, going outside however is a challenge due to heavy traffic and narrow roads. Amol Tonpe, a 41-year-old resident of Magarpatta city and working with an IT firm said, “Our main issue is traffic. For the last two years due to lockdown, there was no traffic, but now life it is tough to cross this traffic. Even the road conditions are not good with BRTS becoming a joke.” The PMC had created Swargate-Hadapsar as the Bus Rapid Transit System for public transport. However, since its inception in 2007, it has been in shambles. Despite spending crores of rupees on the BRTS stretch, the Pune civic body has not been able to make it functional. This isn’t the only problem as locals also face a water scarcity. Rashmi Surana, a 36-year-old and living in Wanowrie and running her own business said, “We are facing a water problem regularly as there is inadequate supply.” Criticising the PMC for the shortage of water, NCP’s Prashant Jagtap said, “Earlier, water from Hadapsar area was provided to Ahmednagar road residents. Now as Ahmednagar road gets water from the Bhama Askhed dam, it was expected that Hadapsar residents would get enough water. However, the PMC has not been able to manage it properly.” Sachin Bankar, a youth from Hadapsar staying near the paragliding centre said, “There are more than 50,000 Guntewari homes that got constructed on small plots. The government order to regularise it came one –and-a-half year ago, but the PMC is not following the due process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/a-toxic-mix-of-a-civic-mess-is-the-reality-of-life-in-pune-s-hadapsar-101636312912189.html
08-11-2021||Other||Transfer orders of IPS officers cancelled||Chandigarh The department of home Punjab on Sunday cancelled transfers orders issued earlier to IPS officer Mandeep Singh Sidhu, posted as SSP vigilance bureau (VB), Patiala, and PPS officer Gautam Shegal posted as VB SSP Ferozepur. According to the notification issued on Sunday, IPS officer Narinder Bhargav, commandant third battalion, Ludhiana has been relieved from the charge of VB SSP Bathinda range. In a separate order, three PPS officers were transferred out of the VB, which include Raj Jit Singh VB SSP, Amarjit Singh Bajwa SSP in the economic offences wing of the VB Ludhiana and Varinder Singh Brar joint director in the VB’s complaint cell. Their posting orders will be issued separately. The services of following PPS officers have been kept at the disposal of the vigilance bureau: Akashdeep Singh Aulakh who is under transfer from the post of SP city Mohali, Lakhbir Singh commandant ninth battalion Punjab armed police (PAP) Amritsar, Gurpreet Kaur under transfer from the post of SP Jalandhar (rural), Des Raj AIG counter intelligence Bathinda and Jaspal Singh who is presently SP city Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transfer-orders-of-ips-officers-cancelled-101636312732088.html
08-11-2021||Other||Ayodhya Development Authority receives 97 designs of logos for ‘Brand Ayodhya’||Lucknow: The Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) has received 97 designs of logos for the Brand Ayodhya competition organised by it. Organisations from India, abroad and individuals submitted online entries (designs) for the contest. Now, a panel of experts from ADA will select the winner from the top three entries. The ADA had launched the competition ‘Ayodhya: The Global Spiritual Capital’ in September this year, inviting entries from both India and abroad for submitting designs for city logo, welcome gates and city signage in which winner will get cash prizes of over ₹10 lakh. According to Sanjeev Kumar, secretary of Ayodhya Development Authority, around 900 individuals and organisations had registered online for taking part in the competition. Out of these, 97 have submitted their designs, he added. The development authority has decided to get a unique design for ‘City Welcome Gates’ which will come up at multiple entry points. In addition to this, the ADA has also decided to come up with a signage for the city which will highlight its culture and ethos. Officials asked to implement Ayodhya vision document It may be pointed out that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed officials to implement Vision document for development of Ayodhya. In June this year, the CM had presented this document before PM Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting. LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited has prepared the vision document with the help of Ayodhya Development Authority. The LEA Associates is an international consultant hired by the state government for preparing Ayodhya vision document for the overall development of the temple town. Larsen and Toubro and Kukreja Architects are assisting the international consultant to execute the project. According to officials of the ADA, the document was finalised after several rounds of meetings between the development authority and the consultant. Before finalising the plan, the consultant had taken the opinions of around 5000 locals, saints of Ayodhya and prominent citizens. The development plan has incorporated 18 big projects. The vision document also includes creation of employment opportunities, branding of local products and promotion of religious tourism and plantation of Ramayan era trees in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ayodhya-development-authority-receives-97-designs-of-logos-for-brand-ayodhya-101636312730820.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s air quality falls to ‘poor’ as stubble burning cases see spurt||While pollution caused by bursting of crackers is yet to subside, the spurt in stubble burning cases is compounding the problem of air pollution in the city. A day after the city reported slight improvement in the air quality index (AQI), it went from 159 points on Saturday to 240 (poor category) on Sunday. As per the national agency tracking air quality, the particulate matter (PM) 2.5, which directly affects the lungs, remained the prominent pollutant. “Due to cold conditions, the earth’s surface cools down rapidly and the air near the ground gets condensed. Because of cold conditions, smoke particles get locked, which is leading to hazy weather. Only western disturbance coupled with rain can bring respite,” said Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head department of climate change and agricultural meteorology.Gagnish Khurana, a social activist, said that stubble burning during the evening causes more injuries not only to the people living in the city but also for the residents of the village where the farm fires are taking place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-air-quality-falls-to-poor-as-stubble-burning-cases-see-spurt-101636311890295.html
08-11-2021||Other||Lucknow: PGI team gets Australian patent for ‘method to determine steroid-resistant patients’||Lucknow The department of nephrology, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, has got its first innovation patent for the study on “A Method to Determine a Steroid-Resistant Phenotype in Childhood Idiopathic Nephrotic Syndrome by Utilizing a Pharmacogenomic Biomarkers” from Commonwealth of Australia (Patent number: 2021105595). The study was funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi. The present patent relates to a method to determine steroid-resistant patients in childhood idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (NS) by utilizing pharmacogenomic biomarkers. The study has translational potential and has been registered as an innovation patent for eight years from August 16, 2021 to next 8 years. HoD, department of nephrology, Professor Narayan Prasad, who led the team for the study said, “Nephrotic syndrome is one of the most common kidney diseases, particularly in children, and steroid is the cornerstone therapy for this condition. Children lose a heavy amount of protein in the urine and swelling appears all over the body. Gradually, it may lead to kidney failure, requiring dialysis and renal transplantation.” He added, “About 10-20% of children do not respond to steroid therapy, and many patients develop steroid resistance after initial response. It’s difficult to find SRNS patients before steroid therapy, especially if they don’t have any secondary or hereditary causes of NS. Patients are treated with repeated course of steroid and develop corticosteroid toxicity. Treating these patients with steroids in non-responsive patients leads to all these toxicities.” Professor Prasad said, “I was working to develop biomarkers to identify these patients who would be less likely to respond to steroids in early stages, if there are no identified genetic causes of steroid resistant nephrotic syndrome. I designed this study with my team, including Professor Vikas Agrawal, Dr Akhilesh Jaiswal, Dr Saurabh Chaturvedi and Dr Harshit Singh. The study was published in the Nature journal, the Pharmacogenomics (TPJ), and an innovation patent was invited. Our team immediately applied for it.” SGPGIMS director Professor RK Dhiman congratulated Prof Prasad and his team for the first ever patent in basic science by any clinician of the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-pgi-team-gets-australian-patent-for-method-to-determine-steroid-resistant-patients-101636311650521.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Bankers fraudulently withdraw ₹14 lakh from NRI’s account, booked||Four bank employees have been booked for allegedly withdrawing ₹14.20 lakh from the account of an NRI by forging his signature. They have been identified as Pawandeep Kaur of New Rajguru Nagar of Ludhiana, Abhishek Walia of Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk of Raikot, Ankita of Mohalla Avtar Nagar of Jalandhar and Deepak Bhatt of Dehradun. All four work at the ICICI Bank’s main road branch in Jagraon.They were booked on charges of criminal breach of trust, after five months of investigation. Complainant Mahinder Singh of Kothe Sherjung road of Jagraon said, his relative Ramneek Toor, who is an NRI, had noticed withdrawal of ₹14.20 lakh from his bank account through cheques and requested him to look into it. On June 16, Mahinder made a police complaint regarding the bank fraud, following which an inquiry was marked. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, the investigating officer, said during investigation, police found that the then deputy branch manager Abhishek Walia, cashier Ankita, clerk Deepak Bhatt and Pawandeep Kaur, an employee of ICICI prudential life insurance, had managed to issue a cheque book in the name of Ramneek Toor. Later, they forged the signature of the account holder and withdrew ₹14.20 lakhs using three cheques.Thee ASI added that a case under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at Jagraon city police station. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bankers-fraudulently-withdraw-rs-14-lakh-from-nri-s-account-booked-101636311592293.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||GMADA wants to take over Mohali ISBT||With the Delhi firm finalised to take over operations of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter State Bus Terminus in Phase 6, Mohali, not offering an adequate amount of compensation to the stakeholders, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is now planning to run the busopolis project.Once GMADA takes over the project, it will also take over all liabilities of stakeholders, investors and depositors and will run all activities of the commercial complex, except the operations of ISBT, which will be transferred to the Punjab state transport department.The ambitious project was launched in 2009, after GMADA signed an agreement with C&C Towers Limited, and was to be completed in December 2011. Spread over seven acres, it was to have an inter-state bus terminal, three multi-storeyed towers with retail and office spaces, multiplex, five-star hotel, banquet hall and hypermarkets. But since its inception, the project has been mired in controversies and possession delays. Twelve years on, while the bus terminal has become partially operational, the commercial towers are yet to be completed.In 2019, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT)’s special bench initiated corporate insolvency resolution process of C&C Towers Limited, and KPMG international was appointed the resolution professional to settle the claims of financial creditors: banks, buyers and public allottees. Earlier this year, KPMG finalised Delhi-based Mahakaram Builders to take over the project and even called for claims from all stakeholders. However, the firm failed to offer an adequate amount of compensation to all stakeholders, including GMADA, which is a major stakeholder.Now, GMADA has put an appeal before the NCLT against the proposal of Mahakram Builders. “We have filed an appeal before the NCLT, as we are major stakeholders and had leased out the land to the company. We are now planning to be a part of the process and act as a bidder and run the project as our own,” said Vipul Ujwal, chief administrator, GMADA. Around 500 buyers who have invested around ₹100 crore in commercial properties at the busopolis also want GMADA to take over the projectHarbhajan Singh Jolly, general secretary of the C&C Mohali Junction Clients Association, said the company finalised by KPMG will not be able to run the ₹400-crore project. “We have requested GMADA to take over the project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmada-wants-to-take-over-mohali-isbt-101636311540104.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Murder at PU: Victim’s daughter records statement||Three days after the wife of a Panjab University professor was found murdered at their house in Sector 14, right behind the vice-chancellor’s official residence, Chandigarh Police are still groping in the dark.Prof BB Goyal of University Business School had found his wife, Seema Goyal, 60, murdered in her room on the ground floor of their house on Thursday morning. The professor had slept in a room on the first floor the previous night.As part of investigations, police recorded the statement of the couple’s daughter Parul Goyal on Sunday. She was not present in the house on the night of murder. The investigating officials refused to share her testimony. Meanwhile, the victim’s mobile phone, which has been missing, was apparently moved within the PU campus in the wee hours of Thursday, said an investigating officer. Police are trying to trace it.According to the preliminary postmortem report, the woman was strangulated to death. Besides strangulation marks on the neck, she also had some injuries on the head.According to Prof Goyal, when he went downstairs to collect milk on Thursday morning, he found the main door of the house locked from outside. Later, when he went to his wife’s room, he found her lying unconscious on the bed, with her hands and legs tied with a cloth. She was rushed to hospital before police could reach the spot. The investigations so far do not suggest any forced entry though the mesh of the kitchen and bedroom doors was found slightly removed. Even the CCTV footage has failed to give any clue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-at-pu-victim-s-daughter-records-statement-101636311538668.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC proposes a month’s fee exemption for street vendors||The Chandigarh municipal corporation is all set to give fee exemption to street vendors for May 2021, when the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak in the city.In order to contain the second wave, the UT administration had imposed a lockdown, shutting down all non-essential street vendors. More than 4,200 vendors stand to gain with the MC’s fresh proposal. The exemption is proposed for only non-essential vendors, as the essential and mobile vendors were allowed to operate during the lockdown period. “The agenda will be tabled before the MC General House for its approval on November 12,” said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra.There are around 3,510 street vendors recognised as essential service providers in the city. Another 1,140 are mobile vendors, and 6,259 come under the category of non-essential service providers.“Even among the non-essential service providers, the fee exemption is proposed only for those who have not defaulted on their vending fees. There are around 2,000 such defaulters who skipped the payment for the pre-Covid period,” said an official privy to the development.To cost ₹70 croreThe monthly vending fee varies from ₹300 to ₹2,000 per month according to the street vendor’s service. “The MC earns around ₹1 crore from the vending fee every month. The exemption will cost us around ₹70 crore,” said the official. The street vendors have been demanding the exemption for some time now, alleging that the MC is adopting a discriminatory attitude toward them. “While second-hand car market, parking contractors and the night food street have got exemptions and relaxations, we are still to get any respite for the second wave. Most of us had no alternative to earn a livelihood during the lockdown. Even later, the footfall remained very poor,” said a street vendor, who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-proposes-a-month-s-fee-exemption-for-street-vendors-101636311537419.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Drug seizure: Two men held with 150-gram heroin in Kharar||The Kharar police on Sunday arrested two people with 150 grams of heroin.The accused have been identified as Sukshinder Singh and Gurpreet Singh, both residents of Manakia village in Chandimandir, Panchkula. Both are drug addicts and also peddle the contraband, said police.Investigating officer (IO) Deepak Kumar said that during patrolling at the bus stand in Kharar, police got a tip-off that the two men are coming there to sell heroin in their car. Following this, a naka was set up and their car was stopped for checking at the bus stand. Police were able to recover 150 grams of heroin from the car’s dashboard, following which the duo was arrested, said the IO.A case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against them at the Kharar City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-seizure-two-men-held-with-150-gram-heroin-in-kharar-101636311535862.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Mohali sees uptick with 19 cases in two days||In what could be an early sign of surge in the pandemic after Diwali, the Mohali district has reported 19 Covid-19 cases in the past two days, with nine fresh cases surfacing on Sunday. While seven new cases were reported from Kharar, two surfaced in Mohali city. On Saturday, Dhakoli recorded seven cases, followed by two in Kharar and one in Gharuan. In the first five days of the month, only five cases had surfaced in the district. Now, the total has reached 25 while the month’s death toll stands at one.In comparison, 82 cases and three deaths were recorded in October. The total stands at 68,846 cases and 1,069 deaths since the outbreak in March last year.Dr Girish Dogra, nodal officer, Covid-19 , Mohali, attributed the uptick to overcrowding at markets and violations of Covid-19 norms during Diwali. “We are expecting a further rise in cases in the coming days,” he said. Meanwhile, four patients recovered from the disease on Sunday, taking the total to 67,744. The number of active cases stands at 33. Worst hit in the tricity, Mohali also reported 89 fresh cases of dengue on Sunday. The count has gone up to 3,235 this year, with 32 patients succumbing so far. In 2020, 471 cases and one death were recorded. Panchkula logs no new case; two test positive in ChandigarhIn the neighbouring Panchkula district, no new Covid-19 case was reported on Sunday. The tally stood at two in Chandigarh, with a case each being reported from Sectors 7 and 32.Chandigarh has recorded 65,362 cases and 820 deaths so far. The figures stand at 40,473 and 379, respectively, in Panchkula. The active caseload is 27 in Chandigarh and eight in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-mohali-sees-uptick-with-19-cases-in-two-days-101636311534611.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Nights to get colder in Chandigarh||With dry weather likely in the region over the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that night temperature will start dropping in Chandigarh.“The drop will not be noticeable on a daily basis, but can be assessed seeing the weekly data. Usually, western disturbances make the night temperature increase, but there is none expected in the coming days,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD, Chandigarh.However, on Sunday, minimum temperature saw an uptick to 13.1°C from Saturday’s from 12.4°C. Even maximum temperature went up from 28.3°C on Saturday to 29°C on Sunday. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 28-29°C while minimum temperature will remain around 13°C.Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index has improved after Diwali. It stayed in the satisfactory bracket (between 50-100) at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 25 and in the moderate bracket (between 100-200) at the CAAQMS in Sector 22 on Sunday. On Diwali night, the AQI had breached the 400 mark, becoming severe, at both monitoring stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nights-to-get-colder-in-chandigarh-101636311533014.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi University principals criticise state govt directive on college grants||Delhi University teachers and principals have criticised a directive issued by the Delhi government’s Directorate of Training and Technical Education (DTTE) that sought action against principals of 12 DU colleges for violating central civil service rules.The Aam Aadmi Party, however, on Sunday said the colleges deliberately delay submission of utilisation certificates, and then blame the Delhi government for not granting them funds.In a letter issued on Wednesday, the director (higher education), DTTE, wrote to DU vice chancellor, complaining that the 12 colleges that are funded by the Delhi government were not complying with the conditions required for grant approval. According to the letter, the colleges are required to prepare their budget for grants. The director also said that principals were inciting teachers and sought action against them. In response, the DU VC wrote to the principals of the 12 colleges on Wednesday and sought a response from them. Condemning the letter, Manoj Sinha, secretary of the DU principals’ association and head of Aryabhatta College said the letter mentions all revenues including students’ fees which was not the income of the Delhi government. “The students’ fees received by the college is the income of the Delhi University. Delhi government is having a fundamental misunderstanding, “ said Sinha. He also said it was unfair to call for any action against CCS rules. “The government is accusing the principals of spreading rumours. We are innocuous people and not doing anything except putting forward our point of view. Now, the government is asking the university to take action against principals for putting forward their point of view,” said Sinha. AAP MLA Atishi, who is chairperson of the standing committee on education (Delhi Vidhan Sabha), said, “As per the terms and conditions of the grant, it is necessary for college principals to submit utilisation certificates in order to get funds. However, the colleges delay this process in every quarter. On one hand, the colleges do not fulfil the basic process and on the other they turn around and say that the Delhi Government is not giving funds. It is beyond comprehension as to why the Utilisation Certificates are delayed and why do the colleges blame the Delhi Government when the delay is on their end? ““It is paramount to understand the reason behind the lack of transparency in these colleges that they do not want to explain where funds have been utilised. At the same time, it is concerning that the principals, while being party to the delay on the end of the colleges, incite the teachers by spreading lies about the Delhi Government not releasing funds,” she said, in a statement.Teachers’ group Academics for Action and Development (AAD) member and former DU executive council member Rajesh Jha, however, said that the proposal of giving grants on a net deficit basis will lead to a steep fee hike. “The letter dictates these colleges to prepare the budget for a grant on a net deficit basis, which shifts the burden on the colleges to generate funds from the internal resources which means collecting funds from students’ fees. This will cause a steep fee-hike and thus create a financial barrier to keep students of marginalised section away. This is exactly carrying out the mandate of NEP 2020 for privatisation and contractualisation,” said Jha. Jha said that the imposition of CCS rules would stifle the voices of teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-principals-criticise-state-govt-directive-on-college-grants-101636311531811.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||No cap on gatherings at Chhath Puja begins in Chandigarh||With the four-day Chhath Puja set to start in the city on Monday, the Chandigarh administration will be keeping a close watch to ensure Covid-19 protocol is followed by the organisers and devotees converging at the lake in Sector 42. However, there will be no cap on the number of people allowed to gather at the lake as it is an open area, as long as they wear masks and maintain social distancing.Last year, Covid-19 rules against overcrowding had been broken on the third day of the festivities when around 2,000 people turned up at the lake to offer prayers to the setting sun. “We have approached various Purvanchal associations and advised them to tell the families to only send women for offering prayers, as it is the tradition, while men can stay at home to keep the numbers down. The venue has also been sanitised,” said a UT official, who did not wish to be named.Subdivisional magistrate (south) Rupesh Kumar said: “While devotees can enjoy the festival, we will keep a close watch to ensure that all Covid-19 restrictions are followed. If any rule is broken, then action will be taken.” Cops will also be stationed at the venue, especially on the third day, to ensure all rules are followed.Grand celebrations plannedMeanwhile, the organisers have planned the puja on the same scale as during the pre-pandemic times.Purvanchal Welfare Association president DK Singh said: “After a lull last year, all organisers will come together to ensure grand celebrations. Unlike, four to five stages set up by different organisations to hold their cultural programmes, we will have only one stage with one programme this year. We will also serve food to those fasting and make proper arrangements for those coming to the lake.”Singh said that with the municipal corporation elections set to happen next month, leaders of all political parties are expected to show up for the functions, but they will not be allowed to use the platform for campaigning. The four-day festival is celebrated to honour the sun god and is especially popular with those hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. On the first two days, people hold celebrations and fasting at their homes. On the final two days, they converge at water bodies to offer prayers to the setting and rising sun. Although, the number of Covid-19 cases saw a decline between Dussehra and Diwali in Chandigarh, medical experts have advised caution. According to them, in view of the incubation period of infection, cases might start rising a week after Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-cap-on-gatherings-at-chhath-puja-begins-in-chandigarh-101636311530239.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||BJP MP Parvesh Verma wades into war of words over Chhath Puja in Delhi||The political war of words over the celebration of Chhath in Delhi continued on Sunday with the Bharatiya Janata Party MP from West Delhi Parvesh Verma announcing that he will perform prayers on the banks of Yamuna in defiance of the DDMA ban, and challenged Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to stop him from doing so.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has prohibited Chhath Puja on the banks of the Yamuna this year. Earlier, on September 30 the disaster body had banned the celebrations entirely, but allowed it with restrictions following protests by the BJP and the written appeals to the Centre by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and to the lieutenant governor Anil Baijal by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.LG is the chairperson of the DDMA.Criticising Kejriwal for “not allowing Chhath puja celebrations at Yamuna ghats”, Verma said that he, along with members of the Purvanchal community. will perform the puja at ITO Chhath ghat at 11am on Monday. “If people will not celebrate the Chhath festival at ghats, then where will they offer prayers? On the roads? I’ll go to ITO Chhath ghat at 11am (on Monday) with purchanchalis to start the puja. I challenge Arvind Kejriwal to stop us from celebrating the festival at the ghats, if he can.”The festival will be celebrated on Wednesday.The Delhi government is likely to issue on Monday its full list of designated spots for celebration of Chhath puja in the city, said a senior government official on Sunday.“There will be no arrangements at Yamuna and Hindon river banks this year because of pollution concerns, Covid-19 protocols and various construction projects. Locations are being identified in open areas within the city but the job turned out to be easier said than done because of jurisdiction-related issues and disagreements among agecies, mostly political. We have already started preparation in several locations. The final list should be issued on Monday,” said the official.Some of the locations where temporary Chhat Ghats will be set up include Dwarka, Narela, Rohini, Malviya Nagar, and Palam.The festival assumes political significance as Purvanchalis (natives of eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar) who are settled in Delhi and celebrate the festival are a major vote bank in the city.Meanwhile, AAP MLAs Sanjeev Jha and Vinay Mishra staged a protest in Dwarka demanding that a Chhath ghat be constructed there, alleged that the BJP was trying to obstruct Chhath puja in the city.“The BJP at many places in Delhi is stopping Purvanchalis from preparing Chhath ghats to obstruct the Chhath Puja. The AAP MLA and volunteers have come forward to construct Chhath ghat in Dwarka in response to this,” tweeted Jha who is the AAP legislator from Burari.The AAP is in charge of the Delhi government but the BJP is in charge of the three municipal corporations (MCD). And then there is the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) which is regulated by the BJP-led Union government.“All these agencies own land and need to invest in coordinated efforts to enable arrangements for Chhat Puja celebrations. The arrangements involve creating an artificial waterbody and providing basic facilities such as lights, water connection, power connection, toilets, changing rooms and space to ensure distancing. These arrangements basically need space -- from open grounds to parks in residential areas. The coordination efforts have witnessed friction, mostly over the last one week. But things look slightly better now,” the government official said.Chhat Puja is a community festival that involves worshipping the Sun and taking dip in a water body. It is popular among people from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand -- collectively called the Poorvanchal region. People from these states form more than one-third of Delhi’s current population of around 20 million, according to government estimates and migration data from Census 2011.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor appealed to the people to not pay heed to the “provocative statements” of the AAP leaders. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the municipal corporations are developing ‘ghats’ for Chhath Puja, said.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on October 27 allowed celebration of Chhat Puja on November 10 in the capital city with strict protocols.On September 30, the DDMA had issued an order prohibiting the celebration of Chhath Puja at riverbanks, near water bodies, open grounds, in temples, and other public spaces. Limited restrictions were imposed on other festivals such as Durga Puja and Dussehra.Chhath Puja in public spaces was prohibited last year too because of the pandemic.The Bharatiya Janata Party has protested against restrictions on Chhath Puja celebrations and organised several protests in October.On October 9, Kejriwal said the DDMA prohibited the celebrations because of the inherent risk of transmission in the rituals which involve gathering in large numbers.However, on October 12, after BJP’s Lok Sabha MP Manoj Tiwari sustained injuries during a protest outside Kejriwal’s residence in Civil Lines, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya three days later, urging the Centre to draft protocols and issue necessary orders with regard to the festival.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on October 14 wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal urging him to allow Chhat Puja celebrations in Delhi with adherence to Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-mp-parvesh-verma-wades-into-war-of-words-over-chhath-puja-in-delhi-101636311293552.html
08-11-2021||Kolkata||EVMs swapped after Oct 30 Bengal bypolls, alleges BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari||Electronic voting machines (EVM) were swapped after the October 30 bypolls at four assembly seats in Bengal, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Suvendu Adhikari alleged on Sunday, questioning the unprecedented margins of victory recorded by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). “Is it possible for anyone to secure 84% votes in an assembly seat? We have information that EVMs were swapped. The EVMs in Gosaba were swapped with machines brought from Behala (in Kolkata). We have tracked everything,” Adhikari said in his address at a party meeting held at the auditorium of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations in Kolkata.The TMC not only secured 75% of the votes polled in the four seats of Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah and Gosaba, but also created history at South 24 Parganas district’s Gosaba by securing 87.19% votes. The BJP, which won the Dinhata seat by 57 votes and Santipur by 15878 votes in the March-April election, lost the seats by 164,089 and 64,675 votes respectively. Polls in Dinhata and Santipur had to be held because the winners, Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, decided to retain their Lok Sabha seats. At Khardah and Gosaba, where polls were held because the TMC’s winning candidates died, the BJP lost by 93,832 and 143,051 votes respectively. The BJP candidates in Gosaba, Dinhata and Khardah forfeited their deposits. Although several BJP leaders accused the TMC of not allowing people to cast their votes freely, this is the first time the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly brought serious charges of electoral malpractice. He, however, did not name anyone as a suspect.Referring to some polling booths at Santipur in Nadia district, Adhikari said, “If one goes by the results, then even votes cast by BJP district office bearers and their families do not reflect in the final tally. How is that possible?” At all four seats, which are located in districts lying along the Bangladesh border, the BJP made the communal attacks during Durga puja in the neighbouring country an issue. Adhikari, while attending a campaign, had said, “The attack on minority Hindus in Bangladesh will increase the BJP’s margin of victory in Santipur three times.” Since the polls were conducted by the Election Commission of India amid tight security provided by 95 companies of Central armed police forces, the TMC took on Adhikari. “Has Adhikari registered his allegation against the EC? We did not conduct the polls. If the bypoll results cannot be trusted then we should suspect foul play in the Nandigram polls as well,” said transport minister Firhad Hakim. During the March-April polls, Adhikari defeated Mamata Banerjee at his Nandigram seat. She had to face the Bhawanipore bypoll on September 30 to get elected to the assembly and continue as chief minister. Banerjee challenged the Nandigram results in court. No EC official could be contacted for official comment on Adhikari’s allegation. Bengal BJP leaders also did not react to Adhikari’s allegation till Sunday night. The poll results were discussed on Sunday at the meeting of the BJP’s central executive body held in Delhi in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/evms-swapped-after-oct-30-bengal-bypolls-alleges-bjp-s-suvendu-adhikari-101636311292039.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Namaz row: Roads not for religious activities, says Haryana minister Anil Vij||Reacting to the ongoing controversy over namaz in open areas in Gurugram, Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij on Sunday said that religious activities should be organised within the premises of religious places. People of any faith should not organise religious activities on roads and public places without due permission from the local authorities, he said.“Everyone should organise their religious activities at their respective religious places. People should refrain from organising religious events on roads and public places without permission from the local administration, it should be applicable to all,” said Vij.Rightwing groups in Gurugram have been campaigning against namaz in open areas and demanding that Muslims should pray only in mosques and eidgahs. There are only 19 mosques and eidgahs in the district, and most of them have been encroached upon.The issue assumed significance since 2018 when rightwing groups organised a series of protests against namaz in public places. After these protests, the district administration designated 37 sites for namaz but the issue is still being contested by Hindu groups.Last month, a lesser-known rightwing group Bharat Vahini started protesting against namaz taking place on Fridays in Sector 47. Residents of the area also joined the protest, which soon spread to other parts of the city. On November 5, rightwing groups organised Govardhan Puja at the namaz site in Sector 12A.Over the past two weeks, rightwing outfits tried to disrupt namaz at the open site in Sector 12 and on October 29, 35 protesters were detained for attempting to disrupt Friday prayers. Representatives of the Muslim community had agreed to relocate from the site, calling for an alternative space and the clearing of encroachments from Waqf Board properties.A few days ago, police and administration withdrew permission for the offering of namaz at eight out of 37 designated sites. Police had earlier issued a statement saying that permission for namaz at the remaining designated sites could be withdrawn as well if local residents raise objections.The Muslim community has formed a panel of 21 people to have a dialogue with authorities and the political leadership of the state. According to the community, they are forced to offer namaz in the open due to the insufficient number of mosques in Gurugram. “There aren’t enough mosques in Gurugram and it is convenient to offer namaz close to workplaces. It hardly takes a few minutes,” said Mohd Adeeb, chairman of the committee formed by the Muslim community. He said that till now people had no problem with the offering of namaz in open areas, and the opposition was a recent development in light of the change of political leadership in the country. He added the ordinary public still has no issue, it is a problem created by certain elements of the society.The Muslim community said they have also approached opposition leaders for their support to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-row-public-spaces-not-for-religious-activities-says-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-101636311053466.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Firozpur division collects ₹16.43 lakh fine from train ticket violators in a day||The Firozpur division of Northern Railways recovered ₹16.43 lakh as fine from ticket violators in a day, setting a new record.A team of 34 ticket checkers conducted special checking in trains running from or through Amritsar-Jalandhar railway section and Jalandhar-Ludhiana railway section of Firozpur division of Northern Railways on Saturday and caught 2, 413 persons travelling without tickets. The offenders were caught travelling in Barauni Express, Flying Mail, Paschim Express, Dadar Express, Jammu Banaras Express and Malwa Express. A few passengers were even found travelling with old tickets. Some passengers didn’t have valid identity cards. The team recovered the fare as well as penalty amount from the violators.A senior railway official said it was shocking to see people resorting to such fraudulent means. “Apart from paying the penalty, the violators were left red-faced in front of their fellow passengers. We initiated the drive in view of the heavy rush of passengers amid Diwali and other festivities. This is the highest fine amount collected by our division in a single day,” the official said.Senior divisional commercial manager Chetan Taneja warned people against travelling without tickets and said that such drives will continue in the future as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firozpur-division-collects-16-43-lakh-fine-from-train-ticket-violators-in-a-day-101636311052353.html
08-11-2021||Other||Body of suspected Bangladeshi cattle lifter recovered in Tripura, case filed||A suspected cattle lifter, who was alleged to be a Bangladeshi national, was found dead at Kamalnagar area of Sonamura in Sepahijala district, said police on Sunday. The body is yet to be identified. Post mortem of the body would be done on Monday. As per preliminary inquiry of police, three suspected Bangladeshi nationals came to the village and tried to steal cattle from the house of a local person, identified as Litan Pal, on Friday late night. While Pal tried to catch them, one of those suspects attacked him with a weapon and injured him. However, two of them managed to escape from the spot while some locals caught the third one. The next morning, the body of the suspected cattle lifter was discovered nearly 500 meters away from the incident spot. “We registered an unnatural death case and started an investigation. Simultaneously, we took a separate case based on the complaint filed by Pal’s family,” said a police officer of Sonamura Police Station. However, he didn’t confirm lynching as the cause of the suspected cattle lifter’s death saying that the matter is under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-of-suspected-bangladeshi-cattle-lifter-recovered-in-tripura-case-filed-101636310930595.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||No freedom from pollution in Delhi till stubble fires stop: Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said that Delhi cannot get freedom from pollution till an immediate solution as well as a long-term joint action plan is put in place to handle the annual problem of stubble burning.Rai wrote to the Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav, and demanded that an emergency meeting of the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan be called to discuss the problem of farm fires. Citing data since November 1, Rai said the spike in air pollution in Delhi has coincided with the increase in the number of farm fires in the neighbouring states.“I have written a letter to the Union environment minister, seeking his attention to the current state of affairs. I appeal to him to call an emergency meeting of the environment Ministers of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to discuss and implement immediate solutions to this problem. Delhi can only get freedom from being choked when an immediate solution is implemented along with a long-term joint action plan in place to get rid of the problem. I urge the Union environment minister to immediately call an online meeting so that a solution can be found at the earliest.” Rai said.According to the data shared by the Delhi government on Sunday, 21,623 stubble burning incidents were recorded by NASA’s satellite in Punjab, Haryana and UP between November 1 and November 6.“Along with Delhi Pollution Control Committee scientists, we researched the changes in pollution levels in Delhi since November 1. The data from November 1 to November 6 states the obvious — as and when stubble burning incidents increased, the pollution levels of Delhi degraded,” said Rai.He added that on November 1, when there were 2,077 farm fire incidents Delhi’s AQI was 281 (poor). On November 2, this increased to 3,291 fires and the AQI reached 303 (very poor). A total of 3, 2775 farm fires were reported on November 3, and 3,383 on November 4, and Delhi’s air quality touched 382, he added.“The number of stubble burning incidents shot up to 5,728 incidents on November 5, and the AQI levels (also because of pollution from firecrackers) rose to 462. The number of fires came down to 4,369 on November 6, and the AQI came down to 437,” Rai said, showing the correlation between the farm fires and the pollution in the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-freedom-from-pollution-in-delhi-till-stubble-fires-stop-minister-gopal-rai-101636310874515.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Water supply restored after ammonia spike in Yamuna impacts operations||Water supply was restored across Delhi on Sunday evening, said the state’s water utility, after interruptions in several parts of the city earlier in the day amid a sharp spike in ammonia levels in the Yamuna.Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said water supply in some areas was impacted on Sunday morning, and said supply would be normal by Sunday evening.“Ammonia levels in the Yamuna increased due to industrial waste and pollutants,” said Chadha, who is the Aam Aadmi Party’s legislator from Rajendra Nagar.Ammonia levels in the river increased to three parts per million (ppm) on Saturday night, affecting water production at the Sonia Vihar, Bhagirathi, Chandrawal, Okhla and Wazirabad treatment plants, he said. The treatment plants in Delhi can clean-up water with ammonia levels of up to 1ppm.DJB data showed that around 11am on Sunday, the Sonia Vihar plant was operating at 95-97% production level, the Bhagirathi plant was operating at 93-95% production level and the Wazirabad plant was at 97-98%.Some resident welfare groups in south Delhi confirmed that the situation improved around evening. Sanjay Rana, president of the GK-2 Welfare Association said the area received water in the evening.Chadha said that during the Dussehra-Diwali period, the Ganga canal — which supplies Ganga water to Delhi — is shut for annual maintenance. “As a result, production in the plants at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi, which too get their raw water supply from the Yamuna, drops by 50% during this period. Maintenance work is now over and supply has been restored,” he added.DJB operates nine water treatment plants — at Wazirabad, Chandrawal, Haiderpur, Sonia Vihar, Bhagirathi, Okhla, Nangloi, Dwarka and Bawana to produce 935 MGD (million gallons per day) potable water every day.A senior DJB official explained that out of these plants, those in Wazirabad and Chandrawal are more susceptible to river pollution as they directly draw raw water from the Yamuna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-water-supply-restored-after-ammonia-spike-in-yamuna-impacts-operations-101636310873305.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Murder convict out on bail held for firing at two men||A 37-year-old murder convict, who is out on bail was arrested for allegedly firing at a group and injuring two men following a quarrel in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri on Saturday afternoon. At least three bullets were fired by him and two of them hit two separate men, police said on Sunday. The entire incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed in the neighbourhood.Police said the 37-year-old, Naman Sharma alias Sunny, was drinking liquor and consuming drugs on the first floor of his house on Saturday with a friend named Ramzan. At least five friends of Ramzan arrived outside Sharma’s house and began calling out their friend by name. When they learnt that Ramzan was with Sharma, they asked Sharma to invite them as well.“As Sharma refused and asked them to leave, a verbal spat broke out between them. The five started pelting stones at Sharma’s house. This infuriated Sharma, who took out a pistol and fired three bullets that hit one Samsuddin and Naseem. Sharma fled the scene before the police arrived after getting a call about the firing,” said a senior investigator wishing to stay anonymous.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said that a case of firing and attempt to murder has been registered. “Our district’s special staff team, through technical investigation and manual information, arrested Sharma from GT Karnal Road. He was about to board a bus for Haridwar when the team caught him,” said the DCP, adding that the pistol used in the crime was seized along with two live rounds. Sharma’s interrogation, DCP Rangnani said, revealed that he was previously involved in five crimes, including a seven-year-old case of murder in Bahadurgarh in which he was convicted for life imprisonment. He was granted bail in February 2020 in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-murder-convict-out-on-bail-held-for-firing-at-two-men-101636310576092.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Fallout of Manesar gang rivalry: 3 days after shooting, one more succumbs||Three days after two people were killed and four others severely injured in a shooting at a family gathering in Manesar’s Kasan village, another person succumbed to injuries on Sunday, taking the death toll to three, said police. Police identified the deceased person as Parveen Kumar (42), a relative of the family who was attacked, said police. Yashwant Yadav, the station house officer of IMT Manesar police station, said that he suffered two gunshot injuries in the liver and intestine. “Kumar was battling for his life at a private hospital and died due to excessive bleeding,” he said.Yadav said three other victims, including an eight-year-old boy, are still being treated at a private hospital, and the family’s pet dog, which was also shot, is reported to be out of danger. Meanwhile, IMT Manesar police have formed four teams to trace 10 people from a rival gang who are the alleged perpetrators. Police have identified Yogender, alias Rinku, the kingpin of a rival gang, as the mastermind and one of the attackers involved in the shooting. Crime investigation units are also looking for the suspects at several locations identified using technical and human intelligence. Police said the incident took place at the residence of a former sarpanch (village head), identified as Gopal, around 8pm on Thursday, when his extended family was visiting them on the occasion of Diwali. Yadav said the incident was captured on CCTV cameras installed inside and outside the house and four people were identified through the footage on Sunday. Police claimed that the two groups were involved in criminal activities before their relations soured in 2007, when Gopal’s sons, Balram and Sohanpal, allegedly murdered Rinku’s brother Manoj. “Over the years, the two groups were involved in a fight to establish supremacy in the area and both sides wanted to eliminate each other. Rinku took advantage of the situation and shot six members of the family who were partying after offering Diwali prayers,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fallout-of-manesar-gang-rivalry-3-days-after-shooting-one-more-succumbs-101636310571840.html
08-11-2021||Noida||Dengue tally hits 521 in GB Nagar, experts say ‘cases to decrease during winter’||With 12 fresh dengue cases reported in the past 24 hours, the dengue tally has reached 521 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday. The district now has 51 active dengue cases, and one death so far.Meanwhile, medical experts believe that the “dengue cases will see a dip as the temperature has been decreasing, because mosquitoes usually turn inactive with the onset of winter”.Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the health department in Gautam Budh Nagar is conducting anti-larval measures to keep the dengue situation in check. “At present, there are 51 active cases in the district and the situation is not alarming,” Sharma said.Dr AK Shukla, senior consultant, Kailash Hospital Noida in Noida Sector 27, said that dengue cases are seeing a dip at the onset of winter. “Mosquitoes usually breed in warm weather conditions. The temperature is falling due to winter, which is not a conducive situation for mosquito breeding. But people should take precautions and not let water stagnate in their homes,” Shukla said.He said that some of the 60 patients suffering viral fever and related symptoms admitted in the hospital are dengue patients. Nearly 150 patients suffering from viral fever were admitted in Kailash Hospital in October this year.Dr Shukla has also advised the people to take precautions to be safe from contracting the disease. “People should regularly clean areas and prevent mosquito breeding. They should wear full sleeve shirts and full pants. They should consult doctors if they suffer from symptoms of fever, body ache, joint pain, and skin rashes among others,” he said.Dr Akash Raj, medical superintendent, Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Noida, said that usually mosquito breeding sees a dip during the winter season. “People wear warm clothes during winter, and that also saves themselves from mosquito bites and such diseases,” Raj said.The health department in Gautam Budh Nagar has identified 10 dengue clusters in Noida, and eight in Greater Noida -- which have reported the maximum number of dengue cases this season. The hotspots in Noida are Sadarpur, Chhalera, Mamura, Nithari, Barola, Chhijarsi, and sectors 5, 9, 22 and 51. In Greater Noida, the hotspots are Gaur City, Haibatpur, Kulesra, Surajpur village, and sectors Alpha 2, Beta 1, Gamma 1. Around 60-70% dengue cases have been reported in these areas.According to the official data, the health department in Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 14 dengue cases in 2012, 69 in 2013, zero in 2014, 176 in 2015, 17 in 2016, 13 in 2017, 28 in 2018, 40 in 2019, and 28 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-tally-hits-521-in-gb-nagar-experts-say-cases-to-decrease-during-winter-101636310511827.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||13 PGI doctors figure in Stanford Varsity’s list of top researchers||Names of 13 faculty members of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences have figured in the list of the world’s top researchers released by Stanford University. Names of director of PGI Professor Radha Krishna Dhiman, along with the department of Radiodiagnosis Professor RK Gupta (retd), former Head of Department of Neurology prof UK Mishra, Professor of Medical Genetics Sarita Agarwal, Professor of Gastro-Surgery Dr VK Kapoor (Retd), Professor Rakesh Agrawal of PGI, who is currently director, JIPMER, Pondicherry, Dr Uday Chandra Ghoshal, head, Department of Gastroenterology, Professor Jayanti Kalita, Department of Neurology, Professor Ujjal Poddar, head of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Professor of Endocrine Surgery and present chief medical superintendent Dr Gaurav Agrawal, Professor Narayan Prasad, head of the Department Nephrology, Dr Alok Kumar, associate professor of Molecular Medicine and Biotechnology and Dr Rohit Sinha, associate professor of Endocrinology, figure in the list. The director of the institute, Prof Dhiman, expressed happiness on the names of 13 teachers of PGI in the list of top 2% scientists of the world and congratulated the selected faculty members for their contribution. Professor Dhiman, whose name also figures in the list, said, “PGI is known not only in the state but also in the whole world for providing excellent medical treatment to patients.” Professor Dhiman said, “Today the faculty members of the institute are known for its innovative research. I hope other teachers and students will also take inspiration from this achievement and do even better in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/13-pgi-doctors-figure-in-stanford-varsity-s-list-of-top-researchers-101636310453306.html
08-11-2021||Noida||18% work of boundary wall at Noida international airport completed, says YIAPL||The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) -- special purpose vehicle formed to develop and operate the Noida international airport in Jewar -- has completed 18% work of the boundary wall, officials said on Sunday.The Uttar Pradesh government is likely to lay the foundation stone of the mega project by November-end this year.The YIAPL discussed the ongoing work at the airport site and other such issues at its quarterly board meeting on November 3, 2021. The Noida international airport authority (NIAL) and Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) chief executive officer, Arun Vir Singh, and nodal officer Shailendra Bhatia discussed the developmental work of the project and all related issues at the meeting, said the officials.“In the board meeting, we reviewed the progress at the project site. 18% work of the boundary wall has been completed, and a site office has been built to oversee the work there,” said Singh.Top officials of the project concessionaire -- Zurich International AG, a Swiss company -- also attended the board meeting online.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed NIAL, Yeida, and the Civil Aviation department to start preparations for the foundation laying event, which is likely to take place in the last week of November 2021, according to the officials.“The date is not fixed, but it may take place by November-end,” said Singh.To develop the first phase of the project, according to the YIAPL, it had arranged ₹5,730 crore from the public sector bank. The company wants to fund the project, while maintaining a debt-to-equity ratio of 65 is to 35. So, while YIAPL will pump in ₹2,005 crore, the additional ₹3,725 crore will be provided by the State Bank of India (SBI).The YIAPL is a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International AG, and has been incorporated as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to develop the Greenfield Noida international airport. The airport is scheduled to be completed by September-end 2024.The Uttar Pradesh government wants to lay the foundation stone this month, only as the mode code of conduct is expected to come into effect in January’s first week for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls 2022, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/18-work-of-boundary-wall-at-noida-international-airport-completed-says-yiapl-101636310451782.html
08-11-2021||Noida||Three killed and one injured in two accidents in Noida in a day, none booked||Two persons died after their speeding car hit the suspect’s slow-moving tractor trolley on the Noida Expressway near the Amity University at 11am on Sunday.The victims -- identified as Ajay Kumar, 32, and his friend Sonpal, 50 -- were both residents of the Gejha village in Noida Sector 93. The tractor driver had fled the spot after the accident, said police.Rajeev Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 39 police station, said that the accident took place near Charkha Chowk in Noida Sector 125. “The trolley, loaded with paddy, was travelling from Greater Noida to Noida. The two victims were coming in the same direction in a Maruti Suzuki Alto car. Ajay, who was at the driving seat, could not manage to apply brakes in time and hit the trolley,” Kumar said.The two car occupants suffered severe injuries and they were trapped in the mangled vehicle. Locals informed the police and a team took the victims to a private hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. “We scanned the car’s registration number and found that the vehicle was registered in the name of Ajay from the Gejha village. We informed his family members, who said that the victim had left home for the car’s servicing,” Kumar added.Police seized both the vehicles and cleared the road. “We will register a case against the truck driver for death due to negligence after we will receive a complaint from the victims’ family,” he said.In the second case, two residents of Chauda village in Noida Sector 22-- a 22-year-old woman, Vani Bhatt, died and her 2-year-old husband, Deepak Bhatt, was injured when their motorcycle skidded at a speed breaker in Noida Sector 57 on Sunday. Deepak works as a food delivery boy with a private company.Vinod Kumar, SHO, Sector 58 police station, said that the couple were riding a motorcycle near Sector 57 at 6am. “The motorcycle skidded on a speed breaker and the two persons were thrown off the bike and received severe injuries. A police response vehicle reached the spot after getting information from a passerby and admitted them to a private hospital in Sector 62. The woman died and Deepak is undergoing treatment,” he said.Police have not received any complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-killed-and-one-injured-in-two-accidents-in-noida-in-a-day-none-booked-101636310450322.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Inquiry marked into alleged medical negligence at Chandigarh hospital||A day after a video emerged on social media, wherein the husband of a pregnant woman from Dhanas stated that they were sent back from Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on the pretext of shortage of staff, an inquiry has been marked to the medical superintendent of the hospital and he has been asked to report the findings within three days. The authorities have denied the allegations of negligence.  In the video, the child’s father said that he took his wife to GMSH-16 on Sunday, wherein a doctor told him that they did not have much staff and asked them to get tests done or go back home. However, she later delivered at home.In a press statement, the authorities stated, “On preliminary inquiry on the basis of her medical record, she was due on December 21. She was advised to get an ultrasound, but the patient never reported back to the doctor or got the test done, as per record.”The authorities stated that after receiving a report of home delivery, a health team with an ambulance was sent to the home of the patient to assess the mother and the baby, where it was found that both were doing well. “The child had already been fully immunised as per protocol and the mother has been prescribed necessary medication. Both the mother and the child are healthy and doing fine,” the health department said.” “The sudden strike by some of the NHM staff and termination of their contractual appointment has no relation with the issue,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inquiry-marked-into-alleged-medical-negligence-at-chandigarh-hospital-101636310391627.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Supreme Court panel flags violations at Ghazipur abattoir in Delhi||The Supreme Court appointed Delhi Slaughter house monitoring committee has flagged multiple violations of safety and sanitation rules at the city’s only official abattoir in East Delhi’s Ghazipur, according to an official report.The panel has also recommended that the Delhi Pollution Control Committee should inspect and test the ground water and air pollution that was caused by the slaughterhouse, and said that the viability of the operations of food business of a “highly perishable and highly susceptible to contamination product” adjacent to a trenching ground should be re-assessed. The committee has submitted its report to the principal secretary of the urban development department, a copy of which HT has seen.Located adjacent to the Ghazipur Murga Mandi and Fish market, the Ghazipur slaughter house was built by the erstwhile unified MCD, and is currently run by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. It consists of three sections with one for large animals and two for small animals such as goat and sheep. It operates in three shifts with two shifts reserved for the domestic consumption.The committee has stated that the mandatory two-hour gap between the shifts is not being maintained which is a violation of food safety and standards act. The report states that the record of animals brought for slaughter “appeared bogus” as it contained merely the first names of the individuals. “The details such as their contact number, shop licence details where carcasses are to be taken for sale, and FSSAI licence number were found missing,” the report adds.A committee member said that the sub-committee spoke to persons present in lairage area but they could not establish the identity of people as shopkeeper from any meat shop in Delhi. Lairage is a place where animals are given rest of 6-36 hours before being slaughtered. .Among other violations, the committee has said that no veterinarians were found deputed for the ante-mortem (inspection before the slaughter) at the lairage area or the knocking box or slaughter hall for checking the carcasses.The panel also pointed out several violations of the food safety regulations, 2011 and Prevention of Cruelty Against Animals Act, 1960. “Chillers are required to maintain specific conditions such as temperature of 2 to 4 degrees Celsius and pH below 6 but they were found non-functional. Keeping meat which is a highly perishable item exposed to heat makes it unfit for human consumption. This is violative of Food Safety Standards and Food Business Operators’ regulation,” the report states. It adds that offals and blood were found littered in the parking area and there was absence of hygiene with many workers found operating without overalls, gloves or masks.The committee has recommended setting up of CCTV cameras in the slaughter house premises and that the live feed should be shared with the monitoring committee. It has also recommended that two-hour gap between shifts should be observed and the time be used for cleaning the premises, and records of meat sale and purchase should be maintained.Mohammad Arshad Qureshi, head of the Delhi Meat Merchant Association, said the slaughter house is at a distance of around 500m from the landfill site, and they are not facing problems due to its location. “In 2017, a section of landfill had collapsed and a pathway was blocked. The route has not yet been reopened which causes inconvenience to livestock traders,” he added. He did not comment about the operations of the facility adding that the traders have not faced any problems.Shyam Sunder Aggarwal, mayor of the EDMC, said he has not seen the report but added that necessary action will be taken on the committee’s recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-panel-flags-violations-at-ghazipur-abattoir-in-delhi-101636310330590.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||As fog increases accidents, Gurugram police form teams to patrol KMP Expressway||The Gurugram police will start patrolling the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway to check the speed of vehicles and to ensure lights are working on the stretch. According to the police, with the increase in fog during the early mornings and nights, the number of accidents has also started to increase.Six accidents took place in the last three days due to poor visibility in the early morning, said police.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the accidents occurred due to poor visibility on the stretches that were covered in a thick blanket of fog. “Most accidents take place in the early hours due to the fog and speeding of vehicles. People don’t drive with hazard lights on and, while driving on the expressway, they accelerate over 100 kmph,” he said.Rao said police have taken initiatives to control the speed of heavy vehicles and regular patrolling will also ensure the condition of lights improves, resulting in better commute.Police said many commuters have complained that there are no emergency services on the stretch and ambulances take time to reach, delaying first-aid for accident victims.Over 200 personnel will be deployed in two shifts on the stretch from Bilaspur to Jhajjar exit, said police.Rao said they have informed nearby trauma centres to send ambulances on time in case of emergency. “We have identified key spots on KMP where most of the accidents take place during fog. At all such points, reflector tapes have been installed and medians have been painted to ensure commuters can navigate through these stretches during low visibility. In addition, we have also issued a fog advisory,” he said.Police said station house officers of police stations near the KMP have been informed to keep a check on the patrolling and to alert the police control room in case of any mishap.Rao said petrol pump teams and the shopkeepers have also been alerted to keep passing information to the police teams in case of an accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/as-fog-increases-accidents-gurugram-police-form-teams-to-patrol-kmp-expressway-101636310150109.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ as 50K fail to turn up for second vax dose||The Ambala health department is all set to begin “Har Ghar Dastak” (door-to-door) vaccination drive from Monday, targeting more than 50,000 people who have failed to turn up for their second dose even after the expiry of the due date, deputy commissioner Vikram said on Sunday. As per the health department figures, 31,875 residents had not received the second dose of Covishield till last Wednesday, while 16,510 skipped the second Covaxin jab. The enthusiasm among people to get vaccinated has dropped due to the drop in new cases, said an official.The Union health ministry has prescribed a gap of 12 weeks between the first and second dose for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Experts say both doses are needed to prevent the infection from getting severe.Dr Sunidhi Karol, nodal officer for vaccination in Ambala, said the total eligible population of the district is 8,50,360. As per the centralised Cowin portal, 8,74,005 (103%) have been inoculated with a single dose and 5,80,696 (68%) are fully vaccinated as on Sunday evening.“To alert those who failed to appear for their second dose, our department is making efforts through a call reminder. Even if they don’t turn up after calls, we will organise camps at village or colony level and visit such beneficiaries starting Monday,” said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. Dr Karol said that at least 135 such camps will be organised at rural and peri-urban areas and 13 at urban locations. Zero active case in districtMeanwhile, almost 19 months after Ambala reported its first case of coronavirus infection in March last year, it has zero active case for the past five days. The last active case, a resident of Shahazadpur block, was discharged from hospital after recovering from the infection on Wednesday.Officials said that despite regular sampling, there has been no new case for the last two weeks. The last case had surfaced on November 25.In a statement, the civil surgeon said, so far, 6,63,780 samples have been taken including RT-PCR and RAT, out of which 30,150 patients tested positive for the virus and 509 died due to the virus. Accordingly, the recovery rate stood at 98.31% and the death rate at 1.66%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-har-ghar-dastak-in-as-over-50k-fail-to-turn-up-for-second-covid-vaccine-dose-101636310035972.html
08-11-2021||Gurugram||Job reservation for locals to hit industry, investment in Haryana: Business bodies||A day after the Haryana government notified a law to implement 75% job reservations for locals in the private sector, industrial associations in the city said that they would again approach the government and ask it to reconsider this decision as it could severely impact their functioning.The state government on Saturday notified the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, which will be applicable from January 15, 2022. The Act envisages 75% employment reservation for local youth in the private sector with an upper limit of gross monthly salary upto ₹30,000.Industrial associations based in Manesar and Udyog Vihar said that rather than the imposition of this reservation, there was a need to prepare a roadmap to upskill the local youth so that trained manpower was available to the industry locally.Manmohan Gaind, vice-president, Manesar Industries Welfare Association, said that industry leaders were apprehensive that this decision will lead to ‘inspector raj’ as too much discretionary power would be handed over to lower-level functionaries and that could lead to harassment. “We are going to hold detailed discussions with the government and bureaucrats to make this policy industry-friendly. Bringing in 75% locals when trained talent is not available is not possible. If the need arises, we could approach the court for relief,” he said.Industry owners also said that due to this policy, many industrialists have already started scouting sites in Noida and adjoining Rajasthan as it is not possible to conform to such arbitrary rules. “There is a need to train local youth and make them industry-ready before implementing such a policy,” said another unit owner, requesting anonymity.Pawan Yadav, president, IMT Manesar Industrial Association, said the youth of Haryana are strong and self-respecting and do not want employment with the help of reservation crutches. “The decision to implement this reservation can have negative consequences as large industries don’t prefer to set up base in areas where such kind of policies are in operation,” he said.The IMT Industrial Association said they have also approached the high court earlier. “This law is going to hit the industry and new units will not come to Haryana. There is a need to create a trained industrial force before implementing such laws,” said Manoj Tyagi, general secretary, IMT Industrial Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/job-reservation-for-locals-to-hit-industry-investment-in-haryana-business-bodies-101636309970288.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Pollutants from farm fires hit season high as Delhi air in red for third day||Delhi’s air stayed in the severe zone for the third consecutive day on Sunday as the average air quality index was recorded at 428, with the share of farm fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 (particulate matter) pollution spiking to the season’s highest so far at 48%. Scientists said despite an improvement in the wind speed to 8-10km/hr during the day, the high concentration of pollutants from stubble fires in the states of Punjab and Haryana ensured that air quality did not improve. Though the average AQI dropped from Saturday’s 437, the air quality stayed in the severe zone. The air quality in the capital plunged into the severe category on November 5, a day after Diwali for the first time since January, due to a blatant violation of the ban on bursting of crackers and the increase in the number of farm fires. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a forecasting body under the Centre, strong winds are blowing from the northwest bringing pollutants from the stubble fires to the capital. Despite incidents of farm fires dropping to 4,189 on Sunday from 6,500 on Saturday, Safar said stubble burning contribution was the highest so far this season. Citing the drop in the AQI on Sunday, Safar said the air will continue to improve and may end up in the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category (AQI value of 300-400), but added that the northwesterly winds will continue to bring emissions from the farm fires. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said it will hold a meeting on Monday to review the situation and to consider implementing Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures mandated under the severe category. Currently, steps under the very poor category such as ban on diesel generators and three-four times increase in the parking fee are in force in the city. Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB, and part of the sub-committee on Grap, said air pollution levels are gradually improving, with the IMD’s forecast showing air quality could improve to ‘very poor’ by Monday. However, a meeting of the sub-committee will be held on Monday evening to take stock of the situation. “No additional measures are being introduced at the moment. Another meeting will be held on Monday to see if this declining trend in AQI continues,” he said.According to the IMD, visibility at the Palam airport on Sunday was recorded between 1200 and 2200 metresthroughout the day, while wind speed was around 10 km/hr during the day. “Day-time winds continued to be around 8-10 km/hr. Visibility improved on Sunday, but by the evening, this wind speed had again dropped to ‘light’ or ‘calm,” said R.K Jenamani, scientist at IMD. Forecasts by the Early Warning System (EWS), developed for Delhi, showed wind speed is expected to be between 4 and 16 km/hr on Monday.Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said with three consecutive severe days, this can now be classified as an episodic smog event and stricter measures under Grap may now be required. “In the past, we have seen up to seven consecutive severe air days and even then, only strong winds, or rain came to the rescue for Delhi. Until then, we may need more restrictions in place,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollutants-from-farm-fires-hit-season-high-as-delhi-air-in-red-for-third-day-101636309850133.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Prices will come down once BJP loses in Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the prices in the country will come down once the saffron party lost Uttar Pradesh in 2022 UP assembly polls. Akhilesh also asked farmers not to forget the “mowing down of farmers” in Lakhimpur Kheri.Akhilesh was addressing the Jansandesh Maharally in Ambedkar Nagar and was referring to slashing of petrol and diesel prices after BJP suffered losses in the recently held Lok Sabha and Assembly bypolls in several states.The BSP MLAs Ramachal Rajbhar and Lalji Verma organised the rally marking their formal joining into SP.With Verma and Rajbhar being backward classes leaders, Akhilesh Yadav spelt a new slogan for the 2022 polls saying: “Is baar chunaav mein pichadon ka inkalab hoga, baaees mein badlav hoga (this election will mark revolution by backward classes to bring in change in 2022 assembly polls)”. Samajwadi Party is considered a party with largely backward classes and Muslim support base.Taking about farmers’ issues, Akhilesh said that no single community faced so much injustice and deceit as farmers under the BJP government.Yadav said farmers would not get justice as long as the BJP’s “triple-engine” government remains in power.“Do not forget that three governments that mowed down the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. The BJP government at the state, the centre, and “at Lakhimpur Kheri of the minister (Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra).”Hitting out at chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Akhilesh repeatedly referred to him as “Baba Mukhya Mantri”.Akhilesh said that the BJP government had failed on all the promises it made to the people and attacked the government over law and order, economy, jobs, farmers issues, development projects, and yet again charged BJP government of calling SP projects their own.Akhilesh said never before so many big leaders in such large numbers joined SP and never before SP got so much of public support. “It all makes it clear that SP and its allies might win more than 400 seats”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prices-will-come-down-once-bjp-loses-in-uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-yadav-101636309811183.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mobile snatchers who dragged woman in Dilshad Garden arrested||A week after a 22-year-old woman suffered injuries to her knees and hand as she fell from a moving cycle rickshaw while trying to fight off two bike-borne men who allegedly snatched her phone in Dilshad Garden, the Shahdara district police on Sunday claimed to have solved the case by arresting the two men and the brother of one of them who bought stolen phones.Before targeting the woman around 7.30am, the alleged snatchers committed two more crimes the same morning near Bhopura border and Gagan Cinema, both under the territorial jurisdiction of Nand Nagri police station in northeast police district. All three phones stolen on that morning by the duo, Rizwan and Mehraj, were recovered from the alleged receiver of stolen property, identified as Salman.A brother of Rizwan, Salman had further sold the phones to two men – Aman and Shahrukh. Aman and Shahrukh have also been bound down in the case for purchasing phones without asking for their original sale documents, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram. On November 1, the woman, Lovely Gupta, left her Dilshad Garden home and boarded a cycle rickshaw to head to Jhilmil Metro station, from where she was supposed to board a Metro train to reach her office in Noida. She was near Sai Chowk in Dilshad Garden, nearly half a kilometre away from home -- when the snatchers targeted her around 7.30am.In her complaint to the station house officer (SHO), Gupta said the two men came on a bike from behind and started riding next to the rickshaw. “Suddenly, the pillion rider tried to snatch my phone. I was shocked by the sudden attack and tried to defend myself. But he pulled me by force, snatched my phone and sped away. Meanwhile, I fell on the road and yelled for help, but no one came to my aid,” said Gupta in her complaint filed on Monday, a day after the incident.DCP Sathiyasundaram said that a case was registered and several teams were tasked to identify and nab the suspects. The teams scanned nearly 30 CCTV cameras around the crime scene and it helped them get the registration number of the bike the suspects had used. The ownership of the bike was established and through technical investigation and information received through the human intelligence network, the suspects were arrested on Saturday.“Their interrogation led to the recovery of the bike. The two disclosed that they had snatched three phones on that morning and all were given to Rizwan’s brother, Salman. We arrested Salman and recovered one phone from him. He had sold the other two cellphones to Aman and Shahrukh. We caught them and recovered the two phones,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-mobile-snatchers-who-dragged-woman-in-dilshad-garden-arrested-101636309549925.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Ghats along Yamuna to be restored to their original design||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has prepared a detailed plan to redevelop a 7km-long stretch of historical importance along the Yamuna. The plan is to restore the ghats on the lines of their original design, and also put in place facilities such as cycling tracks, pedestrian pathways.The stretch, located between Old Iron Bridge and Signature Bridge, has been divided into four zones: Surghat, Majnu Ka Tila and forest area, Qudsia Ghat and Yamuna Bazaar.The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach) has prepared the redevelopment plan for the entire stretch, and is at work on a pilot revamp at Qudsia Ghat.A senior DDA official said, “We decided to rope Intach in keeping the historical and cultural significance of this area in mind. The idea is to make the riverfront more accessible to people.”DDA approved a proposal to restore and redevelop Qudsia Ghat in December last year.Divay Gupta, principal director of Intach’s architectural heritage division, said, “During excavations at the site for a survey, we uncovered 14 ghats that were covered in silt or sand. These ghats, which are not very large, were built by families in memory of their relatives... We plan to restore these ghats as per the original architecture,” said Gupta.The restoration of Qudsia Ghat, which started in mid-October and will around ₹16 crore, will be completed within nine months, said Gupta. The DDA plans to develop a 3km-long cycling track, a pedestrian walkway, toilets and parking spaces at the ghat.Gupta said a few ghats near the Old Iron Bridge were a part of Shahjahanabad.“We have some old photographs of the ghats, so the areas between the two bridges will be recreating using these as references,” said Gupta.Located along Ring Road, the area has 32 contiguous ghats, which are used for religious activities till this day.Rakesh Sharma, who owns a house in Yamuna Bazaar and is a member of the Yamuna Bazaar Priests Association, said, “A lot of people visit for a holy dip and prayers during festivals and other religious occasions. But the area is in a mess. There is a drainage problem here, and the ghats desperately need to be repaired and maintained.”DDA officials said that though it is called a “bazaar” (marketplace), the area has a series of old temples. The plan is to restore ghats and the structures using traditional material and techniques. “The additional structures that are obstructing the continuity of the ghats will be removed, missing damaged ghats will be restored, facilities such as toilet blocks etc will be built,” said a DDA official.As part of the restoration project, the DDA has decided to remove the hard landscaping at Sur ghat, in accordance with recommendations of the National Green Tribunal (NGT).“We will take up the restoration of the other three areas after the pilot project is complete. As part of the project, we plan to develop continuous cycling tracks with docks and pedestrian tracks for seamless connectivity among the sites,” said a senior DDA official aware of the development.The DDA is redeveloping the 54km-long riverfront, in a bid to improve the area’s accessibility and to check the Yamuna floodplain’s dying ecosystem.The plan was conceived after a 2015 NGT order.Manoj Misra, convenor of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said, “The NGT has not prohibited redevelopment or restoration of historic ghats. The proposed redevelopment should be able to take inundation during the flood period and shouldn’t prevent spread of floodwater. There are specific orders for Sur Ghat that it should be demolished and redone in a natural manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ghats-along-yamuna-to-be-restored-to-their-original-design-101636309190829.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath presents political resolution, praises PM Modi’s leadership||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who presented the political resolution at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national executive in Delhi on Sunday, praised the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said he was helping a new India emerge. While Yogi lauded the PM, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, who along with state general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal, logged onto the meet virtually and presented details of the party’s preparedness for the 2022 UP assembly polls.In the previous two national executive meetings, the party’s veteran Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow and defence minister Rajnath Singh placed the political resolution.A statement issued by the state government quoted Yogi Adityanath as saying that under PM Modi, the reputation of India has improved globally and the Indian passport has earned its due respect.“PM’s vision of ‘one sun, one world, one grid’ got solid support at the recent COP26 meeting in Glasgow. PM is the most popular leader in the world, according to a survey conducted by a reputed global agency. At the G20 meet, PM gave the important message of one world, one health, imparting a sense of direction to the world,” Yogi Adityanath said, according to the government statement. The statement also quoted Yogi Adityanath as saying, “PM Modi’s timely decisions helped the country fight successfully against the coronavirus pandemic that brought the whole world to its knees while continuing the developmental activities and looking after the poor and the underprivileged. PM Modi’s mantra of trace, test, treat and vaccinate has helped UP control the disease.”“Developing two vaccines in the country in a short time and administering more than 100 crore doses is a historic achievement. In Uttar Pradesh, 13.28 crore doses of corona vaccines have been given and 8.43 crore tests have been conducted. Forty-one districts of the state don’t have a single case of Covid infection today. The state is capable of conducting 4 lakh Covid tests daily. UP is also bracing up to tackle the third wave of the pandemic, Yogi said, as per the statement.The statement also said Yogi praised the PM for cutting excise duty on petrol and diesel on the occasion of Diwali to bring relief to common people, adding that UP has slashed prices of both by ₹12 each.“UP tops in the implementation of 44 welfare schemes of the centre,” the statement quoted Yogi as saying. “Uttar Pradesh ranks second in the ease of doing business in the country. The state has also emerged as the second-largest economy of the country in a very short time,” CM Yogi remarked.Furthermore, he said that due to the increasing investment in the state, 1.61 crore youths have got jobs in the private sector. Around 4.5 lakh have got government jobs in the last four and a half years, the CM pointed out.CM Yogi said that the UP government has decided to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in the state until Holi in view of the ongoing pandemic, which will continue to benefit 15 crore people of UP. CM Yogi also mentioned the restoration of law and order in the state in the last four and a half years, saying that illegal properties worth over 1800 crore belonging to mafias and gangsters have either been impounded or demolished.For his part, Swatantra Dev Singh said, “We will be contesting the elections on the basis of Yogiji’s leadership, honesty and development, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s honesty and visionary approach.”“We presented details like assembly constituency-wise meetings, booth verification campaigns and panna pramukh (head of a page on the voters’ list) plan. Along with this, there are dedicated workers who are leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that BJP wins big,” the UP BJP chief said. During the meeting, the BJP set newer targets in states where it was yet to make a mark and also discussed the political situation in five states, including UP, that are due for elections.The BJP has also decided to institutionalise PM Modi’s radio talk show “Mann ki Baat” in all the booths, including the 1.63 lakh booths in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-presents-political-resolution-praises-pm-modi-s-leadership-101636308831605.html
08-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi cop held for murder used his investigative nous to wipe evidence||The investigating team probing the murder of a 28-year-old fruit vendor, who was allegedly killed by Delhi Police constable Monu Sirohi and his four associates on June 4, presented their chargesheet in the case before the Karkardooma court last week, said senior police officers privy to the development. From removing the victim’s clothes and all identification documents before dumping the body in the Ganga canal, disposing the clothes he and his two associates wore at the time of the crime into the Hindon canal, to washing the car used in the crime and replacing its seat covers and foot mats with new ones, Sirohi used all his investigative skills to ensure the murder he committed with his associates was never detected, police said quoting the chargesheet.  All his tricks worked to an extent, as the crime was not detected for nearly two months. When the crime finally came to the fore, it was too late for the police to recover the victim’s body from the canal and other important evidence related to the murder, said police. Posted at the Pandav Nagar police station, 33-year-old Sirohi and his four accomplices were arrested between July end and the first week of August on the alleged charges of assaulting, kidnapping and murdering Ajeet Kumar, a fruit vendor, over a road rage in east Delhi’s New Kondli and dumping his body in the Ganga canal in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar on the night of June 4.The crime came to the fore on July 29--nearly 56 days later--when a 3.06 minutes-long video, which shows four men assaulting Kumar and his friend Atul, was brought to the attention of the police by Kumar’s family, who filed a missing complaint on June 13, nine days after Kumar went missing, said the chargesheet that runs into over 500 pages. The other arrested persons were identified as Sirohi’s relative Vikas Sirohi (32), Vineet (42), Harish (33), and Suraj, a 41-year-old habitual offender who has multiple cases registered against him at New Ashok Nagar police station. Harish is an AC mechanic by profession while Vikas and Vineet had private jobs. All the five are in jail.Despite solving the case and arresting the suspects, police could not recover Kumar’s body even as they scanned the canal along 15 districts of UP –from Ghaziabad to Etawah. Police have neither been able to recover the clothes of the accused from Hindon canal, nor the seat covers and foot mats of Sirohi’s Swift car. The available evidence the police have against the accused are the video clip, testimony of Kumar’s friend Atul and technical data to establish the location of the suspects around the crime scene. The sample of a blood stain found in Sirohi’s car has been sent to the forensic lab for matching its DNA with Kumar’s mother’s DNA, said a senior investigator.“Being a policeman, Sirohi knew how the police investigate and solve crimes. He used his investigative skills to destroy all evidence. We are hoping the DNA of the blood sample that forensic experts have collected from Sirohi’s car matches with the DNA of Kumar’s mother. In the absence of Kumar’s body, DNA matching is the only way through which we can link the murder,” said the investigator. What happened on June 4Quoting the disclosures of the arrested persons, the police in their chargesheet have said that on the evening of June 4, Sirohi consumed liquor at his barrack in New Ashok Nagar police station with his three friends--- Vikas, Vineet and Harish. Thereafter, all four left in Sirohi’s car to have dinner and reached New Kondli, where Kumar and Atul were present. Kumar allegedly banged his hand on the car’s bonnet, which infuriated Sirohi and this led to an altercation. “Sirohi and his associates began assaulting Kumar as the latter hurled abuses at them. Atul fled when Sirohi identified himself as a policeman. The four then bundled Kumar into the car and drove away, without realising that Kumar’s neighbour was capturing all their actions on his mobile phone. The neighbour did not tell anyone about the assault because of the enmity his family had with Kumar’s family,” said another investigator.In the chargesheet, the police said Sirohi parked his car in a forested area near Akshardham temple--the police beat where he was usually deployed, brought Kumar out while others remained seated in the car, went deeper into the forested area and strangled Kumar to death. When Sirohi said that he killed Kumar, his associates panicked and Vineet fled the spot. Sirohi, Vikas and Harish returned to the police station, from where Harish also fled.Since Sirohi knew that Kumar’s body will be discovered in the morning, he decided to get rid of it. He called Suraj and sought his assistance in disposing Kumar’s body. Suraj arrived and the three went to the murder spot, bundled Kumar’s body into the car’s boot and left for Muradnagar, said the second officer. “Suraj used his police ID to avoid paying toll tax. They first removed Kumar’s clothes and identification documents and then dumped his body into the Ganga canal. Thereafter, they threw their clothes into Hindon canal on their way back to Delhi. Sirohi dropped Suraj and Vikas at their homes before returning to his barrack. The next morning, he washed his car and changed its seat covers and mats in the Mayur Vihar area. Thereafter, he went on medical leave for nearly 20 days,” said the officer. How the case was crackedPolice said Kumar’s family suspected the role of the family in their neighbourhood behind him going missing for days and alleged foul play when the video clip emerged. Police learnt that the video was made by a member of the family against whom Kumar’s family raised allegations. The neighbour was questioned and the clip was found in his phone. The clip was shared with a personnel of the local police station. A policeman identified one of the attackers as Sirohi.“Sirohi was made to join the investigation. Initially, he tried to mislead the police by claiming that he was innocent. He confessed to the crime when we showed him the video clip and confronted him with location of his cellphone on the day the crime was committed. His interrogation led to the arrest of the other four men from Delhi and Jaipur. Although the car was property washed, forensic experts still found a blood stain in the car’s hood,” said the second investigator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cop-held-for-murder-used-his-investigative-nous-to-wipe-evidence-101636308413013.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||14 more test positive for dengue in Ludhiana||As many as 14 more cases of dengue were reported from the district in the last 24 hours. With this, the total count of confirmed cases has reached 1,412, while 3,475 people are suspected to have contracted dengue.Of the 14 new cases, six were reported on Sunday.Meanwhile, one Covid infection has emerged in the district on Sunday. So far, 87,621 people have been tested positive for Covid in district, of which 85,498 patients have successfully defeated the virus, while 2,106 have succumbed to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/14-more-test-positive-for-dengue-in-ludhiana-101636306429588.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Six miscreants rob Ludhiana man of car, cash, mobile in Samrala||Six miscreants allegedly robbed a Ludhiana resident of his car, ₹18,000 in cash and a mobile phone after thrashing him outside a restaurant near Neelon Canal Bridge in Samrala on Saturday night.Victim Amandeep Kumar, of Preet Nagar in Ludhiana, had gone to the restaurant for dinner with a friend at the time of the incident. The Samrala police have lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused and initiated investigation.The victim said as they walked toward his Ford Figo car which was parked outside the restaurant after having dinner, a Mitsubishi Lancer car stopped near them. Six people alighted from the car and walked towards him.They thrashed him, snatched his car keys, cash and mobile phone and drove away. He raised an alarm and informed the police.Inspector Kulwant Singh, SHO at Samrala police station, said police are scanning CCTVs installed in the area to identify the miscreants.A case has been registered by the Ludhiana police against the unidentified accused under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).SIMILAR INCIDENTSOctober 4: Three miscreants had robbed a BA student of his SUV in Bhammipura village of Hathur, Ludhiana, and fled. Before snatching the SUV, the accused had overpowered and slapped the victim.September 11: Miscreants had robbed a city resident of cash, gold and his SUV at gunpoint near J-Block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar on Lodhi Club road, Ludhiana. The robbers had also kidnapped him in the SUV and forced him to take them to his home so that they can loot cash and jewellery from there as well. However, the man had jumped out of the moving vehicle after reaching near his locality.August 25: Armed miscreants had robbed a couple of their car in post locality J-block of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar of Ludhiana at gunpoint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-miscreants-rob-ludhiana-man-of-car-cash-mobile-in-samrala-101636306249663.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar, Jalandhar enter finals of Punjab softball tournament||Displaying brilliant performances, both Jalandhar and Amritsar made it to the finals of the 29th Senior State Softball Championship organised by Punjab Softball Association along with the local softball association in Ludhiana.While Jalandhar beat the host Ludhiana by 4-3, Amritsar completely dominated Ferozepur and clinched victory by scoring 10-1.Both Jalandhar and Amritsar will clash in the finals this week while Ludhiana and Ferozepur will play hardline match for the third spot.Earlier, Ludhiana beat Gurdaspur by 3-2 to reach the semifinals while Jalandhar outwitted Sangrur by 1-0 in the quarterfinals.Ferozepur defeated Moga 3-1 to reach the semifinals and Amritsar thrashed Fazilka by 3-2 in the quarterfinals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-jalandhar-enter-finals-of-punjab-softball-tournament-101636306070684.html
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: National Achievement Survey duties keep teachers busy, regular classes take a hit||While block mentors and district mentors of English, SST, Science and Maths are busy visiting schools across the district to oversee National Achievement Survey preparations, the teaching in their own schools is suffering in the absence of substitute teachers to fill in for them.Ludhiana has 57 block mentors and three district mentors for English, Science and Maths. While the district mentors remain away from their schools for long periods to prepare learning material for students and train teachers for National Achievement Survey , the block mentors remain on their toes with inspections in other schools. As per the orders of the former school education secretary, the department is supposed to provide substitute teachers when the mentors are sent out on field. But as the department has failed to do so, the burden falls upon other teachers in the school to accommodate more students or adjust classes. This, even as schools are already struggling with staff shortage.A teacher at a government high school, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Block mentors remain absent from schools for long stretches, which affects studies in their own school. Our school has a high enrolment rate, and in the absence of substitute teachers, it becomes difficult for us to fill in for teachers who have to head out for National Achievement Survey duties.”Voicing the same concern, a lecturer at a government senior secondary school said that around six teachers from her school have been included in the panel of block mentors, which makes it difficult for the remaining staff in the school to teach the huge strength of pupils.Sukhdarshan Singh of Government High School, Kot Mangal, said teachers should not be given administrative jobs. “There is already a shortage of teachers in government schools and on top of that, teachers appointed as block mentors or district mentors do not come to their own for several days. Ultimately, it is the students who suffer. Teachers are recruited to teach, and not for administrative jobs.”A senior education officer, on the condition of anonymity, said due to pendency of court cases regarding teachers’ recruitment, the department is unable to fill the vacancies and thus it is difficult to provide substitutes in each school. District education officer (DEO) Lakhvir Singh Samra said the department has provided maximum possible substitutes to schools. He added that substitutes of the block mentors and district mentors will be sent to remaining schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nas-duties-keep-teachers-busy-regular-classes-take-a-hit-101636305769852.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP national executive meet: Swatantra Dev Singh presents details of party’s preparedness for UP assembly polls||Uttar Pradesh (UP) Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Swatantra Dev Singh presented details of the party’s organisational preparedness for the UP assembly polls at the BJP national executive meet in Delhi in which chief minister Yogi Adityanath participated on Sunday. The national executive meeting, BJP leaders said, also indicated Yogi Adityanath’s growing profile within the party as he moved the party’s political resolution. In previous two national executive meetings, party’s veteran Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow and defence minister Rajnath Singh had placed the political resolution. “We will be contesting the UP assembly polls on the basis of Yogi ji’s leadership, honesty and development and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s honesty and visionary approach,” said Swatantra Dev Singh. The UP BJP chief, along with state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, was virtually logged on to the national executive. “We presented details like assembly wise meetings, booth verification campaigns and panna pramukh (head of a page on the voters’ list) plan. Along with this, there are those dedicated cadre who are leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that BJP wins big (in UP assembly polls),” Swatantra Dev Singh said after the national executive meet. During the meeting, the BJP set newer targets in states where it was yet to make a mark and also discussed the political situation in five states, including UP, that are due for elections. The BJP has also decided to institutionalise PM Modi’s radio talk show “Mann ki Baat” in all the booths, including the 1.63 lakh booths in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-national-executive-meet-swatantra-dev-singh-presents-details-of-party-s-preparedness-for-up-assembly-polls-101636304929514.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||Air pollution in Lucknow above national average during Diwali: IITR report||Air pollution in Lucknow on Diwali (November 4) were recorded much above the national average for several pollutants, according to a report by Lucknow-based Indian institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and released on Sunday. Gomti Nagar and Charbagh areas recorded the worst air pollution in Lucknow, while Charbagh and Chowk had the highest noise pollution, the IITR report showed.The IITR report titled “Ambient Air Quality in Lucknow During Pre-Diwali, Diwali and Post Diwali Festival” took air quality data from nine locations of the city.“The data revealed that both types of respirable particulate matters, PM10 and PM2.5 , monitored during pre-Diwali, Diwali and post-Diwali, were above the National Ambient Air Quality Standards of 60 and 100 µg/m3 for PM2.5 and PM10 respectively,” said SN Barik, the acting director of IITR.Barik also said, “On Diwali night, the level of PM10 had suddenly increased from the average value of 266.5 (on November 2 night) to 882.9 µg/m3 by 193.7%. The highest value of 1084.2 was recorded on the Diwali night in Gomti Nagar. The average PM10 value remained high even during post-Diwali night on November 6 with an average value of 322.9 µg/m3.” “(Similarly), on Diwali night, the level of (another pollutant) PM2.5 had suddenly increased from the average of 158.8 (on November 2 night) to 555.9 µg/m3 i.e. by 250.1 %. The maximum value on Diwali night was recorded at Charbagh at 833.3 µg/m3. Even the average value was high during post-Diwali night on November 6 at 215.8 .µg/m3,” he further said.PM10 are particles with a diameter of 10 micrometers. They are also called fine particles.Environmental experts say PM10 is also known as respirable particulate matter. Particulate matter is a complex mixture of soot, smoke, metals, nitrates, sulphates, dust water and rubber.PM2. 5 refers to particles that have diameter less than 2.5 micrometres (more than 100 times thinner than a human hair) and remain suspended for longer. These particles are formed as a result of burning fuel and chemical reactions that take place in the atmosphere.On Diwali night in Lucknow, the location-wise surge in PM10 concentration was: Aliganj (756.0 μg/m3, a surge of 176.7 %), Vikasnagar (880.8 μg/m3, spike of 281.9 %), Gomti Nagar (1084.2 μg/m3, surge of 327.7 %), Charbagh (1003.7 μg/m3, 251.9 %), Alambagh (915.3 μg/m3, 172.4 %), Aminabad (959.0 μg/m3, surge of 222.4 %), Amausi (730.5 μg/m3, spike of 217.5 %) when compared to the average on the pre-Diwali nights of November 2 and 3. As for PM2.5 concentration, the location-wise surge on Diwali night was: Aliganj (540.0 μg/m3 i.e. surge of 389.8%), Vikasnagar (510.5 .μg/m3 i.e. increase by 281.8 %), Gomti Nagar (672.6 μg/m3 i.e. 246.7 %), Charbagh (833.3 μg/m3 i.e 381.7 %), Alambagh (290.3 μg/m3, 100.8 %), Aminabad (810.9 μg/m3, 325.8%) Amausi (205.8 μg/m3, 125.8 %).NOISE LEVELSThe maximum noise level (98.4 dB) was recorded at Charbagh and the average maximum noise level of 89.4 dB was also at the same location.The noise levels were also measured at nine locations between 7pm and midnight for 20 minutes at each location during the night period. Also, during the day time, noise levels are monitored at all the locations. OTHER FINDINGSThe inhalable tiny fine particulate levels (PM10 and PM2.5) always exceeded respective National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) of 100 µg/m3 for PM10 and 60 µg/m3 for PM2.5 at all the air monitoring locations, the IIT report said. The concentrations of SO2 (sulphur dioxide) and NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) were well below the prescribed NAAQS standard of 80 µg/m3 at all the locations. However, both pollutants showed higher spike with comparison to pre and post Diwali nights at all monitoring locations. HEALTH EFFECTS“The traditional firecrackers can cause severe effects to the health of people like heart diseases, respiratory or nervous system disorders. Chemicals/ metallic agents-based firecrackers are a composition of toxic hazards. The urban population breathe toxic emissions of firecrackers combustion and suffers from nasal irritation and throat congestion,” Barik said.Noise and unwanted sound generated from bursting of firecrackers also creates impulsive noise and leads to non-recoverable hearing loss, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/air-pollution-in-lucknow-above-national-average-during-diwali-iitr-report-101636303129356.html
08-11-2021||Lucknow||2 expelled BSP MLAs join SP at Janadesh Rally in Ambedkar Nagar||Two Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs, Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar, joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the presence of SP national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday at the Janadesh Rally the two jointly organised in Ambedkar Nagar. Both are expelled BSP leaders.Both Verma and Rajbhar are MLAs from Assembly constituencies in Ambedkar Nagar. Verma is an MLA from Katehari while Rajbhar has the Akbarpur constituency.Their joining is no surprise, both had announced their plan to join the party at Samajwadi Party state headquarters in Lucknow on October 25.The development comes a week after six BSP MLAs (suspended from the party) joined the SP. On October 30, BSP rebel MLAs Aslam Raini (representing Bhinga in Shravasti), Mujtaba Siddiqui (Pratapur, Prayagraj), Aslam Ali Chaudhary (Dhalauna, Hapur), Hakim Lal Bind (Handia, Prayagraj), Sushma Patel (Mungra Badshapur, Jaunpur), and Hargovind Bhargava (Sidhauli, Sitapur) joined SP in Lucknow.The Sunday’s Janadesh Rally organised by Verma and Rajbhar is themed largely on price rise with the slogan ‘Mehgaayi par vaar hoga; Baaees mein badlav hoga (There will be attack on price rise which will spur change in 2022 assembly polls)’.It’s almost set that Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar will re-contest their respective constituencies in the 2022 UP assembly polls- this time on SP tickets.BSP chief Mayawati expelled Verma and Rajbhar on June 3 on the charge of indulging in anti-party activities during the panchayat election earlier this year. Verma held the post of the leader of the BSP legislature party in the state assembly while Rajbhar was the national general secretary of the party. The expulsion of the two top BSP leaders before the assembly election surprised the political observers as well as BSP workers. The six BSP rebel MLAs who had joined the SP last week were suspended from BSP after they had opposed the nomination of the party’s official candidate for the Rajya Sabha polls last October.With this, as the 2022 UP polls are nearing, the SP continues to attract leaders from different parties and tie-up with small regional parties.Last month, two Congress leaders from western UP, Harendra Malik and his son Pankaj Malik, joined SP soon after the party announced an alliance with the former BJP-ally-turned-rival Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP). Earlier this week, Akhilesh Yadav announced that his party will ally with Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) of his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav.“The SP will not ally with any big political party but will instead opt for strategic alliances with small regional parties,” the SP chief had been repeatedly saying at press conferences.On the day, when six BSP MLAs and one BJP MLA (Rakesh Rathore of Sitapur Sadar constituency) joined SP, senior Uttar Pradesh minister and state government spokesman Sidharth Nath Singh said that Samajwadi Party may have been making lofty claims of victory in the 2022 assembly polls but the fact remains that it has been inducting “rejects” of other parties to complete its list of 403 candidates. It only manifests the desperation of Akhilesh Yadav who had been busy taking in leaders from other parties left and right. It clearly shows that his party did not have candidates for the 2022 elections, the BJP leader said.Uttar Pradesh is likely to go to the polls early next year for its 403 seats assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2-expelled-bsp-mlas-join-sp-at-janadesh-rally-in-ambedkar-nagar-101636285066951.html
