09-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks L-G to look into sanctioning more staff for Indira Gandhi Hospital||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal to look into and take a decision at the earliest on the issue of giving approval for additional staff for setting up a dedicated Covid-19 facility at the 1,241-bed Indira Gandhi Hospital so that its functioning is not hampered.“We hope and expect that the L-G will look into the same to take a decision at the earliest considering the requirement of the hospital and so that its functioning is not hampered,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.It also said the government must endeavour to make the super speciality facilities functional at the hospital by March next year, instead of July.The court was hearing a plea by the Dwarka Court Bar Association, through advocate YP Singh, seeking to start the Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka, which has been under construction for the past eight years and is nearing completion now.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said of the 3,059 posts at the new hospital, the L-G has granted approval for 1,204 posts of staff and a fresh proposal has been submitted to the L-G seeking approval for 1,855 more posts.He also said 1,241 beds have been made functional in wards and the civil electrical work has also been completed. The task of installation of oxygen pipelines for those beds, which were to be completed by October, has been done.The high court had earlier directed the principal secretary (Home) of the Delhi government to monitor on a weekly basis the progress made in the construction of the 1,241-bed Indira Gandhi Hospital, which will be a Covid-19 dedicated hospital, and take appropriate disciplinary action against those found guilty of lapses or negligence.The matter will be next heard on February 1, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-l-g-to-look-into-sanctioning-more-staff-for-indira-gandhi-hospital-101636482428474.html
09-11-2021||Other||UPPCL asks discoms to resume smart metering project; consumer body raises questions||Lucknow: The UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) is gearing up to resume the smart meter installation work after a suspending it for a year in the state, following various complaints about the hi-tech meters were received, even as the UP Rajya Viduit Upbhokta Parishad has questioned the logic of re-starting installation without acting on the complaints. UPPCL managing director Panjak Kumar has asked discoms to start installation of smart pre-paid meters of 4-G technology as per the Central government’s guidelines issued on September 7, 2021. “However, the EESL will ensure that the incidents like bulk disconnections do not reoccur due to any reason to avoid inconvenience to consumers,” he said. EESL, a Central government enterprise, is implementing the project that seeks to install 40 lakh smart meters in consumers’ residences in UP. The UPPCL in mid-October last year had suspended the project till October 31, 2021 after thousands of smart meter consumers were deprived of electricity when their meters got disconnected. Many other complaints about these meters were also received from time to time prompting the management to order inquiries. Meanwhile, Upbhokta Parishad chairman Awadhesh Kumar Verma said that there was no logic in re-starting the smart metering project without the taking action on the complaints received earlier. “We do not know the status of the inquiries even after one year of thousands of smart meter consumers having faced a lot of inconvenience due to disconnection of their meters,” he said. Verma demanded action against the officials who purchased smart meters based on an outdated 2-G technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uppcl-asks-discoms-to-resume-smart-metering-project-consumer-body-raises-questions-101636482068247.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks govt for details of liquor brands with fixed MRPs under new excise policy||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Delhi government to disclose details about the number of liquor brands for which the maximum retail price (MRP) has been fixed and those yet to be done under the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021-22.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea by 16 retail liquor traders challenging the decision of the government to levy a licence fee from them from November 1, 2021, also asked the government whether registration of any liquor brand has already been done.The pleas, while seeking to postpone the collection of the licence fee till November 17, have contended that the MRPs have not yet been fixed for liquor brands and hence the licence fee cannot be charged by the Delhi government.“Before this issue is dealt with, I am of the view that it is necessary of the respondent (Delhi government) to inform the court about the number of brands for which the MRPs have been fixed and those which are left (to be fixed) along with dates. Also inform whether registration of any/ number of brands has already been done,” the court said.“This means people of Delhi will not get liquor. Why are you not fixing the MRP of brands?” the court further said.Senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing the liquor retailers, argued that the government cannot direct the petitioners to pay the licence fee with effect from November 1 as the payment of said fee depends on commencement of business. He said the authorities have not fixed the MRP for most liquor brands and hence have no right to direct retailers to pay the fee.One of the pleas filed by the 16 retailers, through advocates Tanmaya Mehta, Sanjay Abbot and Ankit Agarwal, said there has been a great delay in initiating the process of registration of brands and fixation of MRP by the Delhi government.It claimed that until October 30, not even a single brand had been registered within Delhi under the new excise policy, nor had the MRP been fixed for various liquor brands.It said the process for determination of MRP for retail sale is a time consuming exercise and if the scheduled date of commencement of business is November 17, as specified by the government, it is a complete breach of obligations on the part of the authorities in delaying the registration of brands and determination of MRP.This, however, was disputed by senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, who said the MRP of most of brands is already fixed and since the fixation of MRP is an ongoing process, the government was not responsible for any delay. They sought time from the court for taking instructions on the petition.The petitioners are successful bidders of L-7Z (zonal licence for retail vend of Indian liquor and foreign liquor) and L-7V (retail vend of Indian liquor, foreign liquor in a zone).The pleas also sought to restrain the government from demanding the sums of money in the form of licence fees or security deposit and also to direct the authorities not to levy or demand licence fees from successful bidders until the government performs its own obligations under the tender terms and conditions and the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-2022.The matter will next be heard on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-govt-for-details-of-liquor-brands-with-fixed-mrps-under-new-excise-policy-101636481532515.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 36 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Tuesday reported 36 fresh cases taking the infection count to 602616, according to a medical bulletin. The state reported one Covid-related fatality, taking the death toll to 16,566, it said. The state registered a positivity rate of 0.14 %. Among fresh cases, 11 were reported in Mohali, and six each in Amritsar and Jalandhar. The state has 229 active cases. With 23 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,821, the bulletin said. A total of 1,56,01,589 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far of which 25,395 were tested on Tuesday. As many as 91,410 doses of vaccines were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-36-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101636481531260.html
09-11-2021||Other||Odisha, Andhra Pradesh to set up institutional mechanism to address interstate issues||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and his Andhra Pradesh counterpart YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday decided to set up an institutional mechanism to deliberate on a host of interstate disputes, including the long-pending water dispute issue over the construction of the Neradi barrage over Vamsadhara river, officials said.Reddy, who flew down to Bhubaneswar on Tuesday afternoon, held a meeting with Patnaik in Kharavela Bhawan where both decided to work closely to resolve the contentious issues in the fields of water resources, boundary, energy and Left-wing extremism.A joint statement issued by Patnaik and Reddy after their meeting said that they have decided to work in cooperation with each other to solve all the issues amicably. The joint statement said the issues over disputes regarding Kotia group of villages, Neradi barrage, Jhanjavathi reservoir, Polavaram, the release of water for Bahuda river and mutual NOCs for the Balimela and Upper Sileru in the energy sector were discussed.“The chief secretaries of both the states will set up an institutional mechanism to deliberate on outstanding issues and find a solution that is in the best interest of the peopleof Odisha and Andhra Pradesh,” the joint statement said.Officials said among all the issues, the discussion on the construction of the Neradi barrage over Vamsadhara river took precedence as Odisha has filed clarification before the Vamsadhara Water Disputes Tribunal and Special Leave Petition (SLP) before Supreme Court objecting to the final orders of the water tribunal. In September this year, the Supreme Court sought a response from the Andhra Pradesh government after the Odisha government challenged the September 2017 orders of the tribunal allowing the Andhra Pradesh government to construct the Neradi barrage across the river with ancillary structures.With the SLP due for hearing in SC this month, Reddy had recently written to Patnaik seeking his cooperation in the construction of Neradi barrage by publishing the final orders of the tribunal in the state’s official Gazette under ISRWD Act 1956.The Neradi barrage being constructed over Vamsadhara river would help irrigate 2.5 lakh acres in Srikakulam district. In 1977, the AP government constructed the Gotta Barrage under Phase 1 of the project to utilise 30 thousand million cubic feet of water to irrigate nearly 2 lakh acres of land. Under Phase 2, the construction of Neradi barrage, about 48 km upstream of Gotta barrage was proposed. The barrage is also expected to provide water to 30,000 acres of land in Odisha.But Odisha government has been opposing the project arguing that it would leave hundreds of acres of many farmlands in Rayagada and Gajapathi districts submerged. The Vamsadhara river originates in Kalahandi district of Odisha and joins the Bay of Bengal at Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. While 154 km of the river lies in Odisha, 82 km flows in Andhra Pradesh.The water dispute led to the formation of Vamsadhara Water Disputes Tribunal in 2010 which in its final order in 2017 allowed the Andhra government to construct the barrage and directed Odisha to acquire 106 acres of land in Odisha and hand it over to Andhra for construction. The tribunal also ordered the yield of 115 TMC of the river at Gotta barrage should be shared equally by both states.Despite the tribunal’s orders, the Odisha government has not made any land acquisition. Amid the ongoing dispute, the Andhra Pradesh government built a side weir in 2018 to utilise 8 TMC of water of the 70 TMC that was going unused.The two chief ministers also discussed Jhanjabati and Polavaram projects that have become a major source of dispute between Andhra and Odisha. Though Andhra plans to use 4 TMC water from Jhanjabati river to irrigate over 24000 acres of land in Vizianagaram district, Odisha has been objecting to it arguing that several tribal villages will be submerged.Polavaram project, an under-construction multi-purpose project on the Godavari river in Andhra Pradesh is also being opposed by Odisha with the Naveen Patnaik government arguing that it would lead to submergence and displacement of several villages in the state. First envisaged by the British in 1941, the Polavaram project aims to construct a dam on the Godavari River and divert large quantities of water through a 174-km link canal to the Krishna River. The matter concerning the height of the proposed dam and reconstruction of the reservoir without the consent of the Odisha government is now pending before the SC.The two chief ministers also discussed the dispute over villages in Kotia grampanchayat of Koraput district of Odisha that escalated since last year. In August this year, the Supreme Court advised the Odisha and Andhra Pradesh governments to resolve the dispute over ownership of border villages through mutual discussions following a contempt petition filed by Odisha.Of the 28 villages in Kotia gram panchayat, Odisha did not survey 21 villages when it was formed in 1936. The same 21 villages were also not surveyed by Andhra Pradesh when it was formed leading to a dispute over these bordering villages.The Supreme Court in 1968 first ordered maintenance of status quo in the disputed area and in 2006 the apex court passed a permanent injunction on the disputed area. However, the dispute escalated when Andhra Pradesh on March 5 last year issued notification for panchayat elections in 3 of the villages in Kotia and held polls in February this year. Odisha told the court that these villages are under its administrative control and in the 2019 elections, the Kotia villages voted as part of Koraput Lok Sabha constituency and Pottangi assembly segment in Odisha.The two chief ministers said the states will work towards setting up a chair for Odia and Telugu languages in BR Ambedkar University, Srikakulam and Berhampur University, respectively. Besides, the appointment of language teachers in schools in border districts of the two states, supply of books and conduct of language examination will also be taken up to promote brotherhood.Both the states will continue the legacy of mutual cooperation and in the true spirit of federalism discuss issues between the two states....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-andhra-pradesh-to-set-up-institutional-mechanism-to-address-interstate-issues-101636481529863.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP, SP trying to give communal colour to UP polls: Mayawati||Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said on Tuesday that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in league with the Samajawadi Party, was trying to give a communal colour to the coming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh by making it a Hindu- Muslim affair. To divert the attention of the people from its failure to fulfill promises, poor performance and anti- people policies, the BJP was raising the Ayodhya police firing issue whereas the SP was highlighting Mohammad Ali Jinnah. It showed the internal understanding between the BJP and SP to serve their vested political interests, she said. Both the BJP and SP strengthened each other. The ideology of SP and BJP was casteist and communal and both the parties were dependent on each other, she said, adding when SP was in power the BJP gained ground in UP, whereas it weakens when the BSP was in power. The people were aware of the designs of both the parties and they would not fall prey to the conspiracies of BJP and SP, she said. Addressing a press conference at the BSP state unit office, Mayawati said, “I want to tell chief minister Yogi Adityanath that like him I too do not have a family. The difference is that to show off he is dressed in saffron robes, his family is RSS whereas the people of all castes and religions are my family.” “During my government, schemes and projects were launched for all whereas the Yogi government has worked for the people belonging to a particular religion and some select castes. When my family members or that of other leaders work with a selfless motive, it cannot be termed as promoting dynasty in the party,” she said. “When I was Chief Minister I did not visit districts before election to lay the foundation stones or to make promises to the people, nor forced the government employees to attend political rallies. Senior BSP leaders hold meetings across the state, I collect feedback and review the progress of the campaign,” she said. The BJP was trying to take credit for the Purvanchal expressway, Jewar and Kushinagar international airports which was not correct. The plans of all the projects were prepared when BSP was in power but due to the hurdles put by the then Congress government , the projects could not be launched, she said. Now that the assembly elections were close, the ruling BJP and other parties had launched adrive to lure and trick the people with promises. The BJP government at the centre and in the state started a series of the announcements and foundation laying drive which was likely to continue till the announcement of the schedule of the assembly election. It clearly indicated that the BJP would face defeat in the 2022 assembly elections, she said. Except BSP, other rival parties had made several announcements to lure the voters that raises questions on the commitment and working of the political parties. Like SP, the Congress had made several tempting promises but the people would not believe the announcements. If the Congress had fulfilled 50% of the promises it made to the people, then it would not have been out of power from the centre, Uttar Pradesh and other states. There was difference in the words and deeds of the Congress whereas the BSP talked less and focused on work, she said. She said the people would not forget inflation and hike in the price of petroleum products. Fearing defeat in the assembly elections, the BJP government had slashed the price of petrol and diesel but after the elections they would collect the money from the people with interest. The free ration scheme would also be withdrawn after the polls, she said. Before the assembly elections, the BJP had claimed to win 300 seats while SP claimed that it would bag 400 seats. The claims of both the parties were childish. To ensure that both the parties won the seats claimed by their leaders, the Election Commission would have to increase the number of assembly seats to 1,000. Free and fair assembly election would tell which political party had the strength to win in Uttar Pradesh, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-sp-trying-to-give-communal-colour-to-up-polls-mayawati-101636481468618.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses landmark 100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses||Ten months after the country began its national vaccination programme to inoculate Indians against severe Covid disease, Maharashtra on Tuesday crossed a milestone and administered 100 million vaccine doses. Of the 100,137,366 doses administered by Tuesday (9pm) in the state, 68,057,912 have received at least one dose while 32,079,454 have received both doses. In terms of absolute numbers, Maharashtra has the second-highest tally of vaccination doses administered in the country, with Uttar Pradesh in the lead. However, when the population of regions are factored in, Maharashtra lags behind the national coverage rate: While at least 41.9% of the adult population in the country is partially vaccinated and 37.3% is fully vaccinated, in Maharashtra, the coverage rates are 39.3% and 35.1% respectively. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope tweeted, “Today Maharashtra crossed benchmark of 100 Million covid vaccine doses. It was possible with active involvement of all district officers. Congratulations to all.”Dr Rahul Pandit, Director-critical care, Fortis Hospitals and member of the national Covid-19 task force described the feat as a milestone. “This accomplishment is a fruition of tremendous hard work, strategic acumen and timely intervention by the state and civic authorities, governing bodies, healthcare workers, community caregivers and responsible citizens. However, we must not let our guards down,” he said.The recent festive led to a sharp drop in innoculation in Mumbai, which reported 39% less vaccination in October compared to the previous month. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, around 95% of the city’s eligible population has been inoculated the first dose, while 56% of people have been fully vaccinated.According to civic body data, between September 1 and 29, over 2.6 million citizens were vaccinated, while the number dropped to 1.6 million until October 29. The data also shows that there has been no shortage of doses, as the civic body received 1.6 million doses in October against 1.7 million doses the previous month. This means that the civic body has surplus vaccine doses in stockMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week set the target of completing 100% first dose vaccination of the state’s 91.44 million population by November 30. Currently, the state has inoculated 74.38% of its targeted beneficiaries. The state crossed the 50 million mark of doses administered on August 17. Mumbai led the innoculation drive among districts (14,992,825 doses), followed by Pune (12,233,340) and Thane (8,437,825). Some districts like Nandurbar, Palghar, Hingoli, Gadchiroli and Solapur continued to lag in the vaccination drive. The government has launched Mission Kavach Kundal, a special campaign to boost its Covid-19 vaccination drive, on October 8 and set a target of vaccinating 1.5 million people a day.Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 982 Covid-19 new cases with 27 deaths. The case tally of the state stood at 6,619,329 on Tuesday, while the toll touched 140,430. On Tuesday, 1,293 patients recovered from the infection. The state has 13,311 active cases currently/ Mumbai recorded 274 new cases and one death on Tuesday, taking its toll to 16,282.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-landmark-100-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101636481168455.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Businessman held hostage for 2 hours in Noida Phase 2, four suspects on the run||A 33-year-old man was allegedly held hostage by four people in Noida’s Phase 2 for two hours on Sunday evening and forced to call his wife and ask for his car keys. However, the suspects fled the spot with his mobile phone fearing that they would be caught by the police.The victim, Naveen Kumar Shah, is a resident of Pocket 7 in Noida’s Phase 2. Shah runs an online business while the main suspect Akhlaq Khan (45) lives in the same colony.In his complaint to the police, Shah said Khan visited him and said he would show him his new office, some 500 metres away.“Khan took me to his new office on a scooter at 6.30pm. Three more men reached there and held me hostage. They tied my hands and legs and asked me to hand over my car keys,” he said. Shah said he had left his car and its keys at home. “The suspects used my mobile phone to call my wife and forced me to say that I was unwell and I would send someone to collect the car keys from home,” he said.Shah said his wife realised there was some foul play as he was fine when he left the house in the morning. “My wife informed some neighbours and feared that I was kidnapped. The suspects sent a man to collect the car keys but he could not dare to ask for it as a crowd had already assembled there. My family members then informed the police,” he said.The suspects realised that the matter was getting out of hand and fled the spot with Shah’s mobile phone around 8.30pm, said the police. Shah said he then managed to get out of his restraints and return home.Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer of Phase 2 police station, said a case has been registered against Khan and three unknown persons under sections 342 and 506 of the IPC on Monday. “We are investigating the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/businessman-held-hostage-for-2-hours-in-noida-phase-2-four-suspects-on-the-run-101636481109722.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Former employee arrested for stealing laptop parts from IT company in Noida||Police arrested a 35-year-old man on Tuesday for allegedly stealing laptop/computer parts from his office in Noida Sector 62 earlier this year, said officials.The suspect -- identified as Navneet Katiyar -- is a resident of Vaishali in Ghaziabad, and a native of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh.Anand Hardi, senior director of the company, said in the complaint that Katiyar worked at the company as an IT support person from April 19, 2017, to February 17 this year. “He had full access to the company’s IT assets like laptops, desktops and IT storeroom... As most of the employees usually complained that their laptops or desktops were slow, we got those checked and found that the standard configurations -- 20 gigabyte (GB) and 16GB memory -- of the systems were reduced to 8GB and 4GB. The company’s business was affected due to the slow systems,” Hardi said.The company conducted an internal investigation, and sacked Katiyar on February 17, 2021, after he was found guilty of theft. It suffered an estimated ₹45 lakh loss due to the theft of memory card and hard discs of the systems.The management team of the Information Technology (IT) firm filed a case against Katiyar at the Sector 58 police station on February 18 this year, said the station house officer (SHO), Vinod Kumar. Police immediately launched a search to nab the suspect as he escaped after the incident.After months, police received a tip about the movement of Katiyar near Noida Sector 62 roundabout on Tuesday.“A police team arrested him from there. Katiyar revealed during interrogation that he had doctored 76 laptops and 32 computers, and stolen the memory modules and hard discs,” said SHO Kumar, adding that the suspect was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/former-employee-arrested-for-stealing-laptop-parts-from-it-company-in-noida-101636481108469.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Four arrested for murder of senior-citizen couple in Ghaziabad on Diwali||The Ghaziabad police on Tuesday claimed to have cracked the double-murder case of a senior-citizen couple, and arrested four suspects.Both Ashok Jaidka, 72, and his wife Madhu Jaidka, 70, were murdered at their home late on the night of Diwali (November 4). During the investigation, police found CCTV camera footage in which two unidentified suspects were spotted entering the couple’s house and leaving within 5-6 minutes. Police identified the four suspects as Sundar Tiriya, his friend Atul Kumar, their accomplice Azad Kumar, and another man Rohit Narula, who owns a two-wheeler distribution firm in Sahibabad. “During the course of the investigation, we found that Tiriya, who had been on the run since the incident, had been living with the couple for the past 10 years and looking after them. In October, Ashok Jaidka asked him to either leave the house or start paying him ₹4,000 per month as rent. Tiriya was infuriated because Jaidka never paid him anything for his services, and instead misbehaved with him several times. Tiriya hatched a plan and called his friend Atul Kumar from his hometown on the pretext of getting him married. He then convinced his friend to help him with the plan,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1). Both Tiriya and Atul Kumar belong to Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh. “Narula was a friend of Jaidka and also handled his finances. He owed Jaidka ₹60 lakh and had only managed to pay back about ₹30 lakh so far. So, when Tiriya met him in October, Narula allegedly instigated him to take revenge against Jaidka,” the SP said. Thereafter, Tiriya also roped in Azad Kumar , a caretaker at the Jaidkas’ godown. The police said that Tiriya told him that he could take all the scrap in the godown if they get rid of the couple. “On the night of Diwali, Tiriya and Atul Kumar went to Jaidka’s house and hit the victims on the head with a hammer, while Azad Kumar acted as a lookout. With the help of CCTV camera footage, electronic surveillance and manual intelligence, we found the suspects and arrested them,” the SP said. The police said that the suspects were arrested from Patel Nagar area under the jurisdiction of Sihani Gate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-arrested-for-murder-of-senior-citizen-couple-in-ghaziabad-on-diwali-101636481048424.html
09-11-2021||Noida||2 new sewage treatment plants to become functional in Noida by February-end 2022||The Noida authority said on Tuesday that its sewage treatment plant (STP) project will be completed by February 28, 2022, which will be helpful in treating the wastewater across the city.The Noida authority is building a STP with 100 million litres per day (MLD) capacity -- its biggest STP so far -- and another STP with 80MLD capacity in sectors 168 and 123, with an approximate cost of ₹144 crore and ₹115.50 crore, respectively.According to the authority officials, only treated clean water will be discharged into Hindon river after the project is completed. The treated water from the two STPs will be used for irrigation and horticulture purposes, thereby saving the groundwater, they added.“We have expedited the work, and the project will be completed by February-end next year,” said Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority. He also said that work progress of all the important infrastructure projects in Noida was reviewed during Diwali last week.The authority started working on the two STPs with a total capacity of 180MLD in July 2020, and the deadline for the project was fixed for December-end 2022. There are already STPs of 35MLD and 40MLD capacity in Noida sectors 123 and 168, respectively, but the authority decided to construct two more STPs in these areas as new residential and commercial developments have been taking place there.At present, Noida has got six STPs -- two (34MLD and 25MLD capacity) in Sector 50, two (33MLD and 54MLD) in Sector 54, one (35MLD) in Sector 123, and one (40MLD) in Sector 168.The Noida authority had hired the WAPCOS Limited to design the water supply and sewerage systems in these areas. WAPCOS Limited -- earlier known as Water and Power Consultancy Services Limited -- is an Indian multinational government undertaking and consultancy firm wholly owned by the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India. The firm provides consultancy services in the fields of water resources, power and infrastructure. It had been stressing on the need to ready STPs having a capacity of 411MLD by the end of 2021.According to the officials, additional STPs are required in these areas as the Noida authority has earmarked sectors 128, 129,130, 135, 150 and 151 for group housing projects, and also commercial complexes. They said that more than 50% of the civil work has been achieved at both the sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-new-sewage-treatment-plants-to-become-functional-in-noida-by-february-end-2022-101636480988544.html
09-11-2021||Noida||3-day theatre festival in Noida from November 26||For the first time, the Noida authority is taking an initiative of holding a cultural event for residents here by organising a three-day theatre festival at Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra in Noida’s Sector 6 from November 26 to 28. Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority, said, “Our motive is to promote cultural and art events in Noida so that residents don’t have to go to Delhi for the same. We hope Noida will soon have a culture of having regular theatre festivals and cultural events which promote local art and give a platform to local artists.” “Noida has emerged into a cosmopolitan city, where people from diverse cultures live together. We hope its theatre scene becomes as diverse as the culture of this city,” said Tyagi. Artistes from Delhi’s theatre group ‘Pierrot’s Troupe’ will stage a comedy play ‘Private Affair’ directed by Dr Ahmed Alam on November 26 and ‘Ghalib in New Delhi’ on November 27. On the third day (November 28), the same group will stage ‘Gandhi Ji with spelling mistake’ at 7pm while Pratham Path theatre group from Ghaziabad will present ‘Daak Ghar’ at 6pm on the same day. The authority is also on its way to construct a Habitat Centre in Sector 94 with the aim of developing a dedicated space for promotion of socio-cultural activities in the city. “There should be more such events for art lovers in the city that is home to many artistes and art lovers. Why should we depend on Delhi for such events?,” said Om Raizada, poet and a resident of Greater Noida’s Sector Pi3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/3day-theatre-festival-in-noida-from-november-26-101636480868594.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Cruise drugs raid case: Prabhakar Sail questioned for second day by NCB vigilance team||A vigilance team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) questioned Prabhakar Sail, a key witness in the cruise ship drug raid case for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.Sail, who made his first appearance before the agency on Monday, was questioned in the Central Reserve Police Force’s mess in Bandra (West) for nine hours. He was accompanied by his lawyer Tushar Khandare.The NCB instituted a vigilance probe (referred to as a special enquiry team) under Deputy Director General Gyaneshwar Singh on October 25, following the allegations made in a notarised affidavit filed by Sail on October 23.In the affidavit, Sail claimed to have overheard a phone call between his employer Kiran P Gosavi — another witness in the cruise ship drug raid case — and Sam D’Souza. “You put a bomb of 25 crores and let’s settle at 18 final, because we have to give 8 crores to Sameer Wankhede,” Gosavi told a certain person named Sam D’Souza, the affidavit stated. Wankhede, NCB zonal director conducted a raid on Cordelia, a cruise ship docked in Mumbai on October 2, which led to the arrest of at least 20 persons including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23).Sail also claimed in his affidavit that Gosavi met Khan’s lawyer, Pooja Dadlani, and purportedly struck a deal of taking ₹50 lakh in exchange for Aryan’s release.On Tuesday Gyaneshwar Singh also met Mumbai police commissioner Hamant Nagrale and requested access to CCTV footage of certain sites mentioned in Sail’s affidavit where Gosavi purportedly met Dadlani. Nagrale confirmed meeting Singh but refused to divulge further details. On Monday, Singh and his team also visited the cruise ship and Tardeo, where Sail reportedly collected two bags containing ₹50 lakh from Dadlani, as per his affidavit. The vigilance team arrived in Mumbai on October 27 and has recorded the statement of eight persons, including Wankhede and investigating officer V.V Singh. Wankhede has denied all allegations made in the affidavit. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of NCB Delhi led by Sanjay Singh, which took over the investigation of six cases registered by Mumbai NCB this year, including the cruise ship drug raid case, summoned Karan Sajnani, a British national accused in a case involving Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik’s son-in-law, Sameer Khan. Sajnani has been asked to meet the NCB on Wednesday to record his statement. Sajnani was arrested by Mumbai NCB in January after the agency raided in his flat at Khar where they allegedly seized around 200 kg of imported strains of ganja. Sameer Khan and Sajnani are out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-drugs-raid-case-prabhakar-sail-questioned-for-second-day-by-ncb-vigilance-team-101636480810059.html
09-11-2021||Kolkata||Ready to probe Bengal’s Metro Dairy disinvestment, CBI tells high court||KOLKATA:  The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday told the Calcutta high court that, if ordered, it can probe the West Bengal government’s sale of its 47% stake in Metro Dairy to the project’s sole private partner which, a short while later, transferred 15% of its shares to a Singapore-based firm for a much higher price. This is the only disinvestment made by the Mamata Banerjee government since 2011 when the Trinamool Congress (TMC) first came to power.The division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Indra Prasanna Mukerji was hearing a petition filed by West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in 2018, demanding a probe by a central agency into what he alleged was a scam. Metro Dairy was established in 1991 as a public-private venture. The state-run West Bengal Milk Producers Federation had 47 % stake, the Centre-run National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) had 10% and the remaining 43% was owned by Keventer Agro Ltd. NDDB later sold its entire stake to Keventer. In 2017, the state government approved the sale of the remaining 47% in an auction. Keventer was the only one to bid.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) started an investigation in 2019 and questioned officials of Keventer Agro Ltd, the project’s sole private partner at the time of the sale, and at least four Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers working for the state government. It is unclear what the outcome of this probe was.After hearing the petitioner and CBI on Tuesday, the two-judge bench ordered all parties, including the state government and Keventer Agro, to file affidavits by December 10 and said the final hearing will take place on December 16, according to lawyer Pratip Kumar Chatterjee, who represented Chowdhury.Chowdhury’s petition says that in August 2017, the Bengal cabinet approved the sale of the government’s entire 47% stake in Metro Dairy Ltd to Keventer Agro Ltd for around ₹85 crore. Keventer sold 15% of its shares to a Singapore-based company for around ₹135 crore a few weeks after becoming the company’s sole owner.Chowdhury alleged in his petition that the government, which set up the company with public money, suffered a loss of at least ₹500 crore by selling its stakes to Keventer at a very low price.Registered in Kolkata, Metro Dairy Ltd has an authorized share capital of Rs.160,000,000 and paid-up capital of Rs. 61,276,000, the company’s website said on Tuesday.Chowdhury said, “People of Bengal have the right to know why the state sold its shares at such low price. Who decided on this price? There was corruption at every level of this deal. I want a probe by a neutral agency.” BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh seconded Chowdhury. “This should be probed by the CBI,” he said. West Bengal government officials refused to speak on this issue. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “At a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party is demanding a CBI probe into every minor incident in Bengal just to keep Mamata Banejee under pressure, Chowdhury is helping it. The government will give details of the sale to the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ready-to-probe-bengal-s-metro-dairy-disinvestment-cbi-tells-high-court-101636480688308.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet decides to regularise services of 36,000 employees||The Punjab cabinet on Tuesday decided to regularise the services of 36,000 employees working on contract, ad hoc, work charged, daily wages and temporary basis. Employees with more than 10 years of service would be regularised, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said at his press conference after the cabinet meeting. The draft “Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employees Bill-2021” to be introduced in the ongoing session of the state assembly was also approved by the cabinet. It also gave approval for the extra creation of deemed posts. The provisions of reservation policy would be followed during the regularisation process of these employees, according to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office (CMO). However, this decision of regularisation would not be a binding on the boards and corporations. In December 2016, the then SAD-BJP government had also passed the Punjab Adhoc, Contractual, Daily Wage, Temporary, Work Charged and Outsourced Employees’ Welfare Bill, 2016, in a special session convened ahead of the 2017 state polls, to regularise the series of 30,000 employees of various government departments. However, the regularisation of services did not fructify. Repeal of Contract Farming Act The cabinet also decided to repeal the Punjab Contract Farming Act, 2013, in view of the dilemma and fear in the minds of farmers of the state due to its strict provisions like imprisonment, monetary penalties and other rigorous punishments. The decision has been taken in the larger interest of the state farmers, the spokesperson said. The cabinet also approved the “Punjab Horticulture Nursery Bill-2021” to be introduced in the state assembly session by amending “Punjab Fruit Nurseries Act-1961”. The amended Act is necessitated in view of drastic changes in the new technologies like IT, GPS tagging, traceability etc. and these developments are essentially to be made part of this Act. OTS scheme for unauthorised constructionsThe cabinet also gave nod to promulgate “The Punjab One-Time Voluntary Disclosure and Settlement of Violations of the Buildings Bill, 2021” for all unauthorised constructions, which have come up till September 30, 2021. The scheme, based on the recommendations submitted by a cabinet sub-committee headed by local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, is aimed at providing one-time opportunity to the violators within the municipal areas who have made non-compoundable violations in the buildings for regularisation without compromising on public safety/security and convenience. The compounding fee has also been reduced by 25%. There are a large number of unauthorised constructions where buildings plans have not been approved. Most of the violations are non-compoundable and therefore such buildings cannot be regularised under the existing provisions. “The state government therefore feels that the best course of action to deal with such buildings is to regularise them provided these meet fire and safety standards and do not compromise on public safety/security and convenience & also to stop future unauthorised constructions,” said the official spokesperson. Power plants’ tariff to be re-determined “The Punjab Energy Security, Termination of PPAs and Redetermination of Power Tariff Bill, 2021”, which is to be placed in the state assembly for enactment, was also approved by the cabinet to refer PPAs with Nabha Power Limited and Talwandi Sabo Power Limited to PSERC for re-determination of tariff. It also gave a go ahead to the “Punjab Renewable Energy Security, Reform, Termination and Re-determination of Power Tariff Bill, 2021,” to be placed in the ongoing session. Hike in minimum wages A hike of ₹415.89 in minimum wages has been approved by the cabinet with effect from March 1, 2020, and September 1, 2020. The minimum wage has now been revised from ₹8,776.83 to ₹9,192.72. A worker would also be entitled to get arrears of ₹8,251 from March 1, 2020 up to October, 2021. The cabinet also accorded approval to the universalisation of Ayushman Bharat - Mukh Mantri Sehat Bima Yojana, under which the entire population of Punjab would be provided an insurance cover of ₹5 lakh per family per year, except for state and central government employees and pensioners. It also approved “The Punjab (Institutional and Other Building) Tax Repeal Bill, 2021” to be introduced in the current session of Punjab Vidhan Sabha to waive unpaid dues in all cases. This decision would give a relief of ₹250 crore to the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-decides-to-regularise-services-of-36-000-employees-101636480510079.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede father’s suit an attempt to hide illegalities: Nawab Malik to high court||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik told the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday that Dnyandev Wankhede’s defamation suit against him was an attempt to cover up the illegal activities Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, and was an attempt to curtail Malik’s “freedom of expression”. Malik submitted an affidavit in the HC in response to the defamation suit filed by Dhyandev Wankhede, seeking damages to the tune of ₹1.25 crore and also an order restraining the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader from making any false or incorrect statements against the Wankhede family that would defame or harm their reputation.Malik’s affidavit stated that none of the statements made by him was incorrect and that the evidence produced by him has helped the government machinery take corrective steps against Sameer Wankhede. Malik’s response said that Dnyandev distorted facts to get a favourable order. In the past month, Malik has made a series of allegations against Wankhede who conducted a raid on a cruise ship on October 2, following which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23) was arrested. Wankhede had also arrested Malik’s son-in-law, Sameer Khan, in January, in a case that Malik claims in a false one. Malik has called the cruise ship raid “fake” and accused Wankhede and others of plotting to “kidnap" Aryan with the aim of extorting money. Last month, Malik also accused Wankhede of forging a caste certificate to get a position in the Indian Revenue Service, and said that the Wankhedes were Muslim.Dnyandev and Wankhede have refuted all claims made by Malik.“The plaintiff (Dnyandev) has made big hue and cry when the Defendant has produced this birth certificate, thereby alleging that his name is not Dawood and he nor his son, are Muslim by religion. I say that the said certificate is issued by the MCGM [civic body]. I say that if the said birth certificate issued by the MCGM is false, then it is for the Plaintiff or said Sameer Wankhede to take corrective steps and purse it with MCGM. It is pertinent to note here that if according to the Plaintiff said birth certificate is false, then the Plaintiff should have produced the correct birth certificate. The Plaintiff, till date, have not produced any other birth certificate to contradict the birth certificate produced by the Defendant, which falsifies the Plaintiff’s case to great extent.” “The plaintiff, by filing the present suit, is trying to curtail the freedom of expression granted to the defendant under Article 19 of the Constitution of India, which the defendant uses for public good,” Malik’s affidavit said.The affidavit was filed in the defamation suit which was heard by the single judge vacation bench of justice Madhav Jamdar on Monday. The suit had sought interim relief in the form of an injunction which would restrain Malik from posting statements and comments that were defamatory in nature against the Wankhede family. After hearing the suit the bench had directed Malik to file a response within a day and posted hearing to Wednesday November 10. The affidavit concludes stating that, “The present suit is nothing but an attempt to cover up the illegalities committed by the Plaintiff’s son and the same should be dismissed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-father-s-suit-an-attempt-to-hide-illegalities-nawab-malik-to-high-court-101636480448322.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Complete Namami Gange sewerage projects timely, UP chief secy directs officials||Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari has directed officials concerned to chalk out a time-bound programme to complete the sewerage projects being implemented along the banks of the Ganga and its tributaries under the National Mission for Clean Ganga (Namami Gange).Presiding over the 8th meeting of the State Ganga Council, here, on Tuesday, he also asked officials to analyse the projects running behind schedule, fixing accountability to fast-track the projects. He said cases related to land disputes in the matter must be disposed of expeditiously.Tiwari further directed officials to get a report prepared on water quality of rivers and their tributaries before and after the nullahs were tapped. He stressed the need for the formation of district Ganga councils in all the districts situated along the Ganga and its tributaries. He said data on the jobs created under the scheme should be prepared.The CS said that a publicity campaign involving schools and colleges should also be launched to create public awareness about the need for a clean Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/complete-namami-gange-sewerage-projects-timely-up-chief-secy-directs-officials-101636480330918.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans cycle track along Mahalaxmi racecourse||A cycle track on the sidewalk along the protective wall around the Mahalaxmi race court is planned by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body has proposed a budget of ₹1.22 crore for the track.Currently, the protective wall adjacent to the racecourse on Dr E Moses Road is in dilapidated condition. The BMC has proposed to build the protective wall and repair the sidewalk. A cycle track will be constructed at the same place. The proposal is also aimed at ending illegal parking along the sidewalk. The proposal was passed in the standing committee meeting on Tuesday.The work on the cycle track proposed by the BMC is expected to be completed in four months, and the contractor involved in the project will have the responsibility of maintaining it for two years.The BMC along with the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is constructing cycle tracks throughout the city. It is being pushed by Mumbai Suburban’s guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray who has been batting for environmentally friendly non-motorised transport. Similarly, projects of cycle tracks have been undertaken at Dahisar, Borivali, BKC, Dadar by several corporators.Along with this, the BMC also plans to develop Mumbai’s first baby park in Agripada in Mumbai Central. The civic body will spend ₹2.14 crore for the construction of the baby park. The baby garden will have a separate place for young children and infants along with a separate room for feeding in the park. The entire park will be designed in such a way that it can be used by children and senior citizens. The proposal was taken for discussion in the standing committee on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-cycle-track-along-mahalaxmi-racecourse-101636480028418.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on polls, Punjab govt okays bill to regularise services of 36,000 employees||The Punjab state cabinet on Tuesday approved a bill for regularisation of services of 36,000 employees who were working on contractual basis or drawing daily wages on a temporary basis in various government departments.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi gave nod to the Punjab Protection and Regularization of Contractual Employees Bill-2021 for regularisation of the services of employees, news agency PTI reported.The bill will be tabled in the assembly for enactment. "In a major decision, the cabinet today decided to regularise 36,000 employees.... It is a big gift for employees," Channi said.An official from the chief minister's office said with this decision, the services of nearly 36,000 employees with more than 10 years of service would be regularised.Several contractual and outsourced employees had been protesting against the state government, demanding regularisation of their services.The move comes several months ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab, slated for next year.In another decision, the cabinet also approved the enhancement of minimum wages with effect from March 1 last year.The revision in minimum wage based on consumer price index was due on March 1, 2020. It has now been increased by ₹415.89 from ₹8,776.83 to ₹9,192.72. With the hike in minimum wage, a worker would also be entitled to get arrears of ₹8,251 from March 1, 2020 up to October, 2021, the chief minister said.In another move, the cabinet decided to repeal the Punjab Contract Farming Act, 2013."Keeping in view the dilemma/fear in the minds of the producers/farmers of the state due to the strict provisions incorporated in the Punjab Contract Farming Act, 2013 like imprisonment, monetary penalties and other rigorous punishments, the cabinet decided to repeal the aforesaid Act in the larger interest of Punjab farmers,” according to a government statement.Channi said that his government will bring a bill related to the power purchase pacts, resolutions on the Centre's farm laws and the Centre's notification on extending the BSF's jurisdiction.The cabinet also accorded approval to the Punjab Energy Security, Termination of PPAs and Redetermination of Power Tariff Bill, 2021.With the passing of this bill, power purchase agreements with Nabha Power Limited and Talwandi Sabo Power Limited shall stand referred to power regulator Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission for re-determination of tariff.The cabinet gave the go ahead to the Punjab Renewable Energy Security, Reform, Termination and Re-determination of Power Tariff Bill, 2021, aimed to evolve statutory measures for sustained development of the electricity sector and make available electricity to the consumers at an economical basis.The cabinet also gave nod for promulgating the Punjab One-Time Voluntary Disclosure and Settlement of Violations of the Buildings Bill, 2021 for all unauthorised constructions, which have come up till September 30.The cabinet approved the Punjab (Institutional and Other Building) Tax Repeal Bill, 2021 to waive un-paid dues in all cases.The Punjab (Institutional and Other Building) Tax Act was implemented on the industrial and other institutional buildings, which come outside the municipal limit. This decision would give a relief of ₹250 crore to the beneficiaries.It also gave approval to amend the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961 and to introduce the Punjab Horticulture Nursery Bill-2021 in the assembly session by amending the Punjab Fruit Nurseries Act-1961.To avail the benefit of normal net borrowing ceiling of 4 per cent of the projected gross state domestic product in the financial year 2021-22, the cabinet approved amendment in the Punjab Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2003.Meanwhile, in a notification, the state government decided to dispense with the services of retired employees who were re-employed in various government departments.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eye-on-polls-punjab-govt-okays-bill-to-regularise-services-of-36-000-employees-101636477723823.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Make seat belts must in passenger buses: UP transport dept to Centre||The Uttar Pradesh transport department has urged the Centre to make the use of seat belts mandatory in all passenger buses, including school buses and other heavy vehicles, people aware of the matter said. The move, they said, was aimed at minimising deaths and injuries in road accidents. The current rules have the seat belt provision only for persons occupying front-facing rear seats that too only in those vehicles that do not have more than eight seats, apart from the driver’s seat. The department has made the recommendation it received in this regard from social activist, technocrat and Sarvebhyo Foundation founder Alok Singh.“You are requested to consider amending section 125 (1) of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989/issuing necessary directions providing for seat belt use by all people in passenger buses of all categories,” additional transport commissioner, enforcement, VK Sonakiya said in a letter to the joint secretary, road transport and highways, on November 3. Sub-rule 1(A) of the Rule 125 of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules mandates that the manufacturer of every motor vehicle of M1 category shall equip every motor vehicle with a seatbelt for a person occupying the front-facing rear seat.“This sub-rule in simple terms means that apart from the driver and co-passenger seat in the front, the seat belt for the front-facing rear seat passenger is mandatory in only those vehicles that do not have more than nine seats, including the driver seat and it is not mandatory for passengers of a vehicle having more than nine seats,” Alok Singh explained in the proposal.“This also means that even for eight-seat vehicles, the seat belt is not mandatory for seats that are in a vertical position not facing the front of the vehicle,” he added. All school buses, he pointed out, had more than nine seats.“There have been heart-wrenching passenger bus accidents resulting in loss of innocent lives. Many of them would have been saved had they been wearing seat belts,” Singh claimed. He suggested that apart from the provision of seatbelts in all passenger buses and heavy vehicles, there must be an additional provision of instructions being played out on sound systems urging passengers on board to fasten their seat belts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/make-seat-belts-must-in-passenger-buses-up-transport-dept-to-centre-101636479788229.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Noida officials on high alert as 86 fresh dengue cases emerge in November||The district health department in Gautam Budh Nagar is on high alert as, according to official data, 86 fresh cases of dengue have been reported in November alone though officials said there has been a decline in the number of fresh dengue cases. Three fresh dengue cases have been reported in Gautam Budh Nagar in the last 24 hours ending on Tuesday evening, taking the cumulative tally of cases of the vector-borne disease to 539. Currently, there are 41 active cases in the district taking treatment in different hospitals. “In the last one month, the district has reported over 10 cases almost every day. However on Tuesday, only three new cases were reported. Moreover, the number of active cases has come down from 61 on November 1 to 41 on November 9. This indicates the declining trend in dengue cases in the district,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Sharma added the district health department is on high alert given the number of fresh cases reported in November. “Cases may go down but it is too soon to let our guard down. Intensive fogging drives and awareness campaigns are being conducted across the district with special focus on clusters from where maximum dengue cases have been reported,” said Sharma. Officials have identified 18 clusters in Noida and Greater Noida, where a large number of dengue cases have been reported. Sadarpur, Chhalera, Mamura, Nithari, Barola, Chhijarsi, and sectors 5, 9, 22 and 51 have been identified as dengue hotspots in Noida. Alpha 2, Gamma 1, Beta 1, Gaur City 1 and 2, Haibatpur, Kulesara and Surajpur in Greater Noida are the hotspots. The district’s first dengue death this year was reported on October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-officials-on-high-alert-as-86-fresh-dengue-cases-emerge-in-november-101636479488353.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party launches perfume to spread the ‘scent of socialism’ in UP||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday launched a specially made "Samajwadi perfume", hoping to spread the "scent of socialism" in the state.The perfume, a mix of 22 natural "attars" (fragrances), has been prepared in Kannauj.Kannauj is called the "Attar Nagri" and has been the stronghold of the Samajwadi Party, represented by Dimple Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav in the Lok Sabha in the past.Kannauj MLC Pushraj Jain said the perfume packed in a red-green bottle and its box having a picture of the party president was prepared by two scientists in four months."We also took directions from the national president in this task and he guided us. The speciality of this perfume is that from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, 22 natural 'attars' have been used in it," he said."When you use it, you will feel the 'sugandh of samajwad', brotherhood, love and amity," he said, adding that the soil of Kannauj has also been used in it.On the significance of 22 natural fragrances used in the perfume, he said it was because the elections in the state are slated for 2022 and the perfume will help overcome "hatred by bringing in an atmosphere of love and brotherhood".The SP MLC also spoke about future plans in the wake of 2024 Lok Sabha elections.Another perfume is being prepared, which will use 24 natural scents, to overcome hatred in the 2024 elections, Jain said.The perfume was distributed among all party leaders and members of the press present on the occasion.Speaking on the occasion, Akhilesh Yadav said people will go among the public applying this perfume to make them remember socialist ideology and the Samajwadi Party."Its colour is also red and green," he stressed.Later in a Hindi tweet, Akhilesh said, "The scent has been given to everyone as a gift because the flower of lies does not give fragrance."Earlier too in 2016, the SP had launched a perfume with four fragrances to mark four years of its rule in the state.Meanwhile, taking a dig at Akhilesh Yadav, UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh said the perfume launched by him is not going to remove the "stink of sins" of the party.People of the state will no longer give a chance to the "toxic cocktail of Samajwadi Party's hooliganism and corruption, Singh said, adding no matter how much perfume the SP chief applies, the public is not going to be attracted towards him.People of the state have not forgotten how goons were glorified during the SP tenure, he said, adding that they used to roam in ministers' vehicles and the government withdrew cases against terrorists."The reality is that one who chants the name of Mohammad Ali Jinnah 24 hours a day can never see the development of the state. He only sees dreams of partition," Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-launches-perfume-to-spread-the-scent-of-socialism-in-up-101636478887385.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Padma for Maulana Kalbe Sadiq - Family thanks govt, says ‘real tribute to a great scholar’||Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, the former vice-president of the All Indian Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), was awarded the Padma Bhushan, posthumously, on Tuesday.“It’s a tribute in the real sense to the great scholar,” family members of the Shia cleric, a prominent Islamic scholar, reformer and educationist who breathed his last on November 24, 2020, said.The award was received by the cleric’s son, Kalbe Sibtain Noori. “It’s indeed a pleasure for us to receive the honour. I am thankful to the government for giving a thought and for acknowledging my father’s selfless contributions in several fields, especially education,” said Noori.He said that the announcement was made earlier this year but following the pandemic, the ceremony could not be organised, and hence, the award was handed over to them at a ceremony on Tuesday at Rashtrapati Bhawan.Hasan Rizvi, the son-in-law of Maulana Kalbe Sadiq said, “I think it’s a real tribute to a great scholar. We all are thankful to the government for the honour.”Maulana Kalbe Sadiq was born in Lucknow and was known for his lectures, mostly during Muharram. His father, Kalbe Hussain, was an Islamic scholar and orator and his brother, Kalbe Abid, was also an Islamic scholar. He was the uncle of Shia scholar Kalbe Jawad. He received his early education from Sultan ul Madaris and then moved to Aligarh Muslim University from where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree. He later went on to pursue his master’s degree in Arabic literature from the same university. He got his doctoral degree from Lucknow University. Sadiq was an international Muslim scholar, reformer, educationist and preacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/padma-for-maulana-kalbe-sadiq-family-thanks-govt-says-real-tribute-to-a-great-scholar-101636478649825.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||9 rescued after structure collapses in Antop Hill, 3 hurt||Nine people were rescued by the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) after a ground-plus-one storey structure collapsed in Jai Maharashtra Nagar at Antop Hill in Wadala on Tuesday around 8am. Of the nine rescued, seven were sent to Sion hospital, while two reportedly refused hospitalisation. Three of the seven who have sustained injuries have been identified as Amit Mishra, 23; Surendra Mishra, 59; and Punam Sharma, 28.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the structure that collapsed was attached to two other structures, which also collapsed partially. The area is densely-populated and occupied by slums, and the houses are built with bricks and metal sheets. The ground floors of the affected buildings were occupied by commercial shops or godowns, while the top floors were residential spaces, according to the fire brigade officials. According to officials, the commercial space was doubling up as a scrap godown. “The shops were closed in the morning when the incident occurred, but its owners live in the house on the top floor.”Gajanan Bellalle, assistant commissioner of F-North ward, under which the area comes, said, “All three structures collapsed. The ground-plus-one storey structure collapsed completely, affecting the stability of the two adjoining structures, which are single-storey buildings with a partial first floor. The hutments are at least 15 years old and are on collector’s land.”Another civic official from F-North ward, who was on the field looking over the rescue operations, said, “We decided to demolish the two other structures which had partially collapsed as they were weak. At the time of demolition, we vacated other adjoining homes and cut their power supply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/9-rescued-after-structure-collapses-in-antop-hill-3-hurt-101636478648390.html
09-11-2021||Gurugram||Congress opens new office at Jharsa||The Congress on Tuesday opened an office at Jharsa to “improve outreach and accessibility” in Gurgaon Lok Sabha constituency, former minister Capt (retd) Ajay Singh Yadav said. “The new office at Jharsa is centrally located and is easy accessible. Party functionaries can hold meetings with workers and general public throughout the week. I would be available here on Friday and Saturday. It will also allow party to reach out to people from Mewat, Rewari and other parts of the parliamentary constituency,” said Yadav, adding that the opening of this office is part of a series of steps being taken to establish a presence in the district. Yadav said that in the last general elections, their share of votes in many blocks was less, despite them being known as “Congress pockets”. Senior Congress workers and party functionaries were present at the opening of the new party office on Jharsa, which is close to the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. The Congress has a permanent office functional at Kaman Sarai in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/congress-opens-new-office-at-jharsa-101636478590775.html
09-11-2021||Gurugram||Only segregated waste to be collected from Thursday||Starting Thursday, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will collect only segregated waste from households in the city, officials said, emphasising that mixed waste will not be picked up. The civic body also plans to start penalising residents found dumping accumulated mixed waste in public spaces from later this month.Officials said that waste should be segregated in three bins, categorised as biodegradable waste, dry waste and reject sanitary waste (medical waste). The segregated waste will be collected from homes in vehicles having separate compartments for the same, following which it would be taken to the four waste transfer stations for processing. Vaishali Sharma, additional commissioner, MCG, said that residents have been trained on how to segregate waste, with special sessions organised at various localities. “It is known to all that waste should be segregated while disposing of, according to the norms of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and we had given residents time till November 10 to understand how it should be done. Special training sessions were also conducted at different localities, while we were setting up infrastructure at our end. From Thursday onwards, if any resident gives mixed waste, it will not be collected from their doorstep and after November 20, we will start issuing challans to the violators. If anyone tries to dump the accumulated mixed waste in their neighbourhood, then they will be fined ₹5,000,” said Sharma.The MCG has also issued a toll-free number — 18001801817 — for residents to lodge complaints or get more information on the process. Sharma said that residents can also lodge complaints if the collection vehicles do not have separate compartments for segregated waste. Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC), an umbrella body of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the city, said, “There has been no intimation from MCG on how the segregated waste will be collected from the residential societies. I am still getting feedback from residents that the waste collecting vehicles visiting their areas do not have separate compartments. If the systems are in place, then why is it not being implemented? If vehicles with separate compartments are sent, then residents who are not segregating waste at present will also start following it as, otherwise, waste will not be collected.”Officials of Ecogreen Energy, the MCG’s concessionaire for door-to-door collection of waste in the city, said that they are prepared to collect segregated waste and have informed their staff that mixed waste should not be collected. Sanjeev Sharma, the spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, said, “We have trained all our staff on how segregated waste must be collected in separate compartments, in all waste collecting vehicles. Waste will be collected as biodegradable (wet waste, horticulture waste), medical waste and non-biodegradable (recyclable waste). There will also be a small box for domestic and hazardous waste, such as used paint containers, pesticides and other items. The segregated waste will be brought to the four transfer stations at Kadipur, Atul Kataria Chowk, Sushant Lok and Beri Bagh for processing.” On December 25, 2020, the MCG observed its first Zero Waste Day, when only wet waste is collected from households. Since mid-March this year, the corporation has been observing zero waste days every Tuesday to train residents on waste segregation. Officials said that residents have been given six months of training in segregation of waste and hence, decided to carry it out on a full-time basis ahead of the Swachh Survekshan 2022, for which ‘Kachra alag karo’ (separating waste) is a major component. In the last week of October, the corporation issued directions to its sanitation wing and officials of Ecogreen Energy to make citizens aware of what they need to do to segregate waste. The MCG officials had then said that the segregation of waste is also aimed at converting wet waste into compost and recycling dry waste to the maximum possible extent so that the waste load carried to the overburdened Bandhwari landfill can be reduced, as around 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste is currently dumped at the landfill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/only-segregated-waste-to-be-collected-from-thursday-101636478589479.html
09-11-2021||Gurugram||Respiratory illnesses on the rise due to post-Diwali toxic air||Due to the worsening of air quality since Diwali, cases of respiratory diseases in out-patient departments (OPDs) of hospitals across the city have gone up in the last few days. Doctors said that most complaints pertain to asthma attacks, breathing difficulties, bronchitis and burning sensation in the eyes, among other issues. “Post Diwali, the air quality index jumped to very dangerous levels, which is leading to spike in respiratory cases. The respiratory OPD footfall has increased by 40% with people presenting with increased cough, chest congestion, breathing difficulty, runny nose and fever. There is increase in asthma attack cases by 25% and lung infections by 20%. The emergency admissions due to the acute respiratory illness has spiked also by 30%,” said Dr Manoj Goel, director of Pulmonology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute. He advised residents, especially those who have pre-existing lung diseases and those who have had severe Covid-19 infection, to avoid going outdoors. For three consecutive days following Diwali, Gurugram had a ‘severe’ air quality index, which implies that the air quality is hazardous and may cause respiratory effects even to healthy people and serious health impacts to people with lung or heart diseases. Over the past two days, there has been a marginal improvement in air quality, which is currently classified as ‘very poor’, also harmful for residents. Amid such high levels of pollution, those suffering from heart diseases, asthma, and other respiratory diseases are advised to avoid undue and prolonged exposure, under the Graded Response Action Plan to control air pollution.Paras Hospital in the city has witnessed about a 10% rise in new patients in emergency and OPDs with chest congestion symptoms, with some who have no history of respiratory illnesses, said Dr Arunesh Kumar, head of the department of pulmonology at the hospital. At Civil Hospital in Sector 10, doctors said that over 350 patients have visited the hospital with issues of acute respiratory infection, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), acute bronchitis, bronchial asthma and fever. “In the past three days, maximum cases in the medicine OPD are of patients with respiratory issues. This will continue for a few days as pollution levels had spiked a lot. The temperatures are also dropping, so that also impacts recovery from such infections,” said Dr Manish Rathi, deputy medical superintendent of Civil Hospital. Doctors also said that many patients are those who have recovered from Covid-19 earlier this year. “We see a rise in such cases every year around this time, but this year, it is on a higher scale as many are Covid-19 recovered patients, whose lungs are already compromised. These patients were fine after recovery, but as they got exposed to high levels of pollution, they had worsening of shortness of breath and we had to give antibiotics and use nebulizers in emergency cases between 40 and 70 years of age,” said Dr Ashutosh Shukla, senior director of internal medicine at Max Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/respiratory-illnesses-on-the-rise-due-to-post-diwali-toxic-air-101636478588236.html
09-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram weather: Temperature continues to dip, may reach 10°C by weekend||The daily temperatures have started gradually declining in the city, with Gurugram recording a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius (°C) on Tuesday, a day after recording 13.9°C as the temperature fell below the 15°C mark for the first time this winter on Monday.Officials of the weather department said that the minimum temperature is in line with the normal temperature of 12.6°C recorded around this time of the year. The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 27°C, which was 3.5°C lower than normal.According to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) weekly forecast, over the next five days, i.e., by Sunday, the minimum temperature is likely to drop to 10°C in Gurugram while the maximum temperature will remain around 27°C. On Monday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 13.9°C as the temperatures hit the lowest of the season, signalling proximity to winter.“Over the next few days, temperatures in South Haryana region will keep on decreasing gradually due to dry weather and north-westerly winds. There would not be a sudden drop in minimum temperature, but daily, there would be 0.4-0.5 degrees drop, making an overall drop of two to three degrees after 48 hours. By the end of this week, Gurugram is likely to witness a minimum temperature around 10°C, but along with that, our normal range of minimum temperature is also decreasing by one degree,” said Manmohan Singh, the director of Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh.According to the IMD, Gurugram is likely to witness partly or generally cloudy skies on November 12 and 13, which will also lead to a dip in the temperature in the region.Meanwhile, with low temperatures and winds from the north-west direction, the air quality in the national capital territory is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s classification, according to the weather bulletin issued by Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Tuesday.On Tuesday, Gurugram recorded an air quality reading of 368, which was in the ‘very poor’ zone of Central Pollution Control Board’s classification, faring much better than many of its counterparts in the National Capital Region (NCR), as Faridabad, Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida recorded ‘severe’ air quality.On Wednesday, the wind speed is likely to be around 4-12 kilometres per hour, with partly cloudy skies and shallow fog predicted in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-weather-temperature-continues-to-dip-may-reach-10-c-by-weekend-101636478530691.html
09-11-2021||Gurugram||DTCP forms teams to check building plan violations after issuing occupancy papers||To curb building plan violations by property owners, especially after obtaining occupancy certificates, the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Tuesday constituted five committees for keeping a check on the same.DTCP officials said that illegal constructions made by property owners after obtaining an OC will be sealed and FIR registered against the owner, architect and contractor. The department on Monday recommended that an FIR be registered against a house owner in DLF Phase-1 for carrying out excessive construction, in violation of rules.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the committees led by junior engineers would conduct an inspection on the tenth day after an occupancy certificate is issued and recheck the site within 45 days. “A thorough checking of the building and structure would be carried out to ensure that no violations exist. As per the directions of director, DTCP, it has been decided that if large-scale violations are found, then property would be sealed and cases registered against the property owners, architects and contractors. This has become necessary as we have received several complaints regarding this matter,” he said.DTCP officials said that the main violations pertain to construction of rooms in stilts, closing of cutouts, extended constructions in setbacks and running commercial establishments. They said that after permissions were granted by the government to add a fourth floor, such types of violations have increased manifold.In another development, the department on Tuesday wrote to the power utility Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) directing that power connections not be issued to illegal colonies. “We have already carried out demolition drives in large number of illegal colonies and registries of such properties are also under investigation by the revenue department. Curbing illegal colonies is a joint prerogative of all the agencies and this is the reason I have asked the power utility to ensure connections are not issued to illegal colonies,” Bhath said.The letter to the DHBVN was written after a recent communique in which the power discom asked the DTCP to crack down on illegal colonies, failing which connections would be issued.According to officials, the DTCP enforcement team has cleared illegal encroachments on more than 1000 acres in the recent past. “A large number of completed structures, boundary walls and road and pipelines have been demolished,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-forms-teams-to-check-building-plan-violations-after-issuing-occupancy-papers-101636478529504.html
09-11-2021||Gurugram||BJP to inaugurate new Gurugram office on Nov 15||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will inaugurate its newly constructed office in the city at the Signature Towers crossing on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway on November 15, a party spokesperson said on Tuesday.The construction of this office in Sector 30 commenced in 2018 after the party procured a land parcel from the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). It was originally to be built on a plot in Silokhra village but due to opposition by villagers, the location was shifted.GL Sharma, in charge, BJP Bhawan Nirman Samiti (office modernisation cell), Haryana, said that the new party building will have space for district and state party functionaries, library, media room, IT room and separate enclosures for different party cells. “The building is spread over one lakh (0.1 million) square feet and it has two levels of basement to provide adequate parking. It will have a large auditorium where 600 to 700 people can be accommodated for large meetings. It also has two large conference rooms,” he said.The office will also have residential space for party workers and leaders visiting from other districts and states. “We have also tried to ensure that all IT facilities are made available inside the building for better public outreach,” said Sharma. At present, the BJP has a temporary office in Sector 10, which will be shifted to the new office.The BJP was allotted a one-acre plot in Silokhra on October 14, 2016, but the locals opposed the plans following which the party sought an alternative site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bjp-to-inaugurate-new-gurugram-office-on-nov-15-101636478528243.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Court rejects ED’s plea of ‘urgently’ questioning Vaze in crime branch’s custody||A local court in the city on Tuesday rejected the plea of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) seeking permission to ‘urgently’ quiz suspended assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, who is presently in the crime branch’s custody, in an extortion case, till November 13.The anti-money laundering agency wanted to question Vaze about some facts that emerged during the interrogation of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was recently arrested by the agency and is in ED’s custody till November 12. ED also wants to record Vaze’s statement under section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The crime branch, however, on Tuesday opposed the plea saying that they are already conducting an investigation and the ED cannot quiz any accused that are in the Mumbai crime branch’s custody.Special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap said, “No agency can interfere in the investigation of other agencies. They are trying to sabotage our investigation. We can not allow them for two hours or for two days. Our probe is already on. Two investigations can not go hand in hand.”After hearing the arguments of the ED and the crime branch, the court rejected the ED’s plea.ED’s case against Deshmukh is based on the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) first information report (FIR) filed on the allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. Singh alleged that Deshmukh had asked Vaze and other police officers to collect ₹100 crore every month from the restaurants and bars of Mumbai.Vaze is in the crime branch’s custody in the Goregaon police’s August FIR registered under charges of extortion against Singh, Vaze, and others. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint by Agarwal, alleging that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him.Vaze was previously arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-rejects-ed-s-plea-of-urgently-questioning-vaze-in-crime-branch-s-custody-101636477088098.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Sanskriti Sansad in Kashi from November 12, Yogi to attend||Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti will organise a three-day Sanskriti Sansad in Kashi from November 12 wherein scholars of sanskriti (culture) and Sanskrit from across the country and world will participate, said Swami Jitendranand Saraswati, general secretary of the organisation.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also take part in the inaugural session while invitation has been sent to Union home minister Amit Shah, he said. “The event is being organised under Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, a programme to celebrate 75 years of Independence of India. Martyrs and freedom fighters, who fought for Independence, will be remembered,” he said. “Mark Dezovaski, a scholar of Shaiva Tantra from London, Yoganand Shashtri of Poland, Konrad Elust of Belgium along with Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati and several saints will also participate in the sansad,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sanskriti-sansad-in-kashi-from-november-12-yogi-to-attend-101636476373828.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||₹20 crore extortion case: Param Bir Singh co-accused in CID custody till November 16||A city magistrate court on Tuesday sent two police officers accused in the ₹20 crore extortion case related to former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to state Crime Investigation Department (CID) custody till November 16. The CID also filed an application before the court seeking a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Singh, who already has two NBWs against him.Police inspectors Nandkumar Gopale, currently with the police training centre, Khandala, and Asha Korke – posted at local arms, Naigaon – were named the co-accused along with Singh in the first information report (FIR) registered at Marine Drive police station following a complaint by Bhayander-based developer Shyamsunder Agrawal. Three other police personnel have been named as the other accused in the case – deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan, and two assistant commissioners of police Shrikant Shinde and Sanjay Patil.Gopale, a 20-year veteran with Mumbai Police, played a key role in high-profile cases including the Indian Premier League betting case in 2013; the Indian Mujaheddeen case in 2008 when he, along with a future Mumbai police commissioner Rakesh Maria, arrested 20 Indian Mujahideen operatives that were allegedly responsible for bomb blasts India since 2005; and crime reporter J Dey’s murder case in 2011. Korke, a senior police officer said, is a low-profile inspector with the local arms unit.Special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap said the accused officers had allegedly extorted ₹50 lakh in cash from Sharad Agrawal, the complainant’s nephew, by threatening to arrest his uncle in a false case. “This money was arranged via a hawala operator named Momin, an old associate of Sanjay Punamiya, a co-accused in the case and also Agarwal’s ex-business partner,” Jagtap said.He added, “CID officers established the link between the arrested officers, the hawala operator and the main accused Punamiya. CID has obtained scientific evidence against the two officers that indicated that they have accepted ₹50 lakh in cash.”In his FIR, Agrawal had alleged that earlier in 2021, Juhu police had filed an extortion case against him, accusing him of having links with underworld don Chhota Shakeel. Later, the police applied Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in the case. Agrawal claimed that, based on this false case, Singh and his junior officers extorted money from him at the behest of Punamiya, the main accused in the case.A few days later, Gopale, who was then the Mumbai crime branch unit 9 in-charge, raided Agrawal’s Bhayandar and Vile Parle homes. During these raids, the accused police officers had illegally seized some partnership documents and other papers without making any official entry. Later, the photocopies of these documents were found in Punamiya’s possession, stated the FIR filed by Marine Drive police.Former Thane and Mumbai police commissioner Singh is wanted by multiple law enforcement agencies and the CID is probing at least three of the five FIRs filed against him. “There are two non-bailable warrants issued against Singh. On Tuesday, we urged court to issue an NBW as well,” said Jagtap. A look-out circular (LoC) is already in force against Singh. Apart from this, two open inquiries have been initiated against the 1988-batch senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) over the corruption allegations made against him by two serving police inspectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20-crore-extortion-case-param-bir-singh-co-accused-in-cid-custody-till-november-16-101636475647911.html
09-11-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand announces pension hike for these people. Check details||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has announced a hike in pension of those who had taken part in statehood agitations as the state marked its 21st formation day on Tuesday, reported news agency PTI.“Statehood agitators who got a pension of ₹3,100 will now get ₹4,500 while those who were getting ₹5,000 will receive ₹6,000,” Dhami was quoted as saying during the main function at the police lines in Dehradun.Besides, the Uttarakhand chief minister said hostels for girls in all district headquarters along with similar establishments for working women will be set up. Dhami also announced the setting up of one de-addiction centre each in Dehradun and Haldwani, PTI reported.Also read | In Cong vs BJP in Uttarakhand, a new row over wearing shoes in Kedarnath shrineDhami went on to laud the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre for the development of Uttarakhand over the last five years, highlighting the sanctioning of development projects worth ₹5,000 crore for the state during the period.Some of the infrastructure work highlighted by him are the Chardham all-weather road and the Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail link projects, the work for which is underway. Dhami said the work will revolutionise the state's job scenario and rid the hills of the migration problem by 2025.The chief minister, who is a Bharatiya Janata Party leader, also thanked the Centre for giving final clearance to the strategically important 155-km-long Tanakpur-Bageshwar road project.Dhami said his government has heavily reduced medical education fees to ₹1,45,000 per annum and one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 was being given to those who qualified in the civil services written exams to help them prepare for the interview, reported PTI.To facilitate online education for students of classes 10 to 12, Dhami also announced tablets for them.Carved out of Northern Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand was formed on November 9, 2000, as the 27th state of India. It is a largely hilly state and shares boundaries with China (Tibet) in the North and Nepal in the East.The state formation day function began with Governor Lt Gen (retd) Gurmit Singh and Dhami reviewing a parade done by police personnel. Dhami also paid a visit to the Shaheed Smarak in the district court premises and placed a wreath there to pay a tribute to the martyrs of the statehood agitation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-announces-pension-hike-for-these-people-check-details-101636473196981.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||MLC polls: Voting for 6 seats in 5 local authorities’ constituencies on Dec 10||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has announced the biennial elections for six seats from five local authorities’ constituencies to be held on December 10. The Shiv Sena, Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have two members each in the upper house, who are retiring on January 1, 2022, thereby necessitating the polls. Two seats from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporations and one each from Kolhapur, Dhule-Nandurbar, Akola-Buldhana-Washim local authorities’ constituencies will be elected to the legislative council. Currently, Ramdas Kadam (Shiv Sena) and Bhai Jagtap (Congress) represent Mumbai, while Satej Patil (Congress) has been elected from Kolhapur, Amrish Patel (BJP) from Dhule-Nandurbar, Gopikishan Bajoria (Shiv Sena) from Akola-Buldhana-Washim and Girish Vyas (BJP) has been elected from Nagpur. Twenty two members are elected to the 78-member upper house, which has the majority of the three ruling parties – Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. As the representatives are to be elected from the local bodies, the parties holding them currently are likely to retain it based on the strength they have in the respective constituencies. The Sena is, however, likely to drop Kadam as its candidate from Mumbai local body in the backdrop of the recent controversy over ‘anti-party activities’. The Congress is expected to repeat both its sitting law makers, though winning a seat from Mumbai could be a challenge before it owing to the dwindled number of party corporators. BJP enjoys the majority in Nagpur and Dhule-Nandurbar local bodies, that could help it to retain both its seats. ECI has deferred the elections to two seats to be elected from Solapur and Ahmednagar local bodies after the percentage of the electors dropped down 75% owing to various reasons. The members elected from these bodies are retiring on January 1. The last day of filing the nomination for the polls is November 23, while the last day of withdrawal of the nomination is November 26. The counting will be held on December 14. Meanwhile, 12 seats to be appointed from the Governor’s quota to the upper house remain to be vacant as the Bhagat Singh Koshyari has not yet cleared the list of names moved by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mlc-polls-voting-for-6-seats-in-5-local-authorities-constituencies-on-dec-10-101636475107754.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Chhath Puja: Back at ghats in Delhi-NCR, with Covid-19 safety protocols||New DelhiVed Vriti, an MPhil research scholar at Delhi University is dressing up for Chhath Puja. “This festival is like a part of my identity. On Chhath, we worship the Sun God. We pray for our family, offsprings and health, and sing folk songs. Since a lot of us have migrated from Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh to the city of Delhi, it makes us nostalgic of our land and we feel emotional and connected whenever this festival arrives.” The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has allowed celebration of Chhath Puja in public, at some designated places, except the Yamuna Ghat. Amid strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols, there’s still a wave of happiness among the devotees from the Purvanchali community in Delhi; who could celebrate the festival only by building temporary pools at the terrace of their homes last year. Chhath Puja at the ghats, which is usually celebrated on the sixth day after Diwali, falls on November 10 this year. “In 2020, many observed the rituals on their terraces but the essence of ghats was missing,” says Vriti, adding: “I personally liked it from the health and safety point of view, of my family since Covid-19 was at its peak then. But it’s also true that the feel of ghats, and the festival’s historical context got compromised. In fact, our house help was way too disturbed last year when she got to know that going to the ghats was not an option. Due to lack of space for a pool, she thought her fast wouldn’t be successful, but later she, along with a few other womenfolk from her neighbourhood decided to do the puja together, in the nearby community area.” Sanjay Gupta, deputy president of Rama Vihar Chhath Puja Samiti, who is set to organise a puja at a designated pond in Rohini following all safety protocols. This pond will be visited by devotees from neighbouring areas such as Mubarakpur, Majara Dabas, Rohini, Karala and Utsav Vihar. “People, last time, celebrated in their homes and at the terraces. The celebrations were not allowed in public places. They’re happy to congregate this time around, even if it is at a pond and not at the Yamuna. But we still plan to barricade the pond at the Chhath Ghaat. We would manage the crowds, and only vratis (people who are observing fast) will be allowed to take a dip in the pond, and offer water to Sun God. But all this will be in groups of not more than five, to avoid crowding,” informs Gupta, adding that the sanction only came in around Diwali, leaving them less time for preparations. “Taiyyari late ho gayi, toh thodi habdadi ki situation hai.”Socially distanced celebrationsEnsuring Covid-19 safety protocols, Arvind Thakur, a functionary at the Purvachal Chhath Puja Committee in Dwarka Vihar, Najafgarh, shares, “Families that are not going back to their home town, or those who are now completely based in Delhi, will celebrate Chhath at these ponds. We plan to keep the affair socially distanced, and have assured local authorities about it as well. All protocols will be duly followed. There are about 50-60 people who observe the fast, and turn up to offer prayers each year. These people wait for it all year long and were looking forward to celebrating. So it’s good that at least restricted celebrations will be allowed this year.”Gate pass to double vaccinated peoplePN Singh, president, Chhath Puja Samiti at the Crossings Republik Township in Ghaziabad shares how they are making prayer arrangements at a golf course premise, within the integrated township that has a cemented pool. “Roughly 5,000 people will celebrate Chhath here. It’s usually more than 10,000, but we are trying to keep the attendance low this time, so that it doesn’t get congested. And gate pass is being issued to only those who are completely vaccinated. Plus firecrackers are strictly discouraged. We have also arranged for sanitiser and mask distribution at the venue, as well as a temperature gun. The number of women fasting is low enough to maintain social distancing within the pond. Yet 50 volunteers are being placed to ensure it happens smoothly, and we have requested for more police personnel,” adds Singh. Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chhath-puja-back-at-ghats-in-delhi-ncr-with-covid-19-safety-protocols-101636474808236.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Proper arrangements for Chhath Puja in Lucknow||The four-day Chhath Puja festival dedicated to Lord Surya (Sun God) and Chhathi Maiyya, which started on the banks of Gomti river in the state capital on Monday (November 8) with “Nahay Khay” ritual, saw good influx of devotees at Lakshman Mela Park located on the river bank on the second day of the puja called “Kharna” on Tuesday. However, the authorities are bracing to manage the expected crowd of around one lakh devotees at Lakshman and Bhagwan Jhulelal Ghats on the third day of the festival on Wednesday. Married women have started the 36-hour fast during which they don’t even take water. “The festival will conclude on Thursday (November 11) with Usha Arghya. Tomorrow (Wednesday) is the main puja of Chhathi Maiyya at the ghats of river spread across the city,” said PN Rai, the president of Bhojpuri Samaj in Lucknow.Lucknow municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “Lucknow Municipal Corporation has ensured the cleanliness of the ghats, repair of stairs there and also proper arrangements of temporary stairs.”“It is important for the authorities to ensure cleanliness of the surroundings, the collection of garbage, lime spraying, sanitisation, anti-larva fogging, arrangement of drinking water, provision of change rooms for women, mobile toilets, proper barricading on river/canal banks and proper lighting and parking for vehicles,” Dwivedi added.“We have made arrangements at more than 22 ghats of city for proper management of crowd. The city has been divided into 10 sectors for the purpose. Lakshman Mela Ghat is in Sector 1 while Jhuelal Ghat, the biggest ghat, is in Sector 2,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/proper-arrangements-for-chhath-puja-in-lucknow-101636474633006.html
09-11-2021||Other||Manipur schools to soon resume classes for grade IX and above, says CM||Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Tuesday said as the state has witnessed significant improvement in the Covid-19 situation, regular classes in schools and colleges for Class IX and above would commence soon maintaining the Covid safety standard operating procedure.The CM, however, said that the opening of schools for junior classes would be delayed for some more time as there is a need for further assessment.Biren Singh was speaking at the launch event of face-to-face classes under the Chief Minister’s Civil Services Coaching Scheme (CMCS) 2021-22 at the State Academy of Training (SAT) premises in Imphal.Rajya Sabha MP Maharaja Leishemba Sanajaoba, state chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, Director General (SAT) Letkhogin, Commissioner (Higher and Technical Education) M Harekrishna, Director (Higher and Technical Education) Dr Rangitabali Waikhom, Director ALS Satellite Pvt Ltd Shri Jojo Mathew and others were present during the function.On April 26, the Manipur government declared the commencement of summer vacation for all government, aided and private schools from May 1 to May 31 amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. Since then, schools remained shut. On April 19, the state authority announced postponing the matriculation examination 2021 and higher secondary examination 2021. Earlier, both examinations were scheduled to be held from May 6 and May 5, 2021, respectively.Schools and colleges in Manipur reopened with Covid-19 safety procedures on January 27 after a gap of ten months. On Monday, the state reported 44 new recoveries while 51 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported, taking the total number of recovered Covid-19 to 1,21,501. Thus, the state’s recovery rate increased to 97.88%. The state’s total infection tally increased to 1,24,137 while the Covid-19 death toll stands at 1,937.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-schools-to-soon-resume-classes-for-grade-ix-and-above-says-cm-101636474568757.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh polls: BSP panels recommend 18 names for nine seats of Prayagraj||After scrutiny of the biodatas of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket seekers for the 2022 UP assembly polls, the district, assembly constituency and main sector in-charge committees of the party have sent around 60 applications for 12 assembly seats of Prayagraj district to BSP chief Mayawati, say party office bearers.Besides, these committees in their report have also recommended the names of 18 prospective candidates for nine assembly seats of the district, they added. These nine seats are Phaphamau, Soraon, Handia, Meja, Karchhana, Allahabad West, Allahabad South, Bara and Koraon.Candidates for the remaining three assembly seats of Allahabad North, Phulpur and Pratappur are believed to have already been finalised by the party with two Brahmin and one Muslim faces, says a senior BSP leader privy to the information.Abhishek Gautam, the newly appointed BSP Prayagraj district unit president, confirmed that names of probable candidates had been sent to the party headquarters. “Now, our national president Mayawati ji and senior leaders will make a final call in this regard,” he added.Party insiders say the BSP chief was likely to meet the ticket seekers before putting the final seal on the names of the candidates and for which the party has started calling potential candidates to Lucknow for interview.Mayawati is expected to ask the ticket seekers about their political journey and their reason for considering them as a strong candidate for the party. They may also be asked about the works done by them in the constituency from where they wish to contest.Requesting anonymity, a senior BSP leader said it was expected that the party might come out with a list of candidates for select seats near November 15. However, he said, this time the party might delay naming candidates for many seats till close to election time so as to field worthy candidates while taking into account the candidates named by the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Samajwadi Party.If party leaders are to be believed, the BSP may field a leader of the Pal community from the Allahabad West seat to make up for its former MLA Puja Pal (who lost the elections from the seat in 2017 to BJP’s Sidharth Nath Singh) having left the party. On Allahabad West and Allahabad South seats, the BSP committees have forwarded names of three leaders each as potential candidates, including two Muslim leaders each on both seats. Party leaders claim that name of a Brahmin trader leader has already been finalised by the party to contest from Allahabad North seat.The most intense fight is for the seats of Pratappur and Soraon from where party’s sitting MLAs Mujtaba Siddiqui and Hakim Lal Bind (the only two seats that BSP could win in 2017 out of 12 in Prayagraj) have defected to the Samajwadi Party. Party leaders say while the BSP can field a Muslim face from Pratappur, it will be fielding a Brahmin leader from Handia seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-polls-bsp-panels-recommend-18-names-for-nine-seats-of-prayagraj-101636474207796.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in Maharashtra, state govt lauds district officers||The cumulative number of doses administered under the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Maharashtra crossed the 100-million mark on Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said. The NCP leader also congratulated all the people in the state and lauded the district officials on the milestone.“Today Maharashtra crossed benchmark of administration of 100 Million covid vaccine doses. It was possible with active involvement of all District officers. Congratulations to all,” Tope said in a tweet.Today Maharashtra crossed benchmark of administration of 100 Million covid vaccine doses.It was possible with active involvement of all District officers. Congratulations to all.#MahaVaccinationMaharashtra is now the second state in the country to have administered 100 million vaccine doses against the disease, following Uttar Pradesh. According to data from the CoWIN portal’s dashboard, 135,219,387 doses have been delivered in Uttar Pradesh, the highest in the country, followed by 100,137,366 doses in Maharashtra. Earlier on October 13, nearly a month ago, the state had crossed the milestone of administering 90 million vaccine doses.Also read | Covid-19: Two of eight WHO-approved vaccines from India, says MandaviyaThe announcement came as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, earlier on November 3, directed all district collectors to ensure that the eligible population in the state is immunised with at least one dose of the vaccine by the end of this month (November 30).On Tuesday, 982 people tested positive for the disease in the state while 27 more people succumbed to their illness. So far, 6,619,329 confirmed Covid cases have been reported from the state and the death toll mounted to 140,430.The capital city of Mumbai logged 274 new infections and one death on Tuesday as the city’s total caseload reached 758,947 and 16,282 people have died of Covid-19 so far.Total recoveries in Maharashtra reached 6,461,956 after 1,293 people were discharged on the day. As many as 96,866 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the cumulative testing reached 63,399,355, the latest data showed.Meanwhile, more than 1.09 billion (1,096,502,639) Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far across India, according to the CoWIN dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/100-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-maharashtra-state-govt-lauds-district-officers-101636472991151.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Congress launches drive to connect with youths||Uttar Pradesh Congress on Tuesday launched a campaign “Bane UP Ki Awaz” (Be the voice of UP) to connect with the youth and appoint them as spokespersons of the party in various districts.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) media department chairperson Naseemuddin Siddiqui said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has become the voice of the people and fighting for their cause. He said the party would call upon the youth of all sections to join the campaign.UPCC media department vice chairman Pankaj Srivastava said appointment of party’s spokespersons would be made through an examination in every district. He said the beginning would be made in Lucknow division with first such examination scheduled in Unnao on November 15. He said the examination was being organised in Lucknow on November 16, Sitapur on November 17, Hardoi on November 18, Rae Bareli on November 20 and Lakhimpur Kheri on November 21.He said those not members of the Congress may join the party and take the examination. He said the secretary incharge of the party along with the district and city office bearers had been asked to oversee the conduct of the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-congress-launches-drive-to-connect-with-youths-101636473787764.html
09-11-2021||Other||3 more hooch deaths in Bihar, toll 36||At least three people died on Tuesday after consuming spurious liquor in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, taking the toll of the suspected hooch deaths since November 2 to 36 in the state where sale and consumption of liquor was banned in April 2016.So far, West Champaran, Samastipur and Gopalganj districts have reported 14, six and 13 deaths, respectively, in hooch tragedies around Deepawali. According to Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jayant Kant, all the three deceased had consumed some spurious substances on November 7 and suffered from diarrhoea before they died. “While two of them died during treatment, the third died at home,” Kant said, adding that a fourth person is undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, the station house officer (SHO) of Kanti police station, Kundan Kumar, and chowkidars of two villages have been suspended, confirmed the SSP. The deceased have been identified as Ram Babu Rai (67), Dilip Rai (50) and Gopi Patel (30), residents of Kapurpura, Bariyarpur and Sirisiya villages, respectively, all falling under Kanti police station limits of Muzaffarpur district.Based on the feedback from the family members, Sanjay Rai, excise superintendent, Muzaffarpur, said, “They all were habitual consumers of toddy (tari).”Muzaffarpur district magistrate (DM) Pranav Kumar said, “Given the kind of reports pouring in from different quarters, the possibility of deaths occurring due to spurious liquor consumption could not be ruled out. Anything could be said with certainty only after the autopsy report arrives.”Bodies of only two of the deceased, Ram Babu Rai and Dilip Rai, have been sent for autopsy, said Sanjay Rai, excise superintendent. In all, 18 people have been arrested in four districts of West Champaran, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur since the first death was reported on November 2. “After the arrest of three persons, one person linked with Patori incident was arrested on Monday night,” said MS Dhillon, SP, Samastipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-more-hooch-deaths-in-bihar-toll-36-101636473488038.html
09-11-2021||Patna||Filmmakers from Bihar keen to shoot in state, want subsidy, easy nods||Filmmakers and television show producers with roots in Bihar have requested the state government to provide them subsidy for shooting their films in the state and expedite the process of approval for shooting at locations around monuments and heritage sites in the state, officials familiar with the matter said. This was discussed at a meeting held by the Bihar State Film Development and Finance Corporation ( BSFDFC), a part of state’s culture department, in state capital on November 2, which was attended many filmmakers hailing from the state. Bihar has produced many film personalities, including actors Manoj Bajpayee and Pankaj Triparthi, actor Kumkum of “Lagi Nahin Chhute Rama” fame, playback singer Rajkumari and lyricist Shaad Azeemabadi. Several Bollywood films have been shot in Bihar in the past, besides local Bhojpuri films. “But now, even Bhojpuri films are not shot here. Most of the shooting is done in Maharashtra and Gujarat because of the lack of infrastructure required for filmmaking in Bihar. Movies are being shot even in Jharkhand because of the provision of subsidy for shooting available there. But in our home state, we are still waiting for this,” says Vijay Pandey, an actor and director associated with several films and TV serials, including the soap opera Hum Paanch of the 1990s. Places like Rajgir, Nalanda and Vaishali have been some of the favourite locations for shooting Bhojpuri films. “But the support of subsidy is missing. We want the government to consider this to woo filmmakers,” Pandey said. Filmmakers are eager to come here. It’s only the lack of the support of subsidy, which is holding them back, he added. Kirankant Verma, who has made Devdas in Bhojpuri, said that provisions of subsidy apart, the Bihar government must ensure faster approvals. “Filmmakers need easy and fast no objection certificates for shooting around monuments and heritage sites. This certificate is issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). But it’s been quite time consuming here,” he said. Bandana Preyashi, secretary at the culture department, said the government has initiated many steps to revive film development and finance corporation. “It will seriously consider the proposal for the provision of subsidy for shooting films in the state,” she said. To ensure that filmmakers get the permission for shooting at locations near heritage sites and monuments easily, a meeting with the ASI will soon be held, she said. “We will take all steps to ensure filmmakers feel safe and secure here.” The culture secretary said two children’s film festivals have already been scheduled at Bihar Museum in the state capital on Children’s Day on November 13-14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/filmmakers-from-bihar-keen-to-shoot-in-state-want-subsidy-easy-nods-101636473247788.html
09-11-2021||Patna||Sitamarhi: Man dies in police custody, SHO suspended||Station house officer of a police station in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district has been suspended in connection with the alleged custodial death of a 52-year-old on Monday night, police said. The deceased has been identified as Vishwanath Choudhary, who was arrested on Monday for consuming liquor.“We were not allowed to meet him at the police station. My father was brutally assaulted and died in police custody on Monday night,” said Choudhary’s son Shivnath.Police said Vishwanath was arrested under the influence of liquor from Krishna Nagar area under Mehsaul police station. “Liquor was also recovered from his possession,” it said. As the news of Vishwanath’s death spread in the area, irate locals, including his family members, blocked the main road in the area and staged a protest at the Sitamarhi Sadar hospital. Sitamarhi superintendent of police Harikishore Rai, who visited the hospital and pacified the agitators, said a special medical team which conducted autopsy concluded that he died of a heart attack. “Mehsaul police station officer in-charge Mosir Ali has been put under suspension on charges of dereliction of duty,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sitamarhi-man-dies-in-police-custody-sho-suspended-101636473007876.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Defence Corridor project: Land allotted to Brahmos in Lucknow||The state government has allotted land in the state capital to Brahmos Aerospace and in Jhansi to Bharat Dynamics Limited under the Defence Corridor project of the Centre, said UP industrial development minister Satish Mahana in a statement.The Brahmos Aerospace is a joint venture of the Indian and the Russian governments for manufacturing Brahmos missiles. On the other hand, the Bharat Dynamics Limited is a government of India enterprise which manufactures guided missile system and allied equipment for the armed forces. Both these projects will come up under the Defence Corridor project of the Centre.“All land in Aligarh node of the Defence Corridor has been allotted to 19 companies,” the minister said. These companies will invest ₹1245.75 crore. In addition to this, Agristo Masa Pvt Ltd will start production at its ₹600 crore food processing unit in Bijnor from March next year. Mahana also said Pepsico and Britannia had started the process to set up their units. Also, the Hiranandani Group has started the process to set up its data centre in Noida, said the state government. The Defence Corridor would come up in Bundelkhand region and is expected to generate more than one lakh jobs. The corridor has six nodes, including Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. On February 21, 2018, PM Narendra Modi had announced ₹20,000 crore Defence Industrial Corridor in Bundelkhand region which is considered as one of the most backward regions in the state. The UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) will execute the project. As the project is aimed at generating more jobs for drought–hit Bundelkhand region, the Yogi government has offered capital subsidy for such industrialists who are willing to invest up to ₹10 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/defence-corridor-project-land-allotted-to-brahmos-in-lucknow-101636472708021.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Coastal road interchange navigation span sufficient: BMC||The navigation span under Coastal Road-Bandra Worli Sea Link interchange is sufficient, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Monday in response to Worli fisherfolks’ claims that the proposed navigation span being provided to them under the interchange – of 60 metres between supporting pillars – is insufficient. BMC maintained that it has consulted affected fisherfolk societies of Worli prior to obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fisheries department, and coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance from the Union environment ministry, for the project. This claim has been refuted by protesting fisherfolk.BMC in its statement referred to the Bureau of Indian Standards’ Code of Practice for Design of Ports and Harbours, which specifies that a “navigation span is required to be 5 times the width of the boat for single carriage and 8 times the width of the boat for double carriage.” Referring to data obtained from the fisheries department, BMC has said that the largest registered vessel operating in Worli koliwada is 3.8 metres wide, and accordingly the navigation span for boats operating from the koliwada “should be kept at a maximum of 30.4 meters for double carriage.”“The Mumbai Coastal Road Project has a navigation span of 60 meters, which is almost double prescribed the navigation span,” the BMC’s statement said. BMC also added that the Tata Institute of Social Sciences has been appointed to formulate a policy to compensate the fishermen for losses incurred during the construction of the project, and that “the process of fulfilling this demand has been started.”Fisherfolk, however, maintained that the two fishing societies of Worli were not consulted for their suggestions prior to obtaining the NOC from the fisheries department. They also stressed that their primary demand is a redesign of the interchange. “We have been raising this issue for many years, and compensation, though important, is not our main demand. We want to have free access to our traditional fishing grounds, whereas BMC’s current designs will force us to shut shop completely. If the BMC feels like they are providing us a larger enough navigation route, let them come and pilot our boats through the rocky seas first. Then they will know exactly why our demands are what they are,” said Nitesh Patil, president, Worli Koliwada Nakhava Matsyavyavsay Sahakari Sangathan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coastal-road-interchange-navigation-span-sufficient-bmc-101636472648144.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Voters’ list revision: If needed, SP will stage sit-in protest against EC, says Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said if needed his party will stage a sit-in protest against the Election Commission (in Lucknow and Delhi) over the issue of voters’ list revision for 2022 UP Assembly polls. “The EC has added over 21 lakh new names and removed over 16 lakh names in the UP voters’ list revision. This time, the EC has not given the list (of names included and struck off) to the political parties (to cross-check). Till 2019 Lok Sabha elections, EC gave the lists to the political parties, then why not this time?,” asked Akhilesh at a press conference at the SP office, which he called to talk about demonetisation on its fifth anniversary. The former chief minister said his party’s state president Naresh Uttam Patel, along with a party delegation, had met the chief election officer (CEO), UP, in this regard and gave him a memorandum. “We will give the memorandum at Delhi (EC) also, and if need be, sit on a dharna,” he said. Akhilesh also said: “Most of the officers posted in the EC, I understand, were sent from UP.” Before starting the press conference, Akhilesh Yadav celebrated the birthday of Khazanchi, the child who was born in a bank queue in Kanpur Dehat on December 2. The SP chief gave him several gifts including a bottle of ‘Samajwadi Itra (perfume)’. Akhilesh and his party celebrate Khazanchi’s birthday twice a year, every year, since the first anniversary of demonetisation. The child is often referred to as ‘demonetisation baby’ and he was named Khazanchi (treasurer) by the manager of the bank outside which the boy was born. Attacking the BJP on demonetisation, Akhilesh said: “It is the BJP that should celebrate Khazanchi’s birthday. Demonetisation was their gift to people to ruin the economy and businesses. The BJP has not been enumerating the benefits of demonetisation. Black money did not end, corruption rose, and corruption in UP rose unprecedentedly. The BJP had been telling people through TV channels that the new currency had a chip to check black money. Demonetisation did not end black money. Money itself is not black or white, it is the transactions that you or I do that are black or white. Demonetisation was done deliberately to trouble people.” Stating that the present “ruin in the economic condition” was created by the BJP, he said: “The masterstroke (demonetisation) turned out brain stroke.” Traders and businesses were ruined after the way demonetisation and GST were implemented, said Akhilesh.The former CM also displayed an empty cylinder and said: “This is empty and we did not get it refilled for it will expose the high price of the cylinder.” ‘BJP triple-engine govt will not let justice prevail’ Taking about the Lakhimpur Kheri case and the Supreme Court’s observation on it, Akhilesh said: “Today, SC also questioned the UP government over the case and made harsh observations. SC is saying that attempts were being made to save the guilty. Since the beginning, the SP had been saying that till the BJP is in power forget about justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. ‘BJP Triple engine’ government will not let justice happen. Triple engine--the BJP government in the state, the BJP government at the centre, and the BJP government of MoS (Ajay Mishra Teni whose son is the accused in the case). The MoS has not resigned even till now.” He said the SIT (special investigation team) is of the state government, it will do what the state government will tell it to do. He added: “That’s why I say, Baaees mein badlav hoga (there will be change in 2022) and justice will be done.” Talking about law and order in UP, Akhilesh said: “Look what happened in Fatehgarh jail. Inmates bashed up jailers and other officers and staff.” SAMAJWADI PERFUME SP national president Akhilesh Yadav also launched a perfume ‘Samajwadi Itra (perfume)’ produced by an SP MLC Pushpraj Jain. “The perfume will end hatred in 2022,” said Jain. The perfume bottle and box are red and green (in Samajwadi Party colours) while the carton also has a picture of Akhilesh Yadav. Akhilesh said: “The perfume will spread the fragrance of SP government’s development works and party’s development agenda.” ASKS SP MLA TO END FAST SP chief Akhilesh Yadav also made an appeal to the SP Gauriganj MLA to end his fast and rather eat well, get strong and fight against the BJP government. “It is my appeal to the MLA to end the fast. Why fast against the blind and deaf BJP government. Instead, eat well, get strong and fight the BJP government to oust it,” Akhilesh said and added that party leaders led by leader of opposition Ramgovind Chaudhary will meet the MLA asking him to end the fast. SP MLA Rakesh Pratap Singh is on fast since October 31 and late last week the police picked him up and admitted him to the Civil hospital (Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Hospital) on Saturday afternoon. Singh had been on hunger strike since October 31, the day he submitted his resignation from his Vidhan Sabha membership to the Speaker of UP Assembly, HN Dixit, saying that the BJP government was not cooperating in some road construction work in his constituency Gauriganj (Amethi).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/voters-list-revision-if-needed-sp-will-stage-sit-in-protest-against-ec-says-akhilesh-101636472589460.html
09-11-2021||Patna||Sudha milk to get dearer by ₹2-4 more from Nov 11||The Bihar State Milk Cooperative Federation Limited (Comfed) on Tuesday announced a hike in price of all its milk variants by ₹2 to ₹ 4per litre with effect from November 11. The Comfed, which sells milk and dairy products under Sudha brand, attributed the hike to increase in fodder price, input and operational cost.Comfed had last increased the consumer price of milk in February this year.Sudha full cream milk will now cost ₹56 per litre in place of ₹52. Standard milk will be sold for ₹49/L, cow milk ₹46/L and toned milk ₹44/L while double toned will be priced at ₹40/L. Prices of Sudha’s milk products like paneer, gulabjamun, milk cake and balusahi will also increase by up to ₹4. However, there will be no change in rates of ghee, lassi, curd, butter and flavoured milk.“The rates of different types of Sudha’s packet milk has been increased by an average of ₹3 per litre except for full cream milk which has been increased by ₹4 per litre”, said V Pandey, Comfed’s information and public relations officer.“The prices have been increased owing to rise in the prices of green and dry fodder after floods so that milk producers can get maximum amount for their supplies. Input prices for materials like feed, fodder, medicines have increased and therefore production cost of milk for farmers is no more remunerative, leading to their diminishing interest in animal husbandry,” Pandey said, adding that there has also been an increase in various operational costs such as rates of electricity, petroleum, polythene films and manpower cost.Taking a dig at the state government, Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra linked the hike in milk price with the reduction in fuel prices. “In Bihar, the government increased prices of Sudha milk by ₹3 to 4 per litre and increased inflation and additional burden on common people. Nitish Kumar has offset the reduction in tax by ₹2- 3 on petrol and diesel by increasing the price of milk,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sudha-milk-to-get-dearer-by-2-4-more-from-nov-11-101636472587791.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Two accused remanded in 3-day police custody||Additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM), Mona Singh, remanded two accused of Tikunia violence case Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh in three-day police custody on Tuesday, said senior prosecuting officer (SPO) SP Yadav. He added that the police custody remand (PCR) of the two accused would start on Wednesday (November 10) and end on Saturday (November 13).Violence had erupted at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3 when four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a speeding vehicle during a protest. A local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party workers were also killed in the subsequent violence.Hearing on the police custody remand of these two accused started on Monday. However, on the request of defence counsel, the hearing was deferred till Tuesday, Yadav had said. Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh had been arrested on November 3 by the special investigators in connection with the First Information Report (FIR) number 220 lodged by Sumit Jaiswal. Jaiswal himself is one of the 13 accused mentioned in the FIR number 219. The accused includes union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra. In FIR 220, the special investigators have arrested four accused, including Gurvinder Singh, Vichitra Singh, Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-two-accused-remanded-in-3-day-police-custody-101636472348064.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||In Varanasi, 500 boats to get CNG engines by Dev Deepawali||Nearly 500 diesel engine boats of around 1700 plying on the Ganga river in Varanasi will be converted into CNG engine boats by Dev Deepawali falling on November 19. The exercise will help the river get rid of noise and air pollution caused by the diesel engine boats. General manager, Varanasi Smart City, D Vasudevam, said 177 of these big and small boats had already been fitted with CNG engines. The work, which started nearly nine months ago, is being done by GAIL India Limited under its corporate social responsibility with a budget of ₹29 crore. The CNG engines are eco-friendly and economical. Installing it in a small boat costs 1.5 lakh and in a big boat around ₹2.5 lakh. A free CNG kit each is also being installed on the boats.There is a “daughter station” at the ghat itself. A dispenser has also been installed on the jetty. Boatmen say they are covering twice the distance with a CNG engine at half the cost. Tourists are also feeling good as their boat rides have now become pleasant.A “daughter station” is the one which is not connected to natural gas pipelines. At these stations, CNG is transported through mobile cascades and then dispensed to vehicles through CNG dispensers.
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Avighna Park fire: Short-circuit is primary cause, exact cause being probed, says MFB report||In its preliminary report submitted by the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) on Tuesday, into level four fire at Avighna Park in Currey Road, the officials have stated that the cause of the fire was a short circuit in the main switchboard of a flat on the 19th floor, where broke out and spread further. However, the exact cause will be known after a thorough investigation in the coming days.On October 22, a level four fire was reported in Avighna Park, a 60 storey building, in which dozens of citizens were rescued safely. However, a 30-year-old security guard lost his life.The preliminary report was submitted to BMC’s standing committee on Tuesday. According to the report, 16 people were rescued by the MFB and it had used a 90-metre ladder for fire-fighting. The report also mentioned that since initially, the pressure of water was not available from the firefighting equipment of the high-rise, it had to face a lot of challenges thereon. “Due to this we had to use our firefighting infrastructure, but the fire went further upwards, on the 20th floor from the flat 1902, which had initially caught fire,” the report reads.It further added, “The exact cause of the fire is being probed, but in preliminary investigations, it is revealed that the fire was reported in flat no 1902. The fire started from the main electricity distribution board of the flat due to a short circuit in it. A police complaint is also filed by the MFB in this matter, and investigation is on. Further, as the firefighting equipment in the society was not in proper working condition, a show-cause notice was issued to concerned stakeholders.”Meanwhile, the investigation into the final report will be concluded by a committee formed under the additional municipal commissioner of the BMC in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/avighna-park-fire-short-circuit-is-primary-cause-exact-cause-being-probed-says-mfb-report-101636471747752.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi hits out at SP over ‘khaandan politics’||LUCKNOW UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the Samajwadi Party (SP) over its “dynastic politics”, saying members of one particular family fanned out to do extortion in job recruitments during the previous government’s tenure. But now all the job processes were transparent and the present government gave 4.5 lakh jobs to youths in 4.5 years of its tenure, he said.“In the khaandan, there was no relation that did not remind one of the Mahabharat – there were chachas, mamas, kakas, nanas, bhanjas, bhatijas, or babua,” said Yogi Adityanath at a government event in Badaun for the inauguration and foundation laying of projects worth ₹1,400 crore for the district.“The previous government’s interest was only in its khaandan (Yadav family). They were always busy in how the khaandan members make money, invest in foreign countries, buy islands in foreign countries and be safe and secure themselves,” he said.The chief minister said: “What was the condition of UP before 2017? It had the worst law and order. Every second or third day, riots happened somewhere in the state. No festival and celebrations could happen in peace. Anarchy ruled. But now people celebrated Diwali peacefully. But earlier, festivals were celebrated under curfews. After 2017, you have not seen any riots happen.”“Remember what happened first when the SP government came to power in 2012? Riots in Kosi Kalan, then Bareilly, Muzaffarnagar, Lucknow and Kanpur riots. No district was devoid of riots. When the previous government came, it did not do anything for youth, women, farmers and the poor. It withdrew cases against terrorists who carried out an attack on Ramjanmabhoomi in Ayodhya. The previous government used to withdraw cases on terrorists and rioters were called to the CM’s office and felicitated. But our government sends terrorists to their ‘world’,” added Yogi Adityanath.Yogi said when the BJP government came in UP in 2017, the first thing it did was the formation of anti-Romeo squads for women safety, then farm loan waiver, and then it shut down illegal slaughter houses. “Cow smuggling and illegal slaughterhouses were the order of the day. But now it’s cow conservation and gau sewa,” he added. “Before 2017, whenever the central government’s development index survey reports came, UP was always at the bottom of the list. But now, UP either gets number one or number two spot in these surveys,” he said.“For the previous government, khaandan was the state, for PM Modi 130 crore people of the country is family, and for us 25 crore people of the state are family,” said Yogi Adityanath.Later in the day, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, at a press in Lucknow, said: “Ab woh apney khaandan ke paas jayein. Now it’s time for him to go to his khaandan as it was time for his departure.” ‘MAKE BJP WIN EVEN SAHASWAN’Addressing people at the Badaun event, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said: “In 2017, people made BJP win five of the six Badaun assembly constituencies. This time, also make the BJP win the Sahaswan constituency. Badaun has a BJP MP, it has a BJP zila panchayat president and has five of six MLAs. Sahaswan will get more development once MP and MLA are of the BJP.”SPECULATION OVER NAME CHANGE OF BADAUNChief minister Yogi Adityanath said in ancient times Badaun was known as Vedamau and it was a centre of studies of the Vedas. The statement triggered speculations over the district’s name change. “Once upon a time, Badaun was known as Vedamau. It was known as a centre of studies of the Vedas. It is also said that Maharaj Bhagirath, whose efforts brought river Ganga on the earth, had meditated here. Ganga, for thousands of years, has been providing the most fertile soil. The fertile soil brought by Ganga and Yamuna cannot be found anywhere else in the world.” According to religious scriptures, Bhagirath, a king of the legends, had brought the Ganga (personified as a goddess) to earth from the heavens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-hits-out-at-sp-over-khaandan-politics-101636471687837.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede’s father meets Maharashtra governor with wife and daughter in tow||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede’s father, wife, and sister paid a visit to Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday evening to submit a memorandum."My daughter-in-law, daughter and I met the Governor today. We gave him a memorandum. The Governor assured us that everything will be fine," Wankhede’s father Dhyandev Kachruji Wankhede, told reporters after leaving the governor’s residence.Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar told reporters that the family needs “strength” and they met the governor to brief him on everything that has happened so far. We told the Gov everything - everything happening with us. It was not as if we went to him with a complaint. We just told him that it's a fight for truth and we're going to fight, we just need strength,” ANI said quoting Redkar.Redkar also said that the governor asked the family to be patient, and assured them of truth prevailing in the end.“He asked us to observe restraint and have patience, saying that truth shall prevail. We got a lot of positivity after meeting him," she told PTI.Dhyandev has also filed a defamation suit against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik in Bombay high court, accusing him of causing “irreparable loss, damage, harm, prejudice to the name, character, reputation and societal image of plaintiff and his family members”. The lawsuit also seeks a compensation of ₹1.25 crore in damages.Malik, a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, has levelled serious allegations against Wankhede, accusing him of obtaining a fraudulent caste certificate to secure his job and extortion. Wankhede, who was in-charge of the cruise drugs bust case involving Bollywood actor Aryan Khan, was removed from the case, and the agency also initiated a vigilance probe against him.Malik had also alleged Wankhede’s sister-in-law Harshada Dinanath Redkar of being involved in drugs related business dealings. “Sameer Dawood Wankhede, is your sister-in-law Harshada Dinanath Redkar involved in the drug business ? You must answer because her case is pending before the Pune court,” Malik tweeted on Monday with a screenshot of a case registered on January 14, 2008, under Section 3458 of the Prevention of Illicit Traffic in Narcotics Drugs And Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-s-father-meets-maharashtra-governor-with-wife-and-daughter-in-tow-101636471144799.html
09-11-2021||Other||After 2 legislators, another Manipur MLA announces joining BJP||Close on the heels of two legislators joining the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of assembly elections, another legislator from Manipur, elected on a Lok Janshakti Party ticket in state assembly elections in 2017, also announced that he will join the BJP on November 11. Manipur is due for assembly elections early next year.MLA Karam Shyam who represents Langthabal assembly constituency in Imphal West District made the announcement while speaking to reporters at his residence at Chajing Mairenkhong in Imphal West District on Monday.Terming the “grassroot” initiatives taken up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as remarkable, former cabinet minister Shyam said, “As I have no party or flag, I have decided to join BJP and I will take a bigger responsibility to make BJP a successful and powerful party in future.”On Monday, two Manipur legislators - RK Imo Singh, who represents the Sagolband constituency in Imphal West district, and Yamthong Haokip, who was elected from the Saikul assembly segment in Kangpokpi district - joined the BJP in presence of party leaders in the national capital.Both Imo and Haokip were elected on a Congress ticket in the 2017 assembly elections. Imo was expelled from the Congress in August last year for anti-party activities while Yamthong was still with Congress before he joined BJP on Monday.With Monday’s political development, the Congress, which won a total of 28 seats to emerge as the single largest party in the 60-member Manipur house after the 2017 polls, is down to 15 legislators in the assembly. On the other hand, the ruling BJP’s strength in the assembly has gone up to 25. But the state assembly is yet to make an official version in this regard. It may be mentioned that the former Congress legislators started to join BJP in August last year after five Congress MLAs joined the party. It was followed by the former state Congress unit chief Govindas Konthoujam on August 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-2-legislators-another-manipur-mla-announces-joining-bjp-101636471087619.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP leader shot at in UP’s Prayagraj, FIR lodged||A local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader was shot at and injured allegedly by some unidentified miscreants at Lehra village under Phaphamau police in trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj district late on Monday night, police said on Tuesday. As per the police, Ajay Sharma, 35, Prayagraj district vice president of BJP Kisan Morcha, suffered five bullet wounds and was rushed to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital from where he was later shifted to a private hospital. In his complaint given to police, Sharma said over half a dozen unidentified assailants opened fire on him while was near a cow shelter. On the basis of his complaint, a First Information Report (FIR) was registered against the unidentified assailants. Senior superintendent of police, Prayagraj, Sarvashreshtha Tripathi said the condition of Ajay Sharma was now out of danger. “Preliminary investigations suggest that the attack may be the fallout of a property related dispute. However, all angles are under investigation. Ajay has not named anyone yet and informed police that the assailants had their faces covered. Police are yet to receive a written complaint in this connection,” he added.Circle officer, Soraon, Sudhir Kumar said many empty cartridges were recovered from the site of the crime. Meanwhile, police have launched a hunt for the assailants. Primary investigation revealed that Sharma left home on Monday night for some work. The police said Sharma, who also deals in property, was returning home when he was waylaid by the assailants outside the village. He tried to flee but the attackers opened fire on him. On hearing sound of gunshots, some villagers rushed to the spot following which the assailants fled. Meanwhile, expressing shock over the incident, BJP Prayagraj media incharge Pawan Srivastava said he hoped the police would soon identify and nab the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-leader-shot-at-in-up-s-prayagraj-fir-lodged-101636470907824.html
09-11-2021||Kolkata||BJP moves court after election body okays Kolkata, Howrah civic polls on Dec 19||KOLKATA: The West Bengal State Election Commission on Tuesday accepted the state government’s proposal to hold civic body elections in Kolkata and Howrah on December 19, prompting the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to rush to the Calcutta high court with a petition that wants the court to order simultaneous elections in all civic bodies in Bengal in February next year.Holding local polls in phases has no logic and can be termed illegal, the petition said, arguing that elections to the Kolkata and Howrah civic bodies also should be held in February else it will deprive about 2 million first-time voters expected to be enrolled in January from exercising their franchise.The five-year term of elected representatives who run West Bengal’s 120-odd municipalities and corporations ended over the last two years. Elections were scheduled to be held last year but were postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.On Tuesday, the state election commission, which is mandated to conduct panchayat and civic body elections, conveyed its decision to accept the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government’s proposal to hold elections to the Kolkata and Howrah municipal corporations on December 19.Not all wards of the existing Howrah corporation will get to vote since the Mamata Banerjee government has decided to carve another corporation from Howrah’s Bally area.“The cabinet today decided to delink Bally from the Howrah municipal corporation. A formal proposal will be placed before the legislative assembly this week,” parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee said. Chatterjee brushed aside the BJP protests and its petition in the high court, insisting that the opposition party moved court because it was afraid of losing the civic polls after the debacle in the assembly elections this year and the recent bypolls. The Trinamool Congress won the four seats that voted in the October 30 bypoll.“The BJP did not say a word when the Election Commission of India decided to hold the assembly polls in eight phases in March-April,” said Chatterjee, a reference to the back-and-forth between the BJP and Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress over the assembly election schedule.BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar shot back: “The TMC did not hesitate to take part in the state polls during a pandemic. Festivals have also been held. What is stopping the government from holding all civic polls on a single day?”Majumdar said the BJP demanded that the polls be held in February because the new voters’ list will be published on January 5. “According to our estimate, around two million new names are likely to be added. It will take at least 15 days to include these names in the local voter charts. Why should so many young voters be deprived?” Majumdar told HT.Administrative officers from Kolkata and Howrah have been asked to attend a meeting at the state election commission’s office on November 12, officials said.Opposition parties, especially the BJP, have been demanding polls in the civic bodies saying these were indefinitely postponed by the government for political reasons. After the tenure of the boards ended, the government appointed members of the existing boards as administrative heads. At the 145-year-old Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), for example, cabinet minister Firhad Hakim was made chairman of the board of administrators after his tenure as mayor ended. TMC earlier had an absolute majority in the KMC board.Congress state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “I am not concerned about when the polls will be held. I am keen to know if it will be free and fair because, in earlier polls, many people were not allowed to file nomination and voters faced intimidation from the ruling party.”CPI(M) central committee member Sujan Chakraborty said, “We have been demanding these polls for two years. We want to know who will audit the expenditure made by the administrative bodies during this interim period. We are quite sure public money was squandered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-moves-court-after-election-body-okays-kolkata-howrah-civic-polls-on-dec-19-101636470187819.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Eating out to burn a hole in your pockets: Hoteliers may hike prices by 20%||Eating out may get costlier as restaurant owners are all set to hike prices of eatables by at least 20% in the next few days.Massive hike in commercial Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders, increased cost of vegetable and pulses, coupled with high labour cost have all added to the burden of running the establishments, the hoteliers say.The Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR), a leading association of hoteliers said the hike is almost inevitable. “After almost 18 months of lockdown, we are running our businesses with very thin margins. However, the recent LPG cylinder hike of ₹266 has impacted us. An average restaurant needs a minimum of four LPG cylinders daily and it is impossible to sustain with such increase in prices,” said AHAR president Shivanand Shetty.According to The Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR), the basic price of a dosa price will be ₹90 onwards, which is currently being priced at ₹75. Similarly, dal fry which now costs ₹130 will be charged at ₹160 and mixed vegetable dish is priced at ₹160 will be cost ₹190. The pav bhaji being sold at ₹120 will cost ₹145 onwards, after the hike.The oil companies announced the hike of commercial LPG cylinders by ₹226 last week. This means the 19kg cylinder would now cost ₹1,950 from ₹1,724. It was costed ₹1498 in July.Narayan Poojari, managing director, Shiv Sagar chain of hotels and partner in Mahesh Lunch Home, Fort, said, “Our establishment cost has gone through the roof and it is unfeasible to conduct business with the current rates. There is no way but to go for a hike,” said Poojari.The labour shortage has also added to the establishment cost. The hotel sector has been facing a massive labour shortage due to which they are forced to shell out more salaries to the existing staff.Satish Nayak, proprietor, Udupi Shri Krishna Boarding, which is one of the oldest restaurants in Mumbai, said they now operated with just half the staff (22 out of 44) post lockdown. “We have been forced to pay more to our existing staff to avoid poaching by other establishments. This has hugely added to our costs,” said Satish Nayak, proprietor.Some of the hotels, however, have decided to bear the additional burden for some more time. Mirah Hospitality, which runs 14 hotels including Rajdhani, Hitchki and Bayroute said though they are burdened with huge costs, they will not hike the prices. “After months of lockdown, we are now picking up and we are in no mood to increase our rates at this juncture. There is no doubt, the LPG cylinder hike has hit us severely, but then we cannot hike, as it could also translate to the loss of consumers. We will study this situation till the end of this year and then take a call on a price hike,” said Aji Nair, chief operating officer (food and beverages division), Mirah Hospitality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eating-out-to-burn-a-hole-in-your-pockets-hoteliers-may-hike-prices-by-20-101636469949441.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||New eligibility criteria stumps B Arch aspirants, many call for extension of old rule||A day after the Maharashtra common entrance test (MH-CET) cell released the information brochure for admissions to various undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) professional courses, students aiming for Bachelor of Architecture (B Arch) seats are hoping for a miracle. Unaware of the changes made to the eligibility criteria for admissions to the course, many fear they will lose out on seats in top architecture colleges in the state. Until academic year 2020-21, B Arch aspirants were allowed to register using either their Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Mains) or the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) scores. This year, however, a notification from the Council of Architecture (CoA) stated that JEE scores will only be acceptable for admissions to Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and central universities, while all other institutes will accept NATA score only. As a result, for the past few days, many candidates have approached the state Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), seeking a year’s extension to the old eligibility criteria—allowing students to apply for admissions with their JEE score as well. “We have been directed by CoA to accept only NATA scores. Any change to the rule will therefore have to be approved by the same authority,” said a senior DTE official on the condition of anonymity. The parent of a B Arch student said, “While the information brochure shared by the admissions authority mentions that NATA score will be accepted, there’s no mention of the fact that scores of another equivalent exam like JEE will not be accepted this year onwards. What’s worse is that the information brochure was released two days ago, while students appeared for the entrance exams in February, March and April, mostly unaware of the fact that JEE scores will not be accepted during admission.” This year, JEE and NATA exams were held in multiple sessions, mainly to give students the option of choosing the best score out of the multiple sessions and at the same time, also giving them the option of a back session in case they missed the previous session due to Covid-related issues. “My daughter appeared for the first two sessions of NATA as well as two sessions of JEE. While she has scored 98 percentile in JEE, her NATA score is low. Until now, she was not worried because we were under the impression that JEE score will be applicable. Because of the change in the eligibility criteria, my daughter will lose a seat in a college of her choice,” said the father of another aspirant. Two weeks ago, the Madras high court (HC) gave interim relief two candidates who requested that they be allowed to participate in the counselling round for B Arch course at Anna University based on their JEE score for academic year 2021-22. Madras HC eventually directed the university to accept registrations from both candidates but clarified that the outcome, however, will be subject to the outcome of the students’ plea challenging the admission rule.MU to hold convocation on December 10After a break of one year, the University of Mumbai (MU) will host its annual convocation ceremony in the famed Convocation Hall at the Fort campus on December 10. Due to rising Covid-19 cases, the 2020 convocation ceremony was held virtually on February 1, 2021. “Degree/diploma certificates of students who have passed their examinations in the first and second half of 2021, before the day of the upcoming convocation, will be sent to the respective colleges. A list of available degree/diploma certificates with convocation numbers of the candidates will be made available on the varsity website soon,” said Vinod Patil, director, board of examination and evaluation, MU. Nearly two lakh students will be graduating this year, he added. After delaying their convocation ceremony in 2020, MU held the ceremony online in February where nearly 1.91 lakh students graduated and received certificates. This year, the varsity has clarified in advance that students should not gather at the ceremony looking for their certificates to maintain Covid-19 protocols. “In case of non-receipt of certificates or any error in the degree, a written complaint should be submitted in the examination department within one month of the convocation. We request students to not enquire or gather on convocation day as the certificates will be sent to their respective colleges,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-eligibility-criteria-stumps-b-arch-aspirants-many-call-for-extension-of-old-rule-101636469947964.html
09-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP demands Mamata Banerjee govt to reduce state taxes on fuel, says ‘will gherao Nabanna if needed’||The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday held protests against the state government in Kolkata, demanding the reduction in Value Added Taxes (VAT) levied on petrol and diesel. Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar, who led the agitation at Maniktala in the centre of the city, said that the demonstrations would be intensified and the party would take the protests to state secretariat Nabanna.“BJP workers all over the state will take out rallies in the coming days. The protests will assume such a proportion that the voice of the people will reach the chief minister's office on the 14th floor of state secretariat Nabanna,” news agency PTI quoted Majumdar as saying.পশ্চিমবঙ্গে পেট্রোল ও ডিজেলের উপর কর কমানোর দাবিতে কলকাতার মানিকতলতে বিজেপির বিক্ষোভ সমাবেশে উপস্থিত ছিলেন রাজ্য সভাপতি @DrSukantaBJP ২২টি রাজ্য পেট্রোল ডিজেলের কর কম করতে পারলে, পশ্চিমবঙ্গে কেন নয়? pic.twitter.com/JUqF2j7qszThe Bengal BJP demanded that the state government should reduce the VAT on fuels after the Centre had slashed the excise duty on petroleum products. “ The protests will force her to listen to the just demand of people and match the Narendra Modi government's decision to cut excise duty on petrol and diesel,” Majumdar said.Meanwhile, leader of opposition Suvendu Adhikari protested in front of the state assembly building. “Many states have reduced their taxes after the central government gave tax exemptions on petrol and diesel, but the West Bengal government has not yet done so,” the Bengal BJP said. The party also said that the protests will continue under Adhikari’s leadership until the state government heeds to their demand.Also read | Bengal BJP protest over state fuel tax stopped, told it violates Covid protocolEarlier on Monday, several party workers clashed with the state police in Kolkata after they were stopped from taking out a rally, according to a news report by PTI. Further, the party also set a seven-day deadline for the Mamata Banerjee-led government to reduce state taxes on fuel, after which it threatened to launch a wider movement.“Oil prices have been reduced in NDA-ruled states but the state government has been silent on reducing oil prices in Bengal. Like every time, this time the police stopped us,” Majumder said during a press briefing on Monday. “The Prime Minister has done his duty by lowering the price of oil, but the Chief Minister is not trying to fulfill her duty! The BJP will launch an awareness campaign at every petrol pump tomorrow,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-demands-mamata-banerjee-govt-to-reduce-state-taxes-on-fuel-says-will-gherao-nabanna-if-needed-101636468878433.html
09-11-2021||Pune||MSRTC workers stage protest without shirts as strike gets aggressive||PUNE The indefinite protest by employees of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) across the state and in Pune continued on Tuesday. Workers from the Wakdewadi ST depot protested without wearing shirts in the morning. Similarly, workers from all 13 depots in Pune division stayed off work and no ST buses went on the roads.Meanwhile, private buses, school and company buses were allowed by the state government to transport passengers. Several private buses were operating from outside the ST stands in Pune, albeit with higher fares.“I came to Swargate as I had to go to Kolhapur, but as the strike is on, I took a private bus which cost ₹1,000. As there was no other option and my reaching Kolhapur was necessary I went by the private tourist bus,” said Aditya Mohite, a passenger. For the last 10 days, MSRTC workers and their unions are protesting various demands. A Kruti Samiti of unions was formed to have a conversation with the state government. Apparently the main demand of making the MSRTC a state government department was compromised according to workers, so now workers (apart from union members) have spontaneously started to strike from Sunday midnight. The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) deployed inspectors and other staff to monitor operations of private buses. “We took a meeting of our officers in the morning and accordingly, their were sent to various ST depots all across the Pune division to monitor these private buses,” said Pune Regional Transport Officer Ajit Shinde.Atmaram Sanap one of the protesting workers at the Wakdewadi depot said, “To convey our demands and help the state government realise our pain we protested without wearing shirts at the ST stand. The financial burden is too much. The state government should take immediate action and take in the organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-workers-stage-protest-without-shirts-as-strike-gets-aggressive-101636469227696.html
09-11-2021||Pune||As bus fares spike, assoc requests operators not to take advantage of Maharashtra strike||PUNE As bus operations at most depots belonging to the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) remain shut, because MSRTC employees are on strike, tickets fares of private buses have increased. Passengers trying to come back to Pune after the Diwali holidays are finding it difficult to book tickets with private bus operators.The post-Diwali rush to return to the city has also increased the demand for seats on private buses coming to Pune. The Bus and Car Operators Confederation of India (BOCI) has asked private bus operators not to overcharge passengers and take advantage of the situation. Harshada Nagle, a resident of Bavdhan, visited her native village in Akola for Diwali. Coming back to Pune is proving to be a challenge. “I was supposed to join office on Tuesday. I tried to book a ticket on a private bus but I was told that all the tickets are sold out for the next three days. The fares have also doubled. From Akola, tickets prices on private buses range from ₹1,000 to Rs1,200. Now it’s ₹2,000. I had to make travelling arrangements with a relative who coming by their own vehicle to Pune,” said Nagle. As the strike continues, the state government has already permitted private buses, goods’ vehicles and contract carriage to ferry passengers. Prasanna Patwardhan of Prasanna Purple travels and also the president of BOCI has written a letter to all bus and tour operators, where he requested: “I urge all the operators to charge the fare within government approved rates. There should not be any misconduct with the customers and no one should take advantage of this situation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-bus-fares-spike-assoc-requests-operators-not-to-take-advantage-of-maharashtra-strike-101636468627621.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh announces public holidays on Chhath Puja & Kartik Purnima||The Uttar Pradesh government-led by Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday declared public holidays on account of Chhath Puja on November 10, and Kartik Purnima, which falls on November 19.“The state government decided to declare a public holiday on the occasion of Chhath festival on November 10 in order to honour public sentiments,” people familiar with the development quoted the chief minister as saying. “Similarly, there will be a public holiday on Kartik Purnima (November 19),” he added.Previously, Delhi and Uttarakhand governments announced a public holiday on the occasion of Chhath Puja.Government of Uttar Pradesh issues order that the District Magistrates can declare public holiday on 10th November in the districts where #ChhathPuja is celebrated on a large scale. pic.twitter.com/C5CVthWwqRChhath is celebrated after Diwali by people belonging to Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh. It involves the offering of ‘arghya’ by fasting women to the Sun god in knee-deep water and elaborate rituals spanning over three days.Also read | 800 ghats set up in Delhi for Chhath Puja, says Manish SisodiaFasting began with 'Kharna' on Tuesday, which will be followed by offering of arghya to the setting sun on Wednesday and conclude with another at sunrise on Thursday.Kartika Purnima is celebrated by people of different religions including Hindu and Sikh. It is celebrated on the full-moon day or the fifteenth lunar day of Kartik in November or December. It is also referred to as Tripuri Purnima and Tripurari Purnima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-announces-public-holidays-on-chhath-puja-kartik-purnima-101636465724280.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC proposes additional repairs to 5 skywalks in western suburbs||After the report submitted by an expert committee led by Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed repairs of skywalks at Borivli, Dahisar West and East, Goregaon and Kandivli (East). The skywalks in Mumbai were audited by the committee after the Himalaya Bridge collapsed at CSMT in March 2019.According to the proposal passed by the BMC’s standing committee on Tuesday, the proposal for repair cost has been increased to ₹21 crore from the ₹18 crore in 2019. The repair works will see the implementation of the recommendation by the committee.Satish Thosar, BMC’s chief engineer of the bridges department said, “The rise in cost is owing to a few recommendations that the committee had given, like using a corrosion-resistant paint, laying of fibre-reinforced polymer on the flooring, among others.”According to BMC officials, the repairs were proposed in the year 2019, but owing to the committee recommendations, a few more works needed to be taken up leading to the cost escalation.Apart from the above skywalks, more 23 skywalks are due to undergo major repairs or demolition and reconstruction.Meanwhile, the BMC has decided to demolish and rebuild part of the city’s first skywalk in Bandra (East). The decision has been taken by the BMC owing to structural defects pointed out by a third-party auditor. According to BMC officials, the stretch between Bandra East station and Western Express Highway will be demolished and rebuilt at the cost of around ₹16.20 crore.Meanwhile, the Opposition party leader in the BMC and Congress Corporator Ravi Raja, while discussing the repairs of the skywalk, in the meeting said that most of the skywalks constructed by the MMRDA and have now been handed over to the BMC for maintenance have become white elephants. Raja said, “We all know who uses these skywalks and how many commuters prefer to cross from the chaotic traffic-filled road below. This is because at many times there are either hawkers or some persons found to be sleeping on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-proposes-additional-repairs-to-5-skywalks-in-western-suburbs-101636466887409.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Tourists asking for directions, no threat to Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia: Mumbai Police||The city police have traced the vehicle in which three suspicious men on Monday asked a taxi driver the address of industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house Antilia, forcing Mumbai police to sound a mild alert across south Mumbai. The vehicle turned out to be a tourist car, the police said.The driver was questioned and was let off after questioning as nothing suspicious was found from his interrogation, the police said.The Mumbai Police had on Monday intensified vigilance in south Mumbai, specifically, around Mukesh Ambani’s house Antilia, after a taxi driver informed the Azad Maidan police that suspicious men travelling in a Wagon R car had asked him the address of the industrialist. The driver also told police that the people looked suspicious and were carrying two bags.The registration number (of the vehicle) shared by the taxi driver was incorrect. Hence, the police scanned CCTV cameras and spotted the vehicle in the footage. It was later traced to Navi Mumbai.Questioning of its owner revealed that three people, who are into sand business, had come to Navi Mumbai from Kutch, Gujarat. They hired his Wagon R for visiting tourists places in Mumbai. But near Killa court car driver’s phone got switched off, so he could not use Google Maps. Hence, they asked another taxi driver about the address of Antilia. Thereafter, they visited other tourist places and returned to Navi Mumbai. From there the businessmen left for Gujarat the same night, the police said.“The Wagon R driver narrated everything to us and also shared details of the three businessmen. We verified his claims and also spoke to them over the phone and prima-facie nothing suspicious was found,” said Bhushan Belnekar, senior inspector of Azad Maidan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tourists-asking-for-directions-no-threat-to-mukesh-ambani-s-residence-antilia-mumbai-police-101636465867541.html
09-11-2021||Kolkata||Former Bengal minister Amit Mitra appointed principal chief advisor to Mamata Banerjee, state finance dept||Former West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra has been appointed as the principal chief advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the finance department, the state government announced on Tuesday.The six-month tenure of Mitra as the finance minister came to an end last week and since he did not contest the bypolls his department went under the control of the chief minister. An economist by profession, Mitra expressed his inability to continue as the finance minister owing to his fragile health.Mitra did not contest the assembly elections but was sworn-in as the finance minister for the third consecutive term in May this year, when the Trinamool Congress formed the government in Bengal. He was handpicked by Banerjee who had prepared a list of 24 cabinet ministers and 19 ministers of state after the elections.Mitra, a former secretary general of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), contested and won the assembly elections from Khardah in North 24 Parganas for two consecutive terms. “With the party winning 213 seats in May, Mitra could have contested and emerged as a winner from any seat, including Khardah which he earlier held. Mamata Banerjee, too, had to contest again from Bhabanipur constituency in September, as she lost from Nandigram in East Midnapore district. Finding two seats for them is not a big issue,” a top TMC leader told HT after the elections concluded.Banerjee holds the portfolios of finance, home, health, personnel and administrative reforms. In the latest reshuffle Chandrima Bhattacharya was appointed the minister of state for finance, and Pulak Roy was appointed as the new panchayat and rural development minister after the death of Trinamool Congress veteran Subrata Mukherjee.Manas Bhuiya, the state water resource development minister, was also given the additional charge of consumer affairs, which was under veteran leader Sadhan Pande, who is currently undergoing treatment for an ailment in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/former-bengal-minister-amit-mitra-appointed-principal-chief-advisor-to-mamata-banerjee-state-finance-dept-101636465559231.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi urges Modi to reopen Kartarpur Corridor ahead of Prakash Purab||Ahead of Prakash Purab, birth anniversary of Sikh Guru Nanak Dev, this month, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor. The pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan was suspended in March 2020 owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The fresh appeal follows the chief minister's letters to Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah last month, requesting them to allow pilgrims to visit the gurdwara dedicated to Sikh Guru Nanak Dev in Pakistan.Also read | Navjot Sidhu questions Channi govt’s ‘failure’ to challenge Saini’s blanket bail in Supreme Court“Urging again, I appeal PM @narendramodi to reopen the #KartarpurCorridor before the auspicious occasion of Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji this month. Had written letters to both PM, HM @AmitShah last month to allow pilgrims to visit the Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib in Pakistan,” the Punjab chief minister tweeted.Earlier in the day, Congress Punjab unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu visited the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur to offer prayers.Urging again, I appeal PM @narendramodi to reopen the #KartarpurCorridor before auspicious occasion of Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev ji this month. Had written letters to both PM, HM @AmitShah last month to allow pilgrims to visit the Gurdwara Sri Darbar Sahib in Pakistan. pic.twitter.com/J4CUbOumiVNovember 9 marks the second anniversary of the opening of the Kartarpur corridor, which connects the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan to India. The Kartarpur Corridor was inaugurated on November 9, 2019, to provide Indian pilgrims visa-free access to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, the last resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak.On March 16, 2020, both India and Pakistan temporarily suspended the day-long pilgrimage in wake of Covid-19 pandemic and also suspended the registration for the Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage. However, on October 2, 2020, the Pakistan government announced to unilaterally open the Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage but India did not reciprocate the gesture.India and Pakistan signed the Kartarpur corridor agreement with Pakistan on October 24, 2019. Under the pact, Indian pilgrims of all faiths are allowed to undertake round-the-year visa-free travel through the Kartarpur corridor to Gurudwara Kartarpur Sahib.Prakash Purab (Gurpurab) will be observed on November 19 this year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-urges-modi-to-reopen-kartarpur-corridor-ahead-of-prakash-purab-101636460584853.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi to flag off Kanpur Metro trial run today||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will flag off the trial run of Kanpur Metro on Wednesday, said district magistrate Kanpur Vishakh G Iyer. In his three hour long stay in the city, the chief minister would also review the Zika virus situation and the efforts underway to contain its spread. At present Kanpur has 106 cases of Zika virus infection of which 18 are children. “The event will be held at the Metro depot in Government Polytechnic. Managing director of Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) Kumar Keshav will apprise the CM about the project,” said the DM.The trial run, which was earlier scheduled in the middle of November, has been advanced because of CM’s schedule, officials said. Two sets of trains are already parked at the depot and one of them would be used for trial. Each train has three coaches, said the Kanpur Metro in a statement.Metro services are expected to be opened for the public on December 31. The 12 metro trains will run between Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and Motijheel in the first phase. The second phase would include extension of services till Rama Devi and Transport Nagar.The first phase of work between IIT-Kanpur and Motijheel has almost concluded, the DM said adding that the Metro will run on a nine-kilometre-long stretch in the first phase. The second phase would be carried out between Motijheel and Transport Nagar. After the inauguration ceremony, the chief minister will hold a meeting at Kanpur Development Authority auditorium with the district and health officials to review the efforts to deal with Zika virus in the district, said a government release.The chief minister will also visit Zika virus affected areas such as Pokharpur and Shyam Nagar to meet the family members of the persons infected by the virus to take stock of the health facilities being provided to them and the cleanliness drive in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-to-flag-off-kanpur-metro-trial-run-today-101636464907298.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 100 million milestone in its Covid-19 vaccine drive||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Tuesday crossed the 100 million milestone in the state’s vaccination drive, next only to Uttar Pradesh which has administered 135 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to its residents.According to the CoWIN portal, the number of doses administered till 5pm on Tuesday is 10,00,65,237. Of the inoculation numbers, 6,80,28,164 residents have been administered the first dose while the number of people who have received both doses is 3,20,37,073.Dr Rahul Pandit, Director-critical care, Fortis Hospitals and member, National Covid-19 task force described the feat as a milestone. “This accomplishment is a fruition of tremendous hard work, strategic acumen and timely intervention by the state and civic authorities, governing bodies, healthcare workers, community caregivers and responsible citizens. However, we must not let our guards down,” said Dr Pandit.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week set the target of completing 100% vaccination of its 91.44 million targetted population with the first dose by November 30.Maharashtra, which started the vaccination drive on January 16, has inoculated 68.02 million till Tuesday which is 74.38% of the targetted beneficiaries. Of them, 32.03 million people in the state have been fully vaccinated.The state achieved the target of 90 million doses on October 13, while it crossed 50 million mark on August 17. On July 20, it crossed 40 million mark and 10 million mark was achieved on April 11.The state government has attributed the slow start to initial hiccups in the vaccination drive due to the shortage of doses and the lower allocation of vaccines for the state. These issues were later sorted out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-100-million-milestone-in-its-covid-19-vaccine-drive-101636464367322.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra joins UN-backed ‘Race to Resilience’ climate campaign||State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, in an interview to COP TV (an arm of COP 26), announced that Maharashtra has joined the United Nations (UN)-backed ‘Race to Resilience’ campaign, which aims to facilitate sub-national governments globally in developing climate-resilient infrastructures to protect those who are most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. It is a sister concern of the ‘Race to Zero’ campaign, which facilitates sub-national governments to reach ‘net zero’, or carbon neutrality. This move is significant, according to officials in the environment department, in light of Maharashtra’s expenses toward climate rehabilitation over the past one year alone. The state government has incurred losses worth 2 billion USD, paid as direct compensation for people and parties impacted by extreme weather events such a flood, drought and crop failures. “Race to Resilience focuses on helping the most vulnerable, frontline communities to build resilience and adapt to the physical impacts of climate change, such as extreme heat, drought, flooding and sea-level rise, in three area types: urban, rural and coastal,” the Maharashtra environment department said in a statement issued on Tuesday, giving examples of the state’s efforts towards building climate resilience. Among the efforts listed include the environment department’s Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan, which “aims to achieve climate resilience in the state by bringing together local administrations, businesses, NGOs (non-governmental organisations), and citizens of all age groups” and “to incentivise all levels of local government to act on climate change mitigation and adaptation”. Under the programme, ₹55 crore was distributed in 2020-2021 between five urban local bodies which had performed well under the campaign. The other two examples include the conservation of mangroves in the state and the World Bank’s project on climate-resilient agriculture, which is underway in rural Maharashtra. “As India’s most industrialised state, Maharashtra is a crucial voice in building climate resilience in the Global South. By joining the Race to Resilience, Maharashtra aims to be a leading example for regional governments,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-joins-un-backed-race-to-resilience-climate-campaign-101636464187437.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case against Param Bir Singh: 2 arrested cops sent to CID custody||A magistrate court on Tuesday sent the two arrested police officers to the custody of the Maharashtra crime investigation department (CID), which has arrested them in the ₹20 crore extortion case related to the former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The CID has also applied before the court, seeking the issuance of a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against the former top cop who has already two NBWs issued against him.Police inspectors - Nandkumar Gopale, who is currently posted with the police training centre in Khandala, and Asha Korke, posted at local arms in Naigaon - were named as co-accused along with Singh in the first information report (FIR) registered by the Marine Drive police on the complaint of Bhayander-based developer Shyamsunder Agrawal. There are at least three other police personnel, including a deputy commissioner of police (DCP)-rank officer, who are named as accused in the case.Gopale has been an ace investigator of Mumbai police. He played a key role in many high-profile cases in past including the IPL betting case, the Indian Mujahideen case and the journalist J Dey murder case. The CID in a statement said that after collecting evidence, it arrested Gopale and Korke on Monday and would produce them in a local court in Mumbai on Tuesday.Special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap said that the accused officers allegedly extorted cash worth ₹50 lakh through a hawala operator from Sharad Agrawal, the nephew of the complainant, by threatening to arrest his uncle in a false case. Hawala operator, Momin, is an old associate of Sanjay Punamiya, one of the accused in the case and Agarwal’s ex-business partner, Jagtap said.“The CID officers have established the link between the arrested officers, hawala operator and the main accused Punamiya. The CID has obtained scientific evidence against the two officers that indicated that they have accepted ₹50 lakh in cash,” Jagtap added.The CID is probing an FIR filed on Agrawal’s complaint at the Marine Drive police station. Agrawal had alleged that early this year, Juhu police filed an extortion case, accusing him of having links with underworld don Chhota Shakeel. Later, the police applied the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in the case. Agrawal claimed that based on this false case, Singh and his subordinates extorted money from him at the behest of Punamiya, who is the main accused in the case.A few days later, Gopale, who was then Mumbai crime branch unit 9 in-charge, raided Agrawal’s Bhayander and Vile Parle residences. During these raids, the accused police officers illegally seized some partnership documents and other papers without making any official entry. Later, the photocopies of these documents were found in Punamiya’s possession, stated the FIR filed by Marine Drive police.Singh is wanted by multiple law enforcement agencies and the CID is probing at least three of the five FIRs filed against him.“There have already been two non-bailable warrants issued against Singh. On Tuesday, we urged the court to issue NBW in this case as well,” said Jagtap.A look-out circular (LoC) has also been issued against the former Mumbai Police chief. Apart from this, two open inquiries have also been initiated against the 1988-batch senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) over the corruption allegations made against him by two serving police inspectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-2-arrested-cops-sent-to-cid-custody-101636461255663.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Village representatives in Kalyan set ablaze tax bills, complain of lack of development||The all-party union representing the 27 villages staged a protest against the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Tuesday against the increased tax bills charged by the civic body, officials said. The protestors carried tax bills and set them ablaze in front of the KDMC headquarters. The representative also placed a demand to remove these villages from the civic body, due to lack of development. The 27 villages which were under the grampanchayat rule earlier, were added to the civic body in June 2015. The union has sent several letters to the civic body asking to revise the tax amount. “Since after the villages were added into the civic body there is no development in these villages by the civic body, however, the tax charged is 10 times more than what we paid to the grampanchayat. We want the civic body to revise it and reduce the tax amount,” said Gulab Vaze, representative of the all-party union. Vinay Kulkarni, in-charge of the tax department of KDMC said, “Excluding these villages from the civic body is a matter pertaining to the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, the tax imposed on these villages is as similar to other parts of KDMC as these villages are now a part of the civic body. I have explained this to the representatives followed by which the protest was called off.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/village-representatives-in-kalyan-set-ablaze-tax-bills-complain-of-lack-of-development-101636460228288.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Drug overdose: 25-year-old Ludhiana man found dead, 2 held||Two people were arrested after a 25-year-old factory worker died of suspected drug overdose here on Monday. The victim, Pankaj Kumar, 25 of Mundian Kalan, was found dead at one of his friends’ house. The victim’s father, Surinder Kumar, said that one of the accused, Prabhjit Singh of Sarpanch Colony, had taken Pankaj with him on pretext of finding him a new job. However, when he did not return, Surinder went to Prabhjit’s house the next day and found his son lying dead on the floor with froth coating his mouth. Assistant sub-inspector Surjeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said Prabhjit had administered a poisonous narcotic concoction to Pankaj, who was a drug addict. The two had bought the drugs from one Bala Verma of EWS Colony, who has also been arrested. A case was registered under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to the murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-overdose-25-year-old-ludhiana-man-found-dead-2-held-101636460047079.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Search for an emergency light ends in warm glow||Dust storms pummel Punjab frequently in May and June. They leave behind a trail of uprooted trees and electricity poles. The resulting power outages leave people fuming. During a stormy night in May, the electricity as usual, enacted the vanishing trick and our inverter battery also went kaput after its flickeringly moody, five-hour grudging generosity. Without electricity, it was a long buzzing night of mosquitoes. My wife reminded me of the need to have an emergency light in our home. I knew I had a task on my hands the next morning; I had to look for an emergency light first thing after waking up. Feeling groggy, I dragged myself to a neighbourhood electric goods shop in the morning. Spoiled for choice by retail showrooms, I was disappointed to find only four varieties of emergency light at the shop. When I complained to the young shop owner about the limited options, he replied apologetically, “Uncle, we don’t keep emergency lights because there’s hardly any demand. If you want a wider choice, search online. I’m sorry.” On reaching home, I plunged straight into the net. It turned out to be a maddening experience. One link led to another and I was bamboozled by the bewildering variety of emergency lights, all up for grabs! There were emergency lights that doubled as torches, some were equipped with a siren, and some others were solar-powered. I came across one that was equipped with a dynamo; you just shake it to charge it. Very inviting indeed, but since it happened to be a Chinese product, I dropped the idea. Who knows, if it was manufactured in Wuhan? After experiencing the freedom of choice and thrill that an itinerant window-shopper enjoys in the immense virtual mall, I realised that with so many sellers around, perhaps everyone was looking for an emergency light like me. Each model came with the promise of happiness, of dispelling darkness better than its competitors. Unable to decide which one to buy from the vast array, I gave up in exasperation. All were objects of desire and I wanted all or none. It was a case of a window-shopper’s delight giving way to a strange predicament summed up beautifully by Rajesh Reddy in this couplet: “Dil hai ik zidd pe adaa hai kisi bachey ki tarah/ Ya to sab kuchh hi isay chahiye ya kuchh bhi nahin (The heart, stubborn like a child/Yearns for everything or nothing).” As the day wore on, I was still undecided and worrying about the approaching night. The eventide was ominous as the deep blue sky disappeared behind dark thunderheads presaging a stormy night once again. The wind that began as a whisper had turned into a gust, and before long it was a gale. I looked sheepishly at my wife. She knew what I was feeling. But she smiled reassuringly and said, “You don’t have to worry. I’ve found an heirloom in the store.” She put on the table an old brass wick lamp with a sparkling glass chimney. My mother used to light it with desi ghee when I was a kid. “This is our emergency light,” she said. There it stood, ready to dispel darkness and gloom with its warm glow, redolence of abiding family love and heart-warming childhood memories! Provisioning happiness at short notice has been her speciality; our family’s emergency light spreading cheer since the day she became my life. swarajraj@yahoo.com The writer is a retired professor of English in Patiala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/search-for-an-emergency-light-ends-in-warm-glow-101636458726965.html
09-11-2021||Kolkata||Mamata claims Centre raised ₹4 lakh crore from increased fuel prices, demands amount to be distributed among states||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee claimed on Tuesday that the Centre raised an amount of ₹4 lakh crore recently when fuel prices were up, and demanded that this amount should be distributed equally among states.“The central government has collected around ₹4 lakh crore from the taxes levied from selling cooking gas, petrol and diesel at increased prices. Now, they (BJP) want the states to reduce the VAT. Where will the states get their money from?” Banerjee said during an assembly session.For the past few days, the West Bengal government and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state have engaged in a squabble after the Centre announced a reduction in central levies on petrol by ₹5 a litre and diesel by ₹10 a litre.Banerjee said on Tuesday that the VAT on petrol and diesel was reduced by the BJP-led Centre in view of the upcoming elections in five states. She alleged that prices will increase once the elections are over."Those lecturing us on oil prices should first answer where the state government will get its money from. The Union government does not give us our due funds," the Bengal CM further said in a direct attack to the BJP, which has already launched state-wide rallies for demanding a reduction in VAT.The saffron party has threatened to launch a much bigger movement next week if the ruling TMC fails to slash tax on fuel prices."The protests will assume such a proportion that the voice of the people will reach the chief minister's office on the 14th floor of state secretariat Nabanna. The protests will force her (Mamata) to listen to the just demand of people and match the Narendra Modi government's decision to cut excise duty on petrol and diesel...," BJP state unit chief Sukanta Majumder told reporters on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-reduced-vat-on-fuel-in-view-of-upcoming-assembly-polls-mamata-banerjee-101636454777291.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Won't have 'chunavi samjhauta', says Mayawati; attacks BJP, rival parties in Uttar Pradesh||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Tuesday made it clear that her party will not stitch a poll alliance or do a "chunavi samjhauta" with any party and contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly election slated to be held in 2022 on its own.“We're entering into agreement with people of all sections of society to bring them together — this alliance is permanent. Don't intend to enter into alliance with any party,” news agency ANI quoted Mayawati as saying on Tuesday, while addressing a press conference in Lucknow.The BSP chief then took a swipe at the Congress and the Samajwadi Party, saying people will not trust several poll promises made by two parties.“Had Congress fulfilled even 50% of their poll promises they wouldn't have been out of power at the Centre, UP & in most of the states of the nation,” Mayawati said, intensifying her attack against the Congress.Also read | Protests in Delhi, Lucknow if concerns over voters list revision not addressed: AkhileshAhead of the upcoming UP polls, the rival parties and the BJP have begun their “drama” to “lure” people of the state, Mayawati claimed. “The truth is that BJP govt's, at the Centre & state, announcement of projects & inauguration of incomplete works in last 1.5-2 months will continue until polls,” Mayawati was further quoted as saying.The BSP leader further linkened the Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party with the Bharatiya Janata Party, claiming both parties rely on ‘Hindu-Muslim’ politics to get votes. Mayawati exuded confidence in her party's victory in the state with an absolute majority.“We don't see any difference between SP and BJP. They are two sides of the same coin. They just want to make the polls a Hindu-Muslim matter. We are confident that we will get an absolute majority, just like we got in 2007,” Mayawati said.Elections for 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh are due early next year.In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP won a landslide victory winning 312 assembly seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections for 403-member Assembly. Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, BSP won 19 while Congress could manage to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/wont-have-chunavi-samjhauta-says-mayawati-attacks-bjp-rival-parties-in-uttar-pradesh-101636454856812.html
09-11-2021||Patna||‘Hooch’ tragedy: Three persons die in dry Bihar's Muzaffarpur district||Three persons died on Tuesday due to alleged consumption of spurious liquor in Muzaffarpur's Kanti in Bihar. With this, more than 30 lives have been lost in a fortnight for consumption of hooch in a state that is officially dry."While two of them succumbed to death during the treatment, one died at home," said Jayant Kant, senior superintendent of police, Muzaffarpur. The official also said one person is undergoing treatment as they fell ill after consuming spurious liquor. “The bodies have been taken for post mortem. We are recording the statements of bereaved family members as well as those who have been hospitalised. Based on the statements, we will be able to confirm whether liquor was consumed," the SSP further said.The incident took place close to the Saraiya police station area where five persons had died after consuming spurious liquor in the last week of October.Recently, hooch tragedies were reported in West Champaran, Gopalganj and Samastipur districts around Diwali, accounting to about 40 deaths, reported news agency PTI.The Muzaffarpur SSP further said police have launched a major crackdown on traders in Saraiya who were suspected of manufacturing illicit liquor.Sale and consumption of alcohol was completely banned in Bihar by the Nitish Kumar-led state government five and a half years ago.Meanwhile, Kumar has convened a high-level meeting over the liquor ban and hooch tragedies on November 16.Addressing reporters on Monday, the chief minister said, "We have called a high-level meeting over the situation of liquor ban on November 16. During the meeting, we will analyse where we are lacking in implementing the complete prohibition law in the state and we will take further decisions accordingly."Referring to the recent deaths, the CM said, "This happens because people are involved in the illegal business of selling liquor. We will sit on November 16 and list out the reason for such deaths. The government requests opposition leaders, other officials and individuals to inform us about the production of such spurious liquor in the state. The government would initiate action against such people."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hooch-tragedy-two-persons-die-in-dry-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-district-101636451691746.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||From Nov 11, Delhi govt to launch campaign against open burning of garbage||The Delhi government announced on Tuesday that it will launch a month-long campaign against the open burning of garbage in the national capital. The campaign will begin on November 11.Addressing a press conference, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that there are four reasons responsible for air pollution in Delhi-open burning of garbage, dust pollution, vehicular pollution and stubble burning.Pointing out that stubble burning from neighbouring states cannot be controlled, Rai said, “To curb instances of open burning in Delhi, we will be launching the 'Anti Open Burning Campaign' from 11 Nov to 11 December. A total of 550 teams from 10 departments have been handed over responsibility for the same.”The departments responsible for the campaign include North DMC, DDA, revenue department among others.Rai said that these 550 teams will be divided into day and night shifts. “During the daytime, 304 such teams will work while 246 teams will patrol at night to control instances of open burning,” he added.The Delhi environment minister appealed to all residents to register a complaint on the 'Green Delhi' application in case they come across any instance of open burning.Rai also said that diesel generator sets in Delhi will shut down and instructions have been issued to the police and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to ensure the same.“The metro and transport department has been ordered to increase the frequency of metros in the city,” he added.On Tuesday morning, Delhi's air quality plunged back to the 'severe' category, a day after it had improved to 'very poor.During the press conference, environment minister Rai also said that the Delhi government has written to the Centre about a joint meeting of states on crop residue burning and hoped it will take a call soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-nov-11-delhi-govt-to-launch-campaign-against-open-burning-of-garbage-101636450027278.html
09-11-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal lifts night curfew for 2 days in these districts. Check details||The West Bengal government on Tuesday announced temporary relaxation of night curfew in Nadia and Hooghly districts on the occasion of Jagadhatri Puja, reported news agency ANI. The night curfew in the state is observed between 11pm and 5am in view of the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic. A state government notification tweeted by ANI said that the restrictions will be relaxed on November 12 and 13.“On the occasion of the Jagadhatri Puja, restrictions relating to movement of people and vehicles between 11pm to 5am shall be relaxed on 12/11/2021 and 13/11/2021 for Nadia and Hooghly districts only,” the order said.Jagatdhatri Puja is particularly observed in eastern Indian states of West Bengal and Odisha in the month of Kartik. During the festival, devotees celebrate the reincarnation of Goddess Durga in the form of Jagadhatri.West Bengal | Night curfew lifted in Nadia & Hooghly Districts on 12th & 13th November on the occasion of 'Jagadhatri Puja': State Government pic.twitter.com/colh8vegRPEarlier, the Mamata Banerjee-led government relaxed the night curfew in the state on account of the Durga Puja celebrations in October. “In view of the ensuing festive period the said restriction relating to movement of people and vehicles between 11pm and 5am is relaxed during 10th October 2021 to 20th October 2021,” the government said in its earlier order.Also read | Karnataka withdraws night curfew, eases curbs at airports as Covid cases dropWest Bengal reported 603 single-day Covid-19 cases, pushing the infection tally to 15,99,091, the health department said in a bulletin on Tuesday. The department further informed that 14 people died due to the viral disease in the previous 24 hours, taking the death toll to 19,240.While 657 Covid patients recovered on Monday, 774 people were cured of the disease the previous day. The state's recovery rate is 98.3%. So far, 15,71,952 people have recovered in West Bengal.Kolkata reported 149 new infections followed by 138 cases in North 24 Parganas. Of the 23 districts of the state, only these two reported a three-digit figure of new cases in the previous 24 hours. At least 11 districts registered a single-digit figure in the same period.North 24 Parganas district accounted for four coronavirus deaths while three died in Nadia and one in the state capital Kolkata, the bulletin further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-lifts-night-curfew-for-2-days-in-these-districts-check-details-101636448622775.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Driver, sacked, confesses to killing DU professor’s wife; autopsy report awaited||A 32-year-old woman was allegedly strangulated and electrocuted to death by a 31-year-old man on Monday evening in a murder that took place at Delhi’s West Sant Nagar in Burari, police said.The murdered woman was the wife of a Delhi University (DU) assistant professor, police said. The accused, a driver who earlier lived in the same house in West Sant Nagar before being evicted, was arrested from the locality after confessing to committing the murder by “strangulation and electrocution”, when cops patrolling the area found him in a suspicious state and confronted him.The accused, identified by police as Rakesh, referred to the murdered woman during his confession as his “sister-in-law”, the police said.The victim and the assistant professor at DU’s Ramjas College got married in February.Police said the driver killed the woman because he had a grudge against her over several reasons. He said he was upset, according to the police, because the woman had evicted him and his family from the house; and also she allegedly asked him return a Wagon R taxi that he was using to earn his livelihood.Also Read: Murder on PU campus: Victim’s brother wants police to verify husband’s claimsThe accused also claimed he was enraged because the DU teacher hadn’t been clearing some payments due to him.The plot, however, took a different turn when the murdered woman’s family members said they suspected her husband’s role in the killing. The victim’s family members said they had filed a complaint at Burari police station back in August, seeking police protection for her as they feared her in-laws and driver Rakesh could be plotting to kill her. “We are looking into the [family’s] allegations,” said a senior police officer.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said, “Rakesh held the woman responsible for becoming unemployed also for evicting him from the house. He… planned to take revenge. He killed her when her husband and mother-in-law were out for some work. The [murdered] woman’s 84-year-old bed-ridden father-in-law was at home, but he didn’t hear anything as he’s hearing-impaired.”The police were waiting for the autopsy report to confirm the exact cause of death. They police were interrogating Rakesh to know more about the sequence of events surrounding the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/driver-sacked-confesses-to-killing-du-professor-s-wife-autopsy-report-awaited-101636451826672.html
09-11-2021||Bhopal||‘Proof of negligence’: Kamal Nath hits out at MP govt over Bhopal hospital fire||Senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Tuesday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) Madhya Pradesh government over the fire at the Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital in Bhopal on Monday night.At least four children lost their lives in the fire that broke out in the special newborn care unit (SNCU) of the hospital. A total of 40 children were admitted in the SNCU unit and 36 of them were undergoing treatment in different wards.The state government has ordered a high-level probe into the incident.Also Read| Bhopal hospital fire: Congress demands probe under sitting high court judgeSpeaking to news agency ANI, Kamal Nath, the former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, said that this is the third time that such an incident has happened in the past six months. “It is proof of negligence. We demand a sitting judge of the high court should conduct a probe,” Nath added.Earlier in the day, leaders of the Congress party accused the Bhopal police of not allowing them into the Kamala Nehru Children's hospital. The leaders said that the MP government is entirely responsible for this accident and also demanded a probe by a sitting HC judge. Congress MLA, PC Sharma told reporters on Monday that all ministers in the state cabinet should resign.Also Read| CM Chouhan calls Bhopal hospital fire tragedy ‘criminal negligence’, vows actionA short-circuit is likely to have been the cause of fire, Madhya Pradesh medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said on Monday.“We reached the spot along with others soon after getting information about the incident. It was dark inside the ward. We shifted the children to the adjacent ward," Sarang said.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has, meanwhile, announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh each for the family members of the victims. Chouhan said that the accident is criminal negligence and those who are guilty will not be spared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/proof-of-negligence-kamal-nath-hits-out-at-mp-govt-over-bhopal-hospital-fire-101636446091327.html
09-11-2021||Jaipur||Need further cut in petrol, diesel excise duty: Rajasthan CM Gehlot to PM Modi||Amid pressure from all corners to cut value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to slash central excise duty by a further ₹10 per litre on petrol and ₹15 per litre on diesel, saying that there was scope for the Centre to further bring down taxes on fuels. Gehlot also urged the government to stop oil companies from repeatedly increasing the prices of petrol and diesel. The Rajasthan CM’s letter to PM Modi comes two days after he wrote to union home minister Amit Shah, voicing similar concerns. In his letter to Modi, Gehlot pointed out that GST worth ₹5,963 crore was yet to be reimbursed by the Centre. He also wrote that the state was bearing a loss of ₹2,800 crore for reducing VAT in January 2021.Last week, the Centre slashed excise duties on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 per litre, respectively. Also Read: 10 non-BJP states yet to cut VAT on petrol, diesel. Here’s what they say“To give complete relief to the public, the additional excise duty and the special excise duty of the central pool on petrol and diesel should be further reduced by the GoI (government of India). This would ensure that the common man gets the benefit of reduction in excise duty and VAT simultaneously,” wrote Gehlot. “We expect that the central government should reduce the excise duty by an additional ₹10 per litre on petrol and an additional ₹15 per litre on diesel. On reducing the excise duty… VAT of the state will also automatically reduce proportionately by ₹3.4 per litre on petrol and ₹3.9 per litre on diesel,” he wrote in the letter. “As a result, there will be an additional loss of ₹3,500 crore per annum in the revenue of the state, which the state government is ready to bear in the public interest.” CM Gehlot said that from 2016, the basic excise duty levied on petrol and diesel by the central government has been reduced, which was shared by the states, but special and additional excise duty has been continuously going up - of which the states don’t get any share. “The continuous reduction in the share of the states is against the principles of fiscal federalism,” Gehlot argued in his letter to Modi. The Rajasthan chief minister said that in democracy, elected governments should mobilise necessary financial resources for development and social security schemes of the state. The geographical location, economic scenario and local conditions of each of the states also have roles in shaping how the benefits of development plans reach the public, he explained. Under some circumstances, state governments have the right - given by the Constitution - to raise revenue required for various development plans, he said. The Rajasthan CM said more than 22% of the total revenue of his state comes from VAT on petrol and diesel. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continues to corner the Gehlot government, demanding a cut in VAT on petrol and diesel. Deputy leader of the Opposition Rajendra Rathore tweeted, “In the name of VAT, the state government is putting extra burden on the public. Neighbouring states has given relief to the common people from the rising prices of petrol and diesel by reducing VAT.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/need-further-cut-in-petrol-diesel-excise-duty-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-to-pm-modi-101636449246085.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik: No links with underworld, will expose Fadnavis tomorrow||Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Tuesday said he would expose leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis' underworld connections on Wednesday morning.Addressing the media moments after the former chief minister accused Malik of having business dealings with 1993 Mumbai blasts convicts, the NCP leader said baseless allegations were being levelled against him to malign his image and said he did not know underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s sister Haseena Parker.“I will drop a hydrogen bomb tomorrow in connection with Fadnavis. I will expose his underworld links,” he was quoted as saying news agency ANI.“Fadnavis is trying to malign my image by connecting me to blast convicts and the underworld. I have no relations with the underworld and never purchased any land from blast convicts. I don't know Haseena Parkar. Salim Patel had the power of attorney of Goawala family. I did not know Patel was connected to the underworld. Sardar Khan had an ownership of the 300m plot. We paid to surrender the rights to it,” Malik said.“We were tenants of a plot, whose owner wanted to sell it. We carried out the transaction with the person who had the power of attorney on behalf of the owner... Sardar Wali Khan was the owner of the 300m plot. He still has his house in the Goawala compound. His father worked as a watchman in the compound. We paid to remove his name from the plot,” he added.Responding to Fadnavis’ allegation that Malik bought land at throwaway prices, the minister said, “Whatever sum was sought by the owner was given. The watchman had created paperwork for ownership on a 300m plot. Money was paid for that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-no-links-with-underworld-allegations-aimed-at-maligning-image-101636448720178.html
09-11-2021||Bhopal||CM Chouhan calls Bhopal hospital fire tragedy ‘criminal negligence’, vows strict action||A day after a fire at a hospital in Bhopal killed four infants, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said an investigation would be conducted into the blaze and its aftermath. Calling the tragedy a matter of “criminal negligence”, Chouhan vowed to take action against those found “guilty.”“A heart-wrenching and very unfortunate incident happened yesterday in Bhopal’s Kamala Nehru Hospital, due to which many of our grandchildren lost their lives. (Our) mind and soul are troubled (by this incident). I have ordered an investigation,” the CM said. “This is negligence, criminal negligence. Whoever is guilty in this will not be spared,” he added.Further, Chouhan thanked staff at the hospital for saving other infants undergoing treatment at the criticare care unit.Also read | Bhopal hospital fire: Congress demands probe under sitting high court judge“In this unfortunate incident, some doctors, nurses and ward boys worked to save 36 young people by putting their lives at risk. I thank them. Those who saved the lives of children will be honoured,” he said.He said all government and private hospitals in the state would have to undergo a fire safety audit.“I want a report on a fire safety audit… Both government and private hospitals will undergo the fire safety audit,” news agency ANI quoted him as saying.Watch | Fire erupts in Bhopal hospital’s paediatric critical care unit; 4 children deadState education minister Vishwas Sarang said a short circuit might have caused the fire at the hospital’s paediatric critical care unit. While four infants lost their lives in the tragedy, Sarang said the situation was “very scary” because 40 infants were in the ward at the time.Meanwhile, opposition leaders from Congress blamed the state government for the tragedy. MP’s women Congress president Archana Jaiswal and party's PC Sharma were stopped outside the Kamla Nehru Hospital. Soon after, Sharma said, “The state government is responsible for this incident. A sitting high court judge should probe the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/cm-chouhan-calls-bhopal-hospital-fire-tragedy-criminal-negligence-vows-strict-action-101636448242278.html
09-11-2021||Gurugram||Haryana reports 14 new Covid-19 cases, 9 from Gurugram||Haryana reported no Covid death even as 14 new infections on Monday pushed the state’s total case count to 771,340.According to the Health Department's daily bulletin, the death toll remained unchanged at 10,050.Among fresh cases, nine cases were reported from Gurugram.The total active cases in the state were 86 while the overall recoveries were 761,181.The recovery rate stood at 98.68 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-reports-14-new-covid-19-cases-9-from-gurugram-101636443953041.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik did business with Mumbai blast convicts: Devendra Fadnavis||Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday accused Maharashtra cabinet minister Nawab Malik and his family of purchasing a 2.80 acre plot from Mohammad Salim Patel, a "front man" of Dawood Ibrahim's sister Haseena Parker, and from Badshah Khan, a 1993 blast convict, in 2005.Addressing a press conference, the former chief minister said he had documents of five such property deals and would hand over the same to the appropriate authorities. He would also submit the documents to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar to let him know what his party functionaries were indulging in."There is a direct connection with the underworld. I have documents of five property deals. Four properties purchased connected with the underworld. I will ascertain which appropriate authorities, whether it is police, ED, NIA, and hand it over to them," Fadnavis said.Also read | 'Personal grudge': Sameer Wankhede's father files police complaint against Nawab Malik“Malik did business with people involved in blasts that shook Mumbai. He purchased land from convicts of the case at rates cheaper than market prices. Was this deal to save prime land from being forfeited under TADA law?" the BJP leader said.Fadnavis said a prime plot on LBS Road in Kurla was bought at a meagre sum of ₹30 lakh when the market rate was ₹2,053 per square feet in 2005 in the vicinity. "The deal was carried out when Malik was a minister in the previous Congress-NCP government,” he added.Also read | Nawab Malik targets Devendra Fadnavis again, links him to ‘high-end’ partiesThe BJP leader's allegations against the minister came in the wake of a series of controversies following the arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan in a drugs bust case aboard a Goa-bound cruise last month. Malik has accused the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede of partnering with some BJP leaders in an extortion attempt in the case, besides levelling other charges. Allegations and counter-allegations have followed since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-did-biz-with-mumbai-blast-convicts-devendra-fadnavis-101636443435341.html
09-11-2021||Bhopal||Bhopal hospital fire: Congress demands probe under sitting high court judge||The Congress on Tuesday accused the Bhopal police of blocking a party delegation outside the city’s Kamla Nehru Hospital, where four children lost their lives after a fire broke out inside the hospital’s pediatric critical care unit the previous evening. Addressing the media outside the hospital, Congress MLA PC Sharma demanded that a sitting judge of the high court conduct a probe into the incident.Bhopal | Archana Jaiswal, Pres, Madhya Pradesh Mahila Congress & party's PC Sharma stopped outside Kamla Nehru Hospital where 4 children died in a fire incident last nightState govt responsible for this incident.A sitting High Court judge should probe the matter, says PC Sharma pic.twitter.com/KQlmxn4yOT“First public representatives, parliamentarians and MLAs lost their lives. Now children, too, are losing their lives. The Madhya Pradesh government is fully responsible for this. All the ministers should resign. We demand a probe under a sitting judge of the high court,” Sharma said to the media. "यह सरकार की लापरवाही है, हाई कोर्ट के Sitting Judge से इसकी जांच होनी चाहिए ": @pcsharmainc #Bhopal #MadhyaPradesh @HamidSaddu pic.twitter.com/UAqNbPNGFNWhen questioned if the opposition party would take up the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the legislator from the state capital’s Bhopal Dakshin-Paschim assembly constituency said he will meet PM Modi during the latter's visit to the city on November 15.Also Read | 4 children die in fire in Bhopal hospital’s paediatric critical care unitAccording to a PTI report, Prime Minister Modi is expected to visit Bhopal on the said date to participate in a mega tribal convention on the birth anniversary of tribal leader Birsa Munda. He will also inaugurate the newly-developed Habibganj railway station.Sharma, meanwhile, also targeted Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, sharing on his Twitter handle, pictures of the chief minister ‘feasting’ with his cabinet colleagues at a time when little kids were dying in the blaze. जब राजधानी भोपाल के कमला नेहरू अस्पताल में आग की चपेट में आकर मासूम बच्चे जल रहे थे... तब प्रदेश के मुखिया अपने मंत्रियों के साथ डिनर की टेबल पर अठखेलियाँ कर रहे थे... शव - राज है तो मुमकिन है... pic.twitter.com/sqXTAQrZl5Chouhan, on Monday, ordered a high-level inquiry into the tragedy. At a press conference on Tuesday, he directed officials to submit to him a report on the fire safety audit of the hospital. He also said that all hospitals in the state, government or private, will have to undergo fire safety audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bhopal-hospital-fire-congress-demands-probe-under-sitting-high-court-judge-101636440962956.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||'Last nail in the coffin for Centre': Rakesh Tikait on Kisan Mahapanchayat||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Tuesday that the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on November 22 will prove to be the last nail in the coffin for the Centre and the ongoing farmers' agitation against the three new farm laws will intensify in Purvanchal.The mahapanchayat in Lucknow is being organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of around 40 farmer unions. The mahapanchayat was supposed to be held on October 26 but got postponed to November 22 due to adverse weather conditions and the ongoing harvest season.“The Kisan Mahapanchayat on November 22 will be historic. It will prove to be the last nail in the coffin for the anti-farmer government and the three black laws. Now, the farmers' movement will also intensify in Purvanchal,” Tikait said in a Koo post on Tuesday.Since November last year, Rakesh Tikait has been spearheading the protest against the three farm laws in Delhi. In a fresh attack, the BKU spokesperson accused the Centre for not condoling the protesting farmers who died during the ongoing movement."About 750 farmers died in the farm movement...There was no condolence from GoI. Country's farmers feel that perhaps PM Modi is not 'farmers' PM'... and consider them (farmers) as separate from the country," Tikait told news agency ANI on Sunday.And last week, he said that farmers across India will not leave and go anywhere. "If a government can run for five years, then this protest which has the endorsement of the people will continue till the Indian government doesn't pass a law ensuring MSP and repeal three farm laws," Tikait told the news agency.So far, 11 rounds of talks have been held between the farmer unions and the Centre to arrive at a consensus on the three new farm laws. But the discussions have remained inconclusive.In September, farmer unions called for a Bharat Bandh to mark one year of the enactment of these laws by the Union government.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) said on Monday that it will march towards Parliament on November 26 if the SKM gives permission. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, president of BKU (Haryana) said that the group has already passed a resolution for the march, adding, the final decision will be taken by the SKM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/last-nail-in-the-coffin-for-centre-tikait-on-kisan-mahapanchayat-101636439709232.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress chief Sidhu visits Kartarpur Corridor, seeks its reopening||On the second anniversary of the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor between India and Pakistan, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday visited Darshan Asthan along zero line in Gurdaspur district for darshan (glimpse) of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib across the border and urged the Centre to reopen it. Also read: Kartarpur corridor’s second anniversary today, travel remains suspendedGurdwara Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur in Pakistan is just 4km from zero line on the Indo-Pak border and is the last resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak. To provide Indian pilgrims visa-free access to the gurdwara, the corridor was opened on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak two years ago. However, it was closed when the Covid-19 pandemic surfaced early last year. Though Pakistan has reopened the corridor after the situation eased, the suspension from the Indian side persists. Seeks ‘khule darshan didar’ for ‘sangat’ After looking at the historic gurdwara through binoculars, Sidhu offered ardas (prayer) and said, “I prayed to Baba Nanak to reopen the corridor. I seek his blessings again, because due to his power, the corridor was opened.”He said 75% of people coming to Darshan Asthan don’t have passports. “Every day, about 5,000 followers pay obeisance here. A year and a half ago, Land Port Authority of India had promised to build a raised platform, Darshan Asthan, (100m wide and 60m high) to facilitate the sangat (community) to have darshan of Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara. It is my request to the home minister of India to give the platform to the sangat.” “I’ll write to the Centre and if there is any problem, they can tell the state government. I guarantee you that Punjab government will work towards this on priority. There should be four to five binoculars. We want that the corridor to stay open. If in case, it has to remain closed for any reason, the Darshan Asthan should be available for everyone for having ‘khule darshan didar’ of the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara,” he said. Close ties with Pakistani establishment The cricketer-turned-politician stirred a row by hugging Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa, during the oath-taking ceremony of the neighbouring country’s Prime Minister, Imran Khan, in 2018. He made headlines by disclosing that Bajwa had assured him that the Pakistan government is planning to open the corridor, a long-pending demand of Sikhs in India. During the inaugural ceremony of the corridor, Sidhu was invited as a special guest of Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-chief-sidhu-visits-kartarpur-corridor-seeks-its-reopening-101636442765747.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Yamuna's toxic foam gift to Delhi from UP, Haryana govts: AAP's Raghav Chadha||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday the toxic foam found floating on the Yamuna river was a gift to Delhi from the governments in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.He said about 105 million gallons per day (MGD) wastewater from the Yamuna in Haryana and about 50 MGD wastewater from the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh merged into Okhla Barrage and this water had industrial waste, untreated detergents and ammonia that led to formation of the dirty frothing.Radha, who is also the vice-chairman of the Delhi Jal Board, said the foam in the Yamuna was formed in the Okhla Barrage area and it fell under the UP irrigation govt. “It is the UP government's responsibility. But like every year, they failed this year too… The polluted water is not Delhi's, it is a 'gift' to Delhi by the UP and Haryana governments,” Chadha was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Froth in Yamuna: What causes it and why it is dangerous?He further said the AAP government had been writing to its counterpart in UP to use irrigation technology and bioculture method, but in vain.“The BJP governments in UP and Haryana should be blamed for this. Year after year, we have written to the UP government to use irrigation technology and bioculture method. But they did not pay any heed,” he said.BJP govts in UP and Haryana should be blamed for this. Year after year we have written to UP govt to use irrigation technology, bioculture method...but BJP govts didn't pay any heed: AAP leader Raghav Chadha on toxic foam in Yamuna, Delhi pic.twitter.com/K8QIwEHonNA political blame-game over the polluted river was back in the national capital between the ruling AAP and the opposition BJP.The BJP leadership has alleged the AAP government was not allowing Chhath celebrations on the Yamuna banks to hide the "pathetic" state of the river.Also read | 'Haryana responsible for frothing in Yamuna': Gopal Rai amid BJP's criticismHowever, a number of Chhath devotees were taking dips in the polluted frothy river for the second day.The 22-km  stretch of the Yamuna between Wazirabad and Okhla, which is less than two per cent of its length of 1,370km from Yamunotri to Allahabad, accounts for around 80 per cent of the pollution load in the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/yamunas-toxic-foam-gift-to-delhi-from-up-and-haryana-govts-aap-s-raghav-chadha-101636439992589.html
09-11-2021||Other||BJP worker shot outside his home in Prayagraj, injuries in stomach: Police||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was shot outside his home in Prayagraj on Tuesday morning, according to news agency ANI which quoted the city police.Ajay Sharma is the chief of the BJP Kisan Morcha, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.Sharma has received injuries in his stomach and shoulders, ANI reported.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-worker-shot-outside-his-home-in-prayagraj-injuries-in-stomach-police-101636437668735.html
09-11-2021||Bangalore||Travelling to Karnataka from Maharashtra? Fresh guidelines you should know||The Karnataka government has issued fresh guidelines for people arriving in the state from the neighbouring Maharashtra, due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The latest norms, however, are only for those who intend to stay in Karnataka for a very short duration: two days or less.Also Read | Karnataka issues Covid-19 guidelines for short term travellers from Maharashtra“Special surveillance measures for arrivals from Mumbai and Maharashtra,” the Karnataka health department tweeted on Monday, listing all the guidelines to be followed by those arriving from the western state, if applicable to them. Special surveillance measures for arrivals from Mumbai and Maharashtra.@cmofKarnataka @mla_sudhakar @Comm_dhfwka @HubballiRailway@KodaguConnect @IChangeMyCity@WeAreBangalore @bangalore@Belagavi_infra @PIBBengaluru @KarnatakaVarthe pic.twitter.com/PJY2oFSc76Here’s all you need to know:(1.) Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed entry into Karnataka, which means that they should not have symptoms such as fever, cough, cold, throat pain, difficulty in breathing etc. Also, before boarding the mode of transport, they will have to give a self-declaration of being asymptomatic.Also Read | India logs 10,126 fresh Covid-19 infections and 332 deaths; daily cases lowest in nearly 9 months(2.) On arrival, they will still undergo mandatory thermal screening for fever. They will also be asked to produce a valid return ticket as proof of short stay.(3.) Passengers are required to carry their Covid-19 vaccination certificate to show that they have received both doses (fully vaccinated) of a Covid-19 jab.(4.) Visitors will wear face masks and follow Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) throughout their stay in Karnataka.(5.) Those complying with the aforementioned guidelines are likely to be exempted from producing a negative RT-PCR test report.(6.) The order applies to arrivals by all modes of transport including rail, road and air.(7.) The fresh set of rules have been issued due to the ‘slightly higher’ daily Covid-19 caseload and test positivity rate in Maharashtra as compared to Karnataka, the order said, though it also noted that the situation has ‘vastly improved’ in both the states.(8.) On Monday, Karnataka logged 283 fresh infections and six deaths, taking the cumulative case count to 2,990,235, including 38,118 related deaths. Maharashtra, meanwhile, saw 751 new cases and 15 deaths. Its overall caseload is at 6,618,347, including a toll of 140,403.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/travelling-to-karnataka-from-maharashtra-fresh-guidelines-you-should-know-101636435532199.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||CPCB suggests measures to tackle rising air pollution in Delhi-NCR||As the Delhi-NCR region continues to see a rapid increase in the levels of air pollution due to stubble burning and Diwali celebrations, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has suggested measures to tackle the degrading air quality.According to a notification issued by the CPCB on Monday, some of these measures include increasing the frequency of mechanised cleaning of roads, sprinkling water on roads and ensuring all brick kilns remain closed in the region."Intensify public transport services. Introduce differential rates to encourage off-peak travel. States to disseminate information about air pollution levels and for creating awareness among citizens regarding steps to minimise air pollution," the CPCB's notification read.It also said that on Monday, a sub-committee convened a meeting to review the air quality status and the meteorological and pollution forecasts in Delhi-NCR.The pollution board has ordered all concerned agencies to strictly implement actions based on the decisions of the above subcommittee. Actions under 'severe category', in addition to steps listed under 'very poor and 'poor to moderate' AQI categories should be implemented with immediate effect in Delhi-NCR, the CPCB also said.The agencies will have to monitor the actions undertaken and submit a daily report to the concerned officials.Delhi's air quality on Tuesday plunged back to the 'severe' category, a day after it had improved to 'very poor. Data from the CPCB showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 422. The AQI was at 384 during the same time on Monday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that winds are expected to be northwesterly for the next five days that might lead to a high contribution of stubble burning.Apart from this, the CPCB also said that in the coming days, unfavourable meteorology might cause the air quality to fluctuate between 'severe and higher end of the very poor category'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cpcb-suggests-measures-to-tackle-rising-air-pollution-in-delhincr-101636433088698.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||No anti-Covid jab, no salaries, declares Thane Municipal Corporation||The Thane Municipal Corporation has declared that salaries of all its employees and frontline workers who haven’t been vaccinated at all against Covid-19 will soon be put on hold until they get jabbed. The civic body also announced that those who aren’t fully vaccinated against Covid-19 will no longer be allowed to accompany or admit patients at Chatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Thane’s Kalwa. The municipal corporation has given a week’s time to the unvaccinated to get jabbed against the coronavirus disease before the directives are imposed. Also Read: India logs 10,126 fresh Covid-19 infections, lowest in nearly 9 monthsThe orders were issued at a press conference held by Thane’s mayor Naresh Mhaske and civic commissioner Vipin Sharma. The civic body argued that its aim is to urgently get its staff vaccinated because they directly deal with the public. Mhaske said, “The salaries of the employees who have not taken a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine or have not taken the second dose or are way past the deadline [for a second dose] will be put on hold. Civic officials and employees will have to submit their vaccination certificates to disclose the status of vaccination. Apart from this, relatives or friends who accompany patients to Kalwa hospital also have to be fully vaccinated. Those who will not be vaccinated will immediately have to get vaccinated and [only] then can they accompany patients.” The hospital sees hundreds of patients visiting or being admitted every day from various cities of Maharashtra, especially from rural parts of Thane district, making it a challenging task for the authorities to impose the new directives. Civic officials said private doctors, too, have being asked to get fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and ensure that their employees were also fully jabbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-anti-covid-jab-no-salaries-declares-thane-municipal-corporation-101636436105277.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||House collapses in Mumbai's Antop Hill area, nine rescued||A house collapsed in the Antop Hill area of Mumbai on Tuesday morning following which at least nine people were rescued from the debris. According to an ANI report, an official of the Mumbai Fire Brigade present at the spot said the nine rescued people from the one-storied house were taken to a nearby hospital. "Four fire-fighting vehicles are at the spot," he was quoted as saying.A house collapsed in Antop Hill area of Mumbai. Nine persons rescued and shifted to a hospital: Mumbai Fire Brigade pic.twitter.com/Q1rY6TEt6lNo fire incident has been reported as of now. Rescue operations are underway.Later, it was reported of the nine rescued, seven were sent to Sion Hospital, while two others refused to get admitted. Three of the seven undergoing treatment at the hospital were identified as Amit Mishra (23), Surendra Mishra (59), Punam Sharma (28).Officials later said the incident happened at Jai Maharashtra Nagar in Wadala around 8.10 am and the one-storied structure had entirely collapsed..(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/house-collapses-in-mumbai-s-antop-hill-area-nine-rescued-101636433341055.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||‘No Covid-19 vaccination, no salary’: Thane civic body tells its employees||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) in Maharashtra has said its employees who have not taken even one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 will not be paid salaries. The decision was taken on Monday during a meeting of senior TMC officials, including civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma and Thane Mayor Naresh Mhaske.According to an official release issued late Monday night, the civic employees who have not taken the first dose, will not be paid salaries.The civic employees who have not taken their second vaccine dose within the stipulated period will also not get their salaries, the release said. The TMC has made it compulsory for all civic employees to submit their vaccination certificates at their respective offices. These measures are part of an effort to achieve the target of cent per cent vaccination in the city by this month-end, Mhaske told reporters after the meeting. A massive vaccination drive has been initiated in the city, located adjoining Mumbai, from Tuesday to achieve the target of cent per cent vaccination, he said. The mayor sought cooperation of the citizens in achieving the target and appealed to them to take the vaccine shots, and those who have taken one jab to take their second dose as well. The TMC has made available different vaccination centres, including 'on-wheels' inoculation facilities and jumbo vaccination centres. Regular outreach camps are also being held in the city, he said. In addition to this, under the 'Har Ghar Dastak' programme, health employees, ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers and nurses will go door-to-door and collect details of those who have not taken the vaccine. Such people will be given the jabs, the official said. A total of 167 teams have been formed for the purpose, he added. Those who accompany patients to the civic-run Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj General Hospital at Kalwa here are required to produce their certificates establishing that they are fully vaccinated. Those who have not been inoculated so far will be given the jabs, the release said. Besides, teachers of various schools and colleges have also been roped-in into to create awareness about the vaccination drive among students. The students will in-turn pass on the message about the importance of vaccination to their parents, the release said. The garbage collection vehicles moving in the city will also spread the message about the importance of vaccination, it said. The mayor said it was a good sign that Covid-19 cases in the city were coming down, but every care should be taken that the infection does not rise, and the mega vaccination drive is the only solution for it.On Sunday, Thane district reported 118 new cases of coronavirus, taking the infection count to 5,66,749, while one death raised the toll to 11,543, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-covid-19-vaccine-jab-no-salary-thane-civic-body-tells-its-employees-101636431232008.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Froth in Yamuna: What causes it and why it is dangerous?||The visuals of devotees taking a dip in the froth-filled waters of the Yamuna river sent chills down the spine of the residents of Delhi and worried environmentalists. The frothing also led to political war of works between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi and nearby states.While the BJP leaders alleged that the AAP government did not allow Chhath celebrations on the Yamuna banks to hide the "pathetic" state of the river, the AAP's Gopal Rai and Raghav Chadha blamed the governments in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for the frothing in the river.The 22-kilometre stretch of the Yamuna between Wazirabad and Okhla, which is less than 2 per cent of its length of 1,370 kilometres from Yamunotri to Allahabad, accounts for around 80 per cent of the pollution load in the river.What is froth formation?This is a phenomenon that takes place on many lakes and streams. Foam bubbles are produced when organic matter decomposes. These foam-producing molecules have one end that repels water and another that attract water and they work to reduce the surface tension on the surface of the water. These foam bubbles are lighter than water, so they float on the surface as a thin film that gradually accumulates.What causes the froth?The presence of phosphates and surfactants in untreated sewage from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh is a major reason behind frothing in the river, according to experts. While these two components comprise of 1 per cent, the remaining 99 per cent is air and water.AAP leader and Delhi Jal Board Vice Chairman Raghav Chadha said that the waste material falls from a height at the Okhla barrage which leads to the formation of foam.What are the sources of pollution that cause foam formation?Untreated sewage may contain soap-detergent particles. The other sources are industrial effluents, organic matter from decomposing vegetation and presence of filamentous bacteria.The pollution from sugar and paper industries in Uttar Pradesh that travel through the Hindon canal also causes pollution in the Yamuna.What are the health hazards?Short-term exposure can lead to skin irritation and allergies. If ingested, these chemicals may cause gastrointestinal problems and diseases like typhoid. Long term exposure to heavy metals in industrial pollutants can cause neurological issues and hormonal imbalances.The war of wordsRaghav Chadha claimed that Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been releasing around 155 million gallons of untreated waste water. While the Delhi government has been working to upgrade its sewage treatment plants to meet the revised standards of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), Uttar Pradesh and Haryana should do their bit in keeping the river clean, he said.BJP MP Manoj Tiwari, who rode a boat in the foam-covered Yamuna, alleged that the AAP government did not allow Chhath Puja on its banks because it wanted to cover up the frothing in the river caused by high pollution load.Reacting to it, Environment Minister Gopal Rai blamed the BJP-led Haryana government for the toxic foam in the river and said leaders of the saffron party here should seek answers from the neighbouring state.On an average, 24 out of the 35 sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the national capital did not meet the prescribed standards for wastewater over the last one year, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/froth-in-yamuna-what-causes-it-and-why-it-is-dangerous-101636431084672.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Majority of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra reported in urban areas||Largely urban areas in Maharashtra governed by municipal corporations accounted for 68% of new Covid-19 cases that were reported on Monday. The state reported a total of 751 new infections of which 511 were from 27 municipal corporations. Thirteen districts and eight municipal corporations, including Malegaon, Nandurbar, Hingoli, Parbhani, Nanded, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim didn’t report a single Covid-19 death on Monday. Most of Maharashtra’s latest cases were reported from Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli and the Pune Chinchwad municipal corporations. During the peak of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on April 18, when the daily cases totalled 68,631, the 27 municipal corporations accounted for 52.47 % of the total number of infections in the state, at 36,017. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the bulk of the Covid-19 cases were being reported in places where the density of population was high. Also Read: Karnataka issues Covid-19 guidelines for short term travellers from Maharashtra“Urban areas are highly populated and show a high density of population, owing to which they are reporting the majority of the cases. However, if we look at the overall picture, we have been able to control the Covid-19 infection rate effectively,” said Dr Awate. Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine at Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, blamed space constraints for the high caseload, among other reasons. “It is almost impossible to maintain social distancing in cities. In addition, we are seeing that people are not adhering to Covid-19 guidelines as many are not wearing masks and are crowding the markets. Even mass gatherings have started,” said Dr Shaikh. The total case tally for the state was 6,618,347 as of Monday, while the death toll was 140,403. On Monday, 1,555 patients recovered from the infection and the test positivity rate was reported at 1.22%, with 751 positive cases recorded after 61,720 fresh tests. The state has 13,649 active cases, of which Mumbai has 3,599, followed by Pune (2,985) and Ahmednagar (2,225). Mumbai recorded 206 new cases and five deaths on Monday, taking its Covid-19 fatalities to 16,281.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-majority-of-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-reported-in-urban-areas-101636430584710.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||New Delhi’s air quality plunges to ‘severe’ category on Tuesday morning||New Delhi’s air quality plunged back to the “severe” category on Tuesday morning, a day after it had marginally improved to “very poor”, posing likely health issues for its residents. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 422, which was at 384 at the same time on Monday. The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”.New Delhi is likely to see partly cloudy skies on Tuesday as per the Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 12 degrees Celsius while the highest temperature is predicted to be 30 degrees Celsius.The maximum UV Index recorded on Tuesday morning was 1 (low) and humidity was at 75%. The dew point was 15 degrees Celsius with a cloud cover of 51%, while the barometric pressure was 1,016 mb upwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-s-air-quality-plunges-to-severe-category-on-tuesday-morning-101636429324603.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Crop burning, Diwali: Why air quality deteriorated sharply in Delhi||Pollution has been hitting dangerous levels across New Delhi and other parts of northern India this month, in a sharp deterioration from October when people breathed the cleanest air in four years.Here are some of the factors that are driving the abrupt changes in air quality and compounding the problems regularly caused by crop burning and Diwali festival firecrackers.WHY THE RELATIVE RESPITE IN OCTOBER?In past years, air quality has generally started to decline steadily in the region around October after farmers finish harvesting their rice crops.Typically, the growers from the states of Punjab and Haryana near New Delhi then start clearing space for wheat by torching rice paddy stubble left behind by mechanised harvesters.This year, however, regular rains made it difficult for farmers to set fire to the rice paddy stubble and start re-planting.As a result, the Air Quality Index - which measures the concentration of poisonous particulate matter PM2.5 in a cubic metre of air - came in at an average 72 across the region in October, sharply down from 126 the same month last year.That is still above what the government says is a "safe" limit of 50.WHY THE SURGE IN NOVEMBER?Grain growers have had to move quickly to make up for the time they lost in October.In an average year, they would have had 20-25 days to harvest the rice crop and plant wheat. Speed is everything as late planting can result in lower crop yields and substantial losses.This year, many have said they will focus on the first two weeks in November and burn whole areas at once, rather than staggering fields.The pollution from crop burning is due to peak at a time when temperatures drop further and pollutants get trapped in the air in thick winter fogs and smogs.It has also coincided with Diwali, when Indians set off firecrackers as part of an ancient Hindu tradition.On Friday, the day after the festival, the Air Quality Index in New Delhi and other cities surged to 451 on a scale of 500, indicating "severe" conditions.WHY IS DELHI VULNERABLE TO POLLUTION?India's vast northern plains are drier and dustier than other parts of the country. New Delhi, despite being one of the greenest cities in India, is also exposed to pollutants coming from Afghanistan and Pakistan, experts say.Dust from the Thar Desert, or the Great Indian Desert, in the northwestern part of the subcontinent, adds to Delhi's pollution.Outside the city, experts say farmers have also been slow to adopt technologies and techniques that could cut down on the pollution coming from crop burning.Since 2018, India has given up to an 80% subsidy to farmers to buy machines that dispose of rice stubble left out in the field by mechanised harvesters without burning.But poor implementation of the plan means that a large number of farmers still prefer to burn crop waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crop-burning-diwali-why-air-quality-deteriorated-sharply-in-delhi-101636428407906.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: Sidhu questions govt over probe||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday questioned the party-led state government over the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident, and said the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed that the probe into the incident should be completed preferably within six months.“Today six months and one day have passed. Where is the chargesheet (in the matter)?” Sidhu asked. He also asked why a special leave petition has not been filed against the blanket bail given to former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini, one of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-sidhu-questions-govt-over-probe-101636420465180.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Air pollution: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai to hold meeting today||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai will on Tuesday chair a meeting with officials from concerned departments to deliberate on more steps required to reduce air pollution in the national capital. “We have called a meeting of all departments concerned, including environment department, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), Delhi Development Authority (DDA), Public Works Department (PWD) and municipal corporations, at the Delhi secretariat to discuss what more can be done to reduce Delhi's own share of pollution,” Rai said a day ago.Also Read | Air quality another concern as children return to schoolThe minister reiterated, citing scientists, that stubble burning from the neighbouring states was the main reason behind the rise in air pollution in the city. “We had urged the Centre to call an emergency meeting of all neighbouring states to reduce the incidents of stubble burning,” he added.Also Read | No freedom from pollution in Delhi till stubble fires stop: Gopal RaiOn Sunday, Rai wrote to Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav to “seek his attention on the current state of affairs.' In his letter, he urged Yadav to hold an interaction, on an urgent basis, with environment ministers from Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to discuss and implement immediate solutions to this problem. He also called for a long-term action plan to resolve the issue permanently.Till Sunday, for three straight days, Delhi recorded ‘severe’ air quality due to accumulation of emissions from a combination of factors, including bursting of firecrackers on Diwali, and stubble burning. However, on Tuesday, pollution levels lowered marginally due to strong winds, with the Air Quality Index (AQI) at 388 3pm.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-pollution-delhi-environment-minister-gopal-rai-to-chair-meeting-today-101636414906610.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Possibility of 3rd Covid wave low in Haryana, next 4 weeks crucial: Experts||With Haryana experiencing a low coronavirus infection count during the festival season, the health authorities are increasingly becoming confident about staving off the third wave. For nine weeks in a row, the number of weekly active cases have remained in double digits. Since Dussehra in mid-October, the past four weeks have seen 83, 81, 95 and 74 infections, as per the health department data. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora, said despite the low levels of viral infection in the state, there is a need to be watchful for a month. “We will lay emphasis on enhanced testing and increase the pace of vaccination to consolidate the gains of the past few months to keep the Covid spread at very low levels,” he added. State nodal officer for Covid, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said that molecular surveillance of Covid cases needs to be done for the emergence of new variants. Dr Chaudhary said though he does not see a third wave of infection coming yet, the health authorities are keeping their fingers crossed. “I will get concerned only if there are breakthrough infections and hospital admissions. As of now, the delta variant is not a cause of concern,” he added. The nodal officer said the reason for a minimal infection count is that a majority people now have antibodies to fight the virus. “The third round of serological survey showed that about 76% of our population has antibodies either due to infection or vaccination. Past infection and aggressive vaccination are responsible for the decline in cases. However, next two weeks will be very crucial. We need to be vigilant and see whether there is any increase in the infection rate,” Dr Chaudhary added. After going through the roof with over a lakh infections in the first week of May, the virus load in the state has been on a constant decline for 26 consecutive weeks. Health department statistics showed that 74 fresh infections were reported last week (November 1-7) as compared to 95 the week before (October 25-31). There are 13 districts, which do not have even a single active case. The data also showed that 1.04 lakh persons were tested last week, a per day average of about 14,995 samples. The second wave of virus during the devastating six-week period in April and May had thrown more than 4.21 lakh infections and over 4,200 fatalities in the state. While the virus, as per the data, took 249 days to hit peak in November 2020 during the first wave, it took just 93 days to peak during the second wave this May, primarily due to the virulence of the highly contagious delta variant. The state has so far inoculated about 2.61 crore people, 87% of whom have got the first jab and about 40% have been administered both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/possibility-of-3rd-covid-wave-low-in-haryana-next-4-weeks-crucial-experts-101636415343020.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Farmers launch indefinite dharna outside Hansi SP office||Protesting farmers on Monday launched an indefinite dharna outside the Hansi superintendent of police (SP) Nitika Gahlaut’s office after their talks with the administration to withdraw the FIR registered in the Narnaund case remained inconclusive. Earlier in the day, farmers led by Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Rakesh Tikait had gheraoed the SP’s house while demanding registration of an FIR against BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra and his associates for allegedly injuring and attacking a farmer. A delegation of 16 farm leaders had met the Hansi SP and other officials with their demands.Addressing the media after meeting injured farmer Kuldeep Rana, Tikait said they have launched an indefinite dharna outside the Hansi SP office until their demands are met. “We have asked the administration to lodge criminal cases against BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra and his associates for attacking Kuldeep Rana. We have also sought the withdrawal of FIRs filed against farmers for protesting at BJP MP’s event,” he added. The mini secretariat in Hansi has turned into a fortress with massive deployment of cops and two companies of paramilitary forces. No untoward incident was reported.Hansi SP Nitika Gahlaut said they had invited farm leaders to hold talks, which remained inconclusive. “There were some demands of farmers that were not accepted by the administration. Then the farmers left the meeting and started a dharna outside the mini secretariat,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmers-launch-indefinite-dharna-outside-hansi-sp-office-101636415044611.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Upcoming IT units, startups exempted from hiring locals for 2 years: Haryana deputy CM||The information technology (IT) units and startups to be set up after January 15, 2022, will be exempted for two years from hiring local candidates under Haryana’s private sector job quota law, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Monday.The BJP-JJP coalition government had last Saturday ordered that the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act providing for 75% reservation for locals in new private-sector jobs will come into force from January 15 next year. The law will be applicable for 10 years and jobs for the unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled labour having gross monthly salary not more than ₹30,000 will come under its ambit. “A person living in Haryana for the past five years will get the domicile certificate. We are committed to providing employment to the youth under this law, while new startups and IT units have been given exemption of two years from coming under its ambit,” said the deputy CM, who also holds the portfolio of department of industries and commerce, labour and employment, in a news conference. Dushyant said internal hiring will also be exempted from this law and the gross monthly salary for hiring has been reduced from previous ₹50,000 to ₹30,000. He said talks were held at state and national levels with all stakeholders before giving final shape to the law. Allaying doubts revolving around this quota, Dushyant said among the relaxations given includes two years’ exemption to the startups and new IT companies. Also, it will not be mandatory for the employer to hire eligible local youth from one district only, he added. Stating that Haryana has opened new doors of employment for the local youth by implementing this law, he said the private companies, trusts, and societies have been directed to fill the details of their employees by registering on the ‘Haryana Udyam Memorandum’ portal by January 15, 2022. At least 16,000 companies have registered themselves so far, he added. The deputy CM said the Haryana government will formulate a special scheme for MSMEs under which small ‘MSME industrial parks’ will be set up in each block to create employment opportunities for the locals and encourage export of local products. Indirectly referring to the current farmers’ agitation, Dushyant urged the youth to analyse how this agitation has affected development of the state. ‘51 lakh MT paddy procured till November 2’Dushyant said that Haryana had procured 51 lakh MT paddy till November 2 and ₹8,900 crore as MSP had been transferred to the bank accounts of farmers. He said the procurement will continue till November 15. He said ₹394 crore has been directly transferred to the accounts of bajra growers as price difference ( ₹600 per quintal) under the Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana. He said it was for the first time that if a farmer got the I-form before 3pm, the payment of the crop was also made by 5pm on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upcoming-it-units-startups-exempted-from-hiring-locals-for-2-years-haryana-deputy-cm-101636414863066.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar inaugurates new cooperative sugar mill in Karnal||Crushing operations at the government-operated sugar mills began on Monday with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurating the newly set up cooperative mill in Karnal. The chief minister said the sugar mill will not only crush 3,500 tonnes of cane daily, but also generate 18 MW power. He said this was a long-pending demand of the people as the existing mill was around 44 years old and unable to crush the entire produce of the farmers. Khattar said ₹263 crore has been spent on setting up of new sugar mill. He also assured that the pending payments of farmers will be cleared soon, directions regarding which have been issued to the Karnal deputy commissioner. The chief minister also inaugurated a 60 KL per day ethanol plant at the Shahbad cooperative sugar mill virtually. “This plant will also help in meeting the growing demand of the green fuel,” he added. To produce sulphur free refined sugarThe Karnal mill will be the first in the state to produce sulphur-free refined sugar, said Aditi, managing director of the mill. As per technical experts, sulphur is an additive used by manufacturers for purifying sugar. This year, the mill has set a target to crush 55 lakh quintals of sugarcane and the MD said they had done the bonding with the farmers to supply around 60 lakh quintals sugarcane. Officials said to meet the crushing capacity of the new mill, around 10 lakh tonnes of sugarcane from the nearby mills has been allocated to the Karnal facility. Farm agitation limited to some stubborn people: CMReacting over farmers’ agitation, Khattar said this protest was now limited to some stubborn people. “The issue will be resolved if these people shun stubbornness and come for talks with the government or let the agitation continue even for years,” he said when asked about the farm leaders’ warning to intensify the stir. “But they will not be given a free hand to disturb the law and order and action will be taken against those involved in any violence. FIR has already been registered against the people involved in Hisar’s Narnaund incident,” he added. However, the chief minister skipped a question over BJP’s Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma’s controversial statement. Without naming anybody, he said, “There is a need to speak about the people who had chopped off hands and legs instead of reacting over the statements.”The chief minister, meanwhile, also announced a 25% increase in the compensation given to the farmers for their damaged crops. He said the farmers will be given a compensation of ₹15,000 per acre for 100% damage instead of ₹12,000. Khattar also announced that the farmers having up to two acres of agriculture land need not to pay premium for the PM’s crop insurance scheme. He said the government will also bear 50% of the premium for the farmers having two to five acres of agricultural land. Night food court comes up in cityKhattar also inaugurated a night food market at Sector 12 of Karnal. The chief minister said residents will get all kinds of fast food at one market, which has around 40 stalls. The night food court will remain open from 6pm to 12am and offer a variety of vegetarian and non-vegetarian food items. A part of the smart city project, it will have seating arrangement for around 1,000 people. Khattar also announced to open such food courts at four more locations. ‘Antyodaya Gramodaya Mela’ to be held across Haryana: CMHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Monday that ‘Antyodaya Gramodaya Mela’ would be organised across the state in order to increase the income of poor families and financially empower them. Presiding over the state working committee meeting of BJP’s OBC Morcha in Panchkula, he said the work of income verification is being done by collecting data through Parivar Pehchan Patra Yojana. The work of setting up self-employment through 40 schemes of six departments is at the final stage, he added. To increase the income of poor families, financial assistance will be provided from the banks through the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana. Khattar said the officers of the OBC Morcha should prepare a list of 10 such families in their surrounding areas and send it to the government.(With inputs from HTC Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-inaugurates-new-cooperative-sugar-mill-in-karnal-101636414323195.html
09-11-2021||Jaipur||70 demoiselle cranes found dead, Newcastle disease suspected||Around 70 demoiselle cranes, popularly known as Kurjan in western Rajasthan, have been found dead in Kaparda village near Jodhpur over the last three days, with forest department officials blaming the highly contagious Newcastle disease which affects the respiratory tracks of the birds. However, tests on viscera samples that can establish this are awaited, and at least one expert believes the deaths are actually the result of pesticide poisoning.The officials said another 150 birds are stranded because they cannot fly due to the disease.The Newcastle disease is caused by a virus belonging to the paramyxovirus family. The forest department has sent the viscera samples of the birds to IVRI Bhopal for further investigation. DN Pandey, the head of the forest department, said only the report will provide a clear picture.The migratory cranes fly thousands of kilometers to various parts of Rajasthan’s Marwar and Phalodi regions from the wetlands of Mongolia and Caucasus in October. They stay there for about five months before returning to their homes.The birds also make Kaparda, which is about 200km from Keechan, their home during the winter months. Forest department extimates that there are about 300 migratory cranes in Kaparda.Dr Shravan Singh Rathore, who is treating the birds in Jodhpur, said at least 70 cranes have died and around 150 are sick and not moving even in water, meaning that they can be paralysed.“Prima facie it looks like a case of Ranikhet aka Newcastle disease. However, the exact reason would be known after the lab reports of the viscera are received,” he said. The post mortem examination of the birds suggests the virus is behind it, with the lungs and intestines being infected, and the oxygen supply, curtailed, he added. “The viscera samples have been sent to Bhopal. The report is expected in a day or two...”In 2016, 35 birds in Rajasthan died because of the same disease, he added.Microbiologist Dr AK Kataria ruled out Newcastle disease and claimed the birds died due to organophosphorus toxicity, an annual phenomenon in this migratory season. “The deaths of cranes are due to organophosphorus toxicity. This toxicity develops when the farmers spray medicine on crops to kill insects, which are eaten by birds leading to death,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/70-demoiselle-cranes-found-dead-newcastle-disease-suspected-101636412169119.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: His relationship with cash||Late night. The vegetable vendors are gone. The Mother Dairy booth has downed its shutters. The homeless brown dog is sleeping. The cold smoggy air is making the glow from street lamps look vapoury. The lane is empty, except for a rickshaw parked under a tree. Rickshaw puller Raibul Nadaf is sitting on a nearby bench. His hands are full of ₹20, ₹50 and ₹100 notes. “I’m counting how much I earned today,” he says distractedly, faintly smiling.This is Mr Nadaf’s daily ritual before he returns to his room in Sarai Kale Khan, nearby. His relationship with money is very elemental. It is untouched by an ATM card or a cheque book. In his 50s, the Bihar native has been in Delhi for 30 years, and has survived so far without a bank account. He doesn’t even have a wallet; he uses a small plastic pouch instead.Once back in the room, Mr Nadaf keeps his money inside a cloth bag. He has no closet, or even a suitcase. “But my money is always safe in the room… the other rickshaw pullers who live with me also store their money the same way.”A large part of Mr Nadaf’s earnings are exhausted in everyday expenses. He nevertheless manages to save a modest amount every month. It is always a challenge to send the savings to his wife in Saharsa (by now, his four children are settled into their respective households). He is consequently obliged to seek the help of acquaintances, who hold bank accounts, to transfer the money from Delhi to the village.Only recently did he start toying with the idea of having a bank account. “I’m growing old… kya maloom (who can tell) how long will my ageing body be able to handle the rickshaw…” Consequently, Mr Nadaf feels the need to regularly deposit some part of the cash he earns everyday in a bank, and maintain a pool of money that can be used in a health-related emergency. Some days back, a friendly tailor in Sarai Kale Khan gifted him ₹500, the minimum amount required to create a bank account, the tailor told him. Mr Nadaf realises that having such an account will also enable him to acquire an ATM card. “I see people getting rupees from the machine. I’ll then have to no longer keep my money in the room.”Mr Nadaf now gets up to leave. “Today I earned ₹300,” he says, carefully sliding the money pouch into his shirt pocket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-relationship-with-cash-101636408368335.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: F&CC approves development works worth ₹55 crore for city||The finance and contracts committee (F&CC) of the municipal corporation approved work orders worth around ₹55 crore, during a 15-minute meeting held at mayor Balkar Sandhu’s camp office on Monday evening. The move comes just months before the state is set to go the polls. As per information, over 400 resolutions were part of the agenda, including supplementary items, and the mayor approved all work orders. This, even as the contractors are already burdened with pending works. The new estimates of development works have been kept on hold as the municipal corporation is facing a shortage of funds. Officials in different branches of municipal corporation claim that projects worth ₹250 crore have already been sanctioned.Despite several attempts, mayor Sandhu was not available for comments. Additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal said work orders worth ₹55 crore, including road construction, installation of interlocking tiles and tube-wells, have been approved.Third party audit of development worksSenior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said decision was also taken to get a third party to audit the development works being taken up by the civic body. Malhotra said this will improve the quality of works and stop waste of funds.Resolution to take over 16 colonies of GLADA approvedDuring the meeting, the F&CC approved the resolution to take over 16 colonies under scheme areas of Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA). The resolution will now be tabled during the next meeting of the General House. Municipal corporation will take over the maintenance of colonies and recover user charges if a resolution is approved by the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-f-cc-approves-development-works-worth-rs-55-crore-for-city-101636407302258.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Indo-Canadian bus staff thrash Punbus driver for overtaking||Staff of the Indo-Canadian bus service allegedly thrashed a Punbus driver for overtaking their vehicle on the national highway near Ladhowal on Sunday. The accused also tore off his clothes.Salem Tabri police have registered an FIR against four unidentified persons and launched a manhunt.The victim, Mukhtiar Singh of Tara Singh village of Patti, Amritsar, said buses of the Indo-Canadian bus service and Rajdhani bus service were plying ahead of his bus. He tried to overtake the buses near Ladhowal. Instead of giving him way, the staff of the Indo-Canadian bus started accusing him of reckless driving. They then got off their bus and thrashed him, and in the process, tore off his clothes. He immediately sounded the police, but the accused managed to escape.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Janak Raj, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Sections 353 (assaulting public servant), 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharge of his public functions) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-indo-canadian-bus-staff-thrash-punbus-driver-for-overtaking-101636406882117.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: No general coaches for long-route trains, migrants travel sans tickets for Chhath||In the absence of general coaches in long-route trains, the Northern Railways is struggling to accommodate the heavy rush of migrants heading home for Chhath Puja on November 10, with most of them travelling without tickets in reserved compartments as they failed to book in advance. General coaches were excluded in long-route trains this year, due to fear of Covid spread.Meanwhile, the railways has intensified ticket checking in view of the festive rush. Railway authorities in Ludhiana claimed to have collected ₹12 lakh during checking over the last two days. According to officials, ₹4 lakh was recovered from ticket violators on Saturday while ₹8 lakh was recovered on Sunday.The drive continued on Monday as the Ludhiana railway station was flooded with passengers, struggling to board the trains with heavy luggage in tow. “Only trains running from Ludhiana to Ferozepur, Ludhiana to Hisar and Ludhiana to Lohian Khas, Jalandhar have general coaches. Despite starting special festival trains for migrants, many of them couldn’t be accommodated as only those with the prior reservations could travel,” said a railway official.The official added that in the absence of general coaches, passengers tend to travel without tickets in reserved coaches as many of them are not able to book in advance. Jagatpal, a passenger on Amritsar-Katihar Express who was fined, said he couldn’t reserve a seat in advance as his contractor sanctioned his leave at the last moment. “There were no seats left in the train but since I had to reach my hometown for Chhath, I boarded the train without a ticket. Railways should have arranged more seats for us or at least allowed general coaches during festivals,” he said. When asked, a senior official said that such decisions are taken by the central ministry. “Since everything is back on track, general coaches should also have been allowed to ply, he said.New record in ticket violation fineContinuing its special checking drive on Sunday, Firozpur division of Northern Railways recovered ₹20.93 lakh fine from ticket violators in a day, surpassing its previous day’s record of ₹16.43 lakh.A team of 35 ticket checkers conducted the special checking in trains running from or through Amritsar-Jalandhar railway section and Jalandhar-Ludhiana railway section on Saturday. They caught 2, 831 persons for the violation on Sunday. The offenders on Sunday were caught travelling in Paschim Express, Katihar express, Begumpura and Malwa Express. The team recovered the fare as well as penalty amount from the violators on the spot. Senior divisional commercial manager Chetan Taneja warned people against resorting to such unlawful means of travelling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-no-general-coaches-for-long-route-trains-migrants-travel-sans-tickets-for-chhath-101636406222196.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court outlines steps to upgrade safety in district courts||Proposing a slew of measures for enhancing security in the district courts of the national capital, the Delhi high court on Monday said special courtrooms may be created within jails to hold hearings related to high-risk prisoners, so that their physical appearance before the courts is reduced.While hearing a suo motu petition, taken up after jailed gangster Jitendra Maan Gogi was shot dead inside the Rohini courts in September, a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said the appearance of high-risk prisoners before the courts should be ensured, as far as possible, only through the virtual mode.When and if they are required to be physically present, the court suggested that proceedings be conducted inside vulnerable witness deposition courtrooms or inside jails. To facilitate such hearings, prison authorities will have to create a well-equipped courtroom in each jail complex, the bench said. It, however, clarified that these were “suggestions and not directions”.It proposed the state government be accountable for allocation of budget for the purchase of security devices and as the police have the expertise, they should purchase them under intimation to the government and the court.The bench clarified that it will issue appropriate “directions” to the authorities after all stakeholders have first perused the suggestions “summarised” by it.The police commissioner will put together a team of experts for a security audit of courts and deploy an appropriate number of personnel accordingly, the court said.It suggested that everyone, including advocates, be subjected to frisking, which is “quick and efficient”, and all are made to pass through metal detectors. No baggage may be allowed inside courts without being scanned.The court also suggested placing all court complexes under round-the-clock CCTV monitoring, issuing “stickers” to vehicles that may be permitted entry inside a court complex and installing under vehicle scanning systems as well as automated gates to tackle crowds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-outlines-steps-to-upgrade-safety-in-district-courts-101636405595610.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||27 more dengue cases detected in Ludhiana||Twenty-seven fresh cases of dengue were reported in the district in the last 24 hours, district health department officials said on Monday. The total count of confirmed dengue patients in Ludhiana has reached 1,439, while the number of suspected patients is 3,540.Of the total confirmed cases, 1,081 have been reported from Ludhiana city, while the others have surfaced from Khanna, Jagraon, Payal, Samrala, Sahnewal and other areas.As per health department officials, no confirmed dengue death has come to fore in the district as of now, but there are four suspected deaths. 3 fresh cases of Covid detectedThree fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district in the last 24 hours. The total count of Covid patients here has reached 87,624, out of which 2,106 have succumbed. The district currently has 19 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/27-more-dengue-cases-detected-in-ludhiana-101636405622703.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||10-day ‘corona curfew’ in 5 areas of Srinagar after cases surge||Amid surging cases, a 10-day ‘corona curfew’ was imposed in five areas of Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital, Srinagar, on Monday. A 24-hour complete corona curfew with no movement of people, except for permissible activities, will be imposed at Lal Bazar, Hyderpora, Chanapora and two different pockets of Bemina from midnight Tuesday, Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz Asad said. “All shopping complexes, bazaars, saloons, barber shops, and restaurants will remain closed as will all educational institutions ,” he said, adding that no gathering has been allowed except marriages with a ceiling of 20 people and funerals with 10 persons.Of the 1,165 active coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir till November 8, almost half or 587 are in Srinagar. This is the only district with which is reporting around 40-60 cases daily, around half of the daily cases in the whole union territory. On Sunday the district had reported 87 cases.Asad said that there has been a steep rise in Covid positive cases in the district in the past 17 days and 63% of the daily cases have been detected from a few particular areas. “Strict containment measures are also required in order to ensure safety of the public,” the order said. However ‘essential services’ have been allowed to continue both in the public and private sector.“Standalone grocery, vegetable, milk and meat shops may remain open from 7 am to 11 am only,” it said.On Saturday Asad had warned of the return of stringent restrictions to parts of Srinagar if the spurt in Covid cases in some pockets of the city was not contained. There are 82 containment zones in Srinagar, eight of which were added on Friday.Although Jammu and Kashmir recorded its lowest Covid-19 count in eight months in October, the union territory has been witnessing a slow and consistent rise in active cases over the past two weeks- majority of which is contributed by Srinagar.The active cases in J&K had been on the decline, reaching its lowest ebb on October 20 with 800 cases. However after October 20, the active cases slowly went up and reached 1,165 on November 08, an increase of 45% in 19 days.J&K sees three deaths, 111 Covid cases Jammu and Kashmir reported 111 Covid cases and three deaths on Monday, officials said. Of the total cases, 92 cases were reported in Kashmir valley with its capital Srinagar, which is witnessing a spurt in cases, responsible for 44 infections. The three deaths were also witnessed in the Kashmir valley, one each in Srinagar, Budgam and Bandipora districts. The Jammu division saw 19 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 96 with active positive cases reaching 1,165.Officials said with 44 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 15 cases in Budgam, 11 cases in Ganderbal and 10 in Baramulla with no or single-digit cases in the other 16 districts.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 587 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 166 and 87 active cases respectively.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 83,836 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.525 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,27,579 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.31%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,33,187 and the death-toll reaches 4,443.The officials said that 38,038 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. Jammu district has the highest number of 1,146 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 852 deaths.Winter could bring rise in Covid cases: DAKWith a sudden surge in the number of Covid cases in Kashmir valley in the last few days, Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) on Monday said winter months could bring rise in the number of coronavirus cases.“We could see a further spike in cases,” said DAK President and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan in a statement. “However, the number of severe cases and hospitalisations will be considerably lower than that of last winter,” he said, adding that cold and drier conditions are favourable to the viral stability. “Covid-19 tends to thrive in cooler conditions and survives outside better when it is cold,” he said.Dr Hassan said low humidity during winter is the main driver of virus transmission. In environments with low humidity, the virus stays suspended for much longer in the air which increases the risk of transmission.General Secretary DAK Dr Arshad Ali said Jammu and Kashmir had a large unvaccinated population. As of November 8, 2021, 45% of the population in J&K has been fully vaccinated. “This means around 55% of the population is susceptible, which is enough to sustain the virus,” he said. “In order to prevent the revival of Covid-19, we need to vaccinate 80-90% of the population,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10day-corona-curfew-in-5-areas-of-srinagar-after-cases-surge-101636405444150.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man gets 10-year rigorous imprisonment for raping minor girl||The court of additional district and sessions judge KK Jain on Wednesday sentenced a 26-year-old man to 10-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) for raping and sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl.The court also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on the convict, Mahinder Pal Singh alias Amandeep Singh of Jagraon.The court convicted him under sections of rape, criminal intimidation and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).As per the prosecution case, the FIR was registered on July 10, 2018. The girl’s father had told police that he, along with his wife and daughter, was sleeping when the accused scaled a wall, entered their room and forcibly took his 12-year-old daughter away.He then raped and sexually assaulted her in a room. The parents woke up on hearing the screams of the girl and were shocked to find her there.The accused had fled the scene by the time the parents reached to rescue the child, but he was later arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-gets-10-year-rigorous-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-girl-101636405442032.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots case made on half truths: Umar Khalid in bail plea||Seeking bail in a northeast Delhi riots case, former JNU student leader Umar Khalid told a city court on Monday that a case can’t be made against him on half truths and claimed that contradictory statements of witnesses showed that he was falsely implicated.Senior advocate Trideep Pais, appearing for Khalid, read out the statements of three protected witnesses and claimed that they were contradictory and cooked up.During the hearing, Pais read out a police allegation from the charge sheet regarding an alleged secret meeting in Delhi’s Seelampur area on January 23 and 24 last year in which Khalid had allegedly directed that the protests be escalated to riots.Denying that it was a secret meeting, Pais argued that its pictures were uploaded on Facebook: “I did not know that secret meeting were put up on Facebook.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-case-made-on-half-truths-umar-khalid-in-bail-plea-101636404869493.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Distance education courses for soldiers: MoU signed between Kashmir University and 15 Corps||In a first, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between Kashmir University and Army’s 15 Corps for providing admission to soldiers presently serving in Kashmir in distance education courses. The army has termed signing of the MoU as a historical day that will help in establishing a long-term relationship for provision of distance education courses to soldiers presently serving in Kashmir. “As envisaged in the MoU, the soldiers of Indian Army posted in Kashmir, will be able to seek admission to various courses being offered by the Directorate of Distance Education, University of Kashmir,” said Army’s Public Relations Officer, Col Emron Musavi. He said the type of courses being made available to Army personnel range from six months certificate courses to one year diploma courses and two years post graduate courses. “A total of 18 courses are presently available for enrolment by the Army personnel, which will be increased in due course of time,” he said. On the occasion, Kashmir University vice-chancellor professor Talat Ahmad said the MoU will benefit the soldiers posted in Kashmir. Army’s 15 Corps commander lieutenant general DP Pandey after the signing of MoU termed it as a milestone achieved in the field of education, which will empower the soldiers of the Chinar Corps in performing their duties in a challenging environment. Some of the courses that have been included are in maths, English, Urdu, and education and postgraduation diploma courses in computer applications, web designing, cyber law and tourism management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/distance-education-courses-for-soldiers-mou-signed-between-kashmir-university-and-15-corps-101636405081958.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Relative held for sheltering man accused of hurting religious sentiments||A day after protest by various Sikh organisations, the special branch of Ludhiana police commissionerate arrested a distant relative of Hindu outfit leader Anil Arora, who is wanted by the police in a case of hurting religious sentiments.The accused, Umesh Kumar Gandhi of New Guru Nanak Nagar, Mundian Kalan, is a relative and neighbour of Arora. He had provided shelter and financial help to Arora after the latter was booked. Police also recovered ₹10 lakh cash from Arora’s sister’s house, on the basis of information provided by Umesh.Inspector Beant Juneja, in-charge of special branch, said Arora was booked by Division Number 3 police on October 20 after a video of him purportedly making some objectionable remarks on religious figures surfaced. On October 25, Umesh was found to have withdrawn ₹1 lakh from his bank. He allegedly reached Fatehgarh Sahib, where he met Arora and handed him the cash so he could escape.The inspector said that during questioning, Umesh revealed that Arora had shared with him that after being booked, he had taken shelter at his sister, Shalu Arora’s house and kept a bag containing ₹10 lakh there. Police have already arrested Arora’s sister for sheltering him. As many as seven people have so far been arrested for providing shelter to Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-relative-held-for-sheltering-man-accused-of-hurting-religious-sentiments-101636405022157.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Terrorist held in Pulwama, 2 grenades recovered||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on Monday held a terrorist during an operation in Pulwama district in Jammu and Kashmir.The CRPF, in their statement, said that the troops of 183 Battalion of CRPF, J&K police, and the Indian Army conducted a search operation in Mirgund, Rajpora, Pulwama on Monday during which they apprehended a terrorist, identified as Sarwir Ahmed Mir, 21, a resident of Bathen in Pulwama.They have recovered two hand grenades from his possession.“Mir went missing from his home recently and joined Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Acting on intelligence inputs, a joint search operation was conducted and he was held. Further investigation is underway,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/terrorist-held-in-pulwama-2-grenades-recovered-101636404662110.html
09-11-2021||Dehradun||In Cong vs BJP in Uttarakhand, a new row over wearing shoes in Kedarnath shrine||DEHRADUN: The ruling BJP and opposition Congress accused each other of “breaching the sanctity” of the Kedarnath shrine in the Rudraprayag district after the Congress insisted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders including chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami wore shoes in the shrine and sat in front of it by showing their back.The context for the allegations first levelled by the Congress was the November 5 Kedarnath visit of Modi during which he performed a special puja at the shrine and then addressed a gathering in front of it from a makeshift stage. The Congress, which has lately stepped up attacks on the BJP government ahead of assembly elections early next year, said it was unpardonable.“What Modi and the other BJP leaders did on that day, is unpardonable. They not just wore shoes in the temple but showed their backs towards Lord Kedarnath which was totally against the sanctity and faith,” said Harish Rawat, the former Uttarakhand chief minister and Congress national general secretary.“The PM’s act of wearing shoes in the sacred place of Kedarnath temple has opened a Pandora’s box. Now, all the other BJP leaders will do the same by taking advantage of his act which has hurt the sentiments of devotees,” he said.Launching its counterattack, the BJP cited the visit of present Congress state president Ganesh Godiyal and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamalnath in Kedarnath shrine while wearing shoes in 2013. “The Congress is accusing our leaders of breaching the sanctity of Kedarnath but they should not forget the acts of their own leaders. In 2013, Godiyal and Kamalnath had gone inside the temple wearing shoes that grossly breached the sanctity of the temple. The Congress should first look at its own acts than accusing us,” said BJP state vice president Devendra Bhasin.Godiyal, however, refuted the allegations saying, “Kamalnath and I had visited the temple at the time of the 2013 tragedy during which bodies were lying in the temple premises. That time, our biggest duty was to rescue people and provide them with immediate help which we did.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/in-cong-vs-bjp-in-uttarakhand-a-new-row-over-wearing-shoes-in-kedarnath-shrine-101636404482023.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘PM Cares’: All 165 ventilators sent to Srinagar govt hospital defective: RTI activist||All 165 ventilators that were procured with the help of the PM Cares Fund and sent to Sri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital, Srinagar, were found to be defective, RTI activist Balvinder Singh said. Seeking intervention of the chief justice of the Jammu and Kashmir high court, Singh said, “While officials of the health department from Jammu division did not give the exact details in their RTI query, Government Medical College Srinagar, especially the head of anaesthesiology and critical care furnished clear information with regard to the defective ventilators of the three different brands supplied to them under PM CARES.” “HOD anaesthesiology said in his reply that the department received Bharat ventilators that were put to a trial run. However, all these ventilators were returned to the medical superintendent due to varied malfunctions in compressors and other flaws”, he said. “Similarly, three Agva ventilators also had some problems such as the display not working, trouble generating tidal volume etc,” said Singh. “As far as the ventilators of DHAMAN-III were concerned, the HOD stated in the reply that 125 ventilators of this make have been kept at DRDO Hospital, Srinagar. Out of 125 ventilators, two were kept at SMHS Hospital for trial run in order to ascertain their efficacy. They were also found defective and thus were not feasible for patient care,” said the RTI activist. “Beside 22 Agva ventilators have been kept at DRDO Hospital in Srinagar for trial,” he added. Singh suspected that the installation of defective ventilators in health institutions of Jammu division could be one of the major reasons for high Covid mortality rate. “Keeping in view the seriousness of the issue and to save precious lives of the inhabitants of the UT, as there is every apprehension of the third Covid-19 wave, we humbly request the chief justice of the J&K High Court to take serious cognisance of the issue and issue directions to the chief secretary to constitute a committee of experts to examine the functioning of all the ventilators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-cares-all-165-ventilators-sent-to-srinagar-govt-hospital-defective-rti-activist-101636404241951.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu questions Channi govt’s ‘failure’ to challenge Saini’s blanket bail in Supreme Court||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday questioned the state government’s failure to file a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court challenging the blanket bail granted to former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on September 10. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Sidhu said it had been seven years since but justice was still awaited in the 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing incident in which two Sikh protesters seeking action in the sacrilege episode were killed. Claiming that the sacrilege cases can’t move forward with a blanket bail to Saini, whom he referred to as prime accused in the case, the Congress leader hit out at advocate general APS Deol and DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota for inaction. He also questioned the role of 40 ruling party MLAs who sought Amarinder Singh’s removal from the chief minister’s post over inaction in the drug and sacrilege cases and had “threatened to break into Saini’s house”, but were not speaking up when the Charanjit Singh Channi government was not doing the needful. “I am feeling burdened over the sacrilege issue,” he said, adding that the party has to choose either him or the two officers (DGP and AG) who were hampering justice in the cases. “The high court on April 9 had asked the state government to complete investigation in the Kotkapura firing case in six months. The deadline lapsed but nothing has happened in the case,” the cricketer-turned-politician said after the media briefing following the proceedings of the first day of special Vidhan Sabha session were adjourned. The state Congress chief also asked the government to make public the report on the drug case which was kept in a sealed cover in the high court in the upcoming assembly sitting on November 11. He added, “No one stops the government from disclosing facts of the investigations.” Sidhu raised similar issues on micro-blogging site Twitter on Sunday, a day after APS Deol accused him of obstructing the functioning of the state government and the advocate general’s office. With this, the standoff between Sidhu and CM Charanjit Singh Channi over Deol’s appointment continues. Sidhu is opposed to appointment of Deol, who had represented Saini in the police firing cases, and has been pressing for his removal. He had resigned from his post on September 28. He withdrew his resignation last week but made Deol’s removal a precondition for resuming his duties. Responding to a query, Sidhu said he did not always criticise the government and praised the good work. “I welcome petrol and diesel price cut. But the question here is that for how long it will continue. Can this continue for the next five years?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-questions-channi-govt-s-failure-to-challenge-saini-s-blanket-bail-in-supreme-court-101636403646430.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two snatching incident reported in a day||Two cases of snatching were reported from different parts of the city on Sunday. In one of the cases, police managed to arrest two persons within hours of the crime. In the first case, two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched the mobile phone of a pedestrian. The victim, Vipan Kumar, 26, of Ajit Nagar, was returning home with his cousin at the time of the incident. An FIR against unidentified persons was registered at Salem Tabri police station in this regard.In the second case, Moti Nagar police arrested two persons hours after they snatched a commuter’s mobile phone. The accused have been identified as Shekhar Kumar and Sunny Kumar of EWS Colony.Sub-inspector Sulakkhan Singh said the accused snatched the phone of Avadh Kumar of Beantpura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-snatching-incident-reported-in-a-day-101636403521704.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Biggest scam in PM Cares: Mehbooba||People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said the Prime Minister refusing to account for the money in the PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) fund indicated that it was the biggest scam. Labelling it as a “sophisticated” form of corruption, Mehbooba said, “They used to say that demonetisation will bring back black money, violence will end, and so will corruption. However, the level of corruption prevalent now has never been seen before,” she said.“You do not want to give an account of a fund that has millions and billions. If this is not corruption, then what is it?” she rhetorically asked. On reports pertaining to the ventilators supplied to Kashmiri hospitals under the PM-CARES Fund being defective, she said. “Not only the ventilators sent here are defunct, but even those which reached Gujarat and other places are defunct. The biggest scam is in the PM-CARES fund,” she alleged.She also lent her support to farmers protesting against the three farm laws that were passed by the Parliament last year.“For the past year, farmers have been on the roads and many of them have become martyrs and some have even even died by suicide. However, the union government is not affected. If this is not arrogance, then what is?” “These times will not last. The farmers anger and the results of some states will force the BJP government to take note,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/biggest-scam-in-pm-cares-mehbooba-101636403041876.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||CM Channi hobnobbing with liquor, sand mafia: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday accused Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of hobnobbing with the liquor and sand mafia.At a dharna organised near the Bathinda district administrative complex (DAC) in support of farmers, Badal said the ruling political dispensation is in league with the unscrupulous elements whereas the issues of the farming community are not being addressed. “It is for the first time in the history of Punjab when the key revenue-generating portfolios like excise and mining are attached with the CM office and not given to separate ministers. It was planned to favour the mafia engaged in the sand and liquor trade. Individuals holding top political positions and their families are involved in extracting money from contractors at the fag end of the Congress party’s tenure in Punjab,” alleged the SAD chief.Badal said, ahead of the wheat-sowing period, Punjab farmers are facing a shortage of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser but the state government has failed to make necessary arrangements in advance.“There has been open black marketeering of DAP and farmers are being fleeced. Farmers are being forced to buy other farm chemicals to procure DAP from the outlets. Government has failed to check the ongoing malpractices,” he added.Former deputy CM said cotton growers are left in a financial lurch after their crop was damaged due to pink bollworm attack. “Government’s announcement to grant a maximum ₹12,000 per acre compensation is a cruel joke with the agrarian community. Crop loss assessment process was faulty and open to corruption and favoritism,” said Badal.He also flayed the government’s decision to stop paddy procurement in several districts even as farmers are arriving mandis with their non-basmati produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-channi-hobnobbing-with-liquor-sand-mafia-sukhbir-101636402981760.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Demonetisation biggest mistake in economic history: Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate||Demonetisation was the biggest mistake made by a government in post-independence India which gained nothing for the country but only caused suffering to the common man, All India Congress Committee (AICC) national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said on Monday. Shrinate said the economy of India had plunged after the decision was made due to business and job loss. “It is the fifth anniversary of demonetisation and the country has still not recovered. When demonetisation took place, the government said it would help recover the black money. However, nothing that sort of happened, and instead the common man lost their hard-earned money,” she said, adding that even the promise to rein in terrorist activities was not fulfilled.She alleged that it was former CAG Vinod Rai who collaborated with BJP to hatch a conspiracy against the then UPA government in 2014. “The conspiracy now stands exposed. Vinod Rai, in a defamation case filed by Sanjay Nirupam against him, submitted an affidavit in the court saying that he had lied about the scam in the UPA government and has apologized for it,” she said. He said after false CAG reports several leaders including Narendra Modi, Baba Ram Dev, Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejriwal had launched a campaign against the UPA government. Shirnate further said that under the BJP regime autonomous institutions of the country have become very weak. “The biggest example of this is that no question is being raised by any of these institutions about the PM-Cares Fund, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/demonetisation-biggest-mistake-in-economic-history-congress-spokesperson-supriya-shrinate-101636402561821.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 3 houses burgled in a locality on same night||A gang of burglars targeted three houses in Dharampura locality on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, while the families were asleep. The burglars took away nine mobile phones and a pair of earrings from the houses. All three families reported that they woke up with a severe headache, leading to suspicion that the burglars may have sprayed some sedatives. Complainant Gurdeep Singh, a farmer, said he and his two brothers woke up with a headache and blurry vision on Monday morning and found their phones missing. Meanwhile, their tenants who live on the first floor told them that their phones were also missing. Later, it was found that the family living in the adjacent house also lost their phones and a pair of earrings. The victims tried to make calls to their mobile phones, but all phones were switched off. Closed-circuit television cameras installed behind the house captured some suspects roaming on the street around 3.45 am. Gurdeep said it seems the miscreants had entered the house after scaling the compound wall.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurjit Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR will be lodged after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-3-houses-burgled-in-a-locality-on-same-night-101636402502005.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress affairs incharge meets CM Channi, Navjot Sidhu amid standoff over appointments||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary on Monday held a meeting with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu amid a tense standoff between the two over senior government appointments and action in the sacrilege and drug cases. The meeting was held barely two-and-a-half hours after the Punjab Congress chief, who has been opposed to the appointment of APS Deol and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the state’s advocate general (AG) and director general of police (DGP), targeted his own party’s government and the two officers at a press conference. Sidhu came to the meeting with cabinet minister Pargat Singh. The PPCC chief, who has been adamant on the removal of the AG and the top cop, again took up the issue that has remained unresolved despite the CM’s assurances. Sidhu and Deol are locked in a war of words with both accusing each other of obstructing justice in the sacrilege and drug cases. Deol had tendered his resignation to the CM last week, but it is still to be accepted. The three also discussed the bills and resolutions pertaining to power purchase agreements (PPAs), BSF jurisdiction and the three farm laws to be brought by the government in the state assembly on November 11, a person familiar with the development said. Cabinet minister Raj Kumar Verka said that Chaudhary first met the CM and the state chief separately and then they held a joint meeting wherein all these issues were discussed at length. “The misunderstandings are getting cleared and everything will be sorted out in the next two days. If any officer is a proving an impediment in these cases or needs to be taken off, he will be replaced,” the minister told reporters after the meeting. An aide of PPCC chief said there was a discussion on the organisational set-up of the party. Meanwhile, Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari also targeted the Punjab government for not challenging the issue of increased BSF jurisdiction in the Supreme Court. “It has been close to a month now Central Govt by notification has extended @BSF_India operational remit in Punjab to 50 Kilometres. Why till now notification has not been challenged by @PunjabGovtIndia under Article 131 in Supreme Court of India Is opposition to it mere tokenism? (sic)” he tweeted. The Channi-led government had recently held an all-party meeting on the issue and is holding a two-day session of the state assembly to oppose the Centre’s notification on the BSF jurisdiction. The matter is scheduled to come up in the assembly on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-affairs-incharge-meets-cm-channi-navjot-sidhu-amid-standoff-over-appointments-101636402386080.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology confers honorary degree on BMC commissioner||As many as 2,319 students were conferred with degrees during the 35th convocation of Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology (TIET) on Monday. Around 40 students were awarded medals for their outstanding performance in academics and other areas. Varsity alumnus Iqbal Singh Chahal, who is a 1989 batch IAS officer, was awarded Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa) degree for his exceptional work as municipal commissioner of Greater Mumbai in fighting the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Chahal restructured the entire Covid response mechanism in Mumbai, successfully managing the requirements of critical supplies in the mega city. Addressing the students, Chahal said the handling the Covid waves was very challenging but he and his team kept calm and executed their strategy in a streamlined manner. He said they launched a special ‘chase the virus’ campaign, focusing on testing and providing immediate medical assistance to the Covid patients. “The death rate was 8% at the peak of Covid wave, but we managed to bring it down to 0.8%,” he said, adding he was given a free hand by the chief minister, which helped him in taking quick decisions. “My engineering background helped me put in place a system driven by technology and date,” Chahal said. TIET director Prof Prakash Gopalan lauded the faculty and staff for their unstinted efforts towards ensuring that student-focused deliveries were least affected in a year that was seriously impacted by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tiet-confers-honorary-degree-on-bmc-commissioner-101636402201994.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal schools to reopen for lower classes from November 10||The Himachal Pradesh Cabinet on Monday decided to resume physical classes for students of Classes 3 to 7 from November 10 and Classes 1 and 2 from November 15. Offline classes have already started for Classes 8 to 12 on September 27. The Cabinet also decided to allow public transport to run at full capacity instead of 50% occupancy. The Cabinet, which met for the first time after the electoral debacle, assessed the reason for the electoral losses and also reviewed the Covid situation in the state. The Cabinet will recommend the governor to convene the winter session of the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha from December 10 to 12 at the Tapovan Complex of the assembly at Dharamshala. The session will have five sittings. Further, the Cabinet also gave the nod to hold a ‘Janmanch’ Programme on November 21. It reviewed the implementation of Swarnim Drishtri Patra of the BJP, which the state government has adopted as a policy document A committee will be constituted under the chairmanship of the chief secretary with vice-chancellors of Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, and Cluster University, Mandi and secretary education as its members to work out the modalities to set up a state university at Mandi. It gave its nod to enhance the stipend of dental students by ₹5000 per month with effect from April 1, 2021. Now, first-year master of dental surgery (MDS)will be paid ₹ 40,000 instead ₹35,000 and second year students will get ₹45,000, while third year students will get ₹50,000. The Cabinet gave its approval for the inclusion and addition of more items in the existing schedule of the Himachal Pradesh Agricultural and Horticultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2005. Earlier,131 items were included in the existing schedule of the Act. Now, 259 items, including cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, vegetable fibres, animal husbandry products and livestock, condiments and species, medicinal and aromatic plant species, flowers, potted plants and their seeds and other products have been included under it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-schools-to-reopen-for-lower-classes-from-november-10-101636402021707.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP slams to Congress govt’s move to adjourn Punjab assembly proceedings||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday opposed the Punjab government’s decision to adjourn the proceedings of the state assembly after a few minutes and hold the next sitting on November 11, accusing it of putting unnecessary burden on the state exchequer. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the whole thrust of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his cabinet was to cover up the shortcomings of the government’s rule of four-and-a-half-years. “The chief minister and the finance minister should tell who is responsible for this wasteful expenditure?” he asked. The AAP, Cheema said, would seek from the Congress government an account of its performance. “We will ask questions with regard to BSF jurisdiction, agriculture loans, scheduled castes (SCs), traders and the protesting PTI teachers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-slams-to-move-to-adjourn-assembly-proceedings-101636401841113.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi lying with false adverts on fuel price cut: Akali Dal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday accused Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of lying and indulging in deceit by spending crores on false advertisements claiming the lowest petrol and diesel prices in the region even as the rates were higher in the state than Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, the former minister said the state government was forced to take the decision by the reduction in excise by the Centre and the simultaneous cut in value added tax (VAT) by several other states. “And now, the Congress government is indulging in skullduggery by claiming the rates in Punjab are the lowest when diesel price is ₹3 per liter higher than Chandigarh and ₹3.25 than HP,” he said. The SAD leader also condemned the Congress government for making the ‘Ghar Ghar Naukari’ scheme applicable to only sons and relatives of ministers and ruling party MLAs. On Navjot Singh Sidhu, Majithia said the state Congress president did not have faith in his chief minister and has virtually brought a motion of no-confidence against him. “The CM should resign forthwith,” he said.On the occasion, senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and councillor Amarjit Bhatia joined the SAD along with his supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-lying-with-false-adverts-on-fuel-price-cut-akali-dal-101636401783745.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege cases: Got some crucial info, says SIT after Ram Rahim’s questioning||Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases asked over 100 questions from Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh during his grilling for more than seven hours at Sunaria Jail in Rohtak on Monday. The dera head was questioned from 10:30am to 6pm for his alleged role in the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015, and the subsequent sacrilege incidents. Official sources said Ram Rahim was also quizzed about the whereabouts of three dera’s national committee members, wanted in sacrilege cases. SIT head Surinder Pal Singh Parmar said Ram Rahim’s interrogation went well and will expedite the investigations. “During the interrogation, some crucial information has come to the fore. We will file a complete report to Punjab and Haryana high court on November 12. We questioned him for around seven hours on the basis of evidence on record,” he added. Last month, a Faridkot court had issued production warrants against Ram Rahim in a case of sacrilege in 2015. The Punjab and Haryana high court, however, directed Punjab Police to grill Ram Rahim in Rohtak jail itself, if it so desired, and directed jail authorities to make arrangements for the SIT to question dera head. In July 2020, after the arrest of seven dera followers, the SIT-led by former inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra had named Ram Rahim and dera’s three national committee members—Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri—as accused in the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala sacrilege case. The ‘bir’ was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the ‘bir’ were found scattered in the adjoining Bargari village, resulting in an outrage across the state and death of two Sikh protesters in police firing. The SIT in its charge sheet had claimed that it was Ram Rahim who ordered to carry out sacrilege to avenge insult of sect followers by a Sikh preacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-cases-got-some-crucial-info-says-sit-after-ram-rahim-s-questioning-101636401602004.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly dengue count goes up 5% in Mohali||With dip in temperature, dengue cases have also witnessed a significant dip in Chandigarh and Panchkula this week, but there seems to be no respite in Mohali. The worst-hit area of the tricity, Mohali recorded 604 new cases in the week ending on November 7, a 5% increase from 575 cases in the previous week.So far, the district has recorded 33 fatalities, which is also the highest in the tricity. Among the 33 deaths recorded this year, 29 took place in October alone and two each in September and November. The victims include a 15-year-old boy from Kharar who died at a private hospital on November 5 and whose death was added to the tally on Monday. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said people suffering from fever are not reporting to hospitals on time. “We are organising awareness camps, but people are not cooperating, which is resulting in the rise in cases.”She said all private hospitals and labs must report any suspected or confirmed dengue cases to the health department immediately so that remedial measures can be taken without any delay. There are three labs for confirmation of dengue cases at government hospitals in Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi, she said. District epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra said that during the visit to high-risk areas in Zirakpur, Balongi, Dera Bassi and Phase 7 in Mohali, it was found that a lot of plastic waste, especially empty bottles and disposable glasses, are scattered around. He said plastic waste is the most suitable breeding site for mosquitoes as rainwater gets collected in them. Similarly, many people have stored large quantities of water in homes where mosquito larvae are breeding. Meanwhile in Chandigarh, 170 dengue cases were reported this week, against 274 cases recorded from October 25 to October 31. On the other hand, Panchkula recorded 111 cases this week as compared to 137 cases in the previous week. Health experts believe that the cases will further dip in the coming days.“The temperature is now dipping gradually, making unsuitable conditions for mosquito breeding. Besides cases, the new admissions of dengue patients in the hospitals have also dipped. Till last week, around 300 patients were admitted on stretcher trollies in the hospital’s emergency ward, with most of them complaining of fever and dengue. At present, only 60 dengue patients are admitted,” said Dr Sudhir Garg, medical superintendent, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekly-dengue-count-goes-up-5-in-mohali-101636401491980.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU teachers protest delay in house allotment||The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Monday held a protest outside the office of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar over the delay in the clearance of the waiting list of teachers for the allotment of higher categories of houses on the campus. The teachers’ body had earlier written to the vice-chancellor urging him to do the needful by November 7. However, they said they did not get any positive response from him. However, PU said committee members deliberated on the issue of house allotment on Tuesday. “Since the issue of house allotment involves many intricacies and technical problems it had to be discussed threadbare and decisions cannot be taken in haste,” the university said.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN SHORTClass-9 term exams from Nov 15 The term 1 exams for Class 9 at government schools in Chandigarh will be held from November 15 to 30. For Class 11, the exams will be held in December, although the UT education department has not specified any date yet. Meanwhile, teaching through both online and offline modes will continue for other classes.AAP gets shot in the armFormer Congress secretary Prem Lata along with her supporters joined the Aam Aadmi Party here on Monday. Chandigarh affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh welcomed them during a function. He said: “In view of public-friendly policies of Arvind Kejriwal, people from across the country are joining the AAP.”Night temperature falls furtherThe minimum temperature fell down to 11.4°C in wee hours of Monday, the lowest this season. With clear skies on the horizon, it is likely to fall further in the coming days. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 29°C and the minimum will stay around 11°C.Two held for gamblingThe police arrested two persons for gambling. Bijender Singh, 50, and Samsheed, 48, both residents of Daria village, Chandigarh, were arrested while they were gambling near Sushil karyana store of the village on Sunday. The police recovered ₹5,500 from their possession. A case under the Gambling Act was registered at the Industrial Area police station, Chandigarh. Later, they were released on bail. Chandigarh man stabbed in legA man was stabbed in the leg by four persons owing to an old rivalry. In his complaint, Ravinder of Mauli Complex, Chandigarh, told the police that a few days ago, he had an argument with Akshay of Rajiv colony, Panchkula. He said since then he had been nursing a grudge against him and on Saturday, Akshay along with Sameer, Nikhil and Sushil assaulted him and stabbed him in the leg. Injured Ravinder was admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. A case has been registered under Sections 323 and 324 of the IPC. U-16 cricket meet from Nov 14The cricket association affiliated with the Haryana Cricket Association will organise the 1st Kewal Kumar Nagrath Memorial cricket tournament for U-16 from November 14 in Chandigarh and Barwala. Six teams comprising Karnal, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Panchkula, Chandigarh and Kurukshetra will compete in the invitational tournament. The teams will be divided into two pools during the league-cum-knock out tournament. Top teams from each pool will further qualify for Haryana U-16 inter-district cricket tournament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-teachers-protest-delay-in-house-allotment-101636401490541.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Murder on PU campus: Victim’s brother wants police to verify husband’s claims||It’s been four days since the wife of a Panjab University professor was found murdered at their house in Sector 14 on Diwali morning, but Chandigarh Police are yet to make any breakthrough.Sixty-year-old Seema Goyal’s body was allegedly found in her ground-floor room, by her husband, Prof BB Goyal, around 7:30 am on Thursday. He had slept in another room upstairs the previous night.By the time police reached the spot, the body had been moved to hospital. The preliminary postmortem found that Seema had been strangulated and there were some injuries on her head as well. Prof Goyal had claimed that Seema’s hands and legs had been tied with a cloth and the house’s main door was bolted from outside.Police found no signs of forced entry and even CCTV footage of the area failed to give any clues.Police have been questioning Prof Goyal repeatedly to verify his claims. Sources said that even on Monday evening, the investigating officials cross verified his statements. While the professor has refrained from talking to the media so far, the victim’s brother has now claimed that the couple had strained relations.Deep, who works as a senior technician at a hospital in Ludhiana, said that the couple used to have frequent quarrels. “We want justice for our sister. I’ve asked police to thoroughly question Prof Goyal, as he was the only one present in the house,” said Deep, who is yet to record a formal statement. Police had recorded the statement of the couple’s daughter Parul Goyal on Sunday, though its details have not been shared. Sources said she has been called again for investigations on Tuesday. Police are also trying to trace the victim’s mobile phone that has been missing since the crime.“We are still conducting investigations,” said superintendent of police Ketan Bansal, refusing to comment any further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-on-pu-campus-victim-s-brother-wants-police-to-verify-husband-s-claims-101636401489278.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Purab Premium Apartments: Punjab vigilance yet to submit report||Though the Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) in December last year took samples of material used in the construction of Purab Premium Apartments in Sector 88, the reports are awaited even after 10 months. In 2018, members of the Purab Premium Allottee Association had lodged a complaint with the VB alleging that Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had used sub-standard material in the construction of the apartments. Whatever they promised in the brochure before they had invited applications were not there in the detailed notice inviting tenders (DNIT). They had also raised objections against a huge financial irregularity during the construction, following which the samples were taken in December last year. The association alleged that in the brochure it was stated that there would be no water tank on the roof and 24X7 pressurised water supply would be available. As per the brochure, all towers should be separated, but GMADA has joined six to eight towers together and there are 27 towers and four blocks. Harvinder Pal Singh, DSP, vigilance said, “We have got the results of most of the samples and now we have sent that to the technical teams to verify. We are hopeful of getting them soon following which action will be taken.”Col Dalwinder Singh (retd), general secretary of the association, said, “We are fighting for the justice of the residence since 2018, but still vigilance reports are awaited. We have even raised the issue on the public grievance portal of both state and Centre governments, still, we are waiting for the reply. It seems GMADA officials are trying to influence the progress of the investigation.” In 2016, the GMADA had constructed 1,620 apartments of three types in Sector 88. Of these, 980 houses have already been allotted of which around 800 allottees have taken possession. The project has 27 towers of 60 flats each, a community centre and a sports complex with indoor and outdoor sports facilities.There are around 800 flats that are also falling into disrepair due to non-occupation and use. Further, there have been many incidents of violence and affray in the recent past in the complex. The contract of the project was given to Simplex Infrastructure Private Limited. Residents of Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88, Mohali, have alleged that due to the blockage of rainwater drainage and waterlogging, several dengue cases have been reported in the area. Also, the supply of drinking water is directly from the bore well, which is a health hazard for the residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/purab-premium-apartments-punjab-vigilance-yet-to-submit-report-101636401488128.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Woman loses vision in one eye in attack by juvenile||The Mohali police on Monday arrested a 17-year-old boy for attacking a 22-year-old woman with a knife and throwing a toxic chemical in her eyes at Badmajra village in Mohali.The injured woman is undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. According to doctors, she has lost vision in one eye. The attacker is a resident of Guru Nanak Colony, Badmajra. The woman, identified as Mamta Devi, belongs to Bihar and was visiting a relative’s house in Badmajra. She had been staying here for about a month. According to investigating officer Bavinder Kumar, the incident happened late on Sunday evening after the accused had a fight with the woman’s relative, Deepak, while bursting crackers on the street. Both had consumed alcohol. Deepak’s mother locked her son in a room. Meanwhile, the accused tried to enter Deepak’s house looking for him with a knife and a chemical. Mamta stopped him from entering the house. Angry over this, he stabbed Mamta on her nose and threw the chemical in her eyes. She was rushed to hospital.“Doctors are operating on the woman. The chances of vision recovery are negligible,” said an investigation officer. A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 326A (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid, etc), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrong­ful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code at the Balongi police station. The youth was produced in court that sent him to a juvenile home in Hoshiarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-woman-loses-vision-in-one-eye-in-attack-by-juvenile-101636401487038.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||PEC completes 100 years; President Ram Nath Kovind to visit college||Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, will complete its 100 years of existence on Tuesday.The institute was established in Lahore (now in Pakistan) in 1921 as Mughalpura Technical College. It was founded by Sir Edward Douglas Maclagan. The institute was affiliated to Punjab University in 1932 before it was shifted to Roorkee as the East Punjab College of Engineering in 1947.On Tuesday, a 10-ft balloon hoisting ceremony will take place to mark the 100 years of its establishment on the campus and Dharam Pal, UT adviser, Rajendra Gupta, chairman of board of governors (BoG), and SS Gill, technical education secretary, will attend the ceremony.Renamed Punjab Engineering College in 1950, it was later shifted to Chandigarh in 1953. With the formation of the union territory of Chandigarh, the college came under the control of the Government of India through the Chandigarh administration in 1966.On a campus spreading over 146 acres in Chandigarh, now a deemed university, PEC offers eight undergraduate programmes and 12 postgraduate programmes, besides PhD programmes in various disciplines of engineering, science and other fields. Future plansTo enhance the academia and research of the institute, PEC has initiated the process of recruiting around 56 faculty members. There are also plans to revamp the infrastructure of the institute. Director Baldev Setia said, “There are plans to build new guest houses and residential facilities for faculty. Also, the renovation of the existing auditorium which holds eminent heritage value is also on cards.”A central research facility will be established in the 100th year with an earmarked budget of ₹100 crore. Moreover, the institute has started a faculty appraisal programme through an external peer review committee with a target of 100 IPR which includes patents, copyrights and design patents.Focus on improving rankingsThe institute has also initiated a process to improve its rank in the education ministry’s national institutional ranking framework (NIRF). “We have analysed that we need to improve our research to perform better in the NIRF rankings,” he said.“Now we have introduced that for getting an A+ grade in masters, a student has to publish one research paper in SCI journal. Similarly, a PhD scholar has to publish one research paper in the second to third year,” he added.Setia said he would propose a policy change in which a PhD thesis would be sent abroad for evaluation, but the proposal needed approval from the PEC senate for implementation.President Ram Nath Kovind to visit PECPresident Ram Nath Kovind will visit the campus as a part of completing 100 years of PEC. Although no date has been finalised yet for his visit, it is expected to be on November 16. He will inaugurate a centenary gate, centenary hall, semiconductor lab and a hostel block at PEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pec-completes-100-years-president-ram-nath-kovind-to-visit-college-101636401485875.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||16 PEC students bag ₹46 lakh yearly package at Microsoft||As many as 16 final-year students of Punjab Engineering College have been offered ₹46 lakh per annum package by Microsoft during the placement drive this year.The students belong to the electronics and communication engineering (ECE) and computer science engineering (CSE) branches. It is the highest package so far this year, and the amount has in fact gone up from that offered in the past years. In 2020, eight students were offered ₹42 lakh per annum by Microsoft. The US-based technology giant had offered the same package to five students in 2019.The news brings a ray of hope amid a volatile job market due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The placement drive for the current session (2021-22) is currently underway, and around 450 students have received job offers so far. The placement drive will continue till March next year. According to the institute, there are around 650 students in the final year, and many skip the placement drive as they go for higher studies.The placements have been mainly conducted online due to the pandemic, but PEC has requested some of the companies to conduct physical placement drives as well.132 pre-placement offersPEC director Baldev Setia said the internship programme saw a 13% rise in internship offers in 2020-21, which stands at 314. “These internships resulted in 132 pre-placement offers, which is a phenomenal rise of 32% as compared to the previous year. Many students from different departments are also accepted for research internships in foreign universities,” he said.Among the students who have been offered the job by Microsoft is 22-year-old Akshit Garg. “It is a great achievement for me and I dedicate this to my parents. I worked consistently for it and it is a dream come true,” said Garg, who resides in Sector 15, Panchkula.“The placement numbers at PEC drive their strength from the talent pool of its student, its highly motivated faculty and its outcome-based curriculum,” said Dr JD Sharma, head, career development and guidance centre, PEC. Throwing light on the trend in jobs, he said that the pandemic has led to more opportunities in consulting, analytics and finance profiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-pec-students-bag-46-lakh-yearly-package-at-microsoft-101636401484548.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Ward No. 1 rues new taxes, old plight||Provision of basic amenities, expansion of lal dora and better sanitation are key issues concerning voters in the newly constituted Ward No. 1 of the Chandigarh municipal corporation.Four of the ward’s five main constituents — villages Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu — will take part in the MC elections for the first time. The panchayats were disbanded in 2018 and villages came under the jurisdiction of the MC thereon. The fifth major constituent, Khuda Lahora Colony, was previously under Ward No. 2.These peripheral villages, abutting Punjab, are located in the northern part of the city.A visit to the ward makes it obvious that even though part of the City Beautiful, these areas continue to struggle with even basic infrastructure. Residents complain that even after these areas were brought under the MC three years ago, there has been no major improvement in infrastructure and municipal officials remain unresponsive to their needs and complaints. Kamal Tewari, a trader based in Khuda Jassu, said: “Road repair work has not been taken up for years now. Similarly, the sewage system is not adequate, particularly when compared to the city.”Issues aplentyResidents also complain that imposition of different MC taxes has not brought corresponding quality services. Ram Karan, secretary, Chandigarh Congress, and a resident of Kaimbwala, said: “At the time of bringing these villages under the MC, residents were assured that new taxes will be imposed with corresponding improved basic amenities, but this hasn’t happened. Only the tax burden has increased. Sanitation, including garbage collection, is very poor and there is no effort to keep the villages clean. With the election on mind, the BJP-ruled MC has now started laying water supply lines.”The recent imposition of garbage collection charges has particularly upset the residents. Gurpreet Singh, a businessman based in Khuda Ali Sher, said: “The MC is collecting three to four times higher garbage collection charges. Residents’ complaints keep falling on deaf ears.”The long-standing demand of the villagers for expansion of lal dora remains unfulfilled. “The gravest concern for the ward residents is the extension of the village lal dora. Residents are facing multiple problems because of it. Some parts of the village, inside the lal dora, are with MC. Areas outside the lal dora are under the UT administration,” said Daleep Kumar Sona, a district president of Chandigarh BJP and resident of Kaimbwala.Seasonal flood control is specific problem in Khuda Lahora Colony, where residents have been for long demanding cleaning of Patiala Ki Rao rivulet and construction of road gullies in the colony.KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora and Khuda Lahora ColonyReserved for women (general)Voters: 18,000 (approx)KEY ISSUESPoor infrastructure, including roads, sewage and water supplyExtension of lal dora, bringing in more people under MCPoor sanitation conditionWHAT RESIDENTS SAYArea within lal dora is under MC, and that outside is under the UT administration, leading to major problems for residents. The lal dora should be extended. (Daleep Kumar Sonu, 37, farmer, Kaimbwala)People are living here for 25 years, but they still have just a power of attorney. They should be given proper ownership rights for their homes at the earliest. (PC Rana, 69, RWA general secy, Khuda Lahora Colony)The condition of roads is very poor, as maintenance has not been undertaken at proper intervals. The issue of garbage collection bills is also a contentious one. (Gurpreet Singh, businessman, Khuda Ali Sher)The villages are in a bad shape because of the MC’s apathy. Bad roads, inadequate sewage system and lal dora-related problems are yet to be resolved. (Ram Karan, 58, farmer, Kaimbwala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ward-no-1-rues-new-taxes-old-plight-101636401483109.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh RWAs flag issues in park upkeep||The Chandigarh municipal corporation’s decision to increase monthly charges being paid for the upkeep of neighbourhood parks has received a mixed response from Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs).While some have welcomed the move, others say the hike is not enough and there are other issues that need to be resolved first.There are around 1,800 neighbourhood parks in Chandigarh. Of these, nearly 700 are being maintained by RWAs. The maintenance charges being paid to them had not been revised since 2013. Finally, the MC in its recent General House meeting approved the agenda to hike the charges from ₹2.48 to ₹4.15 per square metre.“Many RWAs are not able to get the full amount that they are entitled to. The MC also ends up deducting money alleging that the park is not well maintained even if it’s not the case,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED). Puri said there is also an issue with 2% tax deducted at source (TDS) on this amount, adding that it should not apply as RWAs are not contractors looking after these parks for the MC. He said once the new system gets implemented, the association will meet the MC officials to discuss the matter.‘Check shadow RWAs’Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said that in some cases, parks have been given to “shadow RWAs”, which needs to be checked. “There are some instances where the upkeep of a park has been given to a RWA which only exists on paper. The MC needs to check the background of the RWA to which the park has been allotted to,” he said.Vashisht added that many RWAs also face delay in getting the reimbursement, which can sometimes take two to three months. Some parks in southern sectors are also without a tertiary-treated water connection and residents have to spend higher rates. ‘Need further hike’Vijay Chikarsal, who is the president of RWA in Sector 41A, said that MC needs to do more. A park in the sector was adjudged one of the best maintained ones in the city during the Rose Festival in 2020. “The rates need to be revised further. We have to take donations from residents to ensure that the park can be maintained properly,” he said. Gurbaksh Singh, 73, who lives next to the park helps maintain it. He said that he will have to pay from his own pocket even after the revised rates.Baljinder Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said the MC should release the charges by the tenth of every month, so that the gardeners can be paid on time.‘Will ensure timely payment’“Issues like delay in disbursement of the maintenance fees were discussed in the MC House meeting as well. We will ensure that the charges are deposited into the accounts on time,” said mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. Sharma said the system will be fine-tuned and people should keep highlighting the issues. “Park maintenance is only given to registered RWAs and the registration process ensures that the association has an adequate number of members. However, if there is anyone breaking these rules, then a complaint should be made and we will look into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-rwas-flag-issues-in-park-upkeep-101636401481675.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Shop owner booked after seizure of banned pesticides||The agriculture department, Mohali, on Monday raided a pesticide shop, Thua Pesticides, in Zirakpur and seized 40 litres of banned pesticides and 200 litres of banned and expired pesticide Dichlorovos.Chief agriculture officer, Mohali, Rajesh Raheja said, “We got a complaint that shop owner Sukhwinder Singh of Thua pesticides is tagging sulphur with urea. Our team raided the shop and seized the pesticides.”He said the agriculture minister had earlier warned dealers and societies to ensure no tagging of any agriculture input with fertiliser.A case under Sections 29 ( 1) ( C) and (d) of the Insecticides Act, 1969,has been registered against the owner of the shop at the Zirakpur police station.Onkar Singh Brar, SHO, said, “We have registered an FIR against the owner as we have got the complaint from the agriculture department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-shop-owner-booked-after-seizure-of-banned-pesticides-101636401461945.html
09-11-2021||Dehradun||Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy: Fourth straight loss for Chandigarh||Chandigarh lost their fourth straight match during the ongoing Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at Chaudhry Bansi Lal Cricket Stadium, Lahli, on Monday. Formidable Saurashtra recorded an impressive 42-run win over Chandigarh riding on brilliant knocks from AV Vasavada (72) and Sheldon Jackson (70). Batting first, Saurashtra posted 209 for 4 in 20 overs. In reply, Chandigarh scored 167 runs for the loss of six wickets in 20 overs. Arjit Singh top-scored with 44 runs for the losing team. Chandigarh will take on Uttarakhand in their last league match on November 9. Brief scoresSaurashtra: 209 for 4 in 20 overs (AV Vasavada 72, Sheldon Jackson 70, Bhagmender Lather 2 for 41) beat Chandigarh: 167 for 6 in 20 overs (Arjit Singh 44, Gaurav Puri 34, Gurinder Singh 22, Chetan Sakariya 3 for 25) by 42 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/syed-mushtaq-ali-trophy-fourth-straight-loss-for-chandigarh-101636401459476.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Fancy number 0001 fetches ₹11.2 lakh in e-auction||The vehicle registration number 0001 in the new CH01CG series fetched the highest bidding price of ₹11.20 lakh during an e-auction of fancy numbers conducted by the registering and licensing authority (RLA) here on Monday.In the latest auction, the RLA generated ₹1.43 crore from the e-auction of fancy numbers of the new series CH01-CG along with the re-auction of leftover numbers of the previous series. In the previous auction of the CH01-CF series and leftover previous series, the RLA had collected ₹1.10 crore in revenue.The number, CH01-CG-0005, went for the second-highest price of ₹5.03 lakh. The third highest was 0009, which fetched ₹5.02 lakh. The registration number 0007 went for ₹4.63 lakh, 0003 for ₹4.41 lakh, 0002 for Rs2.80 lakh, 9999 for ₹2.66 lakh, 0006 for ₹2.36 lakh, 7777 for ₹2.30 lakh and 0004 for ₹2.27 lakh. Meanwhile, 0008 sold for ₹2.01 lakh and 0010 for ₹1.06 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-fancy-number-0001-fetches-11-2-lakh-in-eauction-101636401458315.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Computer teachers await six months’ salary||Computer teachers in government schools, who are hired on a contract basis, have claimed that they have not been paid salaries for the past six months. Teachers of the Chandigarh Computer Teachers Union also wrote to the UT director school education about this.President of the union Poonam Taprial said, “Last year also we were not paid salary for three months which was released to us this August. This year we got our salary in April after which we have been given many assurances, but nothing has been done.”Taprial added that the problem happened because the contract with the contractor who had hired them was valid till April. “A file to get an extension till September has been with the UT finance department since then and they are not clearing it,” she said.President of the UT Cadre Educational Employees Union Swarn Singh Kamboj also met with officials of the UT finance department regarding this on Monday. He said, “The officials have assured us that the problem will be resolved soon.”Director school education Palika Arora said, “There was some issue in disbursing the salary. I will check the matter and get it resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-computer-teachers-await-six-months-salary-101636401456887.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Annual Chandigarh Sangeet Sammelan from November 12||The 43rd annual Chandigarh Sangeet Sammelan will take off on Friday. The three-day music event is being organised by the Indian National Theatre in association with the Durga Das Foundation, which will commence on Friday and conclude on Sunday.The music festival will be held in the auditorium of Strawberry Fields High School in Sector 26. Artistes from different parts of the country will be performing.The opening day will present Dhananjay Hegde, who will give his presentation in the evening, followed by Pandit Harvinder Sharma on the sitar. On Saturday evening, Shashwati Mandal and Shashank Maktedar will present their vocal presentations, while on Sunday morning Ashwani Bhide Deshpande will present a vocal performance. Indian National Theater’s secretary Vinita Gupta said this sammelan was being organised for all music lovers and the entry would be free. A live streaming provision has been made for music lovers who can visit the website www.indiannationaltheatre.com to get the link for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/annual-chandigarh-sangeet-sammelan-from-november-12-101636401455789.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Auditorium inaugurated at Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38||Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit inaugurated the auditorium in Rani Lakshmi Bai Mahila Bhawan, Sector 38, here on Monday.While addressing the gathering in the auditorium, Purohit said, “Women empowerment cannot be successful if women from each section of society are empowered.”He said, “I am so happy to see the Chandigarh municipal corporation that is headed by a woman is doing its bit towards the cause of women empowerment and getting the auditorium at the Rani Lakshmi Bai Mahila Bhawan inaugurated.”Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher addressed the gathering virtually. She said women shouldered critical responsibilities even in India’s struggle for freedom.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said the structure of the auditorium building spread over 1.3 acres was constructed in 2015 and now to make it functional, the furnishing work had been carried out.“The main objective of the auditorium is to promote cultural and traditional activities, particularly in southern Sectors of the city. To make it more useful and viable, the second floor of this building has been given to various academies of Chandigarh for performing art and incubation centre namely Chandigarh Lalit Kala Academy, Chandigarh Sahitya Academy and Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Academy. In addition to these live stage performances, live display with projector and screen, state of art hi-fi sound and lighting system will also be there,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-auditorium-inaugurated-at-mahila-bhawan-in-sector-38-101636401424501.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Nine people test positive in Chandigarh tricity area||Nine more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Monday, against 11 cases on Sunday. Four cases were reported from Chandigarh, followed by three from Mohali and two from Panchkula. No Covid fatality was recorded in the tricity on Monday.Two cases were reported from Mohali, while one surfaced in Gharuan. In Chandigarh, the cases were reported from Sectors 7, 20 and 44.Tricity’s active cases tally dipped to 65, with 31 patients still being infected in Mohali, 26 in Chandigarh and seven in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,366 positive cases, of which 64,520 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, the total cases recorded to date are 68,849. Among these, 67,749 patients have recovered and 1,069 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,777 includes 30, 391 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-nine-people-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101636401421906.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypolls: Three newly elected MLAs take oath||Three newly elected Congress legislators, who had won the Himachal bypolls held in three assembly segments on October 30, were sworn in as members of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly on Monday. The newly elected MLAs -- Rohit Thakur (Jubbal-Kotkhai), Bhawani Singh Pathania (Fatehpur) and Sanjay Awasthi (Arki) --were administered the oath of office by speaker Vipin Singh Parmar at his chamber in the Assembly Complex in Shimla. Among those in attendence at the swearing-in were leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and several other Congress members. The Jubbal-Kotkhai seat had fallen vacant after the demise of former BJP minister Narinder Singh Bragta. Rohit had won the bypoll for the Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seat with a margin of 6,103 votes. He had defeated the former minister’s son Chetan Singh Bragta, who had contested as an Independent after the BJP denied him ticket. Meanwhile, the BJP candidate, Neelam Saraik, could not even save her security deposit. In Arki, where the bypoll was necessitated after the death of former six-term chief minister and sitting legislator Vribhadra Singh in July this year, Awasthi won the election by a margin of over 3,000 votes.Bhawani Singh Pathania, the son of senior Congress leader and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, whose death had led to the bypoll, secured an easy victory after defeating his nearest rival BJP’s Baldev Thakur by 5,789 votes.The 68-member Himachal Pradesh Assembly now has 22 Congress legislators, while the ruling BJP has 43 members after forfeiting the Jubbal -Kotkhai seat. Two members of the Assembly are independents, while one is affiliated to the CPI(M).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypolls-three-newly-elected-mlas-take-oath-101636400942018.html
09-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP protest over state fuel tax stopped, told it violates Covid protocol||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police on Monday did not allow a Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) protest to demand that Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) slash the state tax on petrol and diesel, citing violation of safety protocols during the Covid pandemic.A few hundred BJP supporters, who assembled outside the BJP’s state headquarters at the narrow Muralidhar Sen Lane off Central Avenue, were not allowed to cross barricades set up by a huge police contingent. The state’s top BJP leaders eventually gave their speeches from a makeshift dais.“The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government cannot stop us with force. It has to follow the example set by other states and slash the local value-added tax (VAT) on fuel. Our movement will continue. We will force the government to reduce the VAT. We will also start an agitation demanding reduction in electricity price,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar.BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh and leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, were among the leaders who addressed the gathering. Majumdar announced that a one-hour public awareness campaign will be carried out at petrol pumps across the state on Tuesday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee responded to her critics in her speech at a government programme to distribute awards among community Durga puja organisers.“The Centre raised ₹400,000 crore from tax on petrol, diesel and LPG but does not even give enough vaccines to us. In Bengal, we have cut taxes on diesel by a rupee. We are trying to do our best with limited resources,” said Banerjee.Refuting the BJP’s allegations that the government stopped its agitation, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “Bengal BJP leaders should collect information on Covid protocols from the Tripura police which stopped all our rallies in that state citing the same rules. Law does not vary from state to state.”After several BJP-ruled states such as Assam, Tripura, Goa, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat followed the Centre and reduced local taxes on petrol and diesel on October 3, the party’s West Bengal unit mounted pressure on Banerjee, demanding a similar step.Of the total taxes charged on prices of petrol and diesel in Bengal, the state’s share accounts for around 37%. In February, Banerjee reduced the state tax by a rupee per litre but there has been no further revision since then. The TMC, as well as opposition parties such as the Congress, have held demonstrations against the Centre on the price issue in recent months.The Centre announced its decision to reduce central tax on petrol by ₹5 and on diesel ₹10 on Diwali eve, a move that led to a decline in the retail price of petrol by ₹5.70 to ₹6.35 per litre across the country while diesel prices came down by ₹11.16 to ₹12.88 depending on the applicable state taxes.The Yogi Adityanath government in UP announced that prices of both fuels will be reduced by ₹12 per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-protest-over-state-fuel-tax-stopped-told-it-violates-covid-protocol-101636400281589.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Two booked under UP Goonda Act externed from Lucknow||Two men booked under the UP Goonda Act and other criminal incidents, including crime against women, were externed from Lucknow for six months on Monday, police officials said. The accused had cases of causing grievous injuries, gangster act lodged against them at various police stations of the city.The accused namely Shafiq (21) and Riyasat Ali (20) of the Thakurganj area were externed from the district.“The accused have various criminal cases against them, and they are known to have been of the criminal mindset. The accused were externed from the district to ensure law and order during coming months,” said DK Thakur, Lucknow’s Commissioner of Police.“The decision was taken after proper legal consultation and keeping in mind the criminal nature of the accused,” said Thakur.“As police, it is our duty to provide a safe atmosphere for the people of this city. For this, we have been tough against criminals and the recent action of extermination is a part of this effort,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-booked-under-up-goonda-act-externed-from-lucknow-101636400101801.html
09-11-2021||Other||Sacrilege cases in Punjab: SC seeks response on state’s plea in 4 weeks||Chandigarh The Supreme Court has issued a notice on a plea from the Punjab government, seeking a reply in four weeks. The plea has been filed challenging the April 9 order of the Punjab and Haryana high court directing the reconstitution of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing sacrilege cases.On April 9, the high court had set aside the challans presented by special Investigative team (SIT) in the Kotkapura firing case of 2015, that the Punjab Police had submitted in two FIRs registered in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura violence.The high court bench of justice Rajbir Sehrawat had also asked the Punjab government to constitute a fresh special investigation team (SIT), excluding former IPS officer of the rank of IGP, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Though the state constituted the SIT, afresh in May 2021, it through the SLP had challenged certain observations of the high court.“The high court has erred in making several observations on the findings of the SIT about role of the persons mentioned in the charge-sheet, who were not parties before the high court. In doing so, the high court has virtually given a clean chit to such persons,” reads the SLP filed before the apex court. The SLP adds, “The HC made sweeping observations, attributing bias, to the state government purely on the basis of conjecture and surmise.”Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, former IGP PS Umranangal and former SSP Charanjit Sharma were among the seven accused against whom challan was filed by the SIT.Two people had lost their lives in the violence reported after incidents of sacrilege in 2015. Three FIRs on incidents of sacrilege were recommended for CBI probe in 2015 by the then SAD government, of which, the state passed a resolution to withdraw two FIRs in August 2018 under the Congress. In the same resolution, it also withdrew two more FIRs related to violence, entrusted to CBI barely four days before the move. There are a total of four FIRs registered to probe the incidents of violence.The high court order had come on the 2019 plea of Gurdeep Singh Pandher, a former sub-inspector with Punjab Police and then Kotkapura SHO, being probed in these FIRs, who had approached the high court levelling allegations against then IGP Singh and sought his ouster from the SIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sacrilege-cases-in-punjab-sc-seeks-response-on-state-s-plea-in-4-weeks-101636399801453.html
09-11-2021||Pune||Ahmednagar hospital fire: State suspends civil surgeon, three others; terminates two nurses||Two days after eleven Covid-19 patients died in a major fire in the ICU of the Ahmednagar Civil Hospital, the state government on Monday evening announced the suspension of civil surgeon Dr Sunil Pokharna and three others, while the services of two nurses were terminated on grounds of gross negligence and dereliction of duty. Health minister Rajesh Tope tweeted: “Dr Pokharna, medical officers Dr Suresh Dhakne and Dr Vishakha Shinde, and staff nurse Sapna Pathare have been suspended. Staff nurses, Asma Sheikh and Channa Anant, have been terminated from their job . The action has been taken based on the information regarding the tragic incident of fire at the district hospital.” Eleven Covid-19 patients were killed in the fire which took place at 11 am in the ICU located on the ground floor of the district hospital on Saturday. As many as 17 patients, many of them senior citizens and some on the ventilator, were undergoing treatment in the ward when the fire occurred. Hindustan Times on Sunday highlighted a lack of funds that prevented the Ahmednagar Civil Hospital management from equipping the hospital with necessary fire safety equipment, though a fire safety audit was carried out in the facility. The fire brigade department’s audit, conducted between the last week of February and March, had recommended that a fire safety system with sprinklers and a pipeline be installed in the hospital. However, a lack of funds prevented the hospital administration from finishing the task. Barring fire extinguishers, the other safety measures that report had suggested after the fire audit were found missing when fire broke out. Earlier this year, there were a series of mishaps at various hospitals in the state. It included a blaze in a Sick Newborn Care Unit in Bhandara in which 10 newborn infants died after a fire broke out in the unit. In March, a fire in a Bhandup mall claimed 11 lives in a dedicated Covid hospital located inside the mall. In April, when a severe oxygen crisis had hit the country, a tank supplying oxygen to Covid patients on ventilators in a Nagpur hospital, leaked and led to the death of 24 patients||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ahmednagar-hospital-fire-state-suspends-civil-surgeon-three-others-terminates-two-nurses-101636399501647.html
09-11-2021||Pune||Pune’s active Covid cases drop below 3k mark||PUNE On Monday, Pune district reported 146 new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths due to the infection, as per the state health department. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,971 deaths reported and 2,985 are active cases.Pune’s active cases count came down below 3,000 for the first time since May 24, 2020, when the pandemic was in its initial period when the district reported 2,960 active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 70 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 366,058 and the death toll went up to 6,917.Pune city reported 51 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 521,303 and the death toll went up to 9,202.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 25 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 268962 and the toll stood at 3,503.The district also saw 35,081 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWIN dashboard and in total 1,22,00,807. Out of which 78,67,944 are first doses and 43,32,863 are second doses. A total of 577 sites saw vaccination out of which 430 were government centres and 147 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-active-covid-cases-drop-below-3k-mark-101636399261505.html
09-11-2021||Other||Colonisers submit memorandum to Chaudhary on NOCs||Ludhiana Claiming that the competent authorities were not issuing No Objection Certificates (NOCs) even for regularised plots and the process to register property was in standby mode, Punjab Colonisers and Property Dealers Association submitted a memorandum to All-India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary in Patiala on Sunday. The association alleged that the state government had imposed restrictions on the issuance of NOCs, a mandatory requirement for registration. “Power connections are not being given to plot holders even after they have got their plots regularised under policy of state government in the past,” the members claimed, President of the association GS Lamba, claimed, “The bureaucracy is misinterpreting an order issued by the high court in the recent past and due to this the NOCs are not being issued against the plots, which have even been regularised under the regularisation policy. The PSPCL says power connection will be issued only after the coloniser gets the NOC for the entire colony. Why would the coloniser pay a fee to PSPCL separately, if he has already paid or is paying the regularisation fee to the government under regularisation policy.” Previously, the colonisers had also submitted a memorandum with chief minister (CM) Charanjit Channi during his visit to the city on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/colonisers-submit-memorandum-to-chaudhary-on-nocs-101636399141767.html
09-11-2021||Pune||Woman pillion rider killed in accident in Pune||PUNE A woman riding pillion on a motorbike was killed after a speeding SUV rammed into them in Daund on Sunday afternoon.The deceased woman was identified as Keshan Kokan while her injured husband was identified as Ramesh Kokan, both residents of Kalaspansaremala area of Indapur. The accused driver of the SUV was identified as Santosh Popat Pansare, a resident of Warangal in Telangana.The couple was riding a CB Shine from Bhigwan towards Patas and so was the black SUV. Two of the five people in the SUV escaped with minor injuries while others remained unaffected, but the couple flew off the bike and landed on the road, sustaining severe injuries.The police have seized the car and the motorbike while the body was sent for post mortem and the husband was sent for treatment.A case was registered at Daund police station under Sections 304(a), 279, 337, 338, and 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 184 of Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-pillion-rider-killed-in-accident-in-pune-101636399083400.html
09-11-2021||Pune||Bhima Koregaon panel summons former Pune police chief Rashmi Shukla||PUNE The Bhima Koregaon Commission of Inquiry has summoned former Pune Police Commissioner Rashmi Shukla to depose before the commission at Sahyadri guest house in Mumbai on November 18 and 19, between 11 am and 5pm. The commission released a schedule of names of witnesses summoned for hearings between November 15 and 20. Besides Shukla, IPS officer Lakhmi Gautum, activist Harshali Potdar and IPS officer Bipin Bihari have been summoned. Commission secretary V V Palnitkar said, “ There is a rider to this schedule as the government has not yet provided the Sahyadri guesthouse for the hearing. We have applied afresh and are waiting for orders from the government, though we have been orally informed about it.” On October 22, the commission had issued a summons to former Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh and former Shukla, directing them to appear as witnesses in the ongoing probe into the events which led to the violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The summons asked both the police officials to respond by November 8.Singh was additional director general (law and order) at the time of the Bhima Koregaon violence, while Shukla was commissioner of police in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-panel-summons-former-pune-police-chief-rashmi-shukla-101636398783008.html
09-11-2021||Pune||Pune: 240 railway passengers fined for not wearing masks in October||PUNE: With the rush of passengers at Pune railway station headed to various destinations across the country for the festive season, the Pune railway division has reaped the rewards of their stern measures by collecting ₹54,000 in fines from 240 passengers found travelling without face masks in October.Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson, said, “Since the last one month, the rush of passengers has increased due to the Diwali vacation. At the same time, it is necessary to maintain passenger safety. So in keeping with Covid-19 protocol, all passengers have to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and strictly follow safety rules. Still, we noticed that some passengers travelling from Pune railway station are reluctant to wear face masks or follow other safety measures. So, we’ve been ordered to impose a fine of ₹500 on such passengers and accordingly, we fined 240 passengers and collected ₹54,000 in fines in the month of October.”There has been a heavy rush at Pune railway station due to the festivities, with passengers travelling to their villages and hometowns to celebrate Diwali. Many a time, passengers are found violating Covid safety protocol. Between April 18, 2021 when the railways first declared the order and October 2021, a total 2,552 passengers have been caught sans face masks and ₹6.12 lakh has been collected from them in fines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-240-railway-passengers-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-in-october-101636398541548.html
09-11-2021||Pune||Pune police to submit say on interim bail plea made by BJP MLA Dheeraj Ghogre||PUNE A judge in Pune has asked the Pune police to submit a say on the interim bail application made by BJP MLA Dheeraj Ghogre, in a case of kidnapping of a contractor. The contractor, identified as Nikhil Diwase, was allegedly kidnapped by men who are co-accused in an earlier cheating case against Ghogare.The application is being heard in the court of additional sessions judge AN Mare with advocate Vijaysinh Thombare appearing for the complainant.Diwase lodged a complaint against Ghogare and three others for cheating him of Rs3 lakh under the pretext of getting him government contracts. However, when he asked for the return on his payments, the corporator allegedly threatened him. A case was registered against Ghogare at Wanowrie police station.“He told the court that he was not in Pune when the men took my client to court forcefully and tried to make him submit an affidavit. He ran away and submitted a complaint at Attawadi police station where a case has been registered. Now, in that case, Ghogare has submitted an application for interim bail and the judge has called it a serious matter and reserved the decision until the police submit a say,” said Thombre.“I have a strong case, do not worry. Whatever I have to say, I have put in my application and will argue in court and only then will I give details. There is no basis to the stories that are being published. The next date will tell the full story,” said advocate Pratap Pardeshi, representing Ghogare and who filed the interim bail application.The others accused in the cheating case were identified as Suresh Telang, Vinod Mane, and Appasaheb Changunda. While Ghogare filed for interim bail on November 3, the others filed their application on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-to-submit-say-on-interim-bail-plea-made-by-bjp-mla-dheeraj-ghogre-101636398244541.html
09-11-2021||Bhopal||4 children die in fire in Bhopal hospital’s paediatric critical care unit||BHOPAL: Four children admitted to the paediatric critical care unit of Bhopal’s Kamal Nehru hospital died in a fire that broke out on Monday evening, people familiar with the matter said.“The incident of fire in the children’s ward of Kamla Nehru Hospital, Bhopal is sad. The rescue operation was held swiftly…. The fire was brought under control, but unfortunately. three children who were already seriously ill could not be saved,” Chouhan said.He said a high-level inquiry has been ordered into the incident. The probe will be done by the additional chief secretary, public health and medical education, Mohammad Suleman.”There were 40 children undergoing treatment at the paediatric critical care unit when the fire broke out on the third floor, said Madhya Pradesh medical education minister Vishwas Sarang.Government officials said 12 fire engines were rushed to the hospital to control the fire.As the hospital administration worked to move the children, the authorities banned the entry of family members and outsiders to the hospital so that the fire-fighting and rescue operation is not obstructed.Outside, angry family members of the children created a ruckus over the restriction.“The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained but it was controlled…. We are trying to convince family members to cooperate and they will soon be allowed to enter the hospital,” Bhopal (south) superintendent of police Vijay Khatri told reporters,Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang also reached the hospital to oversee the rescue operation.Sarang said the fire was controlled in time and all the children have been shifted to other wards.Some attendants have also been affected due to fire and have been admitted to Hamidia hospital located on the same premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/3-children-die-in-fire-in-bhopal-hospital-s-paediatric-critical-care-unit-101636398243048.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Security outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence beefed up||City police on Monday intensified vigilance outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence after a taxi driver informed them that two passengers of another vehicle and who carried bags had asked him about the location of Antilia. The police said that Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) chairman’s private security coordinated with the police at all times. However, the police beefed up security and erected Nakabandi (barricades) in various parts of South Mumbai after they received the information. According to the police, the taxi driver was standing near Killa court in south Mumbai on Monday afternoon when a WagonR (silver colour) pulled over and its occupants asked him about the location of Ambani’s residence. The taxi driver reportedly told police that the persons looked suspicious and shared the car’s registration. The cops are investigating the details of the owner. The police also scanned CCTV footage. The Azad Maidan police have recorded the taxi driver’s statement. “We are verifying the information and would release a statement once it’s done,” a senior police officer said. In February this year, an explosives-laden SUV was found parked outside ‘Antilia’, triggering panic. The National Investigative Agency is probing the alleged role of the then Assistant Police Inspector (API) of Mumbai Police, Sachin Waze, in the SUV incident, and he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/security-outside-industrialist-mukesh-ambani-s-residence-beefed-up-101636398183003.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Suspect escapes from police custody at Surajpur court premises||A 30-year-old suspect allegedly escaped from police custody at the Surajpur court premises on Monday afternoon. Police identified the suspect as Shiv Kumar, a resident of Faridabad in Haryana. Elamaran G, additional DCP, Noida Central, said that four policemen -- head constable Shantanu Tyagi, constables Virpal Singh, Vipin Kumar and Surendra Kumar -- from Bulandshahr district brought four prisoners, including Shiv Kumar, for a hearing to the Surajpur court on Monday. “The Bulandshahar police had arrested Shiv Kumar there. He was also wanted in connection with a case of cheating under Section 420 in Dankaur. The Surajpur court had issued a warrant for his production in the court. The Bulandshahr police team had brought the suspect in the afternoon. Since the suspect was not handcuffed while being produced before the magistrate, he took advantage of the crowd and managed to escape around 1.30pm,” he said. According to the Dankaur FIR, the suspect offered a lift to a couple in Greater Noida and on the way duped them of ₹19,000.The additional DCP said that the Noida police have launched a search to arrest the suspect. “We will file an FIR against the four policemen for negligence. We will also submit a report to the Bulandshahr police for departmental action against them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-suspect-escapes-from-police-custody-at-surajpur-court-premises-101636398181332.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Galand locals protest solid waste being dumped from Ghaziabad||Farmers and locals from about 20-25 villages held a panchayat at Galand village in Hapur and unanimously decided to not allow solid waste from Ghaziabad to be dumped in their area anymore. For the past month, locals have been protesting attempts by the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation to dump Ghaziabad’s solid waste at Galand, which is a designated site for a waste-to-energy plant. The farmers and members of different associations held a panchayat at Galand where locals have also been staging a dharna for the past few days against attempts by the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation to dump solid waste at Galand. “We have decided that we will not allow solid waste to be dumped in the area as it will lead to contamination and unhygienic conditions. This will affect our local population and also environment of neighbouring villages. We demand that administrative officers come and meet us over the issue and discuss our problems. The land given to the corporation was taken from farmers by the private developers. The farmers had no clues about the land usage,” said Rajiv Tomar, a resident and lawyer. The farmers said that people from different villages such as Galand, Masuri, Lakhan, Masoda, Hindalpur, Chhajarsi, Kheda, Basitpur, Kakrana, Dhabarsi and Fagota among others, participated in Monday’s panchayat. “We have called a mahapanchayat on November 21 when more people will join the protest. On Monday, about 1,200 people gathered from about 20-25 villages to discuss the issue. Till our grievances are heard, we will not allow any dumping of solid waste at Galand. When people in Ghaziabad are opposing the dumping of waste near their city, why should we allow Ghaziabad’s waste in our area?” said Sanjay Khori, gram pradhan of Galand village in Hapur district. The waste-to-energy plant is proposed over an area of 44.25 acres of land at Galand, which is currently owned by Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation. “We are working to resolve issues at Galand and several administrative steps are being taken. The waste-to-energy plant is proposed to process a capacity of about 2,500 metric tonnes of solid waste. Once it starts, it will process 1,500 metric tonnes of waste,” said MS Tanwar, commissioner of Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation. Ghaziabad generates about 1,200 metric tonnes of daily solid waste currently and the corporation faces a major challenge in its disposal as two of its landfill sites at Indirapuram and Pratap Vihar have been shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/galand-locals-protest-solid-waste-being-dumped-from-ghaziabad-101636398121403.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Worse post-Diwali pollution in past four years in Ghaziabad and Noida||Post-Diwali pollution this year in Ghaziabad and Noida has been the worst since 2018, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Diwali was celebrated on November 4 this year.This year, Ghaziabad recorded an average Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 449.4 from November 4 to November 8. Average AQI readings for the city for five days after Diwali (including the day of Diwali) in 2020, 2019 and 2018 were recorded at 302.6, 439.4 and 400.2, respectively.For Noida, the average AQI readings for five days after Diwali (including the day of Diwali) were recorded at 439.6, 298.8, 419.2 and 398.6 in 2021, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Monday, Ghaziabad, as well as Noida, continued to record an AQI in the “severe” category with a reading of 437 and 412, respectively, while Greater Noida recorded a slightly better reading of 328 in the “very poor” category.According to CPCB figures, Greater Noida’s post-Diwali pollution this year was worse than last year’s with an average AQI reading for the five days after Diwali (including the day of Diwali) of 378.6, which is higher than the previous year’s average of 290.2.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) attribute the scenario to adverse meteorological conditions and slower dispersal of pollutants this season.“The current wind speed is about 6-7kmph and has slowed down at night post-Diwali. Further, stubble burning started late this year and coincided with Diwali due to the prolonged monsoon season. Further, the count of stubble fires has spiked post-Diwali,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB, Ghaziabad, who is also officiating for Noida.According to official statistics from the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, stubble fire counts on November 4 (Diwali), 5, 6 and 7 totalled 3032, 5327, 3942 and 5199, respectively, in Punjab.The stubble fire counts were 228, 331, 219 and 182 on November 4, 5, 6 and 7, respectively, in Haryana.“So, all these factors affected the AQI this year. In the past two years, there has been a spell of rain post-Diwali, which brought down the pollution levels. Apart from the macro-level factors, vehicular pollution, dust and local pollutants also contributed to poor air quality this year,” he added.Environmentalists said that despite the efforts of different agencies, pollution levels failed to decline during the Diwali festival.“With adverse meteorological conditions, it will worsen further during the peak winter season. For the past several years, agencies claim that they have done a lot to combat pollution but the figures tell a different story every time. It also means that efforts have been lacking at ground-level and a detailed study of the NCR region needs to be taken up to assess causes of pollution and remedial measures,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.Steps to combat ‘severe’ airOfficials said on Monday that the sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR and adjoining areas directed taking steps to combat “severe” air quality in Delhi-NCR. “The commission in an order has directed us to take steps to combat ‘severe’ air, besides other directions previously given to combat ‘very poor’ and ‘poor’ air. It has directed increasing the frequency of road sweeping and identification of road patches with high dust-generation,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board. The sub-committee, in an order late Monday night, also directed the closure of all brick-kilns and hot-mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR. The committee also gave directions to intensify public transport services while introducing differential rates to encourage off-peak travel. “We are forwarding the directions to different agencies in Ghaziabad and Noida for immediate implementation,” Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/worse-post-diwali-pollution-in-past-four-years-in-ghaziabad-and-noida-101636397943592.html
09-11-2021||Pune||Comply with fire safety norms by November 30, Pune district collector tells hospitals||PUNE The district collector, during a Monday review meeting following the Ahmednagar fire tragedy which took place on November 6 in which 12 died in a Covid19 ICU ward, has now directed all private hospitals in the district have to file a compliance report by Thursday. A meeting under the sub-divisional magistrate will be held. The collector further stated that those who are not fully compliant will be given a final notice and time till November 30, 2021. Post that legal action as per the rules may be taken.Some of irregularities include empty fire extinguishers or those whose expiry date has passed, non-functional sprinklers or alarm systems, and untrained staff.In addition to private hospitals being under the radar, government hospitals too are being scrutinised for fire safety. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh, said, “The use of fire extinguishers in government hospitals should be under trained experts and a responsible person should be appointed to coordinate measures to be taken to prevent fire accidents”Zilla Parishad, chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, who also attended the meeting said, “During the Monday review meeting the collector informed us to identify those hospitals who are yet to be audited - ensure that they get audited immediately. He has given specific deadlines for all the tasks like identify the extra electrical load by Wednesday. Also to identify high electrical load equipment, such as autoclave machines, ventilators – and to check wiring and safety.” The collector also issued directives that 26 government hospitals that recieved over Rs7 crore in funds must finish the work by November 20. He has also directed a re-audit of all government hospitals between November 20 and 30. He said that all the seven large government hospitals like Sassoon general hospital, Aundh Civil hospital, Baramati medical college and others, that must conduct fire drills by Thursday. The collector also visited the Aundh Civil hospital on Monday evening to check for on-ground fire compliance. The collector issued instructions for the Health & Family Welfare Training Institute to train least two hospital staff from each ward and/or each shift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/comply-with-fire-safety-norms-by-november-30-pune-district-collector-tells-hospitals-101636397941656.html
09-11-2021||Pune||24 Pune city hospitals yet to receive post-audit fire compliance clearance||PUNE As per the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) fire department, 24 private hospitals in the city and “at least eight civic hospitals” are yet to comply with fire norms. The PMC has issued notices to these hospitals and is awaiting a response. The health department is authorised to seize the licence if a hospital fails to comply. The fire compliance of civic hospitals is under process as tenders have been declared and in some cases, work is under way.Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer said, “There are 24 hospitals in the city who are yet to receive fire compliance clearance from us. After the Bhandara fire accident we had issued a thorough fire audit and compliance. Following the review we had issued notices to 24 private hospitals in the city that were found to not comply. This was in May and June and we are yet to get any response from them. We have not yet received form B from the hospitals which ensures compliance on their behalf.”As many as 10 newborns had died in the blaze inside NICU of Bhandara government hospital during January this year. It followed series of similar mishaps elsewhere including Nashik, Virar and Ahmednagar where 11 persons lost their lives as fire broke out inside the ICU ward of civil hospital on Saturday.Ranpise added, “We have informed the health department regarding the 24 hospitals in the city, since the health department has the right to seize the licence if they continue to function without fire compliance. Similarly, we also issued notices to about at least eight civic hospitals who were found to be lacking in fire fighting devices or the devices were not working properly. The proposals for the same have been passed by the standing committee and we have been informed that the work is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/24-pune-city-hospitals-yet-to-receive-post-audit-fire-compliance-clearance-101636397761355.html
09-11-2021||Noida||After facing wrath of UP-Rera, Supertech promises delivery of flats by July 2022||The Supertech Group has assured its buyers of fast delivery of flats in Noida, Greater Noida and other cities after the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) warned it of action if they fail to do so, said officials on Monday.“We have asked the Supertech Group to expedite the work so that the units can be delivered at the earliest, without a further delay, after the homebuyers filed complaints in the matter. Our motive of issuing instructions is to make sure that the homebuyers can deliver their respective flat as soon as possible... They have already suffered a lot. If the developer won’t expedite the work and deliver according to the schedule, we will have to take action against it,” said Balvinder Kumar, member of UP-Rera -- a quasi-judicial expert body formed by the state government to address issues faced by the real estate sector and homebuyers.Reacting to the development, the chairman of Supertech Limited, RK Arora, said that it will deliver all incomplete units by July 2022, under its ‘mission completion programme’ to ensure that the homebuyers receive the units in time.The realty sector is facing a major crisis as its Emerald Twin Towers project at Sector 93A is facing demolition, following orders from the Supreme Court.It claimed that on Diwali, it has delivered nearly 800 units to its customers in different projects in Noida, Greater Noida and the Yamuna Expressway. And more than 200 units were delivered to the buyers in Meerut, Gurugram and Dehradun, among other cities.“The real estate sector has been facing a slowdown and a financial crisis due to the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. But we are working day and night to ensure that the homebuyers receive their units without any hassle in the future. We will deliver all flats by July 2022. We have prepared a roadmap for the delivery so there’s no further delay,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-facing-wrath-of-up-rera-supertech-promises-delivery-of-flats-by-july-2022-101636397585776.html
09-11-2021||Noida||UP irrigation dept releases Ganga water into Hindon, residents call it ‘filthy’||Devotees who began celebrating the Chhath Puja festival on Monday complained that the water which reached the banks of the Hindon river in Ghaziabad was “filthy”.Water was released into the Upper Ganga Canal two days ago and it reached the Hindon river on Monday afternoon.“It is expected that as more water flows into the river, the initial impure water will flow away. The devotees need water in the river to perform puja on November 10 and 11. So, we are expecting that by November 10, the water in the river will be cleaner,” said Rakesh Tiwari, national general secretary of Purabiya Jan Kalyan Parishad.The officials of the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department said that they released about 1,600 cusecs of Ganga water into the Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) on Saturday.The UGC was shut for annual maintenance last month. Water supply has now been restarted--water will reach water treatment plants at Pratap Vihar in Ghaziabad from where it will be supplied further to Ghaziabad and Noida. “We released the water into the canal two days ago. This will benefit thousands of devotees who perform the puja on the banks of the Hindon river. As more water flows into the river, the water quality will improve. Further, the plants at Pratap Vihar will also help resume Ganga water supply to Ghaziabad and Noida,” said NK Lamba, executive engineer of UP Irrigation department (Meerut).The devotees have also started preparing ‘vedis’ in the form of small temples made of mud on the banks of the Hindon river for performing puja.It is estimated that around 300,000 devotees will gather at the river banks. According to official estimates, 700,000 people from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh celebrate Chhath Puja every year in the region. “There are about 400 families in our society who will take part in puja celebrations. For this, we have got the swimming pool cleaned up and we will start filling water in it from Tuesday. The pool was non-operational during the pandemic. This year, we are expecting more celebrations as the pandemic situation has eased up,” said Deepak Kumar, president of Amrapali Village high-rise in Indirapuram.“We will get the river banks cleaned up and readied for devotees. We are also installing CCTV cameras and setting up a control room at the site,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-irrigation-dept-releases-ganga-water-into-hindon-residents-call-it-filthy-101636397584456.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Prime Minister Modi to lay the foundation stone of Noida airport on November 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Noida international airport project at Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway on November 25, officials aware of the development said on Monday.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the nodal agency implementing the ambitious project, to prepare for the event, the officials said.NIAL’s chief executive officer Arun Vir Singh, Meerut division commissioner Surendra Singh, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY and Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh and other top officials visited the airport site on Monday to finalise the site for the Prime Minister’s event. “We visited four sites--two in Ranhera village and one each in Rohi and Banwaribas--to finalise where the event could take place. We have started all arrangements,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of NIAL. Officials who asked not to be named said Banwaribas has been finalised for the event but senior administration officials could not confirm it.At least 150,000 people are expected to attend the foundation stone-laying, according to NIAL’s plan. It has empanelled four agencies to help organise the event.“We will start the cleaning and levelling work at the site. And, we will select one of the four empanelled agencies in the next two days so that the work can proceed further,” said Singh.The upcoming airport is billed to be the largest in India, and will be the National Capital Region’s third, after the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) and the civilian terminal at Ghaziabad’s Hindon airport. In December 2020, the Uttar Pradesh government approved the design of the airport at Jewar.A special purpose vehicle -- Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) -- has started work on the boundary wall of the airport, which is expected to become operational by 2024, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/prime-minister-modi-to-lay-the-foundation-stone-of-noida-airport-on-november-25-101636397583377.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 45-year-old man wanted in property dealer’s murder arrested||Police on Sunday arrested a 45-year-old man wanted in connection with the murder of a property dealer over a property dispute, in Greater Noida, said officials.The suspect, identified as Sanjay Tiger, is a resident of Kheri Bhanota village in Surajpur. Tiger and two of his accomplices -- Yashpal (who goes by his first name), 45, and Kapil Pehelwan, 40 -- had killed Manjeet Nagar, 40, inside his car in Greater Noida West on October 29 this year over a property dispute.Yashpal was arrested for his involvement in the crime on October 30.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that Nagar, from Kheda Dharampura village in Badalpur, was a resident of Antriksh Golf View in Sector 78. He was found dead inside his Mahindra Scorpio near Greater Noida West’s Ek Murti. Police said he had five bullet wounds.A bottle of alcohol, two glasses and some snacks were also found in the vehicle. Police scanned call records on Nagar’s mobile phone and found that Yashpal had interacted with him on the phone that night.During interrogation, Chander said that Tiger revealed that Nagar and Yashpal used to be good friends in the past. “Yashpal took voluntary retirement from the Army a few years ago and started property dealing with Nagar. Yashpal had also invested his retirement money in the business. The two had decided to share the commission on the income. However, recently they developed differences as Yashpal believed he was not getting his due,” said Chander. Yashpal hatched a conspiracy with Tiger and Pehelwan to murder Nagar on October 29. The three suspects reached Sector 12 at night and bought some alcohol. “Yashpal called Nagar to meet him there. Nagar soon reached the spot in a Mahindra Scorpio and picked him up in the SUV. The two suspects – Tiger and Pehelwan – followed the Scorpio in a Tata Harrier,” said police. In Greater Noida west, Nagar stopped his SUV to have a drink, when Pehelwan, Tiger and Yashpal shot him dead. Police have seized the Tata Harrier and a licenced revolver from Tiger’s possession. A case has been registered against the suspects under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. “Tiger was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search for Pehelwan, who is on the run,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-45-year-old-man-wanted-in-property-dealer-s-murder-arrested-101636397581591.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Granulocytes transfusion: New treatment option at Child PGI in Gautam Budh Nagar||Post Graduate Institute of Child Health (PGICH) in Sector 30, Noida, is now Gautam Budh Nagar’s first government facility to provide granulocyte transfusion for patients, especially for those suffering from cancer.According to doctors, patients who acquire a bacterial or fungal infection and are not responsive to appropriate antimicrobial treatment for over 48 hours typically require granulocyte transfusions.“Granulocytes may be donated by normal blood donors via an apheresis machine. The donor is screened by a transfusion medicine specialist for his or her eligibility to donate granulocytes. Before the donor donates granulocytes, they are screened for infectious agents such as HIV, HBV, HCV, malaria and syphilis. The donor is assessed for his/her suitability. The donor is also given medication one night before donation so that granulocytes increase in his/her blood. The shelf life of these products after collection is 24 hours and they need to be irradiated before transfusion,” said Dr Satyam Arora, associate professor, blood transfusion department, PGICH.An apheresis machine is also used for platelet transfusions.“Till now, such a facility was not available at any government hospital in Gautam Budh Nagar. As a result, cancer patients who developed severe infections and required granulocyte transfusion, either had to be referred to a private hospital, or to KGMU and SGPGI in Lucknow,” said Dr Arora.There are around 400 children from the district currently being treated for various kinds of cancers at PGICH.Doctors say patients who suffer from neutropenia also require granulocyte transfusions.“Neutrophils, a type of granulocytes, make up 40% to 70% of all white blood cells in humans. The main function of neutrophils is to help the body fight infections. Cancer patients, especially children, often develop bacterial or fungal infections, which are difficult to treat with regular antimicrobial drugs. Patients suffering from blood cancer can also suffer from neutropenia, wherein the neutrophil count reduces to less than 0.5x109 cells per litre of blood,” said Dr Arora.The institute started the transfusion in July this year and so far, a total of five such transfusions have taken place here. Doctors said that none of the patients have reported an adverse reaction.Dr Arora added that the transfusion facility will help thousands of cancer patients in western Uttar Pradesh.“In future, PGICH’s capacities will be increased and it will cater to more patients in the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/granulocytes-transfusion-new-treatment-option-at-child-pgi-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101636397525469.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man arrested for allegedly killing wife over domestic dispute||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Monday for allegedly strangling his wife in Ecotech 3 in Greater Noida on Sunday.The suspect -- identified as Kundan Kumar -- is a resident of Suthiyana village in Greater Noida. Kundan allegedly killed Laxmi Kumari, 22, over domestic issues on Sunday afternoon and fled the spot. The victim, who was eight months pregnant, and the suspect are both natives of Vaishali in Bihar, said police.Laxmi’s sister Chanda Kumari, 25, had filed a complaint against the suspect at the Ecotech 3 police station on Sunday. “The couple married in February 2021 and moved to Greater Noida a month ago. My sister suffered from filariasis, due to which her husband used to quarrel with her frequently,” Chanda, who lives in the neighbourhood, said in her complaint.Chanda’s husband Rajendra Sah said that on Sunday afternoon when his five-year-old daughter visited Laxmi’s place, she saw Kundan beating Laxmi. “My daughter returned home and informed my wife about it. Chanda went to Laxmi’s house and found that her door was locked from inside, and they were shouting at each other. The husband-wife revealed that Kundan recently lost ₹700 in gambling, which led to the quarrel. The duo did not open the gate and told my wife that they will come out after sometime,” Rajendra said, adding that Chanda had returned home after that.After half an hour, Kundan exited the house and escaped. “My wife visited Laxmi’s house again and found that she was strangled. We then informed the police and filed a complaint,” he added.Bhuvnesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Ecotech 3 police station, said a case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder). “The suspect was arrested from Bihar’s Vaishali on Monday, and was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody,” SHO Kumar said.1 held for stabbing shopkeeper in Greater NoidaOn Monday, the Ecotech 3 police arrested a man for stabbing a 25-year-old shopkeeper over a dispute on money transfer, said officials.The victim -- identified as Adesh Bhati, 25 -- is a resident of Kheda Chauganpur village in Greater Noida. SHO Kumar said that Bhati worked as a money transfer agent.“Two persons -- Ajay Chauhan, 25, and his brother Vijay Chauhan, 26 -- visited Bhati’s shop on Sunday and asked him to transfer ₹3,400 to a bank account. On this, Bhati said that ₹70 will be charged as a commission for the transfer. This led to an argument and the two suspects allegedly stabbed him,” he said.Locals took Bhati to a nearby private hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Police said that a case was registered against the suspects under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 504 (intentional insult), and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Ecotech 3 police station on Sunday. “We have arrested Vijay, and launched a search for Ajay,” SHO Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-arrested-for-allegedly-killing-wife-over-domestic-dispute-101636397524204.html
09-11-2021||Noida||Four-day Chhath celebrations begin in Gautam Budh Nagar||The four-day-long Chhath Puja festival began on Monday with residents in Gautam Budh Nagar performing the first-day ritual of ‘Nahay Khay’ (bathe and eat).Celebrated after Diwali, mostly by residents of Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, Chhath Puja involves “arghya” (offering) by fasting women to the sun god in knee-deep water.While rituals are performed at home on the first two days of the festival, on the last two days of the festival, rituals have to be performed while standing in a water body.“On the first day, fasting devotees bathe, wear clean clothes and prepare a prasad (a devotional offering typically consisting of food) for the sun god. On the second day, devotees begin a nirjala (waterless) fast which lasts for 36 hours. On the third day, the fast continues and the setting sun is offered arghya in a water body in the evening. The fast continues through the night and on the fourth and final day, an arghya is offered to the rising sun,” said Munna Sharma, national president of All India Pravasi Mahasabha in Sector 75.The Noida Authority has identified nine spots across the city where artificial ponds have been created for devotees to perform the rituals.“Nine artificial ponds or water pits have been created in sectors 25, 45, 62, 63A, 71, 116, 120, 110 and 135. Clean water will be provided by the authority in these ponds and officials will oversee other preparations as well,” said PK Kaushik, general manager, Noida Authority.Alok Vatsa, president of Pravasi Mahasangh, which has been holding Chhath Puja celebrations in Noida for the last 15 years in Sector 25, said that like last time, no cultural events will be held this time either.“This is the second time that Chhath Puja will be celebrated during the Covid-19 pandemic. Until 2019, the Chhath Puja celebrations in Sector 25 used to be one of the biggest in NCR, with lakhs of devotees in attendance and performances by Bhojpuri artistes. However, since last year, the celebrations have been reduced to just performing of the rituals and this year too, proper Covid-19 protocols will be followed,” said Vatsa, a resident of Sector 33.In Greater Noida, the authority has created an artificial pond at the empty ground near Ek Murti intersection. Abhishek Kumar, president of Purvanchal Pravasi Ektamanch that holds Chhath Puja celebrations in Greater Noida West, said that residents have been advised to perform the rituals at home or in their respective high-rise apartments in order to maintain social distance.“Before the Covid-19 pandemic, Chhath Puja held at the artificial pond near Ek Murti chowk used to be celebrated by over 10,000 devotees. However, last year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, people were advised to perform the rituals at home and only about 2,000 people turned up at the pond. Only some devotees who are unable to see the sun from their high-rise society, come to the artificial pond created here,” said Kumar, a resident of Greater Noida West.With increased pollution in the district, devotees are concerned whether they will be able to see the sun clearly.“Haziness in the air has increased after the Diwali festival and many devotees are concerned whether they will be able to see the sun clearly on the morning of November 11 when we have to break our fast after performing the rituals. During previous years too, we have faced similar issues hence we are praying that the sun is visible clearly this year,” said Madhu Mala Singh, a resident of Golf City, Sector 75, Noida.District magistrate Suhas LY said that authorities have been instructed to ensure proper Covid-19 protocols are followed.“All authorities have been instructed to ensure proper Covid-19 protocols are followed at the artificial ponds created for Chhath Puja celebrations. We hope residents behave responsibly as well,” said Suhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fourday-chhath-celebrations-begins-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101636397521345.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Drugs-on-cruise case: Prabhakar Sail questioned by NCB’s vigilance team||Prabhakar Sail, a key witness in the cruise ship drug raid case, was questioned by the vigilance team of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday. Sail, who made his first appearance before the agency, was questioned in the Central Reserve Police Force’s mess in Bandra (West). He was accompanied by his lawyer Tushar Khandare. The NCB instituted a vigilance probe (referred to as a special enquiry team) under Deputy Director General Gyaneshwar Singh on October 25, following the allegations made in a notarised affidavit filed by Sail on October 23.In the affidavit, Sail claimed to have overheard a phone call between his employer Kiran P Gosavi — another witness in the cruise ship drug raid case — and Sam D’Souza. “You put a bomb of 25 crores and let’s settle at 18 final, because we have to give 8 crores to Sameer Wankhede,” Gosavi told a certain person named Sam D’Souza, the affidavit stated. Wankhede, the NCB Mumbai zonal director, had led the drug raid on the cruise ship, Cordelia, and subsequently arrested 20 persons in connection with the raid, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23). The vigilance team arrived in Mumbai on October 27 and has recorded the statement of eight persons, including Wankhede and investigating officer V.V Singh.Wankhede was removed from the drug raid case on November 5, and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of NCB Delhi led by Sanjay Singh took over the investigation of this case and five other cases.The vigilance team led by Gyaneshwar Singh visited the cruise ship and Tardeo, the area where Sail reportedly collected two bags containing ₹50 lakh from Shah Rukh’s manager Pooja Dadlani, as per the allegations made in his affidavit. The team also verified the place in Lower Parel where Dadlani, Sam D’Souza and Gosavi reportedly met to discuss the purported exchange of money. Wankhede has denied all allegations made in the affidavit as being baseless. The vigilance probe team left for Delhi on October 30 after Sail failed to turn up for recording his statement before them. On October 28, the NCB wrote a letter to the Mumbai Police Commissioner requesting him to ask Sail, who had appeared before a Mumbai police SIT (formed on October 28 to probe the allegations of corruption against Wankhede, Gosavi and others mentioned in Sail’s affidavit). However, Sail did not appear before the NCB and the team left for Delhi on October 30. It returned to Mumbai on Monday and questioned Sail. Gosavi was arrested by Pune city police in a cheating case registered in 2018 and currently in custody of Pune police. In his affidavit, Sail claimed that at 9.45 am on October 3 -- the day after the raid on the cruise ship Cordelia and hours before Aryan Khan and his friends were produced before a holiday magistrate -- Gosavi had met Shah Rukh Khan’s manager, Pooja Dadlani, along with Sam D’Souza outside Big Bazaar at Lower Parel. Sail’s affidavit stated that he was with Gosavi in an Innova, Sam D’Souza was in a separate vehicle that followed Gosavi’s, and Dadlani was in a Blue Mercedes.Gosavi and Sam met Dadlani in her car and left after about 15 minutes. Later in the day, when Sail and Gosavi were at the latter’s Vashi residence, Gosavi asked Sail to go to Tardeo and “collect cash of ₹50 lakh,” the affidavit stated. At a signal in Tardeo, a person driving a white car handed over two bags with money to Sail.Sail brought the money back to Gosavi’s Vashi residence. In the evening, Sail said that Gosavi asked him to hand the cash to Sam D’Souza. Sail gave these bags to Sam D’Souza at a five-star hotel where the latter counted the cash and found it to be ₹38 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugsoncruise-case-prabhakar-sail-questioned-by-ncb-s-vigilance-team-101636397463549.html
09-11-2021||Pune||Diwali vehicle sales lower than in 2020; 710 new electric cars registered at Pune RTO||PUNE Vehicle sales during this year’s Diwali period, November 1-6, saw a significant decline as compared to sales in 2020, as per data shared by the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO). New vehicle registrations for the above period, across all the segments, dropped by half as compared to last year. This year a total of 7,741 vehicles were registered by the Pune RTO from November 1 to 6. Of which 4,873 were two-wheelers and 2,365 cars were registered. Whereas in the commercial vehicle segment, a total of 348 vehicles were registered and 134 autorickshaws were registered during the Diwali period. As fuel prices have gone up in last few months, people are now turning towards buying e-vehicles. According to statistics, this Diwali a total of 710 e-vehicles were registered by the Pune RTO. “The registration work was going on throughout the Diwali week and as per the data there is drop in vehicle sales in all segments compared to last year. Also, people are now moving towards electric vehicles as 710 electric cars were registered during the Diwali period,” said Sanjay Sasane, Pune deputy regional transport officer. “When we decided to get a new car our obvious choice was buying an electric car. We need to upgrade with the technology and already fuel prices have gone too high,” said Neeru Suri, who bought a new electric car. Pawan Dahinje, an automobile sales expert said, “There was a low response during the Navratri period for car sales and it continued during the Diwali period too. Last year, most people bought small cars. Now sales have gone down for cars, two- wheelers and even in the commercial vehicle segment.”Fatechand Ranka, president, Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) said, “This year’s Diwali festival and business around the festive period was quite satisfactory for traders and shop owners in Pune. We got a good response from customers and somehow managed to recover our losses of the last two years. It has just started and we hope that the business will increase in the coming months till Gudhi Padwa,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/diwali-vehicle-sales-lower-than-in-2020-710-new-electric-cars-registered-at-pune-rto-101636397461725.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||The Uphaar victims will finally rest in peace after 24 years: Families||“I have kept the promise that I made to my children 24 years ago,” said Neelam Krishnamoorthy, who lost her two teenaged children in the fire at south Delhi Uphaar cinema on June 13, 1997.A Delhi court on Monday handed a seven-year jail term each to builders Gopal and Sushil Ansal for tampering with evidence pertaining to the fire incident which claimed 59 lives, and noted in a scathing verdict that their regrets over the incident were “hollow”. The court also imposed a fine of ₹2.25 crore each on the two. The court also cancelled their bail bonds, and directed that they be taken into custody immediately.“As a mother, I have succeeded and I have kept the promise that I made to my children 24 years back. The journey has not been easy. A lot of times, I was threatened, intimidated and often humiliated and mocked during court hearings, but the mother in me kept reminding me of the promise I made. Just because my children are not there with me, I have not stopped being a mother,” said Krishnamoorthy, who has become the face of the protracted legal battle waged by the victims of the Uphaar tragedy.Krishnamoorthy’s two children, Unnati (17) and Ujjwal (13), were among the 59 people killed, when a fire broke out at the cinema hall, during the screening of the film, Border.She said since then she has relived the “horrid day” countless times before the courts and the media, hoping that one day the narration of the day would become less painful. “That loss can never be replaced, but at least today the 59 victims will rest in peace,” she said.In 2015, after serving the first two years in jail, the Supreme Court allowed businessmen the Ansal brothers to walk free with a fine of ₹30 crore each, which was to be utilised to build a trauma centre in the city.In 2019, the court issued a non-bailable warrant against the two in connection with a case of alleged tampering with evidence. The trial court convicted the Ansal brothers and three others for tampering with the evidence on October 8, 2021, but reserved its judgment.Earlier, In 2020, the court dismissed a curative petition by a group formed by families of the victims, Association for Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT), to review 2015 judgment.In Monday’s verdict, the court finally sentenced the Ansals to seven years in jail, which, according to the victim families, is the first time in the country that someone is being convicted for the offence.Naveen Sawhney, who lost his 21-year-old daughter, Tarika, in the tragic incident, said the last two decades were extremely difficult for his family. But the Monday’s verdict has given them some solace.“After my daughter’s death, my wife was very disturbed. This incident has remained with us like a chronic wound. It gets particularly worse during her birthdays and other important occasions. This was a joint fight that all the 59 families fought together and we are happy to have got some relief,” Sawhney.Krishnamoorthy also said that Monday’s judgement has restored her faith in the country’s legal system.“This verdict was proof that you cannot cover up your sins with money and power, the law eventually will punish you,” Krishnamoorthy said.In his order, chief metropolitan magistrate Dr Pankaj Sharma said, “It is important to note that in a sentencing process, it is not only the crime that is important but the criminal and his/her circumstances are also equally important. The circumstances during which the instant crime was committed show the deep disrespect which the convicts had for the law and the judicial process and for the victims,” the court ruled.The magistrate said that “the foundation of judiciary is premised on the trust and confidence of the people and any action which is aimed to thwart the said foundation cannot be permitted and is required to be dealt with utmost strictness”.“This case is not only related to prosecution and Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT) but the sentencing in this case must respond to the cry of the society,” he noted in the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-uphaar-victims-will-finally-rest-in-peace-after-24-years-families-101636397101382.html
09-11-2021||Lucknow||Over 10-degree drop in UP min temp over a month as winter sets in||As Old Man Winter steps in, minimum temperature across Uttar Pradesh dropped around 10 degrees Celsius in a month, Indian Meteorological Department data read. The early morning temperature in Lucknow dropped to 14.3 degrees Celsius on Monday, which is a degree Celsius below normal.On October 8, the minimum temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 25.2 degrees Celsius. It dropped to 16.2 degrees on November 1 and has been on a slide since then. The maximum temperature has also dropped, the IMD data showed. On October 8, the maximum temperature was 34.5 degrees Celsius. It was recorded at 26 degrees Celsius on Monday.“The drop in average day temperature has been slightly lower as compared to the previous year. The drop, however, signals the onset of winter. We expect the temperatures to fall by at least 8 degrees more during this month,” said JP Gupta, director, state meteorological department.According to the MeT department, Lucknow may experience similar weather in till mid-week. “Lucknow and nearby areas will experience fog in the coming days, especially in the morning,” added Gupta.The minimum temperature has also dropped in several other cities of Uttar Pradesh as well. The night temperature in Varanasi dropped to 13.4 degrees Celsius which was two degrees below normal. With 12.6 degrees Celsius, Kanpur recorded one of the lowest temperatures across UP.The drop in temperatures will also impact air pollution levels in the state. Experts suggest that the temperature drop will make the state air pollution across UP worse in the coming days. “The drop in temperatures affects movement of particulate matter in the air which leads to rise in pollution levels. As the temperature drops across UP, the air pollution levels will spike,” senior environmentalist Sidhant Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-10-degree-drop-in-up-min-temp-over-a-month-as-winter-sets-in-101636396922474.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||At fault for a frothy Yamuna: Raw sewage, frothing agents||Poisoned by tonnes of sewage, industrial and domestic effluents, the Yamuna in Delhi is frothing -- one of the signs of the exceptionally high levels of pollution in the river.As Chhath Puja devotees took a dip in the river on Monday, iceberg like foam blocks were spotted floating on the river near Okhla Barrage, where the Yamuna leaves Delhi. The foam, experts said, is an annual phenomenon during winters, and is a clear symptom that indicates that the river stretch is “dead”.According to a report by a monitoring committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal in 2018, the 22-km stretch of the Yamuna between Wazirabad and Okhla, accounts for 76% of the total pollution in the river.River watchers and experts pointed out that the froth downstream of Okhla barrage has been occurring for more than a decade now but the magnitude of the problem has worsened in the last few years. Manoj Misra of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan said the froth formation starts immediately after the monsoon, and as temperatures drop during November, the magnitude of the problem increases. “The froth formation is a clear symptom that the river in this stretch is dead,” he said.On Monday, Delhi Jal Board vice chairman Raghav Chadha said the neighbouring states have done little to prevent untreated sewage and industrial effluents from flowing into the river. Chadha said the Delhi Jal Board is working to enhance its sewage treatment capacity so that untreated effluents are not released into the Yamuna.“Okhla Barrage is managed by the UP Irrigation department and water hyacinth plants grow all around. These hyacinth plants decompose and release surfactants like phosphates. The paper and sugar industries operating in Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh also release untreated wastewater containing surfactants, which is then released into Yamuna through the Hindon Canal near Indira Kunj,” he said.According to DJB estimates, the untreated discharge reaching the Okhla Barrage was 105 MGD (million gallons per day) from Haryana through Najafgarh drain, and 50 MGD from UP through Shahdara drain.When asked, a senior jal board official explained that froth is formed due to soap-like surfactant molecules. He added that when the water falls from a height in the Okhla barrage, it leads to churning of the polluted water, and amplifies formation of foam.“There are biological and chemicals reasons behind presence surfactant molecules in the river water. It can be due to detergents and surfactants in untreated domestic sewage, pollutants from industries as well as materials released by decomposition of dying water hyacinth weeds in the Okhla barrage,” the official said, asking not to be named.Similar toxic froth floating on lakes has been observed in the past in Bengaluru and Hyderabad.Last year, the NGT-appointed Yamuna monitoring committee took cognizance of froth formation in the Yamuna. Delhi Pollution Control Committee DPCC, in its report to the panel, blamed the presence of dhobi ghats, direct release of sewage containing phosphate and industrial effluents for the froth formation.A senior DPCC official, asking not to be named, said phosphates from detergents and soaps that are directly released into the river untreated results in the formation of foam. “To control this, the DPCC in June this year, banned the sale, storage, transportation and marketing of soaps and detergents in Delhi, which did not meet the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) norms. This was done to prevent frothing in the river. Directions were issued to the civic supplies department and surprise checks are also being conducted around the city for the same,” the official said.The official added that action was being taken against illegal industrial units operating along the Yamuna in areas such as Khayala, Bawana, Narela and Badli.Varun Gulati, an activist who filed a petition in the NGT against illegal industries, said most of these units were operating without any common-effluent treatment plants, or without licence.Misra said the high pollutant load shows how the city has failed the river. “We have seen that the river was much cleaner during the lockdown period when the household sewage was still getting added to river stream. If we can restore the river flow, as it happens during the monsoon season, and reduce the industrial pollutants, the river can be revived in this stretch,” he added.A senior DJB official said that under the short-term remedial measures, all water hyacinth plants in the Okhla pond area will be removed, and as an immediate measure bio-culture based foaming treatment may be carried out.“As a long-term measure, upgradation of all STPs by the UP, Haryana and Delhi is necessary to treat the waste water to substantially reduce the problem of foaming,” the official said, adding that it may take 3-5 years depending upon the availability of funds.Jyoti Sharma, head of FORCE -- a Delhi-based water conservation and sanitation organisation -- said Delhi has enough environmental regulations and laws but citizen participation must be ensured to improve water quality in the river. “We should have citizen vigilance groups who can help in monitoring of STPs, industrial area and slum cluster outfalls. Unless, we develop a participative oversight mechanism, such alarming sights will continue to be present,” she added.Health experts have warned that Chhath devotees should avoid this polluted section of river. According to Dr Rommel Tickoo, director, internal medicine at Max Saket, the froth caused by sewage and chemical pollutants can lead to gastrointestinal problems and water-borne disease such as typhoid.He added, “Skin can absorb pollutants which can lead to allergies and skin irritation, but long-term exposure to metals in industrial wastewater can cause neurological issues, hormonal imbalance and it can also be carcinogenic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-fault-for-a-frothy-yamuna-raw-sewage-frothing-agents-101636396801259.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches single window clearance, subsidy for two-wheeler EV charging points||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Monday launched a single window facility for installation of private electric vehicle (EV) charging stations in the national capital. For an electric two- or three-wheeler, an individual will have to spend only ₹2,500 for a charging point to be installed after the Delhi government’s subsidy, said transport minister Kailash Gahlot. “Delhi now hosts the cheapest EV charging facility you can find anywhere in the country. Apart from the 100+ public charging locations that are coming up, one can now install private EV chargers at a connection cost of just ₹2,500,” he said. The government said that the single window process is being made available both online and through phone call. On the directions of the Delhi government, power distribution companies have already empanelled 12 vendors to facilitate the installation of slow and moderate chargers. “The installation and operationalisation of these EV chargers would be completed within seven working days of submitting the request,” said Gahlot while addressing a press conference.The Delhi government will also offer a subsidy of ₹6,000 to the first 30,000 applicants for the installation of EV chargers in city, he said. The tariff rate fixed for electricity consumed through these EV charging points is ₹4.5 per unit. Jasmine Shah, the vice-chairperson of the Dialogue and Development Commission, said, “Such a facilitation process for installing EV chargers has been developed for the first time in India and with their widespread installation, Delhi will become the best city in the world in terms of accessibility to EV charging points. Today’s launch of a single window facility for installation of private chargers in malls, offices, residential societies, colleges is happening for the first time anywhere in India.”A consumer can avail the single window facility by either going to the respective discom’s portal or calling the following numbers: 7011931880 or 19123 (option 9) for BRPL; 19124 (option 9) for TPDDL; and 01135999808 for BYPL. The applicant can visit the portal and view trustworthy EV chargers that have been empanelled by the government. They can compare the price of these chargers and order them online or through a phone call. They can choose to opt for a new electrical connection (including pre-paid meter) to avail reduced EV tariff or can continue with the existing connection. The single-window portal allows the applicant to schedule the installation at their convenience. They can avail subsidy for light EV chargers up to ₹6,000 and pay the rest of the amount i.e. ₹2,500. They can also opt to pay the entire cost upfront or choose a monthly subscription payment model.The cost of the charger will be inclusive of the cost of the EV charger, installation and annual maintenance for three years. The Delhi government is anticipating that incentives will reduce the cost of chargers by up to 70% and it will provide additional revenue-generating opportunities for thousands of small shop owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-single-window-clearance-subsidy-for-two-wheeler-ev-charging-points-101636396741997.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industrialists’ protest over rising prices of raw materials enters Day 7||Industrialists performed an “aarti’ ceremony for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Union minister of Steel Ramchandra Prasad Singh on Monday, as their ongoing protest against the Centre over rising prices of raw materials entered its seventh day. They have been protesting for an hour everyday outside the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) on Gill Road. The industrialists stated that they are in talks with different industrial organisations and the agitation will spread across the state in the coming time.Seeking the formation of a regulatory commission at the Union level to keep a check on the rising prices, especially of steel, representatives of different industrial associations including UCPMA, Knitwear and Textile Club, Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association and Bicycle Research And Development Organisation (BRADO) have been participating in the protest. They have also declared that they will vote only for the party which will work to fulfil their demand. The industrialists rued that price of raw materials including steel, paint, nickel, fuel etc are being increased arbitrarily in the country, but the government is turning a blind eye towards the problem. Due to this, the industry is struggling to survive and forced to hike the prices of their end products. They stated that the prices of steel have almost doubled in the last two years.UCPMA propaganda secretary Rajinder Sarhali said that if their demand is not met, they will move the protest to Delhi in the coming time. Karwal extends support to industrialistsCongress in-charge of Atam Nagar constituency, Kamaljit Singh Karwal, extended his support to the industrialists and participated in the protest on Monday. Karwal stated that the Congress government has always stood by the industry and is continuously working for the betterment of the sector. He also demanded that the Union government take concrete steps to control inflation and prices of raw material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-protest-over-rising-prices-of-raw-materials-enters-day-7-101636396563341.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 1,100+ dengue cases to tally, 3 deaths take toll to 9||The Capital added three dengue deaths to the city’s toll over the past week, as fresh infections more than doubled in the same period, according to the weekly report released by the city’s civic bodies on Monday.The city’s dengue tally crossed the 2,000 mark, as civic bodies added 1,171 infections on Monday, taking the year’s caseload to 2,708. The city added 531 deaths for the week between October 24 and 30.Nine people have died of the infection in the city this year. Six of them are children, said officials.Two of the three victims added to the city’s toll on Monday were below 18 – a three-year old girl from Saurabh Vihar (near Jaitpur) and a 12-year-old boy from Durga Vihar (near Sangam Vihar). Four of the five deaths recorded last week were also children.Experts say that this is because children are more likely to get the infection and suffer severe symptoms.“A higher proportion of dengue deaths in children is a reflection of a larger proportion of cases among them. Children between ages 8 and 15 are more likely to get the infection as they step out to play and go to school — exposing their chances of getting a mosquito bite. Children below the age of five do not usually get the infection because they mostly stay indoors,” said Dr Krishan Chugh, director of Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurugram.He added, “They are also more likely to die because their immune system is not fine-tuned and can react incorrectly, causing death, liver failure, and other such complications.”The dengue tally this year is on course to eclipse the 2018 number, when the city recorded 2,798 cases, and the toll is now the highest since 2017, when 10 died of the infection. Delhi reported its worst dengue outbreak in 2015, when 16,000 people were infected and at least 60 died, according to official records.There was only one dengue death in New Delhi last year, two in 2019 and four in 2018, showed the records.The nine deaths so far have all been recorded in September and October. But, to be sure, these are only disclosed later after a Delhi panel confirms their deaths were caused due to the vector-borne disease, and that the victims belonged to the city.The three deaths reported on Monday were among the nine being investigated by a death audit panel. According to senior officials from the municipal corporations, the panel is investigating a further 34 deaths from city hospitals. The other deaths that were confirmed to be caused“Most of the victims [those not added to the city’s death toll] outside Delhi, and came to the city to be treated. Most people who travel to Delhi for treatment reach by the time they have severe symptoms, and are more likely to die,” said the official.Dr Virendra Singh, professor, department of paediatrics, Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital said the hospital has this year seen a comparatively larger number of children die of the infection, especially kids from Uttar Pradesh.“We are seeing otherwise healthy children being admitted with the infection, rapidly deteriorating and dying. Most of them die of multi-organ dysfunction and circulatory shock,” he said.With dengue cases on the rise, the Delhi government in mid-October made all vector-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria, and chikungunya notifiable, meaning all hospitals, clinics and diagnostic centres have to mandatorily report the cases. This was a long pending decision, with the capital aiming to eliminate malaria by 2022.Delhi government officials said they were using the provisions of new notification to ask hospitals for data on all fever cases along with hospital beds available for them to ascertain the availability of beds and the need for escalation.South Delhi mayor Mukesh Suryan laid the blame for the dengue deaths on the Delhi government.“The onus of all the [dengue] deaths recorded in Delhi so far this year lies with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-ruled Delhi government. Despite a huge surge in dengue cases this year, we don’t have any funds to tackle this situation. It is really sad that three people lost their lives due to dengue. It was the responsibility of the state government to save their lives,” he said.Refuting Suryan’s allegations, Prem Chouhan, the leader of opposition in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), said municipal bodies were responsible for the control of vector-borne diseases in their jurisdictions.“The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal bodies want to hide all their failures, blaming the Arvind Kejriwal government. Neither do they want to perform, nor do they let others perform. Forget about government, every worker of our party is ensuring repeated fogging in all critical areas,” he said.Abhishek Dutt, the Congress leader and Andrews Ganj councillor, accused both BJP and AAP of the failure in tackling the spread of dengue in Delhi. “The fact is that neither of these parties can turn their back on their responsibilities. Instead of diverting the attention of the people with their catfight, they must perform at the ground level for the people’s suffering. Our party workers are repeatedly fogging on bikes and bicycles in different areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-1-100-dengue-cases-to-tally-3-deaths-take-toll-to-9-101636396443267.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Nurses protest at civil hospital over non-fulfilment of long pending demands||The district unit of Punjab State Nurses Association staged a protest outside the mother-child unit of the civil hospital on Monday against the recommendations of the 6th pay scale and non-fulfilment of their long pending demands.Members of the association stated that the senior and junior nursing staff will go on strike and not perform their duties at the civil hospital, including emergency services, if their demands are not met by Tuesday. A protest will also be staged outside the civil surgeon’s office, they added.The demands of the protesting nurses include payment of allowance for food, uniform, nursing care etc; pay parity; removal of alleged anomalies in recommendations of 6th pay commission; introduction of old pension scheme for the regular employees recruited after 2004; regularisation of contractual staff and designation of nursing officers for staff nurses.The protesting nurses stated that the demands have been raised several times in the past, but the government has not fulfilled them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nurses-protest-at-civil-hospital-over-non-fulfilment-of-long-pending-demands-101636396384150.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 27 schools from district to participate in national survey||A total of 27 schools from Ludhiana district have been selected to participate in the Shaala Sidhi Survey, which will be conducted by National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration under the guidance of ministry of human resource development. District MIS coordinator Vishal Mittal has been appointed to supervise the survey, that will be conducted at schools including GSSS Ayali Khurd, GSSS Millerganj, GSSS Jandiali, GSSS Indrapuri, GSSS Basti Jodhewal and GSSS Jawahar Nagar (boys).“As many as 250 schools from across the state will participate in this survey, which aims to improve the education standards. The schools from Ludhiana have been selected by representatives of the MHRD,” said Mittal.Meanwhile, the principals of the participating schools attended an online training session on Monday which was chaired by Praniti Panda, an MHRD official.“They were trained regarding the process to enter and update their data. This survey focuses on the details of infrastructure development, results and attendance of the students and future planning and goals of the schools. Moreover, a YouTube link of the training pertaining to the survey was provided to the teachers during the training,” Mittal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-27-schools-from-district-to-participate-in-national-survey-101636396204943.html
09-11-2021||Bhopal||‘Bania and Brahmin in my pocket’: Row over MP BJP leader’s controversial remark||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Madhya Pradesh in-charge Murlidhar Rao stoked a controversy by saying that he keeps Baniya (business community) and Brahmans (priest community) in his pockets. While talking to reporters on Monday, Rao said he keeps Banias in one pocket and Brahmins in the other. Rao’s remarks came in response to a question. “If you have asked the question, then listen to the answer, among my vote bank, my workers, and my leaders there were Brahmins, so it was called Brahmin party. When the Banias came, it became a party of the Banias. The party was started for everyone but it had more people from some communities at that time, so you used to say that this party belongs to them. We are working to make ourselves a party for all.” The Opposition attacked Rao for insulting the upper caste by saying that they are in his pockets. MP state Congress president, Kamal Nath, said, “Rao insulted the communities by claiming that they are like their ancestral property. The leaders of these communities made their important contributions in taking the party ahead. What kind of respect are party leaders giving to these leaders? This is the arrogance of BJP leaders and they are openly insulting communities for winning elections.” Rao should apologise, he added. Rao later clarified that the BJP is a party that never discriminates against anyone. “Congress always distorts facts. Kamal Nath is doing the same thing once again, the Congress is not able to digest that we won the trust of the tribals and other sections through our development work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bania-and-brahmin-in-my-pocket-row-over-mp-bjp-leader-s-controversial-remark-101636396141940.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Neighbour held for acid attack on woman who spurned his proposals||A 23-year-old woman was left critically injured and fighting for her life after her 26-year-old neighbour allegedly tied up her up and threw acid on her at his home in outer Delhi’s Bawana on Diwali eve (November 3). Police said the suspect, identified as Montu, was allegedly stalking her and pestering her for marriage, even though she was already married and living with her husband. He fled to his home town in Bihar’s Buxar after assaulting the woman and he was arrested on November 6 from there and brought to Delhi, the police said on Monday.During his interrogation, the police said Montu also disclosed that he had planned to shoot dead the woman, if her husband proved a hurdle between them. To execute his murder plan, Montu also procured a countrymade pistol, which he allegedly hid in a secluded place in Bawana. The police team took him to the spot he mentioned to recover the weapon, but when they reached there, Montu allegedly retrieved the gun from behind the bushes and fired at the police team. Stunned by the sudden attack, the policemen returned the fire and the bullet hit Montu in the leg, said deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Brijendra Kumar Yadav.Outlining the sequence of events, the police said on November 3, the Bawana police station received information that a woman was attacked with acid by her neighbour at his room in Sector 3, Bawana. She was admitted to a nearby hospital in a critical condition, they said. “Three policemen donated blood to the woman as her condition was serious and she is still under close observation at the hospital,” said a senior police officer associated with the case, asking not to be named.The woman’s statement was recorded and a case of voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid was registered under Section 326A of the India Penal Code (IPC) against Montu. In her statement, the woman said she lived with her husband in Bawana. Her neighbour Montu started talking to her and expressed his love for her. On several occasions, he asked her to marry him. However, she flatly refused and told him that she was happily married, the officer said.“As Montu began pestering her for marriage, the woman shifted to another area in Bawana with her husband. But that did not help much as Montu too shifted to their new neighbourhood,” the officer said, requesting not to be named.On November 3, the officer, quoting the woman’s statement, said Montu called her to his room on some pretext and asked her to leave her husband and live with him. When the woman refused and reprimanded him for stalking her and troubling her, Montu became furious and overpowered her. He forcibly tied her hands and threw acid on her before fleeing the room. The woman screamed in pain and was rescued by neighbours. She was admitted to a nearby hospital, the officer said.“Through technical investigation, we found out that the suspect was in Buxar and arrested him from there. He confessed to the crime and said he attacked the woman because she refused to marry him. He revealed that apart from the acid attack, he had also planned to shoot her dead if her husband came between them,” DCP Yadav said.The police said a separate case of attempt to murder and attacking the police personnel on duty was registered against Montu in connection with the firing incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/neighbour-held-for-acid-attack-on-woman-who-spurned-his-proposals-101636396081030.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||DA hike: Delhi increases minimum wage; to provide workers access to govt schemes||Dearness allowances for unskilled, semi-skilled and other workers in the city were increased on Monday, a move that will increase minimum wages by nearly a percent, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, as he introduced a new programme to ensure that the benefits of all welfare initiatives reach the city’s registered construction workers. “I have issued an order to increase the dearness allowance of unskilled, semi-skilled and other workers of Delhi on Monday. Along with this, I have also directed to ensure payment to all workers and employees at the increased rate effective from October 1,” said Sisodia. “We also launched the Shramik Mitra scheme on Monday to ensure that the benefits of government schemes reach all construction workers in Delhi. Under this scheme, 800 shramik mitras will reach construction workers at their doorstep, inform them about the schemes launched by the Delhi government in the interest of the workers, connect them with relevant government schemes and ensure that no worker is left out of government schemes or deprived of any assistance,” he said. After the increase in the dearness allowance, the monthly salary of unskilled labourers has increased from ₹15,908 to ₹16,064, of semi-skilled workers has increased from ₹17,537 to ₹17,693, and for skilled workers from ₹19,291 to ₹19,473. The rate of minimum wages for supervisor and clerical employees has also been increased. The monthly salary of non-matriculation employees has been increased from ₹17,537 to ₹17,693, the monthly salary of matriculated but non-graduate employees has been increased from ₹19,291 to ₹19,473 and the monthly salary of labourers with graduate and above educational qualification has been increased from ₹20,976 to ₹21,184.As for the benefits given by the Delhi government to the construction workers registered with the state’s construction workers’ board, ₹3-5 lakh is offered for house construction, ₹30,000 for maternity benefit, loan of ₹20,000 and assistance of ₹5,000 for buying tools, ₹1 lakh on natural death of workers, ₹2 lakh on accidental death, ₹1 lakh in case of disability and ₹3,000 per month pension, ₹500-10,000 per month for school education and higher education of children, ₹35,000 for marriage of workers and their children as assistance to the workers. An assistance amount of ₹2,000 for medical assistance, ₹3,000 per month (this amount is increased by ₹300 every year) as old age pension.So far, about 600,000 construction workers in Delhi have registered with the Construction Board through various registration campuses started by the Kejriwal government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-increases-minimum-wage-to-provide-workers-access-to-govt-schemes-101636395901172.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||800 ghats set up in Delhi for Chhath Puja, says Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday announced that the Delhi government, on the directions of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, has set up at least 800 ghats across the national capital for devotees to perform Chhath Puja rituals.Addressing a digital press briefing, Sisodia said the Delhi government has made several arrangements such as putting up tents, installing lights and making drinking water arrangement on the ghats. “Before 2015, Chhath Puja was organised only at 80-90 ghats, only a select few from BJP-Congress could use these ghats. Once the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to power in Delhi, the number of ghats were increased exponentially because the AAP cares for the Purvanchali population of the city. This time, despite Covid-19, the Delhi government has made grand arrangements for Chhath Puja at more than 800 ghats,” he said.Appealing to the people to practice caution, Sisodia said Covid-19 cases have gone down but the pandemic is not yet over. “It is a humble request to all the devotees to take precaution to protect the community from the virus. Following the personal efforts of Kejriwal, the lieutenant governor (LG) was compelled to give permission to organise Chhath Puja in public. Kejriwal had written a letter to the LG on October 14, demanding permission to organise Chhath Puja,” he said.On September 30, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) banned Chhath Puja celebrations in public, even as it allowed Durga Puja and Dussehra with restrictions. This led to protests by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Sisodia wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on October 12, urging the Centre to issue guidelines for the Chhath festival as soon as possible following consultation with health experts.He wrote that Chhath is celebrated especially by “people from Purvanchal” with “deep faith and sacrifice.” “It is also celebrated very dedicatedly in Delhi every year. This year too Purvanchali people are eagerly awaiting celebrations of Chhath with their families and dear ones,” he added.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wrote to the LG, who is the DDMA chairperson, to allow members of the Purvanchali community to celebrate Chhath with Covid protocols.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on October 28 allowed the celebration of Chhath Puja in public at designated places with Covid-19 protocols in place. It directed, however, that celebrations should not be held along the river banks.In the last decade, Chhath has become one of the major festivals in Delhi with the Purvanchalis -- people belonging to areas known as the Purvanchal -- accounting for over one-third of Delhi’s population of around 20 million, according to government estimates and migration data from Census 2011.Earlier on November 5, the Delhi government declared November 10 as a public holiday this year on the account of Chhath Puja.The festival began Monday with the ‘Nahai Khai’ ritual and will conclude on November 11 with devotees performing ‘Usha Arghya’ (prayers to the rising sun). The main celebration is on November 10 when devotees will offer ‘argha’ to Sun god.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/800-ghats-set-up-in-delhi-for-chhath-puja-says-manish-sisodia-101636395001065.html
09-11-2021||Bhopal||3 children dead as fire breaks out at paediatric ward in Bhopal hospital||At least three children died after a fire broke out at the children's ward at Kamla Nehru Hospital in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. Several patients are feared stuck inside the building. Fire brigade reached the spot and rescue operations are underway.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan confirmed the deaths and said it was unfortunate to lose three children, who were already serious and admitted at the critical ward of the hospital.“The incident of fire in the child ward of Kamla Nehru Hospital, Bhopal is sad. The rescue operation was held swiftly. A high level inquiry has been ordered into the incident. The probe will be done by ACS Public Health and Medical Education Mohammad Suleman,” the chief minister said."The fire was brought under control, but unfortunately the three children who were already seriously ill could not be saved. The untimely departure of children from the world is an unbearable pain. I pray to God for the peace of the departed souls. My deepest condolences to the families of these children. Those who have been injured in the incident, get a speedy recovery, this is my wish," he added.Meanwhile, parents of children admitted to the hospital kept waiting for information. "We have no information of our children, it's been 3-4 hours," parents who were waiting outside the Kamla Nehru Hospital told news agency ANI. State health and education minister Vishvas Sarang reached the spot to take stock of the incident.Former chief minister Kamal Nath also condemned the incident terming it “very sad” and urged the government to make necessary arrangements and expedite the rescue and relief work. “The families of the admitted children are suffering,” he said. Nath also asked the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government to make arrangements for the treatment of admitted children at other hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/fire-breaks-out-at-children-s-ward-in-bhopal-hospital-many-feared-trapped-101636392936493.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Few attend in-person lessons as schools reopen after break in Delhi||A number of private schools reopened on Monday for students below Class 9 for the first time in nearly 19 months but attendance remained low as several parents were wary of sending their children to attend offline sessions. While the Delhi government had permitted schools in the national capital to restart physical sessions for students in all classes from November 1, many schools put off the reopening on account of Diwali break.Laksh Vir Sehgal, principal of Bal Bharati Public School on Ganga Ram Hospital Marg, said that a large number of students had not turned up on the first day of school reopening. “We had received consent from around 35% parents but for the first day, the attendance was less. Only around 15-20% of children were present today,” said Sehgal. He added that the attendance was expected to improve in the coming days since more children were likely to join after the Chhath festival that falls on Wednesday. “The attendance was less possibly because it’s only the first day of reopening. Another festival is also coming up on November 10 due to which students might have stayed away. Another reason could be that we have not been able to provide a transport facility as of now,” said Sehgal. The school is collecting fresh details from students and will be redoing routes based on the strength of students interested in availing the bus facility. The school is following a blended learning model and will utilise the first few days to familiarise students with their teachers and fellow classmates. “Students have come to the school after so long. Some of them will be meeting their teachers in person for the first time. The focus will be on interactions so that teachers can know students better and understand their learning gaps. If there are any deficiencies, we will work towards fulfilling them,” said Sehgal. Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive School Conference (NPSC) which has 122 Delhi schools under its umbrella, including Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, Bal Bharati Public School, Springdales School, Sanskriti School, Delhi Public Schools, Ahlcon International School, and Amity International School, said that a number of schools had reopened for children in all classes. “Children are back in schools after a long time and were visibly happy to meet their teachers and friends. We are all very happy to have our students back. In my school, we saw around 50% students in all grades including nursery,” said Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka. The school conducted activities such as music, dance, and yoga to welcome students. A set of parents from each class was also called to visit the school and survey the premises. Sanya Mehta, a Class 4 student at the school, said that she had been eagerly waiting to visit the school for the past one and a half years and was happy to meet her friends on Monday. “Though around 10-15 students had come today, I had a lot of fun. I met my old friends and made a new one as well. We only took part in activities and I felt very happy,” said nine-year-old Mehta, who will be visiting school once a week, as per the roster created by the school for different sections. Nidhi Mehta, whose daughter went to school on Monday for the first time since the pandemic started, said that she was slightly hesitant though her daughter was keen on going to school. Mehta said that she was satisfied with the implementation of Covid protocols at the school. “My daughter was persistent and since transportation was not a problem for us, we were able to send her to school,” said Mehta. She said that other parents might have been reluctant in sending children to school due to concerns around transportation. Schools that did not reopen today will be doing so gradually in the coming week.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said that her school will reopen for in-person classes on Thursday after the Chhath festival. Some schools, that are yet to reopen for children in younger grades, are still continuing with practical exams for students in classes 9 to 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/few-attend-in-person-lessons-as-schools-reopen-after-break-in-delhi-101636394821388.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Pollution-check measures amped up in Delhi as AQI improves marginally||The authorities on Monday upgraded pollution control measures in Delhi on Monday and introduced differential rates for public transport to encourage off-peak travel mandated under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) as Capital’s air was recorded in the very poor zone after remaining severe for three consecutive days.The steps that also include closure of brick kilns and optimising power generation by gas-based plants are mandated under the Grap when air quality turns severe (when AQI value is more than 400 or ambient PM2.5 concentration 250 microgram per cubic metre of air).The sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM) met on Monday, and decided to upgrade the Grap measures from the current steps that were being enforced under the ‘very poor’ air category.Delhi’s air quality plunged into the severe category on November 5, a day after Diwali, with an AQI of 462 -- the highest for a day after Diwali since the records of AQI are being maintained. Scientists blamed blatant violations of the ban on bursting of firecrackers and the increase in the number of farm fires for the sudden spike in air pollution. On Saturday, Delhi reported an AQI of 437 and that of 428 on Sunday, when the share of the stubble fires reached the season’s highest at 48%.On Monday, the air improved a bit at AQI of 390 with wind speeds picking up and the share of stubble fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution dipping to 30%, according to CPCB and Safar data.VK Soni, part of the sub-committee on Grap, said wind direction is expected to remain northwesterly over the next five days with local wind speed ranging between 6-10 km/hr. But, the share of stubble burning will remain high during this period. “Wind speeds will be between 6-10 km/hr over the next five days, but will become calm at night, causing air quality to decline. The air quality will fluctuate between the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category and the ‘severe’ category over these next five days,” said Soni.Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB and chairperson of the sub-committee, said frequency of mechanized sweeping and road cleaning needed to be increased during this period. “The directions issued include the need to identify roads with high dust generation. We have also asked the NCR states to disseminate information on air pollution so that citizens can take steps to reduce air pollution,” he said.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) did not comment on the latest directions to introduce differential rates.Forecasting agencies said while wind speed over Delhi remained around 10 km/hr on Monday, there was a drop in the speed of winds blowing from Punjab and Haryana towards Delhi, thereby reducing the contribution of farm fires to 30%. In contrast, the contribution of farm fires was 48% on Sunday, the highest so far this winter season.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a government forecasting body, around 4,189 fires were recorded in the northern plains on Sunday as compared to 5,430 fires on Monday. However, slow ‘transport level’ winds are playing a role in the reduction in AQI, the agency said.“Parameters have largely remained the same, but wind speed at the higher-elevation – which transports pollutants from Punjab and Haryana towards Delhi, is slow and has reduced the impact of stubble burning. If wind speed is slow, these pollutants are unable to complete the journey to Delhi and disperse during the journey,” said Gufran Beig, founder and project director at Safar.In its daily forecast, Safar said that the air quality in the national capital may improve slightly in the next 24 hours, but will still remain in the ‘very poor’ category.R.K Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said visibility ranged from 1000 to 1800 metres at both Palam and Safdarjung, with wind speed remaining around 8-10 km/hr during the day. “Like Sunday, visibility remained similar, but the minimum temperature was just 13.6 degrees Celsius. Local wind speed will remain in a similar range, with north-westerly winds continuing to prevail over the next 48 hours,” he said.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 13.6 degrees Celsius, and the maximum temperature was recorded at 29.2 degrees Celsius.Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory says the problem is not limited to Delhi, but the entire Indo-Gangetic Plain region, which needs to be treated as one large air-shed. “Emissions can travel a long range and distance if wind speed and wind direction are ideal. Satellite data will show a thick haze over not just Delhi NCR, but it spreads across the entire Indo-Gangetic Plain region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollutioncheck-measures-amped-up-in-delhi-as-aqi-improves-marginally-101636394102220.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 28-year-old raped, assaulted in Dwarka hotel; manager held||A 28-year-old woman was raped and assaulted allegedly by a man who reportedly held her captive in a hotel room in Dwarka after taking her there on the pretext of offering her a job.The incident happened on Saturday and police had to break the glass door at the hotel entrance to rescue the woman who was locked up in the room by the accused before fleeing. Police said the woman suffered injuries to her face in the assault and may even lose her eyesight.Police have arrested the hotel manager for facilitating the crime and not rescuing the woman despite hearing her screams for help from the balcony of the room she was locked in, said senior police officers associated with the case.“The owner and other staffers of the hotel are absconding. Our teams are conducting raids to nab them as well as the prime suspect, identified as Ankit Sehrawat,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said that on Saturday, the Dwarka South police station received a call from a woman who alleged that she had suffered injuries to her eye after being assaulted by a man. “One head constable contacted the woman and she shared her live location with him after informing him that she was in some hotel. The head constable reached the hotel in Sector-9 and found the main entrance of the hotel, a glass door, locked and chained from inside. The woman was screaming for help in the balcony of the hotel’s second floor,” said an officer.When nobody opened the gate, police said the head constable broke the glass door using a stone and subsequently also broke open the door on the second-floor room to rescue the woman.Police said the injured woman was admitted to a hospital and her statement was recorded. In her complaint, the woman alleged that Sehrawat had contacted her on the pretext of providing her a job. She met him around 8pm on Saturday after which he took her to the hotel in Dwarka Sector 9 on a bike.“She initially refused to enter the hotel but Sehrawat assured her that he knows everyone in the hotel.. Sehrawat took her to a room and forced her to drink alcohol. He raped the woman and even tried to strangle her. When she resisted, he injured her face and eye by hitting with an iron bracelet that he was wearing. He locked her inside the room and fled from the back door after noticing the police presence at the main entrance,” said an officer, quoting the woman’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi28yearold-raped-assaulted-in-dwarka-hotel-manager-held-101636393744190.html
09-11-2021||Delhi||Chhath Puja: 2 BJP MPs visit Yamuna as political slugfest intensifies||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stepped up attack on the ruling Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi over the Chhath Puja celebrations as two party MPs visited Yamuna ghats on Monday and criticised the state government for “prohibiting” prayers along the river banks even as deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced 800 spots have been prepared for the devotees besides other arrangements for the biggest festival of the Purvanchalis. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), headed by Delhi lieutenant governor, on September 30 barred the festival in public places. However, the agency revised the order on October 28, and allowed the celebrations but stated that puja should not be observed along the river banks. West Delhi MP Parvesh Verma and Northeast Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari visited various ghats on Monday to assess the situation and plan for arrangements for the festival. Referring to the high level of pollutants in the river, the two MPs said that the Kejriwal government stands exposed on its false promise of “cleaning the river”. Tiwari, who visited the ghats at Kalindi Kunj and Sonia Vihar on Monday, said the Supreme Court should take suo motu cognisance of the situation, pointing to the thick layer of toxic foam in the river at Kalindi Kunj.Verma, the MP from West Delhi, performed puja at the ITO ghat on Monday and said all necessary arrangements will be made for the puja on the ghat on November 10, despite DDMA’s order. “The government should have put forward a proposal assuring the DDMA that all necessary arrangements, including Covid related protocols, will be put in place at the ghats. Earlier too, the government remained silent on the ban on Chhath puja celebrations. It is only after BJP raised the issue that the CM wrote to the LG,” said Verma. He added, “The CM should have got the entire Delhi administration to make elaborate arrangements for the festival. He doesn’t want people to celebrate this festival. But now we will make arrangements at the ITO ghat for the puja on November 10.” Northeast Delhi MP Tiwari, BJP’s Purvanchal face, has been vocal against the DDMA’s initial ban on Chhath puja in September, claiming that the festival was singled out even as Durga puja and Dussehra celebrations were allowed in the Capital. He has held protests against the ban. With municipal elections scheduled next year, the BJP is trying to woo the community that played an important role in AAP’s victory in assembly elections in 2015 and 2020. “Delhiites are breathing poisonous air and the water is polluted too. This is what Kejriwal has given in return to people for their support in assembly elections. They are not just playing with religious sentiments of people, but with people’s lives too… The permission for Chhath puja was denied at the banks of Yamuna as this would have exposed the government,” said Tiwari, adding that the puja should be organised at ghats, like in Sonia Vihar, where the water is clean. Chhath Puja is a community festival that involves worshipping the Sun and taking dip in a water body. It is popular among people from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand -- collectively called the Purvanchal region. People from these states form more than one-third of Delhi’s current population of around 20 million, according to government estimates and migration data from Census 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chhath-puja-2-bjp-mps-visit-yamuna-as-political-slugfest-intensifies-101636393441163.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||Fisherman killed: Body to reach Palghar on Tuesday||The body of the fisherman who was allegedly killed by Pakistan Navy’s marine commandos on Saturday afternoon at the maritime boundary between the two countries near Okha in Gujarat’s Dwarka district, left from Jamnagar on late Monday afternoon. The body is expected to reach Vadrai village in Palghar on Tuesday dawn.Manendra Arekar, vice-president of Maharashtra Machimar Kriti Samiti, who is coordinating the movement, said, “There was a delay in the post-mortem procedure of the 32-year-old victim Shidhar Chamre. After the process was completed, the body left for Palghar in an ambulance.”“We will conduct the funeral at the local crematorium on Tuesday dawn, as soon as the hearse reaches here,” said Arekar.Meanwhile, the villagers of Vadrai and Tembhi on Monday observed a bandh to protest the firing at Chamre who was killed and injuring Dilip Tandel, pilot of the trawler Jalpari. Tandel is undergoing treatment.All shops and establishments were closed in Vadrai and Tembhi. Banners were placed at strategic points to protest the firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fisherman-killed-body-to-reach-palghar-on-tuesday-villagers-observe-bandh-to-protest-firing-101636391640516.html
09-11-2021||Mumbai||PM lays foundation stone for road projects to boost connectivity in Maharashtra||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Monday virtually laid the foundation stone and various road projects in a bid to boost the pilgrimage in Maharashtra’s Pandharpur. The projects are designed to facilitate pilgrims’ journey to Pandharpur, a town associated with Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshawar.The foundation stone was laid for the 221-km Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi Marg between Diveghat and Mohol, and 130km Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg from Patas to Tondale – Bondale. The corridor is popularly known as Pandharpur Wari or the pilgrimage route. The project is implemented by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government used the event to score a point over the ruling dispensation in Maharashtra, as it invited the Union minister Bhagwat Karad, Bharati Pawar, Narayan Rane, and leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, who was present in person, while others were virtually present. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari participated in the function virtually.The ministry of road transport and highways, which is headed by Nitin Gadkari, had invited saints and seers associated with Pandharpur’s famous annual ‘waris’ or pilgrimage.PM Modi, during his 38-minute speech, spoke about the Hindu culture, Lord Vitthal, and about saints Tukaram and Dynaeshwar. PM’s speech was also peppered with Sanskrit slokas and a few lines from Marathi literature.As per the project, around 221km of Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi Marg from Diveghat to Mohol and around 130km of Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg from Patas to Tondale–Bondale, will be four-laned with dedicated walkways for palkhi (palanquin) on either side, at estimated costs of more than ₹6,690 crore and around ₹4400 crore, respectively.Dedicated walkways for palkhi will be constructed on either side of these national highways, providing hassle-free and safe passage to devotees. The construction of Sreesanth Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi Marg will be done in five phases and the construction of Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg will be completed in three phases.During the event, the Prime Minister also dedicated to the nation more than 223km of completed and upgraded road projects, constructed with an estimated cost of over ₹1,180 crore at different National Highways for boosting connectivity to Pandharpur. These projects include Mhaswad-Piliv-Pandharpur (NH 548E), Kurduwadi-Pandharpur (NH 965C), Pandharpur-Sangola (NH 965C), Tembhurni-Pandharpur section of NH 561A and Pandharpur-Mangalwedha-Umadi section of NH 561A.Chief minister said that Gadkari’s expectation from the state government will be fulfilled. He said that it is the collective responsibility of both governments to develop the area. “It is the responsibility of all of us to develop the Palkhi Marg. It is our responsibility to remove obstacles in the way of our warkaris (pilgrims) irrespective of wind or rain. On this occasion, I would like to assure you that Maharashtra is with you every step of the way,” Thackeray said.Modi asked the villagers to plant trees on the pathway of the new highway wherein drinking water should be arranged. He also sought a promise from the locals that in the future Pandharpur will be the country’s cleanest pilgrimage destination.PM said that these projects will lead to better connectivity with the region. He paid his respect to the devotees, saints and Lord Vitthal for their blessings for the projects. He said that faith in Lord Vitthal remained unwavering throughout the turmoils of history. Modi said that the sentiments of his poll slogan, ‘Sabka saath-sabka vikas-sabka vishwas’ is the spirit of Lord Vitthal’s court which is open to all.“Even today, this yatra is one of the world’s oldest mass movements and is seen as a people’s movement, which teaches us that there may be different paths, different methods and ideas, but we have the same goal.” “In the end, all sects are ‘Bhagwat Panth, It is a symbol of India’s eternal knowledge that does not bind our faith, but liberates,” Modi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-lays-foundation-stone-launched-road-projects-to-boost-connectivity-on-pandharpur-wari-route-101636383479164.html
09-11-2021||Other||Grenade hurled at CIA office in SBS Nagar, no one hurt||JALANDHAR A low-intensity grenade exploded on the premises of Punjab Police’s Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) office in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. However, no one was hurt in the incident, people familiar with the development said on Monday. The CIA wing office is located on the SBS Nagar-Jalandhar road, around 2.5-km from the district administration complex in the city. After the blast, the SBS Nagar has been put on a high alert and security beefed up. SBS Nagar senior superintendent of police Kanwardeep Kaur confirmed the development, adding that things will be clear soon as the investigations are on. People familiar with the development said it was probably a China-made low-intensity grenade and thrown from the periphery. It dropped at the office’s outer gallery, they said, adding counterintelligence officials and forensic experts were on the spot since Monday morning to collect evidence. The FIR registered on the statement constable Jagtar Singh, who, along with four others, was on the night duty, says the blast occurred near a water cooler near the head clerk’s (munshi) office. “We came out and found the window glass of head clerk’s office broken and water cooler lying at a distance from where it was fixed,” Jagtar told the police. The FIR states that the cops initially believed that the compressor of the water cooler must have exploded, but in the morning, when shrapnel were found in the vicinity, senior police officials were informed. Officials familiar with the investigation said CCTV camera footage and call details were being scanned. Police have registered a case against unidentified people under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 427 and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 3, 4 and 5 section of Explosive Substances Act at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police station (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/grenade-hurled-at-cia-office-in-sbs-nagar-no-one-hurt-101636380423960.html
09-11-2021||Other||Cost of electric vehicles will drop, will be on par with petrol in 2 yrs||Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said the cost of electric vehicles (EV) in India will drop to the level of petrol vehicles in the next two years with the Indian government offering production-linked incentives and planning the installation of EV charging points at fuel stations and major highways of the country.This is significant because by 2030, India has set a target of 30% EV sales penetration for private cars, 70% for commercial vehicles, 40% for buses and 80% for two and three-wheelers.At present, only about two to three e-car variants cost below ₹15 lakh in the country. The cost of two-wheelers and three-wheelers in the electric segment has already almost come at par with the petrol variants after factoring in the subsidies.Speaking at a webinar on accelerating the phasing out of coal and switching to electric vehicles on Sunday, the Union minister said the government is also focusing on ensuring that EV charging stations get their electricity from renewable sources. He added that the government will also soon launch the country’s fully electric tractor. This comes months after Gadkari introduced the country’s first-ever tractor run on CNG.“Within two years, the cost of EVs will come down to a level that will be at par with their petrol variants. Already GST is only 5% on EVs and the cost of lithium-ion batteries is also declining. Besides, the government has already framed a policy allowing petrol pumps to set up EV charging stations. In two years, there will be a lot of charging points across India as well,” Gadkari said.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has chalked out a plan to install at least 700 EV charging stations across its major highways in the country by 2023. These will be spread across a range of 40-60kms.Gadkari further said that a potential pilot project is being planned to install an electric highway system in the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway which can be electrified using abundant solar power energy in the region.“There is no benefit in producing coal-based electricity. Our attention is now on renewable sources such as solar, tidal, wind energy and biomass. Domestic EV charging can be fulfilled through rooftop solar system. The average retail electricity charge across the country is as high as ₹7-8 kWh, that of backup power with diesel generator sets is as high as ₹20/kwh. Meanwhile, solar power is less than ₹2/kwh today. So, a rooftop solar system can address the twin problem of high electricity cost and grid reliability,” he said.At present, India has the world’s fourth-largest renewable energy capacity at 145 GW. Gadkari said domestic EV charging through solar PV cells, panel systems at homes, malls, parking lots and offices would make EVs more affordable and adaptable.“Electric mobility is gaining good momentum in the country. There is no artificial push required. The per kilometre cost of petrol-based vehicles is ₹10, that of diesel is ₹7/km, whereas, EVs, it is ₹1/km,” the minister said.The country has seen an increased demand for small battery-operated vehicles such as e-scooters, e-carts, e-autos, e-bicycles in the past two years. Gadkari said India has the potential to become an exporter in these two segments of EVs. Electric two-wheeler and electric car sales have seen a rise of 145% and 190% respectively when compared to the pre-covid period....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cost-of-electric-vehicles-will-be-at-par-with-petrol-variants-in-2-years-gadkari-101636375740433.html
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM’s son-in-law appointed addl advocate general||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Monday appointed deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s son-in-law Tarun Vir Singh Lehal as an additional advocate general (AAG). Lehal is one of the five lawyers roped in by the state government for the advocate general’s office through a notification issued by the department of home affairs and justice on Monday.The government also appointed advocates Mukesh Chander Berry as AAG, Sumeet Mahajan as senior additional advocate general, Aadil Singh Boparai as additional advocate general, and Rehatbir Singh Maan as deputy advocate general. “These appointments shall come into force with immediate effect,” reads the government order.Jobs to relatives of Punjab ministers, legislators and senior Congress leaders have time and again created uproar in the state. In June this year, when the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government had decided to appoint the sons of Ludhiana North Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey and Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa as naib tehsildar and inspector, respectively, there was widespread criticism, especially from the opposition parties. In September, Randhawa had also raised questions over the Amarinder-led cabinet’s move to appoint then revenue minister Gurpreet Kangar’s son-in-law as an inspector in the excise and taxation department. “Those who deserve should get their due. But I feel before giving jobs to the kin of ministers, we should prefer general candidates. We are public representatives and should first think about the public and not our own kids. Yes, the boy who has been given job deserved this because his father had died, but our government should have extended this benefit at the time he had applied for the job,” Randhawa had said.The deputy chief minister couldn’t be reached for comment. However, a few TV news channels quoted him justifying the appointment, terming it “made on the recommendation of the advocate general and well within the legal framework”. Lehal, when contacted, said the appointment of law officers was the prerogative of the advocate general and “only he (AG) can comment on my selection”. “I am in practice for 13 years and the number of cases I have fought is also in public domain. One can check my profile from the high court website. What if I am the son-in-law of a minister?” said Lehal.In 2017, the Capt Amarinder-led dispensation had appointed former chief minister late Beant Singh’s grandson and brother of Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu as DSP in the Punjab Police.AAP, SAD condemn moveAam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal criticised the government over Lehal’s appointment as the AAG.AAP’s co-incharge for Punjab Raghav Chadha said the Congress is fulfilling its principal poll promise of ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ with some modifications. “Jobs are going to family members of Congress ministers and MLAs. Latest beneficiary is deputy CM’s son-in-law. CM Channi is essentially carrying forward the Captian’s legacy,” he said. Senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia also condemned the Congress government, saying Ghar Ghar Naukri scheme was applicable only to the sons and relatives of Congress ministers and legislators. “Now it is deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s turn to take advantage of the VIP quota created by the Congress government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deputy-cm-s-son-in-law-appointed-addl-advocate-general-101636368537657.html
09-11-2021||Other||Jalandhar police bust immigration racket; announce ₹1 lakh reward for accused||Jalandhar commissionerate police have unearthed a multi-crore immigration and human trafficking fraud, a department press release stated. On Saturday, police announced a reward of ₹ 1 lakh for credible information on Himansh Verma, managing director, Navrattan Group of companies, with offices in Mumbai, Chandigarh and other cities; Verma has been booked for cheating and criminal conspiracy, along with his accomplices, suspected to be high-profile singers and embassy officials of many countries. Verma is absconding. “During investigation, it has come to the fore that Himansh Verma created the Navrattan Group of companies as a front for his illegal business of sending people abroad,” the police added. According to the investigation conducted to date in the case registered at Navi Baradari police station, Verma started by claiming that his company was in the process of signing contracts worth thousands of crores for Green Cement with state governments and gain proximity to high-profile people. A senior police official, seeking anonymity, claimed he used names of singers to claim he sent their troupes abroad and could help others gain visas on this pretext. “His Mumbai office was in the same building as that of a visa office of Hungary in Mumbai and he used his proximity with its officials to obtain visas for people at exorbitant rates,” said the police official, adding that he lured people further by claiming that he would eventually send them to America through Mexico. He was responsible for sending hundreds of people to Hungary with a promise to send them to America through Mexico. Many of these people have reportedly been missing and it is suspected that they have been victims of this Human trafficking racket. A senior official added that the role of singers is under investigation and the racket may turn out to be a fraud worth hundreds of crores. The role of the officials of the Hungarian Embassy is also being investigated. Verma also claimed to be close to a lawyer in Chandigarh. “Verma is also one of the accused in a bank scam involving crores of rupees and his house in Sector 8, Chandigarh, has also been attached by the enforcement directorate. It is suspected that Verma may be involved in other frauds investigated,” the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jalandhar-police-bust-immigration-racket-announces-rs-1-lakh-award-for-accused-101636229910007.html
