11-11-2021||Noida||At 21, Gautam Budh Nagar has highest number of active Covid-19 cases in UP||Till Thursday, Gautam Budh Nagar had the maximum active Covid-19 cases (21) in Uttar Pradesh, shows government data. In November alone, 23 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district. Officials from the district health department said there was nothing to worry about since none of the cases are critical and all of them are in home isolation. “All the active patients are asymptomatic and under home-isolation. None of them are children; the youngest Covid-19 patient is 26-years-old,” said a senior official from the health department. On November 7, Gautam Budh Nagar and Lucknow were among the districts in the state having the maximum active Covid cases (15). However, the next day (November 8), the tally of active cases in Lucknow dropped to 14 while Gautam Budh Nagar’s tally rose to 16--the highest in the state. Since the last three days, the district has been at the top in terms of number of active cases in the state . According to district magistrate Suhas L Y, the situation is not alarming. It indicates that the district is conducting tests and detecting Covid-19 cases. “Gautam Budh Nagar is an urban district; residents here are aware about their health and Covid testing. None of the cases detected needed hospitalization; all of them are under home isolation, which is a positive sign. It is good that the district is testing and detecting Covid-19 cases and we hope to continue doing so,” said Suhas. Till November 11, Gautam Budh Nagar reported total 63,360 cases of Covid-19. On October 13, a 67-year-old resident of Sector 50 in Noida succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital. Prior to that, the last fatality due to Covid was reported four months ago on June 13 Meanwhile, the district reported seven new cases of dengue in the last 24 hours ending on Thursday evening. “The cumulative tally of dengue cases in the district now stands at 551, of which 32 patients are currently under treatment. The number of new cases as well as active cases is gradually declining,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gauatm Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-21-gautam-budh-nagar-has-highest-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-in-up-101636655139817.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Shivpal: Ready for alliance with SP to stop BJP||Gorakhpur: Shivpal Yadav, national president of Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party and estranged uncle of former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, said here on Thursday that he was ready for an alliance with the SP to stop the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from coming to power again, but on his conditions. “To stop the BJP, we are ready to enter into alliance with the SP but with the condition that our party leaders would also get tickets. If this goes well with him (Akhilesh), we will come forward,”said Shivpal at a press conference after a brief halt at a hotel here during his Parivartan Rath Yatra. Shivpal, who parted ways with the SP to form Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party following differences with Akhilesh just before the 2017 elections, attacked the BJP governments at the centre and in the state over a number of issues, including lawlessness, inflation, unemployment and corruption but refrained from taking names of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Sharing his party’s poll agenda, he promised free power up to 300 units (on the lines of the Delhi government) , job to one person from each family and interest-free loan of ₹5 lakh for start-ups . On being asked if he had any plan to join the BJP, Shivpal said, “When I didn’t join this party till now, there is no question of joining it in the near future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shivpal-ready-for-alliance-with-sp-to-stop-bjp-101636654240472.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Wild tusker kills a youth in Dudhwa||A 21-year-old youth Mangat Singh was killed allegedly by a wild tusker in north Nighasan and Belrayan range areas of Dudhwa buffer zone on Thursday. The tusker reportedly attacked the youth while he was passing through agricultural fields near Dalrajpur under Singahi police limits on his bike, officials said. Dr. Anil Kumar Patel, deputy director, Dudhwa buffer zone confirmed the incident. “As per recently revised disaster management act, which now covers man-animal conflicts, compensation to the aggrieved family would be provided,” Dr Patel said adding that the incident took place close to Dudhwa and Katarniaghat forest areas.“Movement of big cats and wild elephants from Nepal here is a routine feature,” Dr Patel said. He advised the villagers to remain cautious and to not disturb wild tuskers during daytime by making noise or busting crackers as this might make the animal become more aggressive.A senior forest official said the behavior of the wild tuskers was unpredictable.
11-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 205 new Covid cases, 3 deaths in 24 hours||As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 205 fresh Covid positive cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours. Two deaths were reported from Pune rural and one from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). PMC has so far reported 521,580 Covid cases and 9,203 deaths till Thursday. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 269,083 cases so far and 3,503 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 366,347 cases and 6,924 deaths due to the virus. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,157,010 Covid cases. Of this, 1,134,097 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,979 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 2,934 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 1,016 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,464,948 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.64%. Across Maharashtra, 997 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 28 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 63,630,632 laboratory samples, 6,621,420 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 10.41% of patients till Thursday. Currently, 110,264 people are in home quarantine and 876 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-205-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-24-hours-101636654119965.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Dudhwa National Park to open for tourists from November 15||The world-renowned Dudhwa National Park (DNP) is set to open for tourism on November 15.The park was initially scheduled to open from November 1, however, the untimely heavy rains, unprecedented discharge of 533000 cusecs water into Sharda river from Banbasa barrage and flooded Mohana and Suheli rivers passing through Dudhwa National Park disturbed the schedule.The floods and rains left all the forest ranges of DNP heavily water-logged and park routes damaged due to which authorities deferred the opening of tourist season from November 1 till the situations improved.Field director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) Sanjay Kumar Pathak said, “As per government directives, the Dudhwa National Park would now be open for tourists from November 15.”However, he added that due to heavy water-logging still prevailing in Sathiyana, the area would not be allowed for tourist activities till further instructions.“Also, the tourists wishing to visit rhino area in south Sunaripur range would have to wait for a few days more as the rhino area is still swampy and not fit for elephant movements,” he added.Pathak said, “Elderly persons over 60 years of age would have to produce their vaccination certificates on entering the Dudhwa National park auspices while other tourists between 18 to 60 years of age may be required to produce their vaccination certificates on demand.”He further added, “Every tourist must have to follow Covid protocols while visiting the park. Dudhwa is ready to greet all its visitors with all its wild glory, nature’s treasure and rich flora and fauna.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dudhwa-national-park-to-open-for-tourists-from-november-15-101636653819802.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Covid vax: Prayagraj women outnumber men for third month in a row||Women in the district continue to outnumber men for the third successive month in taking Covid vaccine jabs. Like in September and October, the first week of November again witnessed impressive participation of women in getting the vaccination despite Diwali and Chhath festivals. Of the 77,760 doses administered between November 1 and November 8, as many as 40,118 women took the jabs while the number of men getting vaccinated remained confined to 37,614. The count of transgender taking the vaccine stood at 28, said district health officials.In October, of the total 8,41,889 doses given, as many as 4,40,094 recipients were women while 4,01,428 doses were received by men. The number of transgenders stood at 367 in October, they added.However, the vaccination drive failed to break the record of September when as a total 9,39,300 eligible individuals, including 4,78,740 women, 4,60,002 men and 558 transgenders, were administered Covid vaccine jabs.Moreover, over 36,71,409 lakh jabs have already been administered in the district to the beneficiaries of all age groups above 18 till November 8. The recipients include 17,13,705 women, 19,56,060 men besides 1,644 transgenders.District health department officials have set a target of administering anti-Covid vaccines to around 45.16 lakh beneficiaries, including 33 lakh recipients aged between 18 and 44 years and 12.10 lakh beneficiaries aged over 45 years at the earliest. Officials said they were making efforts to intensify vaccination in every nook and corner of the district. Additional chief medical officer and district immunisation officer Dr Teerath Lal said over 61% of targeted recipients were given at least first dose while 19.66 % of targeted recipients had been fully vaccinated till now.“The department is now focusing on rural areas to cover all eligible recipients this month,” he added. Dr Lal further said they were identifying pockets in rural areas where vaccination was low and special teams would be deputed to cover the eligible recipients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vax-prayagraj-women-outnumber-men-for-third-month-in-a-row-101636653519991.html
11-11-2021||Pune||Pune city temperature continue to drop: 10.9 degrees Celsius on Thursday||PUNE: Since November 7, Pune has seen a drastic drop in minimum temperatures. While the minimum temperature at Shivajinagar on November 7 was 20.6 degrees Celsius, Thursday saw a further decline to 10.9 degree Celsius reporting the coldest day of the season so far. With this, Pune became the coldest city in the state for the second time this week, according to the weather department.On Thursday, Pashan reported a minimum temperature of 11.5 degree Celsius; Lohegaon 13.9 degree Celsius; Chinchwad and Lavale 17 degree Celsius; and Magarpatta 17.8 degree Celsius. Night temperature is likely to increase from November 13, as per officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).On the dip in temperature, Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that the northern winds penetrating the state have resulted in a drop in temperature. “Earlier, the winds were northerly, then the wind pattern was north-eastern and then the wind pattern changed to easterly. And cooler winds from the north have resulted in a gradual drop in night temperature not just in Pune city but across the state. There is also less moisture in the air as of now and no cloudy weather. Because of this, heat escapes and so, the temperature has dropped,” Kashyapi said. In the next few days, some parts of the state may witness rainfall.“As there is an incursion of moisture in the state, beginning November 12, we have issued rainfall alerts for various parts. And so with more moisture, the temperature may also see a rise in the next few days,” he said. The weather department has forecast light rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning in parts of the city till November 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-temperature-continue-to-drop-10-9-degrees-celsius-on-thursday-101636653220374.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Redrawing ward boundaries a herculean task before BMC to avoid delay in holding elections||A day after Maharashtra cabinet’s decision to increase Mumbai civic body’s strength from 227 to 236 members, the State Election Commission (SEC) said a delay in redrawing ward boundaries may result in deferment of elections slated for early 2022. With less than three months to the BMC elections, civic authorities on Thursday said electoral wards are most likely to increase in Mumbai’s suburbs, bases on population density. The civic body’s election department has been tasked with redrawing the boundaries. BMC said it will divide Mumbai’s population with 236 to determine the population requirement per ward before boundaries are redrawn. A plus or minus 10% difference in this figure will be accepted as the number of voters per ward. If any present electoral ward is beyond the above figure, geographical parts of it will be extracted to add to a new ward. This will likely have a ripple effect on all or neighbouring electoral wards.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner and the officer in-charge of preparations for the upcoming elections, said, “After we have determined how many voters per ward is feasible, we might find that the population density of some existing wards is within this limit. In such a case, it may not require any change. If any ward has a population exceeding this limit, we will extract some areas from the ward to create new electoral wards. The process will start soon.”Civic authorities said this process will not delay the elections, and is likely to be completed within the stipulated time. An SEC officer said, “To hold the elections in time, we will have to announce them between January 1 and 10. If demarcation notification is issued by end of November and the suggestion/objections invited in two weeks after that, we could still hold the elections as per the schedule. It is now up to the BMC to complete the process in the stipulated time. All other municipal corporations have begun the process and are expected to complete it within the deadline.” The BMC currently has 227 elected representatives (called corporators) across 24 administrative wards formed on the basis of the 2011 census. The 2021 census was delayed on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. A delimitation process is undertaken to ensure that all electoral wards largely have the same amount of population.Once the boundaries for 236 wards are prepared, the data will be sent to SEC, which will then invite suggestions and objections.However, corporators are concerned at the time available for election campaigns. Prabhakar Shinde, BJP leader in BMC said, “This is a clear indication that Shiv Sena is afraid of losing its hold over the civic body, as such an impactful decision has been taken on such short notice. Voters will also be confused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/redrawing-ward-boundaries-a-herculean-task-before-bmc-to-avoid-delay-in-holding-elections-101636653159711.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Three peddlers held, 100kg poppy husk seized||Ludhiana police on Thursday claimed to have busted a drug supply gang with the arrest of three persons, one of whom is a civil engineering diploma holder. In two separate cases, the police have recovered 100kg poppy from their possession which they had concealed in a custom-made compartment in trucks. The arrested accused are Amanjot Singh, 25, of Deharka in Jagraon; Ravinder Singh, 19, of Kapure village and Mandeep Singh, 38, of Jalalabad village in Moga district. Amanjot is a civil engineering diploma holder. Ludhiana police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a team of the CIA staff-1 had stopped a truck near Bilga T-point following a tip-off and arrested Ravinder and Mandeep while seizing 40kg poppy husk hidden in a tool box. A case under sections 15, 25, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against them at the Sahnewal police station, he added. He further said that another team of CIA staff-1 arrested Amanjot Singh, from whom 60kg poppy husk was recovered, which was also hidden in a toolbox. An FIR under similar charges has been registered against him. Amanjot is also the owner of this truck, the police chief said. Bhullar said Mandeep had been driving trucks for the past 15 years. Ravinder Singh is his cousin, he added. Mandeep and Amanjot used to smuggle poppy husk from Jharkhand during their routine travels to the state. They were selling the contraband at ₹4,500/kg here after purchasing it at ₹2,200 from Jharkhand. The police commissioner further said that more important information was expected to be extracted from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-three-peddlers-held-100kg-poppy-husk-seized-101636653039715.html
11-11-2021||Pune||ED detains 2 in Pune in ₹7.7-crore Waqf land scam case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday has raided seven places in Pune and one place in Aurangabad in connection with the Pune Waqf Board land scam case. The anti-money laundering agency started raids on Thursday morning after an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) was registered by ED zone-2 office. ED detained two people in connection with the case in Mulshi, Pune. The duo, whose names have been withheld, has been brought to Mumbai for questioning. If their roles are established in the alleged crime, they would be placed under arrest and produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court.The value of the fraudulent deal involving Tabut Inam Endowment Trust is ₹7.7 crore, as per police. Reacting on the development, state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the scam that came to light in Pune is not an isolated case and the state Waqf Board is ready to provide details of 30,000 trusts registered under them, which can be probed by the central agency.Earlier, the Bund Garden police had lodged a first information report (FIR) against Imtiaz Shaikh and Chand Mulani, both of whom were arrested on charges of impersonating the trust’s president and secretary, respectively. Shaikh and Mulani had allegedly submitted a forged document of the state Waqf Board, showing its consent to their appointment, after which the collector’s office released an amount of money to them instead of the trust members. The FIR stated that the trust, which is registered with the Waqf Board, owns eight hectares in Maan village of Mulshi taluka. The government was scheduled to give compensation of ₹9.64 crore to the trust and accordingly released ₹7.7 crore. The trust later complained to the Waqf – the Muslim charity board – that it had not received any compensation from the state. During an inquiry by deputy collector (land acquisition), it was revealed that Shaikh and Mulani, had submitted fake documents and claimed the money. The Pune regional officer of Waqf Board, Khusro Khan, lodged a complaint in this regard, following which Shaikh and Mulani were arrested.Malik said the wakf board has registered a total of seven FIRs that includes two in Beed and one each in Thane, Parbhani, Jalna and Aurangabad. In one of the cases in Beed, a deputy collector-rank official was also arrested by the police. ED can take over all the seven cases and start a probe against the 30,000 trusts registered with the board,” the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister said.Malik said that his department has taken a “clean-up drive” ever since he took charge as minister. “Ever since I got the charge [of the minority affairs ministry], a clean-up drive has been started in the department. We are not sparring government officers; a few old members of the Waqf Board will also be brought to justice. We have decided to make the functioning of the board fully transparent by making it digital. The state information technology department has formed a portal which will be started soon,” Malik said in a media briefing on Thursday.“Many news channels are claiming that ED has entered the scene and will reach my residence and that I would be in trouble. I welcome ED if they come after informing in advance. The state government and wakf board are ready to provide all the cooperation to the central agency. But if ED believes that it will be used to defame me, then it is their misunderstanding. Nawab Malik cannot be threatened and my image can’t be tarnished because I have started the fight against the injustice of framing of innocents,” he added. (With inputs from Vijay Kumar Yadav and Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ed-detains-2-in-pune-in-7-7-crore-waqf-land-scam-case-101636652980101.html
11-11-2021||Pune||Rift between Congress and NCP ahead of Pune civic polls?||PUNE Ahead of the Pune municipal elections 2022, the Congress party has suggested the name of a candidate for planning committee elections of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) which was held on Wednesday (November 10). While, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have contested jointly, despite a request from guardian minister Ajit Pawar Congress leaders refused to budge.The election was held for the PMRDA planning committee’s 22 seats.NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap expressed unhappiness over Congress’ decision and said, “NCP and Sena contested it jointly. Despite our request, some Congress leaders refused to be part of the alliance.”A leader from the Congress party on anonymity said that there was discussion among the party leaders and a rift emerged. But some leaders opposed the party move to contest it separately.Congress leaders blamed that the decision had been taken at the corporation level by elected members.One of the senior Congress leaders on anonymity said, “Congress would not get enough seats in the alliance while contesting municipal elections. It should contest separately to keep the party alive in all parts of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rift-between-congress-and-ncp-ahead-of-pune-civic-polls-101636652919933.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah to lay foundation of university in Azamgarh tomorrow||VARANASI Ahead of UP assembly elections, Union home minister Amit Shah will address a meeting of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) assembly in charges and district presidents here on Friday to finalise the strategy. He will also lay the foundation of a university in Azamgarh the next day. Shah, who is arriving here on a two-day visit, will directly reach the Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre from the airport to attend the meeting, according to Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chadra Srivastava. UP election In charge Dharmendra Pradhan, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, UP in charge Radhamohan Singh and UP BJP organisation secretary Sunil Bansal will remain present in the meeting on Friday. Shah will stay overnight in Varanasi and the next morning he will participate in the All-India Official Language Conference scheduled at TFC at 10 am and then leave for Azamgarh by air at 12.15 pm the same day, as per Srivastava. Well-placed sources said that the strategy for the upcoming UP assembly elections 2022 will be finalized during the visit. On November 13, Shah will also lay the foundation stone of a state university in Azamgarh in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said UP BJP executive member Jainath Singh, adding that Shah would also address a public meeting. The university will come up on 52 acres of land acquired for the purpose. Jainath Singh, who is also the BJP’s former Azamgarh district unit president, said preparations for Shah’s visit were complete. After coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP government had assured the local people that a university would be set up in Azamgarh, considered to be a stronghold of the Samajwadi Party. Political analyst Kaushal Kishore Mishra, professor in the department of political science, Banaras Hindu University, said, “People of Azamgarh have been demanding the university since the mid-seventies when Ram Naresh Yadav was the chief minister of UP. Different political parties remained in power in UP over the past four decades, but the demand remained unfulfilled. Now the BJP government is going to fulfil the demand by laying the foundation of the university.” Meanwhile, police commissioner A Satish Ganesh inspected the Trade Facilitation Centre and reviewed security preparations regarding the visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-to-lay-foundation-of-university-in-azamgarh-tomorrow-101636652679514.html
11-11-2021||Pune||State’s new policy has neera repackaged as health elixir||PUNE: Fans of neera will soon be able to enjoy it in packaged form as the state government has decided to sell the natural health drink in packed bottles and pouches under the new policy. Neera is obtained by slicing the spathes of coconut, sago, and Palmyra (Borassus Flabellifer L.) palm and scraping the tender-most part just below the crown. The government has also decided to introduce geo-tagging of trees and establish a computerised system to keep tabs on the collection, transportation and sale of neera to control adulteration.During summers in Pune, the sale of neera goes up to 2,500 to 3,000 litres per day but this year it plummeted to 1,500 litre per day due to the lockdown. According to the state excise department, there are 500 neera outlets in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad with Pune, Solapur, Mumbai and Nashik being producers of the drink. These regions also see greater sales as neera has a shelf-life of only 24 hours due to which it cannot be transported to other parts of the state.Now however, the state has permitted the transport and sale of neera after proper processing and preservation in packed bottles and pouches. On November 9 this year, the state government drafted a new policy for neera plantation, production, processing and sale in order to stabilise the industry. According to the new policy, both individual and cooperative societies can get licenses for the production, processing and sale of neera . Earlier, it was mandatory for farmers to form a cooperative society to get such license. The period for renewal of the license, too, has increased from one year to five years. The state government has allowed the processing of neera where the pack must be preserved at below 4 degree Celsius temperature to increase shelf-life, and selling the drink in bottles and pouches. The state has directed individuals and cooperative societies to take necessary precautions so that neera does not get transformed into toddy which is an alcoholic drink. In such cases, the state excise department will cancel the license of the individual/society. The state will provide online licenses to interested persons/societies/parties.Ramesh Bhandari, legal advisor and former president of the Neera Utpadak Cooperative Society, said, “The state is aiming at the privatisation of the neera industry. The intention is good to control adulteration but chances of adulteration will increase with opening up of the market to other players. A part of the industry is going through a rough patch as there is lack of plantation, production, skilled labour for tapping trees and collecting neera . Production is low while the demand is high. At present, the society sells 1,000 to 2,000 litre per day during winter. Sales will go up in the summer to 2,500 to 3,000 litre.”Santosh Zagade, superintendent of police of the state excise department, said, “It is the first time that the state government has allowed selling neera in packed bottles and pouches. The state is trying to boost the neera industry. As regards the selling price, the government will soon issue orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/states-new-policy-has-neera-repackaged-as-health-elixir-101636652319576.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Stage set for 14-Kosi Parikrama starting in Ayodhya from Friday||The state government has made elaborate arrangements for two-day “14-Kosi Parikrama” starting in Ayodhya from Friday. The yatra, which gets underway from 10.45am, will end on Saturday night. Around 42-km stretch of the parikrama route has been spruced up for the occasion. As promised by the state government, several narrow stretches of the road have been widened and potholes covered with patch work. Along with permanent streetlights, temporary streetlights have also been put up at roadsides on bamboo sticks on the entire route. All temples long the parikrama route have also been renovated. The Ayodhya administration has set up water kiosks throughout the route and medical facilities will also be available there. Mobile medical vans have been stationed on the route for any emergency situation. Devotees in large numbers from across the state have started reaching Ayodhya for the event. The Ayodhya administration is expecting more than five lakh people to take part in the parikrama. Devotees will continue to reach Ayodhya on Friday also. As a precautionary measure, the Ayodhya administration has banned entry of all heavy vehicles into Ayodhya. After a break of two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic, outsiders have been permitted to take part in the “14–Kosi Parikrama”. In the pandemic period, only locals were allowed to take part in the parikrama. “Entire parikrama route has been spruced up. At several stretches of the route, road has been widened and all potholes have been covered. Streetlights have also been placed so make sure the entire stretch is illuminated,” said Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay. Elaborate security arrangements have been made in Ayodhya for the event. Entire city has been divided into five zones. A sector magistrate will be incharge of each zone. Cops in large numbers have been deployed on the parikrama route.There are three parikramas in Ayodhya namely 84 kosi, 14 kosi and five kosi. Saints take part in the 84–kosi parikrama while commoners take part in the other two parikramas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/stage-set-for-14-kosi-parikrama-starting-in-ayodhya-from-friday-101636651899557.html
11-11-2021||Pune||ED detains two in ₹7.76 crore Waqf land scam case||PUNE The Enforcement Directorate (ED), on Thursday, detained two persons in connection with a financial scam involving land belonging to the Waqf, the Muslim charity board, in Mulshi. The value of the fraudulent deal involving the Tabut Inam Endowment Trust is ₹7.76 crore, as per police. The names of the duo picked up by the ED on Thursday in Pune are being withheld at this point. Earlier, the Bund Garden police had lodged an FIR against Imtiaz Shaikh and Chand Mulani, both of whom were arrested on charges of impersonating the trust’s president and secretary, respectively. The duo had submitted a forged document of the state Waqf board showing its consent to their appointment, after which the collector’s office released an amount of money to them instead of the trust members. The FIR states that the trust, which is registered with the Waqf board, owns eight hectares in Maan village of Mulshi taluka, Pune district. The government was scheduled to give compensation of ₹9.64 crore to the trust and accordingly sanctioned and released ₹7.73 crore. The trust later complained to the Waqf board that it had not received any compensation from the state. During an enquiry by deputy collector (land acquisition), it was revealed that the accused, Shaikh and Mulani, had submitted fake documents and claimed the money. The Pune regional officer of Waqf board Khusro Khan lodged a complaint in this regard. Shaikh and Mulani were arrested under sections 420, 406, 464, 467, 471 and 34 of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ed-detains-two-in-7-76-crore-waqf-land-scam-case-101636651839741.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||UP’s Shahjahanpur incident: ASHA workers’ panel meets Priyanka||A delegation of accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers met Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at the latter’s Kaul House residence here to brief her about Tuesday’s incident of Shahjahanpur district where they were allegedly beaten up by the police. The ASHA workers were stopped on the way when they tried to march towards the venue of programme that chief minister Yogi Adityanath was scheduled to attend.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra assured that the Congress is committed for right honorarium and honour for the ASHA workers. She assured them that the Congress, if voted to power, will ensure honorarium of ₹10,000 per month to them,” said a press statement issued by Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee vice president Pankaj Srivastava here.Some of the ASHA workers were injured in the incident. A video of the delegation’s meeting with Priyanka, released by the Congress, shows an ASHA worker briefing the Congress general secretary about how the policemen stopped them and began beating them. The delegation members said they distributed medicines and test reports to the people infected by Covid-19. Instead of acting against the police, the state government had registered cases against Asha workers, alleged the delegation members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-shahjahanpur-incident-asha-workers-panel-meets-priyanka-101636650460149.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Three-day national level squash competition in Prayagraj from Friday||Under the joint aegis of directorate of sports, Uttar Pradesh and Allahabad Squash Racquet Association, the first Sanjay Gupta Memorial National Squash Circuit Competition will be organised at Amitabh Bachchan Sports Complex (Mayo Hall) in Prayagraj from November 12 to 14.The national level competition has been named after Gupta, who was a noted squash player from Prayagraj. “The competition with ₹1 lakh prize money is divided into five parts in boys and girls category. There will be competitions in under-11, 13, 15, 17 and Under-19 age groups. Apart from this, players of men’s and women’s open category will also be able to participate. The competition is recognized by the Squash Racket Federation of India,” said event director Vikas Talwar.Talwar is part of the organising committee that also has Satish Chaturvedi as chairman and Mohd Sabir as coordinator. “Around 179 elite Indian ranking players from 17 states will participate in this tournament and the winner of men’s and women’s category will get ₹23,500 each and runners-up will get ₹14,500 as prize money. The competition will be inaugurated by local shuttler and Arjuna awardee Abhinn Shyam Gupta,” Talwar said. President of the organising committee, former Justice DP Singh said as many as 18 top 10 Indian ranking players in 11 different categories will participate in the competition. In men’s and women’s categories the semi-finalists will get ₹6,000 as prize money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/threeday-national-level-squash-competition-in-prayagraj-from-friday-101636650279665.html
11-11-2021||Other||Police file charge-sheet against MLA Bains in rape case||Ludhiana Four months after booking Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains in a case of rape, issuing threats and criminal intimidation, the Ludhiana Police have filed a charge-sheet against him in court. The 44-year-old victim, a widow, has alleged that she was ‘raped’ by MLA Bains multiple times, and had been protesting for eight months prior to the registration of the FIR. The charge-sheet names Bains, his brothers — Karamjit Singh and Paramjit Singh — and four others — Baljinder Kaur, Jasbir Kaur, Sukhchain Singh and Gogi Sharma PA. The charge-sheet has been filed under Sections 376 (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force on woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (conspiracy) of the IPC. The next date of hearing is November 18.The victim has also alleged that the MLA and his men had promised to help her in a property dispute, but started exploiting her sexually instead. After the police failed to register a case initially, the woman had moved court. In his July 7 order, additional chief judicial magistrate Harsimranjit Singh had said: “Extreme circumstances call for extreme measures. The unsuspecting victim is a hapless woman...with the first responder, police agency having turned a blind eye to her hideous abuse, she knocked the door of the court. The real cause of concern is whether a miserable and poor victim of sexual exploitation be expected to get justice by lodging the private complaint and collecting evidence from a place alien to her and against the perpetrators who are powerful and resourceful. In case the directions for registering of case is not made, the entire case of complainant would crumble and it would tantamount to failure of justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-file-charge-sheet-against-mla-bains-in-rape-case-101636650039665.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Union health minister to inaugurate 32nd ‘Hunar Haat’ in Lucknow on Friday: Naqvi||Over 500 artisans and craftsmen from all over the country will showcase their products in the 32nd ‘Hunar Haat’ that will be inaugurated by Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya in state capital on Friday.“The programme is an initiative of Ministry of Minority Affairs and aims at promoting and preserving the traditional art and craft of the country,” said Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Union minister for minority affairs on Thursday. Naqvi also inspected the stalls and reviewed the preparations at the venue located near Medanta Hospital along Shaheedpath. The minister said over 500 artisans and craftsmen from 30 states and Union Territories, including Rajasthan, Delhi, Nagaland, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Ladakh, have brought their indigenous products made of wood, brass, bamboo, glass, cloth, paper, clay etc at the Hunar Haat, where traditional food items from various parts of the country will also available. The event would also host a series of cultural and singing programmes in which artistes like Annu Kapoor, Pankaj Udhas, Kumar Sanu, Alka Yagnik, Altaf Raja, Suresh Wadekar would be performing. The event would conclude on November 21. “With all last minute preparations done, we are ready for the show,” said an artisan, having expertise in making handmade soaps, who came all the way from Dehradun to set up a stall at Hunar Haat. Officials with the ministry said over 6.75 lakh artisans, craftsmen and people associated with them have been provided employment and employment opportunities through this initiative over the last six years. However this time, the ministry has also made an arrangement for online shopping. “Hunar Haat will also be available on hunarhaat.org and the GeM portal. Online buyers can log on to the portal to make purchases,” the minister said. The next chapters of the event will be organised at New Delhi’s Pragati Maidan (from November 14-27), Hyderabad (November 26 to December 5), Surat (December 10-19) and the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in New Delhi (December 22 to January 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/union-health-minister-to-inaugurate-32nd-hunar-haat-in-lucknow-on-friday-naqvi-101636649260432.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||UP ATS arrests two key members of int’l human trafficking racket||In a major breakthrough, the UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Wednesday arrested two key members of an international racket allegedly involved in human trafficking from Bangladesh and Myanmar to European, Gulf and South-east Asian countries on Indian identities, said UP police additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar here on Thursday.He said the arrested duo were identified as Sameer Mandal, 45, of 24 Pargana district, West Bengal, and Vikram Singh of Hoshiarpur in Punjab. He said Mandal was arrested from his hideout in West Bengal, while Vikram Singh was arrested from his hideout in Ghaziabad. The ADG said the questioning of the two accused revealed that they were part of an international network of human traffickers operating from South Africa and London.He said Sameer Mandal was in direct contact with a Bangladeshi national Saeed, who is now settled in South Africa, and got Bangladeshi contacts from him of those interested in travelling to different countries for employment and other works. Vikram Singh used to help Sameer Mandal through his contact one Gurpreet Singh based in London, he added.Another ATS official said Sameer Mandal is in grains transportation business which is spread from West Bengal to Bangladesh. He said Mandal is involved in human trafficking racket in the garb of his transportation business. He was in touch with Mithun Mandal, who along with three others, was arrested in Varanasi on October 26 in the same case. He said Mithun’s brother Ratan Mandal also ran a tour and travel agency in West Bengal. Along with Mithun Mandal, three others identified as Bangladeshi nationals Shaoan Ahmed, 25, Mominur Islam, 24, and Mehndi Hasan, 23, were arrested earlier.The official said Sameer also revealed that he used to keep illegal Bangladeshi immigrants at his brother Subash Mandal’s house for some time till their Indian documents were prepared. He said one Bangladeshi national Jahangir helped them making illegal immigrants cross over to India and got their Indian documents prepared through his other contacts in West Bengal. He said the traffickers helped Bangladeshi national get Hindu names and Indian passports by preparing their fake address proofs like Aadhaar and voter ID cards. He said the Bangladeshi nationals were later sent to different countries as Indian nationals.He said the custody remand of all accused would be sought from the competent court to interrogate them further to extract details about other people involved in this international human trafficking racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ats-arrests-two-key-members-of-int-l-human-trafficking-racket-101636649199379.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Four students, two professors from IIT-Bombay win $250,000 XPrize grant||A team of four students and two professors from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) has won a grant worth US$250,000 (approximately ₹1.85 crore) for developing a new tri-modular technology for low-cost, efficient capture of carbon dioxide (CO2) from point sources of emission and transforming them into salts. The grant comes from XPRIZE Foundation in collaboration with the Elon Musk Foundation. The announcement was made on Thursday at the Sustainable Innovation Forum at COP-26 in Glasgow. The team of students—Srinath Iyer (PhD student), Anwesha Banerjee (PhD student), Srushti Bhamare (BTech+MTech student) and Shubham Kumar (Junior Research fellow-Earth Science) are the only single institute team from India to have won this award. XPRIZE and the Musk Foundation announced a grant of US$100 million (approximately ₹745 crore) in April this year for anyone who can come up with sustainable technology for carbon removal from the atmosphere, ocean, land, etc. Of this, US$5 million (approximately ₹37 crore) was a student award where participants have won under two categories. “Our suggestion on capturing carbon dioxide at its source (in industries) and then turning it into carbonate salts with potential future usage to once again use it in a way that it does not enter the atmosphere as gaseous CO2, has won us this recognition,” said professor Vikram Vishal, department of earth sciences and Interdisciplinary Programme in Climate Studies (IDPCS) at the institute, and one of the two mentors part of this project. This four-year global competition invited innovators and teams to create and demonstrate solutions that can pull carbon dioxide directly from the atmosphere or oceans. To win the grand prize, teams had to demonstrate a working solution at a scale of at least 1000 tonnes removed per year and show a pathway to achieving a scale of gigatons per year in future, as validated by a third party. “It is now an undisputed fact among the scientists that nearly 1.1 degree Celsius rise in Earth temperature has happened due to rise in CO2 levels post industrialisation. Some of the main sectors contributing to this have been power, petroleum, steel, fertilisers, and cement industries. Our idea can be incorporated in the existing industries to cap CO2 emission at its source,” said professor Arnab Dutta, department of chemistry & (IDPCS), and another mentor. As part of their research, the team conceptualised the idea and conducted an internal assessment before submitting their project on paper with scientific justification supporting the concept. “We are creating almost 40 gigatons of CO2 per year all over the world at present, and a little less than 7% of this is coming from India. Our suggestion is to not only capture this CO2 emitted by industries but also turn it into other commercially viable chemicals in industries ensuring a financial benefit to them while implementing this unique CO2 management program,” added Dutta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-students-two-professors-from-iit-bombay-wins-250-000-xprize-grant-101636648959369.html
11-11-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh reports 12 single-day Covid-19 infections; active cases stand at 76||Madhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 12 new coronavirus infections and zero fatalities, the state health department said. The Covid-19 case tally in the state rose to 7,92,936 while the death toll remained unchanged at 10,524. The recovery count increased to 7,82,336 after 17 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day. The number of active coronavirus cases decreased to 76. With 60,904 swab samples examined during the day, the number of coronavirus tests conducted in Madhya Pradesh went up to 2,08,12,368. Meanwhile, 6,20,052 coronavirus vaccine jabs were administered in the state on Thursday, which took the total of doses administered to 7,42,36,467, said an official release. Coronavirus figures of MP are as follows: Total cases 7,92,936, new cases 12, death toll 10,524 (no change), recovered 7,82,336, active cases 76, number of tests so far 2,08,12,368.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-reports-12-covid-19-cases-number-of-active-patients-go-down-to-76-101636648035702.html
11-11-2021||Pune||Couple booked for racially abusing home buyer in Chikhali||PUNE: A couple was booked for racially abusing a man who allegedly bought the accused’s house in a society in the Chikhali area of Pimpri-Chinchwad Saturday night. The complainant belongs to the scheduled caste while the accused are Marathas as per the complaint.At around 8.45pm on Saturday, the complainant visited the building housing the flat that had been sold to him by the accused. However, the accused man and wife started abusing the complainant over the remaining payment he owed them.“There is some payment pending on the part of the complainant. They got into a fight about it and the man and wife started abusing him using racial slurs is what he told us. Nobody has been arrested yet,” said police sub-inspector S P Deshmukh of Chikhali police station.A case under sections 504 (insulting with an intention of provoking breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with sections 3(1)(r)(s) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 was registered at Chikhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-booked-for-racially-abusing-home-buyer-in-chikhali-101636648119290.html
11-11-2021||Pune||Motorist flees away with traffic police jammer in Pune||PUNE A man is on the run for stealing the jammer that a traffic policeman installed on his vehicle.The man, who is on the run from the police, was driving on the wrong side of road diversion on Gotiram Bhaiyya chowk along Shivaji road. He was caught around 5:45pm on Sunday.“They caught him while driving under the influence of alcohol on the wrong side of the road and then an accident was reported in the area nearby. They put the jammer on his vehicle and rushed to the accident spot. When they came back around two hours later, the vehicle was gone,” said hawaldar Faham Sayyed.As there is no CCTV in the area, the complainant police constable could not narrate how the vehicle was stolen with the jammer intact.The police have started an investigation to find the man.A case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4/122, 177, and 130/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Khadak police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/motorist-flees-away-with-traffic-police-jammer-in-pune-101636647759248.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||First time this season: Minimum temperature dips below 20 degrees Celsius in Mumbai||The onset of winter in the city became more pronounced on Thursday, with minimum nighttime temperature falling below the 20 degrees Celsius mark for the first time this season — settling at 19.8 degrees Celsius. This was down from 21.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier, and 23.4 degrees Celsius on Monday. A minimum temperature in the city have remained below normal for the past two days, and is likely to stay below normal through the weekend, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials have said. This is as per data from the IMD observatory in Santacruz, taken as representative of Mumbai. Colaba in south Mumbai, on the other hand, remained relatively warmer with a minimum temperature at 22.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, thunderstorms coupled with light showers could occur early next week. “There is a depression which is moving northwest and will emerge as a low-pressure area over the Arabian Sea. Due to changing wind patterns and availability of moisture, there will be increased convection with a chance of thunderstorms and this will bring down temperatures further,” said a meteorologist with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. These showers will be felt not only in Mumbai city and suburbs but also in parts of Thane, Kalyan, Panvel and the larger MMR region. Air quality in the city, meanwhile, has remained in the ‘moderate’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) bulletin — settling at 174 on Thursday. This was up from 164 the day prior, also in the ‘moderate’ category, which cautions against “breathing discomfort to people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases”. PM2.5 (small respirable particles less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter, or a hundred times thinner than a human hair) were observed to be the most prominent pollutant in the city, as per the CPCB. “If it rains next week there may be some relief from air pollution, but it will be short-lived. Temperatures will reduce due to the rains and this will again cause a spike in pollution,” said IMD official cited above. The maximum daytime temperature on Thursday, meanwhile, settled at 34.5 degrees Celsius (one degree above normal) and is expected to remain thereabouts for the next week, forecasts suggest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/first-time-this-season-minimum-temperature-dips-below-20-degrees-celsius-in-mumbai-101636647699258.html
11-11-2021||Pune||SPPU flyover work to commence soon: Officials||PUNE The multilevel flyover construction work at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk is set to start soon. The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), traffic police and contractor held a meeting on Thursday to discuss the new plan.PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Sihas Diwase, planning officer Vivek Kharwadkar, MLA Siddharth Shirole, road department head VJ Kulkarni and traffic police officers were present for the meeting.Shirloe said, “Within a few weeks, flyover work at SPPU chowk will start on the ground. The new plan is comprehensive and will help to address the traffic problem in the busy chowk.”During the lockdown, PMRDA demolished the flyover at SPPU chowk near E-Square and it was decided to erect a new flyover and underpasses at the same chowk along with the metro corridor. The PMC has approved the design for the same and will bear the cost of underpasses.Tata company has been appointed for undertaking the flyover work. It requested PMC to shift service lines as well as present the design to traffic police.It is decided that traffic police would chalk out the plan while work is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-flyover-work-to-commence-soon-officials-101636647580283.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘OPU-IVF to help meet growing demand of good quality indigenous bulls’||Scientists are optimistic that ovum pick-up-in vitro fertilisation (OPU-IVF), an advanced technique of reproduction, will help produce good quality bulls and increase reproductive capacity of the cattle.“OPU-IVF is a recent and remarkable technology in the field of reproductive biotechnology which allows collection of oocytes from ovaries of live animals of known pedigree and decreases the interval between generations,” said deputy director general (AS) Dr BN Tripathi of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi after inaugurating a 10-day training programme on techniques in ‘Hands-on training on ovum pick-up in-vitro fertilisation’ technology at the National Dairy Research Institute of Karnal on Thursday.He said OPU-IVF is now being used in around 30 different animal institutes across country for multiplication of good quality bulls to meet the shortage of around 80 million doses of semen of livestock in India and the Union government has allocated funds to each institute working on this project for strengthening the OPU-IVF technique.Dr Tripathi said the initiative was launched by the Centre for the scheduled caste beneficiaries under the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) scheme. The training will help the SC community researchers to strengthen their knowledge to secure good scientific careers in the field of OPU-IVF.Dr MS Chauhan, director NDRI, said normally a cow produces five to eight calves in her lifecycle but using OPU-IVF technology, a cow can produce more than 50-80 calves.He said 11 participants from eight different states (Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka) will be trained during the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/opuivf-to-help-meet-growing-demand-of-good-quality-indigenous-bulls-101636647578677.html
11-11-2021||Pune||Private buses restart operations in Pune district after minister assures staff of their safety||PUNE On Thursday morning, the private tour operators stopped bus operations across the state, after ten buses were vandalised in some of the districts by the protesting Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers on Wednesday night.Also, several private buses from Pune which had gone to another district with passengers were not allowed to enter the ST stands in that respective district due to which most of the buses returned empty. While after a meeting with the state transport minister Anil Parab later in the day, the private tourist buses association members were ensured about the safety of buses and also police protection at the ST stands.“Yesterday (on Wednesday) when we started our bus operations across the state at ST stands, we were ensured about the safety of our buses and staff. A total of 2,000 private tourist buses were given to the state government to transport passengers who were stranded by the ongoing MSRTC workers protest. But in the night, we got to know that ten of our buses in various districts were vandalised and even not allowed to go inside the ST stands. So, we decided to stop the bus operations from today morning,” said Baba Shinde, president of Maharashtra Transport Vehicle Owners and Drivers Association.While in the afternoon a meeting was called between Parab and association members in which safety of the private buses, allowing them inside the ST stands and giving police protection was discussed.“So, to ensure the safety of our staff a meeting was held with state transport minister. We are ready to run the buses but cannot compromise the safety of our staff, so he instructed the state police department to provide safety at all the ST stands. So, we have restarted operations across the state,” added Shinde.Parab said, “I am in continuous dialogue with our protesting MSRTC workers and we are trying to find a solution on the issue. To provide alternate transport service to our passengers on behalf of the state government we decided to allow operations of private tours and other buses. When these buses are doing transporting work, I would ensure their safety and personally instruct the police department to provide necessary protection at the ST stands and wherever necessary. Even our officials are appointed on duty at all the depots.”Meanwhile, a heavy rush of passengers was seen at the Swargate, Wakdewadi and other ST stands in the Pune division. After the Diwali vacations, people are returning to their hometowns and need transportation buses for the same.“I want to return to Aurangabad. I had come to Pune for Diwali celebrations at my sister’s place. But as the MSRTC workers protest was going on my journey was delayed by two days and today I am going back by private tourist bus,” said Shekhar Kanhere, a passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-buses-restart-operations-in-pune-district-after-minister-assures-staff-of-their-safety-101636647399179.html
11-11-2021||Pune||Class 12: State board to start collecting forms from November 12||PUNE The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Thursday issued a notification to commence the form filling for regular candidates for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) Class 12 examination from November 12 till December 2, 2021, for the exam scheduled in February next year.As per the notification, junior colleges and schools may start the form filling process at the SARAL portal from November 12 to December 2.Ashok Bhosale, secretary of MSBSHSE, said, “Students with enrolment certificate, private candidates and others can fill the form from December 3 till December 11.”“The challan for the same can be downloaded from December 12 to December 23. The late fee will be incurred between December 13 to December 20,” said Bhosale.Fee refund for SSC and HSC candidates for the year 2021As the final exams for Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and HSC were cancelled due to the pandemic, the state board will now refund the partial exam fee for candidates appearing for the same.“The partial fee will be refunded from November 12 from 11 am. Schools and junior colleges should enrol details of students on the website of the state board,” said Bhosale.The decision was taken by the board after the Mumbai High Court directed the state board to partially refund the exam fee incurred for the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-12-state-board-to-start-collecting-forms-from-november-12-101636647219178.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Worli fisherfolk assured of meeting with Maharashtra CM, environment minister||Maharashtra cabinet minister for fisheries, Aslam Shaikh, on Thursday visited Cleveland Bunder in Mumbai’s Worli Koliwada to meet the fisherfolk who are protesting against the construction of an interchange to connect the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) coastal road with the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL). Speaking to HT, Shaikh said he will soon organise a meeting of Koli community leaders with chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray – who is also the legislator from Worli – so that the fisherfolk can discuss their concerns with them directly.“CM and the environment minister are not available currently, but I will arrange a meeting with them within the next four-five days, so that the fisherfolk can share their concerns directly. I have met the fisherfolk today and understood their problems first hand. While the coastal road project is important, all the stakeholders concerned need to be made equal participants in the process and no hardships should come on the fisherfolk,” Shaikh said on Thursday.Nitesh Patil, president of Worli Koliwada Nakhava Matsyavyavsay Sahasaki Society (WKNMSS), who has been leading the protests over the past two weeks, presented Shaikh with a letter detailing their demands for a redesign of the interchange. The civic body plans to construct two connecting bridges between the south-end of BWSL and the north end of coastal road as part of a link that will allow traffic to flow seamlessly between the two structures. The fisherfolk said the interchange will run parallel to Cleveland Bunder and severely constrict the only navigational route available to boats.In Thursday’s letter, a copy of which is with HT, the fisherfolk wrote, “The current situation is BMC’s fault as they didn’t consult us during the early stages of the project and have consistently refused to meet us despite our requests for the past three years. It is still not too late to make the necessary design change. We will continue our agitation till our demand for the navigation route is met.” “We hope that as the fisheries minister you will take cognisance of our demands and take the necessary steps to change the design of the interchange at Cleveland Bunder by increasing the distance between the two pillars to 200 metres to provide us with an adequate navigation span to facilitate unhindered and safe access to our fishing grounds and the open sea,” the letter added. As per current specifications, fishing boats will have to pass through two more, successive spans with a distance of 60 metres, which the fisherfolk said is insufficient.Over 100 fishing boats from Worli Koliwada have been staging a sit-in in the alignment of the interchange since October 30, halting the project’s construction work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/worli-fisherfolk-assured-of-meeting-with-maharashtra-cm-environment-minister-101636646860728.html
11-11-2021||Pune||National Achievement Survey to be conducted at 236 schools in Pune||PUNE Overcoming all odds, teachers from schools across the Pune district are fully prepared to conduct the National Achievement Survey (NAS) 2021 today (November 12). The exam is organised by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and at least 236 schools from the city will participate in the survey that will assess students.The exam is a sample-based survey to assess students from Class 3, Class 5, Class 8 and Class 10 every three years.Teachers who are working as field instructors and observers noted that they faced a lot of issues with respect to obtaining the exam material ahead of the state transport strike.Initially, there were challenges of downloading the letter of appointment which allocated the required duties of the teachers. Later, many teachers who were observers and field instructors were allocated the schools as far as 90 km in the Pune district itself.Speaking about the issues, a teacher from Daund, on the condition of anonymity, noted that he had to collect the exam material on November 12 morning around 6 am and return to the exam centre allocated to him by 7:30 am the same morning.“The distance is a problem and so is the time. Travelling from Daund to Pune for collecting exam material and then returning to the centre was not feasible. After the exam, we again have to submit the answers the same day by 4 pm at a school in Kondhwa. In the midst of this, there is a strike which has forced many of us to use private transports like rickshaws,” said the teacher.Another teacher, who does not wish to be named said that while she lives in Daund, and her centre is at Bhor.“There is no public transport and I am forced to use my private vehicle for this long journey,” said the teacher.Another teacher from Junnar noted that the school allocated to him is in Pune city and he has to travel from his place of residence to conduct the exam.“It is difficult to commute while the strike is ongoing. And hiring a private vehicle is not feasible,” said the teacher.District level coordinator for NAS 2021 for Pune district, Varsha Kokil said that the teachers faced a lot of issues, however, the exam will be conducted smoothly.“There were initially some issues however, with the persistent efforts of teachers from the district we are hopeful that the exam will be conducted smoothly. The teachers have worked hard,” said Kokil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/national-achievement-survey-to-be-conducted-at-236-schools-in-pune-101636646859180.html
11-11-2021||Pune||Schools in Maharashtra focusing on bringing back students to offline learning||PUNE: With schools reopening after Diwali holidays in most parts of Maharashtra, the state education department has decided to focus on two major issues namely, mobile de-addiction of students to reintroduce them to normal offline learning and remediation teaching in which weak students will be given extra classes.Dinkar Temkar, state director of the education department, said, “There is good response to schools which have started offline classes prior to Diwali vacations, but one thing majorly noted is that students are addicted to online teaching. So, it is important to reduce their mobile or laptop addiction and engage them in offline studies through various teaching and fun activities and games.”“Another important process that we are focusing on is ‘remediation teaching’ under which extra classes will be taken for those students who are weak in studies. In the last several months, the connection with books, reading and writing habits has reduced amongst students. So, it is necessary to develop their studying habits and reintroduce them to the normal offline learning experience. Accordingly, instructions have been given to all district-wise education department officials and further to teachers,” Temkar said.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all schools were closed for almost two years during which, students right from the kindergarten to post-graduate level were exposed to online teaching. They are now so much addicted to online learning that it is becoming difficult to bring them back to the normal offline teaching mode.Even teachers are worried about the students’ mobile phone addiction. Swati Chitraw, a primary school teacher, said, “In our class, there are 20 students out of which currently only eight students have resumed offline classes. Other students and even their parents are demanding that online classes be continued; it has become like an addiction for them. The Covid pandemic will go away someday and we need to return to the normal education system. Even parents should understand this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-in-maharashtra-focusing-on-bringing-back-students-to-offline-learning-101636646619141.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||20 empty wagons of goods train overturn in UP’s Jaunpur||At least 20 empty wagons of a goods train derailed and turned turtle near Ghatampur village in Badlapur area of Jaunpur district on Jaunpur-Sultanpur route early on Thursday morning, an official said.Both up and down tracks of the route were damaged badly in the incident in which no loss of life was reported. The driver team and the guard of the train were safe, the official added. The incident occurred at around 7.57am, said a senior railway official.Confirming the incident, additional divisional railway manager, NR, Varanasi, Ravi Chaturvedi said “Around 20 wagons of the goods train derailed near Srikrishna Nagar railway station (in Jaunpur). Some trains are being diverted to other routes. The work to clear the track is going on at a war footing.” According to the information received, the goods train was on its way to Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Nagar (Mughalsarai) from Sultanpur. As it crossed Sri Krishna Nagar railway station and reached near Ghatampur village, its wagons got derailed and overturned.A local said they heard a very loud sound after the incident and several people ran towards the spot. After receiving information about the incident, senior railway officials and a police team reached there. Railway officials were trying to find out the cause of the incident, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/20-empty-wagons-of-goods-train-overturn-in-up-s-jaunpur-101636646500092.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||High court questions Mumbai top cop on inaction on couple’s threat complaint due to inter-caste marriage||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday pulled up Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale for not taking action against people who had forcefully taken away a woman from their community to Gujarat as she had entered into an inter-caste marriage. Nagrale, who appeared before the court, through video conference assured the court that the wrongdoers would be punished and round-the-clock protection would be provided to the couple, her in-laws and witnesses to the marriage, as they had received death threats from the community members. The court observed that if such things were happening in cities, it could not imagine what must be happening in the interiors.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petition of Shivani Balsara and others, was informed by advocate Pranav Badheka that the woman belonged to the Ahir community from Chaubri taluka in Bhachau, Gujarat, and the second petitioner was her first husband and was a Brahmin. The court was informed that after the duo got married the Ahir community, led by the sarpanch and head, had opposed the inter-caste marriage, gave death threats to the couple and also assaulted the husband’s father. The petition stated that though a complaint was lodged with Mumbai Police in August, no action was taken, hence the petition was filed seeking police protection for the couple as well as the husband’s family and witnesses. The petition also sought orders restraining Bhachau police or any other police of Gujarat from summoning the couple or the husband’s family. The incident started in February 2020 when Shivani and Yash eloped from their village and came to Mumbai, however, Shivani was taken back by her family in March. She was forced to file a complaint against Yash. Yash was arrested and spent 4.5 months in jail. In December 2020 when Shivani returned to Mumbai with her family, she married Yash.Yash received threat calls and he lodged a complaint with the Powai police. On December 29, some members of the community convinced Shivani to go back to the village to end the unrest due to the inter-caste marriage, to which she agreed. However, at the village, she was tortured, threatened, assaulted and forced to file a false complaint against Yash with Bhachau police. In April 2021, Shivani managed to speak to Yash on the phone and narrated her plight. Yash filed a police complaint in Powai and a habeas corpus petition in HC. However, in the HC hearing held through VC, Shivani who was under duress by her father, brother and other community members told the court that she was in Gujarat of her own volition and did not want to be with Yash. In May itself Shivani was forced to marry a man from the Ahir community. The man raped and assaulted her when she objected. Shivani managed to flee from the village and reached Mumbai in August and lodged a complaint with the Powai police. However, no action was taken and hence she and Yash filed the petition. When the petition came up for hearing on Thursday morning, when the bench was informed of the inaction by the police on the August complaint the court directed the Mumbai Police commissioner Nagrale to be present in the afternoon.The court asked Nagrale, “With great difficulty, she came back to Mumbai. What if anything happens to her husband? Why is no action taken when there is a complaint by a woman? The father of the boy was beaten up when her second husband came. This complaint may not be by a lawyer, but it is by a citizen.” Nagrale responded stating that the episode had several stories, first marriage, then second marriage and the second husband’s complaint. However, when the court sought to know as to why there was no sensitivity to such an issue, Nagrale assured that immediate action would be taken. The court observed, “If such a thing is happening in cities then we cannot imagine what must be happening in the interiors. And why was there no protection to the girl when she complained? We want action against wrongdoers, not just security. Any person cannot come to Mumbai and threaten a woman. We need to take action.”Nagrale then assured the bench that there was no political pressure and officers would be deputed for protection. Thereafter, the court asked the investigating officer to conduct a thorough probe and directed the respondent sarpanch, head of community and others to file affidavits, and posted a hearing of the petition to Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-questions-mumbai-top-cop-on-inaction-on-couple-s-threat-complaint-due-to-inter-caste-marriage-101636645949456.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Sakinaka rape and murder: Mumbai court frames charges, trial to begin soon||The Dindoshi sessions court on Thursday completed the framing of charges in the Sakinaka rape and murder case. The court is likely to start the trial soon, after going through the necessary documents.The accused, Mohan Chouhan, was charged under sections 302 (murder), 376 (A) (committing an offence of rape and inflicting injury which causes the woman to be in a persistent vegetative state), 376 (2) (m) (causing grievous bodily harm or endangering the life of a woman while committing rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), as well as relevant sections of the Maharashtra Police Act and the Schedule Castes and Schedule Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.The prosecution, through senior advocate Raja Thakare and advocate Mahesh Mule, had submitted draft charges, based on which additional sessions judge HC Shende framed the offences against Chouhan, 45. The prosecution on Thursday also submitted a list of the witnesses to be examined, along with other forensic documents, before the court.According to the police, the 32-year-old victim had met Chouhan on September 10 at Kherani Road in Sakinaka around 3am. A CCTV camera had captured Chouhan assaulting the victim and later pulling her towards a standing tempo, where he allegedly sexually assaulted her and left her severely injured. A watchman, who saw the woman in an injured state, informed the police, following which she was rushed to Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar. She died in the hospital a day later.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, after a high-level meeting with senior police officers, had directed that the state home department appoint a special public prosecutor and fast track the case. Following the incident, Mumbai Police had formed a special investigating team (SIT), headed by officer Jyotsna Rasam, which had submitted a 346-page charge sheet in 18 days’ time. In the charge sheet, the police had said that Chouhan and the victim knew each other and that the accused was angry at the woman as she had gone out of the town for 15-20 days without informing him.The SIT had recorded the statements of 77 witnesses in a short period of time. The police said the watchman had identified the accused during the identification parade that was carried out recently, which further strengthened the prosecution’s case.In the last hearing, the court had provided Chouhan with legal aid and had appointed Kalpana Waskar as his counsel.The incident had sparked a massive outrage in the city. Mumbai Police has formed Nirbhaya teams at every police station level to maintain a list of sexual offenders from the past five years’ data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sakinaka-rape-and-murder-mumbai-court-frames-charges-trial-to-begin-soon-101636645769029.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Cruise ship drug raid: Prabhakar Sail questioned by NCB SIT||Prabhakar Sail, a key witness in the cruise ship drug raid case, was questioned by the special investigation team (SIT) of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday. Sail was accompanied by his lawyer Hemant Ingle and was questioned for almost four hours. The SIT was formed on November 5 and headed by deputy director general Sanjay Singh to investigate the recent cruise drug bust case and five other cases including that of Sameer Khan, son-law of NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik. The SIT wanted to verify about ‘punch’ (witness) statement as he earlier claimed that his signature was taken on blank pages by NCB officials as per the instruction of zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Sail’s lawyer told the media there is no change in the statement his client had given to the media earlier. Ingle added, “As per the statement given by Sail to police, KP Gosavi (another independent witness in the cruise drug case) had saved Sail’s mobile number as SW (Sameer Wankhede). Gosavi had even instructed Sail to call him when he would be talking to (actor) Shah Rukh Khan’s manager Pooja Dadlani, so he could show her that he was talking to Sameer Wankhede.” Sail also said in his statement that KP Gosavi was also in touch with Sameer Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-ship-drug-raid-prabhakar-sail-questioned-by-ncb-sit-101636644987346.html
11-11-2021||Patna||Hooch deaths: 823 arrested in 48 hours||In a major crackdown in the wake of the hooch tragedies that have left 41 people dead in Bihar since Diwali, 823 people have been arrested in the last 48 hours in raids at more than 1,300 locations in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Gopalganj, West Champaran and East Champaran districts, police said.In Muzaffarpur, police have arrested 400 people, including five candidates of panchayat samiti, and busted three rebottling units. “We have registered 150 FIRs (first information report) with the 40 police stations and nabbed 400 people involved in making and supplying spurious liquor,” Muzaffarpur’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jayant Kant said. On October 29, six people had died while some others fell ill after consuming suspected spurious liquor at Rupauli village under Saraiya police station of Muzaffarpur. Among the four people arrested in this connection is a newly elected ward member Amit Kumar, who allegedly organised the liquor party. Int the second incident, a liquor party organised in the house of a mukhia candidate ended up claiming six lives. The incident occurred at Manipur-Narottam panchayat under Kanti police station ahead of panchayat election scheduled for November 15. In Gopalganj district, where 13 people died in a hooch tragedy in Mohmmedpur police station area, police have arrested 275 people and registered 105 FIRs, besides seizing 34 vehicles. “After the incident, several raids were conducted and 11 people involved in hooch tragedy have been arrested,” said Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar. In Samastipur, where at least seven people, including a BSF jawan and an army jawan died, the police have arrested 65 people and lodged 32 FIRs so far. In East Champaran, police have lodged 83 FIRs after the arrest of 92 people and recovered 11,000 litres of liquor including 8,000 litres of spirit, said SP Navin Chandra Jha. West Champaran SP Upendra Nath Verma said police have carried out raids at 493 locations and nabbed 161 people in the district where 14 people have died of suspected hooch consumption in November so far.Change in modus operandiPolice sources said those involved in making illicit liquor have begun mixing sedative tablets with spirits, a reason why it is leading to poisoning and other health problems. Another new worry, say police sources, is mushrooming of localised spurious liquor units since smuggling IMFL (Indian made foreign liquor) bottles from states like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal and Nepal has become increasingly difficult. As per latest police records, 6,852 smugglers from Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Nepal have been arrested in last five years since Prohibition was enforced in Bihar in April 2016. Political crossfireLeader of Opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, described the recent hooch tragedies as “organised killings” and asked if it was not true that liquor was being supplied through police stations. “What is the result of thousands of meetings to review the impact of prohibition when this is the ground reality? Under whose patronage the liquor mafia is getting by so emboldened,” he asked through his tweet. Congress MLC and spokesman Premchandra Mishra, too, has been questioning the policy. “It is no more time to review prohibition. Time has come to have a rethink on it, as so many deaths have amply proved that checking smuggling is not this government’s cup of tea. People’s life is precious,” he said. However, chief minister Nitish Kumar has maintained that Prohibition in the state was imposed after the unanimous decision of the state legislature and that all should work to make it successful. After the latest hooch tragedies, the chief minister had said he would hold a review meeting on November 16 . Major hooch tragedies in Bihar Aug 15, 2016: 19 people had die in Gopalganj, 21 policemen, including an SHO, dismissed from the job. In March 5 this year, a district court awarded death penalty to nine people and life sentences to four women in the case.March 31, 2021: In Nawada, 16 people, including a teenager, die after Holi. Police arrest 20 people, including two women. Five officials, including an SHO and an excise sub-inspector, suspended. July 2021: 16 people die in Lauriya and Ramnagar police stations areas of West Champaran.November 2012: In West Champaran, 14 people die under Nautan police station limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hooch-deaths-823-arrested-in-48-hours-101636644267222.html
11-11-2021||Patna||Bihar to get 426 MW additional power from NTPC||Bihar will get 426 Megawatts (MW) of additional electricity from the National Thermal Power Corporation’s (NTPC’s) Barh super thermal power plant (STPP) and the Bharatiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited (BRBCL) at Aurangabad, which will begin commercial operations shortly, said NTPC officials. The additional power will take Bihar’s average daily scheduled allocation beyond 5,000 MW from Central sectors, the officials said. At present, it gets around 4,575 MW. The commercial operation of the 660 MW unit I of the NTPC Barh plant will begin from Friday. The trial run of this unit was successfully done on October 30. Bihar will get 401 MW power share from this unit, while the remaining 40% power will be shared among beneficiary states like Odisha, Jharkhand and Sikkim. This is the third unit of the Barh project to begin commercial operation. At present, units 4 and 5 of 660 MW each are in commercial operation. With this, the total generation capacity of NTPC Barh will go up to 1,980 MW. “The erection, testing and optimisation activities of the remaining two 660 MW units of Barh are in advance stage and are likely to be commissioned in the next financial year,” said NTPC spokesperson Vishwanath Chandan. The public sector power generation company also completed successful trial run of its 250 MW fourth and final unit of the BRBCL plant on November 10. It is yet to announce the date for commencement of commercial operation. Bihar will get 25 MW power from this unit while the remaining 90% will go to the railways, said the officials quoted above. A 250 MW unit 9 of NTPC’s Barauni thermal power station (BTPS) also began commercial operation from November 1. The NTPC eastern region-1 has an installed power generation capacity of 9,960 MW across eight projects in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, while another 4,490 MW is under construction, said a communique issued by the company. The NTPC group currently has an installed capacity of 67,657.5 MW across 74 power stations, including 31 renewable and hydro projects. The group has over 16 gigawatts (GW) of capacity under-construction, including five GW of renewable energy projects, said the communique. “The commercial operation of third unit of the Barh plant is a major milestone,” said SN Tripathi, executive director and head of project, NTPC-Barh. “The NTPC is proud of team Barh, which has delivered the third unit with utmost dedication after having worked continuously under unprecedented challenging times during lockdown and the COVID-19 restrictions. Our team Barh has worked diligently for long hours, together with associates, to ensure that all modifications and other related activities are done properly and successfully,” said Praveen Saxena, regional executive director, NTPC, eastern region 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-get-426-mw-additional-power-from-ntpc-101636644210114.html
11-11-2021||Patna||4-day Chhath Puja culminates with religious fervour||Devotees broke their 36-hour fast as they thronged the ghats and ponds across the capital city to offer final ‘arghya’ to rising sun on Thursday, marking culmination of four-day Chhath festival. Later, prasad was also distributed. On Wednesday evening, people visited ghats and offered ‘arghya’ to setting sun across the city.Despite Covid-19 fear, all 96 ghats and ponds were seen jam-packed with devotees celebrating the festival. Many said that they happy to visit the ghats as they missed the celebration due to the pandemic. “I am feeling satisfied after offering ‘arghya’. Last year, I could not visit the ghat owing to Covid-19,” said Savita Jha, 60, a devotee near Gandhi Ghat. However, there were many who decided not to visit crowed ghats and instead made temporary ponds on the rooftops of their houses to offer ‘arghya’.Chief minister Nitish Kumar also took part in the Chhath festivities at his official residence. “It was heartening to see that people have turned out in such large numbers at the ghats. This familiar sight we could not see last year because of Corona”, the CM said on Wednesday after he surveyed the ghats .. Besides the common people, several inmates across the state including one Nigerian and a Bangladeshi woman performed Chhath Puja. While the Nigerian inmate, Yugwum Sinachi performed the puja at Saheed Kudiraam Bose jail, the Bangladeshi woman, Reena Khatoon, performed the puja at Siwan jail along with 20 inmates. “Around 200 inmates performed Chhath Puja inside the jail including one Nigerian inmate and one Bangladeshi woman. Puja arrangements were done inside jail amid high security,” said Brijesh Kumar Mehta, jail superintendent of Shaheed Khudiram Bose Central Jail . The Patna district administration on Thursday claimed that the Chhath festival concluded peacefully. Divisional Commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal thanked all officers and staff who extended their help during Chhath celebration. “Despite many challenges including high water level, marshy river banks, Chhath Puja concluded peacefully in Patna. Security arrangements were tightened and all deputed officials were present on their assigned duties. Officials who have performed important role in puja arrangements and puja committee will be felicitated soon.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4day-chhath-puja-culminates-with-religious-fervour-101636644208423.html
11-11-2021||Patna||Nitish presents Bihar’s highest edu award to doc-turned-social activist||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday presented Bihar’s highest award in the field of education, Maulana Abul KalamAzad Shiksha Puruskar, 2021, to Dr Shankar Nath Jha for his distinguished work in the field of education, especially among children of the Musahar community living in Dalit localities of Jamui. Dr Jha, who is a paediatrician and retired as a medical officer in 2019, started his inspiring work among Musahar children from one tola and spread it to over 55 tolas involving 5500 children and later set up two schools in the district. Apart from education, he also motivated children to participate in sports, which resulted in five of them playing at the national level and 25 getting government jobs on sports quota. A social activist, he also worked to prevent child marriages and child labour. According to the citation, he prevented 450 child marriages and got 950 child labourers admitted to schools. Besides, he kept 850 children suffering from malnutrition under his care so that they could regain their health and pursue education. Many of the Musahar children went on to complete their higher secondary and graduation. Maulana Abul KalamAzad Shiksha Puruskar was instituted in 2007 and carries ₹2.5-lakh prize money. Bihar was the first state to announce the celebration of the birth anniversary of India’s firth Education Minister Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad as Shiksha Diwas in 2006. From 2007, the government instituted the award to recognize the significant contributions being made in the field of education. “The contribution of Maulana Azad is huge. He was also the Congress president. He was the one who exhorted minorities not to leave India when the situation due to partition had turned very difficult. We wanted his birthday to be celebrated at the national level and we also wrote to the Centre in this regard. The Centre accepted it and from 2008 it is being celebrated at the national level on Maulana Azad’s birth anniversary,” said the CM, while talking to reporters after the brief function. Kumar said that the Shiksha Diwas function was usually a big event, but it had been scaled down due to Covid. With the Covid situation improving and things under control in the state, it will again get back to its old scale and grandeur. The objective behind this function is to let the younger generation know about the life and work of Maulana Azad,” he added. Apart from the CM, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, health minister Mangal Pandey, chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar and a host of others participated in the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-presents-bihar-s-highest-edu-award-to-doc-turned-social-activist-101636644207101.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik, Devendra Fadnavis kin send legal notices to each other for defamation||Matters came to a head on Thursday between Maharashtra minister of minority affairs Nawab Malik of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and former chief minister and leader of opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) when their respective family members sent legal notices to each other for defamation. Malik’s daughter, Nilofer Malik Khan, sent a legal notice to Fadnavis while, Fadnavis’ wife Amruta Fadnavis sent one to Malik. Khan sent a legal notice seeking an apology for Fadnavis’s claims about her husband Sameer Khan. Fadnavis alleged earlier this week that Sameer was in possession of 200 kg of ganja when the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided his home in January this year. Nilofer asked for an apology, failing which, she contended, she will demand ₹5 crore as damages for “mental torture, agony, financial loss and injury.” In response, Amruta Fadnavis demanded deletion of the defamatory tweets against her husband within 48 hours with an unconditional apology or face the criminal and civil suits. Amruta slapped the notice in response to Malik’s allegations about Fadnavis’ alleged connections with drug peddlers and an accused arrested in a drugs case. The legal notice sent to Fadnavis reads, “The charge sheet filed by the Narcotics Control Bureau does not support even a single allegation levied by you. The panchnama dated 14/01/2021 clearly says that the house was searched and no contraband/suspicious substance was found in my client’s house or under his possession. But from which source you obtained such false, frivolous and baseless report is better known to you.” It adds: “That my client is demanding damages amounting to ₹5 crore on account of mental torture, agony, financial loss and injury inflicted to his reputation and honour due to the statements which you made in the news telecast, viz. ABP News.” In a tweet, Nilofer said, “False accusations ruin lives. Before one accuses or condemns, they must know what they are talking about. This defamation notice is for the false claims and statements which Devendra Fadnavis levelled against my family. We will not back down.” Malik said in response to the Fadnavis notice, “She has a right to file a case and I have the right to fight it out legally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-devendra-fadnavis-kin-send-legal-notices-to-each-other-for-defamation-101636644087152.html
11-11-2021||Other||Border farmers protest outside BSF HQs in Amritsar||Amritsar Farmers residing in the border areas of Punjab, under the banner of Border Area Sangharash Committee (BASC), protested outside the Border Security Force (BSF)’s Khasa headquarters in Amritsar on Thursday against the extension of the force’s jurisdiction. Farmers raised slogans against the BJP-led Central government and threatened to intensify their agitation if their demands are not met in the coming days. The farmers also criticised the Centre government for not releasing compensation due to farmers, whose land is situated across the barbed-wire fence, for the past five years.Addressing the protesters, comrade Ratan Singh Randhawa said, “The BJP government has been trying to spread terror among the people. By increasing the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km, the Centre has taken possession of half of the Punjab state. Implementation of law and order is a state subject. The people of Punjab will never allow the action of the Centre government.”Comrade Amarpal Singh Asal said, “The Centre should focus on the 15-km jurisdiction to curb the smuggling bid from across the border and release compensation of the border farmers. Farmers face difficulties in just accessing their fields across the fence.” The farmers handed over a memorandum to BSF’s assistant commandant Karampal Singh and naib tehsildar Jaswinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/border-farmers-protest-outside-bsf-hqs-in-amritsar-101636642647034.html
11-11-2021||Other||{ ₹20,000cr Faridkot royal property dispute} Daughter files plea in court against police move to cancel will forgery FIR||Faridkot In a dispute over royal property valued at ₹20,000 crore, the only surviving daughter, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, 87, of the last ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Faridkot has filled an application in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) on Thursday. In her plea, she has opposed the cancellation report that the police have filed on a First Information Report (FIR) in which 23 members and employees of the Mahrawal Khewaji Trust were accused of forging the Maharaja’s will.This FIR was lodged in August 2020, after the Punjab and Haryana high court ruled that the will of the last ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Faridkot, Harinder Singh Brar, was forged in favour of the Maharwal Khewaji Trust in 1982. Later, a case of fraud was registered against the 23 trust members, including chairman Jai Chand Mehtab, who is also the son of her elder sister, Deepinder Kaur, and a prince of the erstwhile royal family of West Bengal. The erstwhile ruler’s granddaughter and Mehtab’s sister, Nisha D Kher, who is the vice-chairperson of the trust, was also named in the FIR. The trust has challenged the high court order in the Supreme Court, where it is pending.About a year after the registration of the FIR, the police had approached the court on June 2 and sought the cancellation of the FIR. In her affidavit through her daughter in the CJM’s court, Amrit, has opposed the cancellation report filled by the police claiming that FIR had been registered on true and real facts and on the findings of the high court regarding forgery of Maharaja’s will and the plundering of royal estate. She also prays in her plea that the cancellation report moved by Faridkot police may be ordered to be rejected and investigation agency directed for re-investigation in view of the findings of the Punjab and Haryana high court judgment. The high court had upheld a Chandigarh court’s order last year, awarding majority share in the ₹20,000-crore property of Brar to his two daughters — Amrit Kaur and Deepinder Kaur. The court held that descendents of Manjit Inder Singh, the last ruler’s brother, would get their mother Mohinder Kaur’s share.On the will at the centre of the dispute, the court had observed that the trustees conspired to create the will to usurp the property. “The will is proved to be forged, fictitious, fabricated and shrouded with suspicious circumstances,” the court order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20000cr-faridkot-royal-property-dispute-daughter-files-plea-in-court-against-police-move-to-cancel-will-forgery-fir-101636641986944.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Private hospitals urge for Covid booster shots, buyback to clear vaccine stock||With a considerable drop in the daily vaccinations being carried out at the private hospitals, the Association of Healthcare Providers, India (AHPI) has urged the Centre to allow booster Covid-19 doses for healthcare workers and people in the high-risk category, in order to avoid any wastage. In Maharashtra, nearly 52 lakh doses are currently in the private sector hospitals and most hospitals fear that the vaccines may expire due to the low demand. The Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield has a shelf life of nine months. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin had a shelf life of six months, but it has now been extended to 12 months. Private hospitals were allowed to procure vaccines directly from the manufactures from May this year. Most hospitals, therefore, have vaccine stocks likely to expire between February and April 2022. “But with the demand for paid vaccination gone down, some of the doses available with us can be utilised as boosters,” said Dr Joy Chakraborty, chief operating officer (COO) of the PD Hinduja Hospital in Mahim and president of AHPI’s Maharashtra and Goa chapter. AHPI represents the majority of healthcare providers in the country and it has been in a constant dialogue with the government over the past several weeks about vaccine stocks. “We have put forward a proposal to the government to consider allowing a third dose for healthcare workers and those with comorbid conditions or compromised immunity,” he said. According to Dr Chakraborty, PD Hinduja currently has a stock of 19,000 doses which will expire in April 2022. But the hospital has recorded a 90% drop in its daily vaccinations. From an average of 2,300 to 2,400 shots administered daily in June, the numbers have dropped to 200 per day now. Most private hospitals have witnessed this decline after vaccine stocks in government centres became abundantly available. A doctor said that private hospitals indulged in panic buying during the months of May, June and July, not realising that the public sector had started receiving stocks smoothly. Over the months, the public sector also added more centres, which helped decentralisation. The cost of one dose of the vaccine ranges from ₹780 to ₹1,400 in the private sector. “People who were willing to pay for the jabs have already taken them,” said Dr Prince Surana, chief executive of Mumbai’s Surana Group of Hospitals that were administering an average of 1,500 doses between June and July and the numbers have now dropped to 300 per day. “Now, people mostly prefer going to the public centres as the crowd had reduced,” he said. A small group of doctors had approached SII as well as the state government to discuss the possibility of buying back the stocks from them. “But the buyback option was shot down questioning the manner in which private hospitals may have stored the stocks,” said a doctor who had participated in the dialogue. Dr Archana Patil, head of the Directorate of Health Services (DHS) Maharashtra said the state government can’t do much on this issue. “The private hospitals should tie-up for corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities in districts across the state to exhaust their stocks. They should not allow the stocks to get wasted at any cost,” she said. National Covid-19 task force member Dr Subash Salunkhe agreed. “It will be criminal negligence if any of the stocks are wasted. Private hospitals should bear the loss, but tie-up with smaller districts or companies and carry out free vaccinations, if needed. They should figure out ways in which their vaccines could be directed to areas with low vaccination coverage,” said Salunkhe, who is also a former advisor to Maharashtra on Covid-19. Salunkhe believes that the Centre must allow a third dose for the healthcare workers and immunocompromised citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/private-hospitals-urge-for-covid-booster-shots-buyback-to-clear-vaccine-stock-101636641387179.html
11-11-2021||Other||Malik takes stock of Amritsar railway station redevelopment||Amritsar Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Amritsar Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik on Thursday presided over a high-level meeting of railway officials to take stock of ₹800 crore project for the beautification and overall development of the holy city’s railway station. Divisional railway manager (DRM) Dr Seema Sharma; senior divisional commercial manager Chetan Taneja; senior divisional engineer Abhinav Garg and station director Ashok Salaria were among the other senior officials presented in the meeting. Malik said that when he became MP in 2016, Amritsar railway station was in a decrepit state where there was no system of clean drinking water, clean toilets and even escalators remained non-functional. Malik added that with support from Prime Minister Narendra Modi; former Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu, Piyush Goyal and now Ashwani Vaishnav, the Amritsar Railway Station will be a role model for all stations across the country. “Development work has been done at ₹500 crore, and another ₹300 crore will be spent on the facade of the station, under the Public Private Partnership Model (PPP) model. We have also built the Chheharta railway station ar ₹60 crore. To connect the inner city with the civil line, a rail bridge has been built on the Bhandari bridge,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/malik-takes-stock-of-amritsar-railway-station-redevelopment-101636641267101.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane RTO arranges 31 buses to help commuters stranded by MSRTC strike||The Thane Regional Transport Office has arranged for 31 buses to be sent to different parts of the state to help commuters stranded by the ongoing employees’ strike of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation that began on October 28.Thane RTO came to the aid of these commuters and has been arranging the additional private buses for the last three days. These buses were operating at the same ticket fares as the State Transport (ST) buses.An officer from Thane RTO said, “We got information about the commuters stranded at bus depots in Thane, Bhiwandi, Murbad and Shahapur. We have got permission to use school buses and other private buses to use till the strike is going on. The bus operators will charge fares similar to the ST fares. To monitor this, we have also appointed an inspector at every depot who will submit report to the main office daily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-rto-arranges-31-buses-to-help-commuters-stranded-by-msrtc-strike-101636640849358.html
11-11-2021||Other||Kejriwal, Modi not men of principles: Bhattal||Sangrur Former Punjab chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal on Thursday lashed out at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal, accusing him of not taking a clear stance on critical issues and keeping the public confused. “Kejriwal and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are made of the same soil, both shift stance and do not stick to any principles,” she said, adding that the Delhi chief minister changes his stance on water sharing and other issues, based on where he was speaking, be it in Punjab, Haryana or Delhi. “I often say that Kejriwal and Modi are big and younger brothers. I want to ask why the AAP is not giving command in the hands of Punjabis, who were born on a historic land. They have not selected any leader from Punjab. Previously, the AAP appointed a leader from Uttar Prades as in-charge, and now men from Delhi are in-charges,” Bhattal claimed. Bhattal, who addressed the media at the PWD Rest House, praised Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government for its ‘speedy decisions’ on development, but claimed that progress was slow during the tenure of Capt Amarinder Singh.“I used to say Amarinder is my big brother and Navjot Singh Sidhu is my younger brother. Amarinder, however, has changed his stance, but I am still standing on my principles. When Amarinder visited my residence, I advised him to meet Sonia Gandhi, but he quit the party,” she claimed.The former Lehra MLA said she had never left her constituency over the past several years, and had nurtured it well. “Now, it is up to the Congress party to decide whether I or my son Rahul Inder will contest from the Lehra segment in 2022 state assembly polls,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-modi-not-men-of-principles-bhattal-101636640738186.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Common dialect, a bond that survived Partition||Eighteen years ago, one of my friends who was a movie producer arranged a week-long singing tour by the then famous singer, Kumar Sanu, to Malaysia, and he invited me along to cover it as a journalist. We were put up at a splendid property in the Genting Highlands Resorts situated on the peak of Mount Ulu Kali with a few seven-star hotels and a casino in the area. On the first night, dinner was planned at a fine restaurant. The ambience was perfect, and a youngster was singing ghazals and songs for the entertainment of the diners. On spotting Kumar Sanu in the restaurant, the young singer was thrilled and started singing several of his songs as a tribute. During a break in between songs, the singer approached us and sought Sanu’s permission to join us. He took up a seat that was vacant next to me and started talking animatedly with Sanu. After a while, with all five of us at the table enjoying a few good laughs, the singer turned to me and politely enquired about my hometown. Knowing well that he was from Pakistan and concluding, therefore, that he may not be familiar with the interiors of India, I replied that I was from Delhi. “Proper Delhi?” he said. So, I elaborated that I was from a town called Kurukshetra 160km north of Delhi. I sensed that the singer had something more on his mind. A little later, he again enquired if I had been born in Kurukshetra, to which I replied in the negative and explained that I was, in fact, born in Eminabad, which is now in Pakistan. A radiant smile appeared on his face and he exclaimed, “Oh! Mein eho hi toh ab tak janna chah rah tha (That’s what I wanted to figure out).” I was puzzled by his response, but it became clearer as he continued. With great excitement, he informed me that he was from Kamoke, a town close to Eminabad. He explained that there were some aspects of my speech that reminded him of his hometown, which was why he was keen to establish the link. Surprised, I asked him how it was possible as I was all of two years old when my parents shifted from Eminabad after the Partition. Ever since, I’ve been talking in Hindi with a smattering of Punjabi. The singer enumerated several words uttered by me in the past few minutes of our interaction that were typical of the Punjabi-speaking people around Eminabad. A newfound kinship was established through this shared past. The singer described how my birthplace had transformed since Partition. He mentioned that a national express highway passed through the area now, and that land prices had increased exponentially. I let him know that my family had a thriving business and industrial establishment at Kamoke Mandi prior to the Partition. He offered to show me around the area if I were to visit my birthplace. For the next six days, the singer made it a point to meet us at least once a day, and he would regularly bring up our old bond. Though I’ve forgotten his name and contact details, the incident still evokes strong emotions when I recall it. Clearly, language is a shared bond, and the fact that one’s dialect can trace one’s origin back to the birthplace so much later in life, is quite a humbling revelation. We are all products of our environment – the more we are allowed to explore beyond man-made borders, the more we are likely to find common ground; this is even more important now, in these Covid times, when we are being pushed to isolation and distant lives. vijaysabharwal@yahoo.com The writer is a Kurukshetra-based veteran journalist and social activist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/common-dialect-a-bond-that-survived-partition-101636640607119.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||No govt ever honoured specially-abled players, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that the state has made significant efforts to foster sports culture in the last four and a half years. Speaking at the felicitation ceremony for India’s Tokyo Paralympics medallists in Meerut, Adityanath criticised the previous governments for “not honouring the specially-abled players” despite them making the state and the country proud at national and international competitions.The Uttar Pradesh government presented ₹6 crore for gold, ₹4 crore from silver and ₹2 crore for bronze medallists from state to “boost the morale of players” who broughhonour to the country in the Tokyo Paralympics. The Adityanath-led government had also announced ₹2 crore for gold, ₹1.5 crore for silver and ₹1 crore for bronze for medallists from other states.“Each medallist and participant has made the country proud which is why we are felicitating players who belong to other states as well,” he added.Lauding the struggle and sustained efforts of the athletes who won medals at the Tokyo Paralympics, the chief minister said that the Paralympic athletes have “proved that nothing can stop you if you are determined.”“Our athletes never let their physical disabilities stop them, instead they made it their strength,” he hailed the athletes during the mega event held at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture and Technical.Union minister for I&B and Youth Affairs & Sports Anurag Thakur praised the effort of the Uttar Pradesh CM, saying an “atmosphere of ‘fear and corruption’ which used to prevail before 2017 has ended.”“No place can develop without its citizens feeling safe and now every person in the state has the freedom to follow their dreams freely,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-govt-ever-honoured-specially-abled-players-says-yogi-adityanath-101636639183634.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||13.5K in Navi Mumbai confirm taking 2nd vaccination against Covid under different mobile number||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has been looking into the vaccination status of every individual closely in order to make sure that every person has got both the doses.As per the pendency list of 85,897 beneficiaries whose second dose was pending, 41,000 were successfully contacted. Among these, 13,500 (33%) confirmed that they had taken their second dose under a different mobile number. The remaining who haven’t taken the second dose yet gave health reasons or claimed to be outstation.The 85,897 pending beneficiaries are due for the second dose from 85-147 days of which three are due for the second dose since 147 days.“The beneficiaries who took their first dose ideally should not have any hesitation in taking the second dose. Yet, we would soon be initiating a door-to-door drive for the second dose. With slums, we are confident that the door-to-door initiative would be successful,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.The civic body also plans to have vaccination drives at railway stations. “Currently we have 20 buses that are stationed at markets for the vaccination drive. Each bus goes to three or four locations daily for vaccination and it is getting a good response. Each bus is able to vaccinate around 100 people daily. Looking at the response we have received in markets, we plan to start similar initiatives outside railway stations too,” Bangar added.Even as the state had given a target of 11.07 lakh for the vaccination, NMMC has vaccinated 11.32 people with the first dose and 6.44 lakh with the second dose.“We are also planning to get in touch with the state government to make changes in the software and make it mandatory to link Aadhaar card of all the beneficiaries so that the status of vaccination of all the beneficiaries is updated correctly,” Bangar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/135k-in-navi-mumbai-confirm-taking-2nd-vaccination-against-covid-under-different-mobile-number-101636638626674.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||More than 4.39L residents in Kalyan, Dombivli yet to get first vaccination against Covid||More than 4.39 lakh residents in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits have not taken even the first dose of the Covid vaccine, according to the data released by the civic body.This constitutes 32.32% of the total eligible population. Similarly, around 4.01 lakh who have taken the first jab are yet to take their second dose.Out of all the age groups, KDMC claimed that the vaccination per cent is the highest in the 18-45 years age group wherein more than 91.35% of the eligible population in this category has taken the first dose out of the listed 5.77 lakh beneficiaries.Meanwhile 42.01% of this age group has taken their second dose.“The vaccination among the 18-45 years age group has improved in recent days with the introduction of vaccination in colleges for students. We are on the verge of reaching 100% of the first dose for this age group category,” said an officer of the health department, KDMC.Out of the overall total 13.59 lakh listed population, the civic body has so far managed to vaccinate 67.68% with the first dose and 38.15% with the second. While the young population is the most to be vaccinated in the KDMC limits, the vaccination among senior citizens is comparatively less.As per the KDMC records, only 44.27% has been vaccinated with the first dose and 32.66% with second dose in the 60 years and above category.“There is a need to hold a separate camp for senior citizens in all the wards of Kalyan-Dombivli so that most of the senior citizens are vaccinated. They are more vulnerable to the infection and have various other illnesses,” said Dattatray Marathe, president of senior citizen association, Kalyan (E).Recently, the KDMC has started a door-to-door survey in the city to get data on the number of people vaccinated with the first and second doses and those not jabbed with even the first dose. The health workers are also checking if there are beneficiaries who have taken the first dose and are due for the second.“Since the vaccines are available in a good amount now compared to earlier, we have started the door-to-door survey to reach out to people who are not coming to the centres for their vaccination. Meanwhile, they are also contacting residents through the CoWIN app and inquiring,” said Ganesh Doiphode, in-charge of Covid vaccination in KDMC.“Not just checking on the residents, the team is also counselling those residents who are reluctant on taking the dose. Educating and spreading awareness is also a part of this survey taken up by the civic body since the start of this month. The survey will give us an idea of how many are remaining for the first and second doses. In a month, we will get a picture of the same and accordingly we can take up the necessary steps,” added Doiphode.Yogidham Kajal Makhija, a 35-year-old resident of Kalyan (W), said, “As of now, there is no survey happening in big housing societies by the civic body. There are many senior citizens in these buildings who have not taken their jab. The civic body should have a count of them and make sure they are vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-4-39l-residents-in-kalyan-dombivli-yet-to-get-first-vaccination-against-covid-101636634131039.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||UP govt honours Tokyo Paralympics medal winners||MEERUT UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union sports minister Anurag Thakur felicitated Tokyo Paralympics medallists and distributed cash prizes of ₹32.50 crore, along with citations, during a grand function organised at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture and Technology here on Thursday.Addressing the gathering of players and people, the CM hailed the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing a potential platform to upcoming talents in sports through the ‘Khelo India’ and ‘Saansad Khel Pratiyogita’ schemes.India won 19 medals at the Tokyo Paralympics, where 54 para-athletes from across nine sports disciplines represented the nation. This was India’s biggest ever contingent to the Paralympic Games.Yogi announced that UP’s first Sports University would be established in Meerut and its construction work would begin soon. “It will be named after great hockey player Major Dhyan Chand,” he said.Appreciating the growth of the sports goods manufacturing sector under the One District, One Product’ (ODOP) scheme of the government, Yogi said Meerut had taken a leap in this sector. The ODOP scheme was launched in 2018 with a vision to give special identity to districts and linking them with jobs creation.He appreciated the efforts of the paralympians who won medals in Tokyo, braving odd conditions during the pandemic. He made a special mention of Noida district magistrate Suhas LY, saying: “I posted him in Noida during the pandemic and he did exemplary work in controlling Covid and also worked hard on his sports skills to win a medal at the Tokyo paralympics.”The chief minister announced a promotion along with a cash prize of ₹4 crore for his achievements.Sharing changes made in the state’s sports policy to benefit sportspersons, Yogi Adityanath shared that medallist paralympians from across the country had been invited for the felicitation. He announced cash prizes of ₹2 crore for gold medallists, ₹1.5 crore for silver medallists and ₹1 crore for those who bagged bronze.He also announced ₹25 lakh cash prizes each to six para-athletes from UP who represented the country at the Tokyo Paralympics but could not win medals while cash prizes of ₹10 lakh each were also announced for the coaches of the players.Appreciating the efforts of Yogi Adityanath for recognising the efforts of para-athletes, Union sports minister Anurag Thakur said: “It was good to see that he invited para-athletes from across the country to felicitate them.” He said seven out of all the medallist paralympians were from western UP and appreciated the Meerut sports goods industry for its contribution in nurturing sports.Union minister Sanjeev Baliyan, BJP’s former state president Dr LK Bajpayee, MPs Rajendra Agarwal, Satyapal Singh, Vijay Singh and other party leaders shared the Dias with the CM and the sports minister.They also visited the stalls of sports goods exhibited by the Sports Good Manufacturing Association and appreciated their efforts in nurturing sports and promoting sportspersons.RS 2 CR PRIZES FOR PLAYERSAvni Lakhera - Shooting- GoldSumit Antil - Javelin- GoldManish- Shooting- GoldPramod Bhagat- Badminton- GoldKrishna Nagar- Badminton- GoldRS 1.5 CR CASH PRIZESBhavna Patel- Table Tenis- SilverNisha Kumar- High Jump- SilverDevendra Jhajharia- Javelin- SilverYogesh Kathuria- Discus Throw- SilverMariyappan Thangavelu- High Jump- SilverSinghraj Adhana- Shooting- SilverSuhas LY- Badminton- SilverRS 1 CR CASH PRIZESPraveen Kumar- High Jump- BronzeSunder Singh Gujar- High Jump- BronzeSharad Kumar- High Jump- BronzeHarminder- Archery- BronzeManoj- Badminton- BronzeSix para-athletes from UP who represented India at the Tokyo Paralympics received ₹25 lakh cash prizesVaranasi BhatiAjit SinghDeependra SinghAkashVivek ChikaraJyoti BaliyanSuhas LY and Praveen Kumar were given cash prizes of ₹4 crore each||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-honours-tokyo-paralympics-medal-winners-101636632746194.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport operates 30 extra buses as MSRTC strikes||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) is operating 30 extra buses due to the strike by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees.Even as NMMT is providing services across Navi Mumbai and its peripheries, the ST buses were a dominant factor on four specific routes –from Koparkhairane to Uran, from Panvel to Dadar, from Panvel to Kalyan and from Vashi/Panvel to Khopoli. The commuters on these routes faced a lot of troubles when MSRTC started the strike on October 28.Yogesh Kaduskar, general manager of NMMT, said, “Taking the inconveniences of the commuters into consideration, we are now running 30 extra buses on those routes. These buses are doing around 80 trips a day to ensure that the commuters travelling to those places do not face any problem. We will continue with this service till MSRTC calls off the strike.”The commuters, however, complain that despite these extra buses, the frequency is not up to the expectations. Sudheer Salvi, a 51-year-old Nerul resident, said, “Earlier, for travelling from Navi Mumbai to Mumbai on Sion-Panvel Highway, the buses were available every 15-20 minutes (due to MSRTC’s Panvel-Dadar route). Now we have to wait up to 45 minutes to board an NMMT bus to go to Dadar.”Because of the MSRTC strike, NMMT’s other buses going to Mumbai are also receiving a relatively better response. “We have regular buses going to Bandra, Borivali, World Trade Centre, Andheri and Mulund among others. As ST buses are now absent on the roads, more people are boarding our buses to commute locally,” another NMMT official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-transport-operates-30-extra-buses-as-msrtc-strikes-101636632330554.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||4 girls rescued from prostitution racket in Thane; 44-yr-old woman arrested||The Naupada police have busted an alleged prostitution racket that was being operated in a rented apartment in Panchpakhadi, Thane (W), rescuing four young girls and arresting a woman who was allegedly trafficking them.According to the Naupada police, the raid was conducted on the basis of a tip off received by them earlier this week. A team was tasked with verifying the information and after preliminary inquiries confirmed the tip off, the police set about laying a trap. The accused, a 44-year-old woman, was approached through a decoy customer and the accused allegedly called the decoy to a residential building in Panchpakhadi on Tuesday afternoon.“The accused was already present in a rented flat in the building along with four women in the 30-40 years age group. Our team subsequently moved in and took all the five women into custody,” an officer with the Naupada police station said.The officer added that after the accused was questioned and statements were recorded from the four victims, the accused was placed under arrest and charged under the Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act. The victims were subsequently sent to a rehabilitation centre.“According to inquiries so far, the accused has been involved in sex trafficking for several months and has trafficked at least five to seven more women other than the ones rescued in Tuesday’s raid. She has also revealed in her interrogation that she was operating a similar racket in Bhandup and had recently moved to Thane. We suspect her to be a part of a larger operation and are trying to find out the reason behind her shift from Mumbai to Thane,” the officer said. Police inspector Avinash Sondkar, Naupada police station, confirmed the arrest, and added that inquiries were under way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-girls-rescued-from-prostitution-racket-in-thane-44-yr-old-woman-arrested-101636631125982.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede’s family meets chairman of National SC Commission; complains about ‘foul language’ used by minister||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede’s family met chairman of National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vijay Sampla to complain about the language used by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik during appearances in television debates.Wankhede's family claimed that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Malik allegedly used “foul language” while referring to Wankhede's caste and hurt their community. “They (Sameer Wankhede's relatives) met me and complained of the manner in which the minister is appearing on TV and using foul language for them and their caste, they said that their community is hurt and feels insulted,” Sampla told reporters on Thursday.Wankhede’s kin also told the former union minister that their complaints to police went unheeded. “They also say that they had given their complaint to the police too but to no avail. I told my officers today that we will go through all of it and send a notice to the DGP and the chief secretary. If the facts are found to be true, then action should definitely be taken,” he added.Wankhede's father, Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede, filed a police complaint against NCP leader Nawab Malik under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on November 8, alleging that the minister "levelled various false, scandalous, defamatory, slanderous and derogatory remarks" against his family and their caste.Wankhede’s caste became a topic of debate after Malik accused him of forging documents to obtain employment. Malik provided a picture of Wankhede’s first marriage which he claimed took place in consonance with Islamic rituals, and also uploaded a picture of his alleged marriage certificate or nikah nama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-s-family-meets-chairman-of-national-commission-for-scheduled-castes-complains-about-foul-language-used-by-minister-101636629845123.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||UP govt official arrested after video of him sexually abusing female worker goes viral||In an incident of sexual harassment at workplace, an under-secretary-level officer was arrested in Uttar Pradesh after a purported video showing him forcing himself on a female contractual worker surfaced on social media. The incident reportedly took place at Lucknow's Bapu Bhavan that houses several government offices in the state capital.According to news agency PTI, the woman who accused the official of harassing her made the video herself out of frustration as the police were not taking an action against the accused. The accused, Ichharam Yadav, has been harassing and molesting her since 2018, said reports. He even threatened to sack her if she reported the matter.Also read | Mayawati slams UP govt over youth's death in police custodyAs per the woman' complaint submitted at Hussainganj police station, the accused was not arrested even after filing a complaint and showing multiple videos supporting her claim. Only the First Information Report was lodged at her complaint.The incident has triggered a strong criticism of the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government by the Congress. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has once again raked up the issue concerning the security of women in the state.Also read | Muslim youth dies in custody in UP's Kasganj; Cops say suicide, kin differs“Be it secretariat, road or any other place: women are not safe in UP. This is the reality of the government's claims of women safety," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet.सचिवालय हो, सड़क हो या और कोई स्थान: उप्र में महिला असुरक्षित है। सरकार के "महिला सुरक्षा" के दावे की असलियत यही है। उप्र की एक बहन को यौन शौषण की शिकायत पर कार्रवाई न होने के चलते अपने साथ घटी घटना का वीडियो वायरल करना पड़ा। कितना धैर्य और लड़ने की शक्ति होगी उसमें। 1/2“A sister from UP had to make the video of the incident with her viral due to inaction on the complaint of sexual abuse. How much patience and fighting power does she have?" Priyanka added in the tweet in Hindi.A case has been registered by the Hussainganj police under relevant sections and necessary legal action is being taken after arresting the accused, a senior government official told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-official-arrested-after-video-of-him-sexually-abusing-female-worker-goes-viral-101636624448934.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||A large number of fish found dead in Krushnale Lake in Panvel||A large number of fish was found dead in Krushnale Lake under the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) jurisdiction on Wednesday.The local residents spotted the dead fish floating on water in the afternoon and informed the civic officials about it. The residents suspected the polluted water of the lake to be the cause for this.Even as the PCMC officials did not reveal the quantity of the dead fish, the residents said it would be around 20kg. Among the dead fish were Jitada (Indian sea bass), Mogra (catfish), Bombil (Bombay duck) and Bangada (Mackerel). Manish Shirke, a 45-year-old activist from Panvel, said, “Some people from this area throw their household garbage, nirmalya, plastic, thermocol sheets, etc. into the lake. Several vegetable and fruit vendors from the nearby markets are also often spotted throwing their waste there. Due to these actions, the lake water has turned very dirty. However, the PCMC officials have taken no efforts to clean it for the past several years.”Bhupen Patil, a 53-year-old resident, said, “The lake is at the heart of the city and it would not be easy for anyone to mix chemicals with the water. We suspect the fish died due to the polluted water caused by the garbage. The authorities concerned should take this matter seriously and clean all the dirty lakes in the city.”A senior PCMC official said, “We will clean that lake and the work will be started within a few days. We have also coordinated with the officials from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to check the pollution levels and they will come and do the needful soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-large-number-of-fish-found-dead-in-krushnale-lake-in-panvel-101636629746143.html
11-11-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: A walk down memory lane with Poona’s bakeries of 19th century||PUNE The plague paid its first visit to Poona in 1896. It was accompanied by a devastating famine. Thousands died within a couple of years. The houses were vacant, and men jobless. Everybody was scared of dead rats and policemen.Ragho Sakharam Nijsure was 25 when three of his siblings died of the plague leaving their wives and children behind. He now had a family of twenty to take care of. The printing press he worked at had to be shut due to the epidemic. Nijsure, like everybody else, did not know what to do.Perhaps it was this desperation that made him seek a job in a bakery. Working in a bakery, touching bread, and biscuits were considered taboo among many castes of the Hindu religion. The workers in bakeries were almost always Muslims, Parsees, or Anglo-Indians. Aware of the consequences of working in a bakery, Nijsure must have kept his new job hidden from his family, friends, and neighbours. When hunger gets inside you, nothing else can.Nijsure features in an eight-line report published on December 12, 1901, in the newspaper “Jnanaprakash”. It mentions that he worked in a “bhiskutacha karkhana” (biscuit factory) on Sholapur road while omitting the name of the factory.There were two bakeries on Sholapur road – the Government Steam Bakery and Nazareth’s Bakery.The Government Steam Bakery was started in the late 1850s. All the bread and biscuit needed for the British troops stationed at Poona, Kirkee, Bombay, and Ahmednagar were made in this bakehouse.The bread was made at first from “first sort” flour received from Calcutta and Bombay, and subsequently with a portion of Trieste flour, which improved the quality. Biscuits were issued to the troops every week. It was of excellent quality. Bakery products were also supplied from Poona to troops going overseas. “The Record of the Expedition to Abyssinia - 1878” notes that (the biscuit) “kept good for a long time, and was never flinty.” Toddy was used when the bakery started its operations. Around 1890, toddy became dearer, being sold at five annas per measure. It was then replaced by yeast prepared from potatoes and hop flowers.The potatoes were boiled; their skins peeled off and then squeezed into a mass. The mass together with hop flowers was boiled again. A definite quantity of flour was added to the decoction thus got and the whole mixture was allowed to stand till evening. Then it was added to the flour which was to be made into bread.However, the use of yeast thus prepared was limited. Yeast powder or baking powder was not used. The Government Bakery preferred using malt and used yeast rarely.It was rumoured among the Hindu community in Poona city that yeast was actually powdered animal bones. This ensured that they stayed away from bread. Major Rennie, R. A. M. C, in 1870, suggested bread as a vehicle for infection, the native flour being contaminated in kneading, and not heated enough in baking to destroy germs lodged in the centre of the dough. A few cases were recorded by him to support his claim.It was therefore recommended that all bread for the troops should be made in a commissariat bakery, under proper sanitary supervision. The Government thought that it would be most advantageous if the cakes, pastry, and biscuits sold in the coffee-shop and temperance-room in the Cantonment could also be made in the Government bakery, instead of local European bakeries, or in some native bakehouse in the purlieus of the bazaar, “whence they arrived heavy, sodden, and indigestible, and possibly also containing germs of disease in the active state.”In order to achieve this, the Government Steam Bakery installed advanced machinery to make flour and bake cakes and biscuits. The person responsible for this was Joshua Alfred Alexander Turner. Born at Poona on August 10, 1848, he started working in the Royal Gun-Carriage Factory at the age of 15. He later worked in the Mint at Bombay and assisted in the erection of engines, boilers, and machinery, for the new Mint there. He was next in the service of Messrs. W. Nicol and Co., Bombay, assisting in the erection of engines, boilers, cotton-presses, etc. He was then appointed assistant engineer in the Government Mills and Steam Bakery at Poona, and afterwards became head engineer, and ultimately superintendent and engineer of these mills, and inspector of commissariat mills and bakeries. Before Turner retired, he had made sure that the Government Steam Bakery was one of the best in India.However, the products baked in this bakery were largely consumed by the soldiers. Whatever little was left was made available to the common public.To counter this, the Cantonment Magistrate, Colonel La Touché, encouraged a European baker to open a steam-bakery, “whence clean and good bread, flour, and biscuits may be had at lower rates than obtained in the dirty Portuguese hovels of the bazaar”. This was reported in “The Bombay Gazette” on June 10, 1885. The correspondent felt that it was inexplicable that “Poona bread should hitherto have been dearer and inferior to that of Bombay, Poona being a centre of the wheat-producing districts.”“Bombay has had its steam flour mills and European bakeries for years, and we are now equal to Bombay in respect at any rate of the staff of life supply”, the correspondent wrote.The new bakery too was situated on Sholapur road, a capital site for such a factory, being near the waterworks and in an airy and clean part of the Cantonment. The buildings of the new bakery were fitted with “English machinery, including the modern contrivances for converting wheat into flour and flour into bread in the most cleanly and speedy manner possible.”This new bakery mentioned in the report was in all probability Nazareth’s Bakery.Nijsure must have worked in one of these bakeries. The report in “Jnanaprakash” mentions that his friends came to know of his secret when they found his “health certificate.”It could be surmised that at least a few bakeries in Poona were in an unsatisfactory condition. To prevent the spread of contagious diseases through the workmen of the bakeries, a condition was introduced in 1885 by which all workmen in the bakeries should obtain medical certificates as to health. Certificates, however, were not obtained for all the workmen in some of the bakeries. In those places, there were always a set of men under the pay and control of the proprietor or manager of the bakery, who baked bread, while there were other men who hired the oven of the bakery during certain hours.The latter class, as a rule, had no medical certificates, nor did they wear aprons while at work. They worked in the bakery generally during nights. To put an end to this practice, it was proposed the inspectors visited the bake-houses during nights.Nijsure carried a “health certificate”, which meant he was directly employed by the proprietor. But it landed him in trouble. He was asked to pay a fine of ₹100 by a local priest for touching the bread. I do not know if he paid the fine. It didn’t matter if he paid or not. He and his family would likely have been outcasted anyway.“Jnanaprakash” does not mention Nijsure again. I hope he survived in this city.Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on ’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-a-walk-down-memory-lane-with-poona-s-bakeries-of-19th-century-101636627945515.html
11-11-2021||Patna||Bihar health dept botches up age cap for appointment of IGIMS director||The Bihar health department has made a mistake in fixing the qualifying upper age limit and that of completion of tenure while issuing an advertisement for the post of the director at Patna’s Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institution under the government of Bihar, people privy to it in the department said. The department, while prescribing age relaxation from 60 to 65 years in case of re-employment of government servants, has allegedly overlooked changing the age criteria for “tenure of post” in the advertisement. “…the director shall hold office for the term of five years from the date on which s/he enters upon his/her office (till) s/he attains the age of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier,” reads the advertisement. The qualifying upper age limit, however, mentioned in the advertisement, remains 60 years, “relaxable for government servants or specially qualified and experienced candidates,” says the advertisement. It further says, “A government servant in the service can be appointed on deputation on foreign service terms up to a period of five years. Retired government servant can be re-employed. (Upper age limit relaxed up to 65 years in this case).” Officials said the advertisement was fallacious. “How can the qualifying upper age limit on relaxation in case of re-employment of retired government servant, and the maximum age bar against tenure be the same?” a senior officer in the health department pointed out to HT. Sample this. In this case, Dr Nihar Ranjan Biswas, director, IGIMS, completes his term at the IGIMS on February 25, next year, while he attains the age of superannuation of 65 years in May 2022. Given the present eligibility criteria in the advertisement, Dr Biswas can re-apply for the director’s post, but will be eligible to serve the institute only for a few months, if selected, till he turns 65 years of age in May. “The government should have either increased the tenure of director’s post beyond 65 years of age or kept the qualifying upper age bar lower than 65 years to allow an experienced incumbent a reasonable time to perform. Instead, it hasn’t changed the tenure age cap of 65 years while allowing age relaxation up to 65 years for retired government servants seeking re-employment,” said the officer quoted above. The ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW) has raised the qualifying age bar from 62 years, prescribed for the director earlier, to 67 years, and also the tenure age bar from 65 to 70 years while issuing an advertisement for the post of executive director (ED) at each of the seven new AIIMS at Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Rishikesh (Uttarakhand), Guwahati (Assam), Awantipora (Jammu & Kashmir), Patna and Darbhanga (both in Bihar). The health ministry had issued the advertisement for executive directors of seven AIIMS in April. The state health department issued the advertisement for director of IGIMS in October, but did not make the necessary changes. The IGIMS rules are based on the premise of AIIMS-Delhi. The last date for submission of application by candidates is November 15. “The health department can still do a course correction by making necessary amendment to the advertisement and increasing the tenure age cap to 70 years, as done by the Central government for executive directors of the seven new AIIMS,” said another officer. Senior state health officers did not respond when contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-health-dept-botches-up-age-cap-for-appointment-of-igims-director-101636627827660.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction: Amarinder asks Punjab govt not to politicise national security||Rejecting the Punjab government resolution moved in the Vidhan Sabha on Thursday against the Centre’s move to extend the operational jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh asked the state government not to politicise the issue of national security for petty partisan motives. Also read: BSF jurisdiction: Punjab assembly unanimously passes resolution against Centre’s move“The operational jurisdiction of the BSF concerns national security and not law and order in the state, which the current powers that be in Punjab are apparently not able to understand,” he said in a statement issued in Chandigarh. Capt Amarinder Singh said that it was sad that the government was trying to politicise an issue that concerns national security and all border states, including Punjab. Needed to counter Pakistani drones He said that it’s not only Punjab but states such as Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Gujarat, West Bengal and others where the BSF jurisdiction is 50km inside the international border. The former chief minister added that Pakistan is using sophisticated technology and highly improvised drones with a range of 30km, so it is important that the BSF gets more operational jurisdiction. “Extending the operational jurisdiction of the BSF neither infringes upon the federal authority of the state, nor questions the competence of the state police in maintaining law and order, as some vested political interests are trying to make out,” he said. Difference between law and order and national security He said that there is a huge difference between law and order and national security. “Unfortunately, people playing up the issue are unable to make out the difference between law and order and national security,” he said, adding, “The BSF like Punjab Police is our own force and not any external or foreign force coming to occupy our land.” Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Thursday moved a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha’s special session, demanding the withdrawal of the Union home ministry’s directive that increases the BSF jurisdiction. Randhawa termed it an expression of distrust towards the state police and people of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-jurisdiction-amarinder-asks-punjab-govt-not-to-politicise-national-security-101636627825526.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Close to half of Dharavi’s targeted population fully vaccinated against Covid-19||About 45-50% of Dharavi’s population that was targeted for Covid-19 vaccination, comprising residents aged 18 years and above, has been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease, according to Mumbai’s Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Authorities, however, said it is difficult to know the exact number of people in Dharavi who have been fully vaccinated against Covid-19.Door-to-door surveys conducted by the civic body’s health officials are only giving ballpark estimates. Dharavi has a total population of around 445,000 as per the 2011 census, which includes. The BMC’s door-to-door surveys in Dharavi conducted for pulse polio or for the “My Family, My Responsibility” campaign showed that the total population of the area could be higher than the 2011 census estimation by about 50,000-60,000. Also Read: Dharavi records zero fresh Covid-19 cases on six days in OctoberA senior civic official from the G North ward said, “It is possible to only estimate… the population of Dharavi as we also have a large number of floating population in the area, who come in daily or weekly. Also, some of them who are not residents of Dharavi choose to get vaccinated at an NGO-operated health post or CSR-organised camps.” There are two municipal vaccination centres in Dharavi. A private hospital and a bank have been operating camps under CSR, and pledged to vaccinate 100,000 beneficiaries with the first dose and another 100,000 with the second dose. “Those who get vaccinated at these camps do not get counted in our total vaccination figures,” the official said. So far, 50,908 people have been fully vaccinated against Covid-19 at municipal vaccination centres, with 127,985 having taken the first dose. In April and March, the BMC saw a slow response to Covid-19 vaccination among the residents of Dharavi. Many were unaware about the documents required for a jab, and several residents didn’t have the necessary papers. “[But] now there is more awareness about taking the vaccine. Also, fear surrounding the issue [of vaccination] has gone down. Moreover, the vaccine has become compulsory in many services and for accessing some markets. So, the vaccination drive has taken off well since July,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/close-to-half-of-dharavi-s-targeted-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid19-101636627345571.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt passes resolution against Centre’s farm laws||The Punjab assembly passed a resolution against the Centre’s three farm laws during the special session of the state assembly in Chandigarh on Thursday. Punjab agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha moved the resolution that was followed by a debate marred by four adjournments, totalling an hour after chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi passed remarks against Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia. During the debate, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu blamed the Shiromani Akali Dal for the three laws and said the beginning was made by then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal by notifying the Contract Farming Act, 2013. Sidhu sought the abolition of the Act passed during the Akali-BJP government’s tenure, terming it anti-farmer. Also read: BSF jurisdiction: Punjab assembly unanimously passes resolution against Centre’s moveLeader of opposition in the assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema of the Aam Aadmi Party, also accused the Akalis of supporting the farm laws. Even after these laws were framed, he said, SAD president Sukhbir Badal, former CM Parkash Singh Badal and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal supported the laws and only snapped ties with the BJP when farmers were opposed to the laws and started the protest. Farmers have been protesting since November 26 last year against the three farm laws, namely the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains. Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa asked the Aam Aadmi Party MLAs to join the Congress in condemning the Akalis for walking out when the resolution against the three farm laws was introduced. Capt comes in for rare praise from bête noire Sidhu praised former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for introducing the Termination of Water Treaties Act in 2004 to safeguard Punjab’s interest. He said the minimum support price (MSP), Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC), and public distribution system (PDS) were introduced during the Congress government’s tenures. Sidhu also praised Capt Amarinder Singh on steps taken for farm debt waiver in the state. House adjourned four times over CM’s remark against MajithiaConcluding the debate on the resolution on the three farm laws, chief minister Channi accused Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia of corruption and smuggling. This led to a vociferous protest from Majithia and other Akali MLAs, who entered into the well of the House, objecting to Channi’s remarks. A heated exchange ensued between Akali and Congress MLAs. The House was adjourned for four times to restore order. Deputy speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti extended the adjournment by 15 minutes while Akali and Congress MLAs were called for a separate meeting.Meanwhile, Sidhu claimed that the Akalis were deliberately creating a ruckus in the House to cover their failures on the farm laws.Akalis demand CM apologise to Majithia; barred from HouseWhen the House resumed after almost an hour’s adjournment, Adampur Akali MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu said Channi had diverted the attention of the House from the debate on the three farm laws and should apologise to Majithia.Leader of opposition Harpal Cheema said Channi had no right to speak ill of any MLA and asked why the special task force report on drug smuggling had not been made public. Even after the resolution was passed, Akali MLAs continued to protest against Channi and were adamant that he apologise. The House was adjourned yet again and the protesting Akali MLAs were barred from attending the House proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-govt-moves-resolution-against-centre-s-farm-laws-in-punjab-assembly-101636625305055.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Gangster among three men arrested after shootout in Delhi’s Bawana||An alleged member of the Rajesh Bawania gang was among three men arrested after a shootout with police in Delhi’s Bawana on Thursday. Police said Manbir Mohit alias Rancho, 24, the alleged gangster, was shot in the leg during the shootout but was stable at a hospital.This was the second shootout between police and criminals in Delhi within 48 hours. In the early hours of Tuesday, a shootout was reported near the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences between three alleged snatchers and a police team. One Abhi Saurav, who was allegedly involved in at least seven cases of robbery and snatching, was injured in the shootout.Also Read: Three arrested after shootout at midnight near New Delhi’s AIIMS campusDeputy police commissioner Brijendra Yadav said they were tipped off that Bawania gang members wanted in cases of murders and robbery were visiting Bawana on Thursday. “Our team laid a trap and the three men were spotted on a motorcycle. After our informer identified them, they were asked to surrender but instead of surrendering, they fired at the police team. In retaliation, our police team also fired at them, and in the process... Rancho was hit on his leg. The three were then overpowered and arrested,” said Yadav.Police identified the other two arrested men as Naresh, 42, and Madan, 36. Police were probing the criminal history of the three. Their gang has been involved in murder, robbery, and extortion. Rajesh Bawania was arrested in 2014 and remains behind bars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-among-three-men-arrested-after-shootout-in-delhi-s-bawana-101636622424641.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Employee found dead at Delhi's Tis Hazari Court, probe on||An employee of the Delhi Bar Association was found dead inside a chamber in the Tis Hazari Court on Thursday morning. Police reached the spot after receiving the information about the death at the court.According to news agency PTI, the deceased was a temporary employee of the Delhi Bar Association.Speaking to PTI, deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said the deceased was a tuberculosis patient and chronic alcoholic. He added that the dust bin in the chamber in the west wing of the court complex had blood-laced vomit.No external injuries were found on the body, the officer further said.According to reports, the deceased was working as a peon with the association.A further investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/employee-found-dead-at-delhi-s-tis-hazari-court-probe-on-101636621983611.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Bar Association employee found dead at Tis Hazari court complex||A junior employee of the Delhi Bar Association was found dead inside the Tis Hazari court complex in the Capital on Thursday morning. A team of officials reached the spot and started a probe after the man’s body was found near chamber 192 inside the court complex. Officials aware of the developments at the Tis Hazari court complex said police have identified the deceased as Manoj, a man in his 30s who worked with the bar association. Police said Manoj used to spend the nights at the court complex. Advocate Vishnu Sharma, co-chairman of the Bar Council of Delhi, said Manoj was found dead with stab wounds on his body. Also Read: Delhi University professor murdered wife for dowry in Burari house, say police“This incident has come to light just now. Police have reached the spot. There are about 30-40 employees of the bar association. He was one of them,” Sharma said.Delhi police are yet to issue an official statement on the mysterious case.Courts across New Delhi have been on high alert after gangster Jitender Gogi’s murder inside the Rohini court complex two months ago. Following Gogi’s killing by his rival Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuria on September 24, Delhi police passed on the task of handling security at the city’s courts to a special security wing - a high-level unit within the police force that deals with key security matters. Before Gogi’s murder, local police personnel used to handle the security of the seven lower courts in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bar-association-employee-found-dead-at-tis-hazari-court-complex-101636621704773.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police start inquiry into Sameer Wankhede’s complaint||Mumbai police have started an inquiry into a complaint lodged by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede with the National Commission for Scheduled Castes. Sameer Wankhede, caught in a firestorm since last month over the drugs bust case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, had lodged a complaint with the commission against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik. The inquiry is being conducted by assistant commissioner of police (ACP)-level officers who have recorded Sameer Wankhede’s statement.A senior police officer confirmed the development and said Mumbai police recorded Sameer Wankhede’s statement last week and may record the officer’s statement again, if required.The inquiry is being conducted by ACP Rekha Bhavre of Mumbai’s Borivali division. Sameer Wankhede’s complaint was lodged with the Goregaon police. But as the ACP post of the Goregaon division was vacant at that time, the ACP of Borivali division was tasked to take up the matter.Also Read: SRK’s manager to be summoned again, say cops as Pooja Dadlani skips questioningComplaints received under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act are investigated by an ACP rank officer, according to legal provisions.Sameer Wankhede has faced a series of allegations levelled against him by minister Nawab Malik since last month in connection with the drugs bust case. Malik made the allegations via press conferences and Twitter posts. In his complaint to the SC commission, Sameer Wankhede raised objections to words such as “bogus” that Nawab Malik allegedly used while referring to his family. Sameer Wankhede had trashed all the allegations, saying Malik targeted his family and went personal in his attacks. The top NCB officer also visited New Delhi and met the SC commission’s chief, submitting documents related to his first marriage and subsequent divorce, in the context of some allegations made by Nawab Malik.Following Sameer Wankhede’s complaint, the national commission had issued a notice to the Maharashtra government on October 29, asking it to submit a report within seven days.A police officer, who wished not to be named, said, “We are looking into the complaint. All the allegations… are being looked into. Statements of other witnesses are also being recorded. If we can make out a cognisable offence… a First Information Report (FIR) would be registered and an investigation would commence. A report of the findings of the police enquiry would also be sent to the commission.”Earlier, Yasmeen Wankhede, Sameer Wankhede’s sister, filed a complaint at Oshiwara police, seeking the registration of an FIR against Malik for allegedly defaming her.Sameer Wankhede’s aunt Gunfabai Gangadhar Bhalerao also filed a case against Malik in Aurangabad under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Some of Sameer Wankhede’s family members and relatives have lodged complaints at Washim and Goregaon police stations in Mumbai.The NCB’s special enquiry team (SET), which is carrying out a departmental vigilance probe, has also recorded Sameer Wankhede’s statement. The SET was constituted after one of the “panch witnesses” of the drugs bust case, Prabhakar Sail, alleged in an affidavit that he overheard his former employer Kiran Gosavi, also a witness in the case, talking to a person about “settling the matter” for ₹18 crore and that Sameer Wankhede would need to be paid ₹8 crore.Mumbai police also formed an SET to look into the allegations made by Sail and have recorded statements of more than 15 individuals. The SET has summoned Shah Rukh Khan’s manager Pooja Dadlani and waiting for her to be present before the cops so that her statement could be recorded. She skipped the summons citing health issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-start-inquiry-into-sameer-wankhede-s-complaint-101636620204566.html
11-11-2021||Noida||Job fair for Noida, Greater Noida locals on Nov 13, 14||A two-day employment fair will be organised for youth in Noida and Greater Noida on November 13 and 14, officials said here on Wednesday.The job fair is being organised by the Noida Authority, the Greater Noida Authority, and the Yamuna Expressway Authority, they said."The job fair is for young men and women seeking employment in private companies located in Noida and Greater Noida. The job fair would be held on November 13 and 14 at the Noida Shilp Haat in Sector 33A of Noida," according to a Noida Authority statement."Interested candidates can reach the venue with their resumes and qualifications certificates to apply for jobs. Companies would then select candidates as per their requirements," it stated.The job fair is being held together by the three local development authorities in view of continued protests by farmers whose land had been acquired by the government in the past, officials said."The objective of this job fair is to connect companies and job aspirant men and women. This fair would also help family members of farmers and other locals get employment," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/job-fair-for-noida-greater-noida-locals-on-nov-13-14-101636617767482.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Kasganj: Mayawati slams UP govt over youth's death in police custody||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government over the death of a youth in police custody in the Kasganj district and demanded a high-level inquiry into the incident.Twenty-two-year-old Altaf, who was called for questioning in a kidnapping case, died at the Kasganj police station on Tuesday evening. The police said that Altaf was accused of eloping with a minor Hindu girl and strangled himself in the washroom of the lockup.However, Altaf's family members alleged that he was killed by the police.Taking to Twitter, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati said the death of another youth in police custody is very shameful and sad."The government should give strict punishment to the culprits by conducting a high-level inquiry into the incident and also help the victim's family,” Mayawati said. कासगंज में पुलिस कस्टडी में एक और युवक की मौत अति-दुखद व शर्मनाक। सरकार घटना की उच्चस्तरीय जाँच कराकर दोषियों को सख़्त सजा दे तथा पीड़ित परिवार की मदद भी करे। यूपी सरकार आएदिन कस्टडी में मौत रोकने व पुलिस को जनता की रक्षक बनाने में विफल साबित हो रही है यह अति-चिन्ता की बात।She added that it was a matter of great concern that the state government was proving to be a failure in preventing deaths in custody.Five police personnel have been suspended for their negligence in the Kasganj case.On Wednesday, the Congress and the Samajwadi Party (SP) too lambasted the state government over Tuesday's incident.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav claimed Altaf's death as suspicious and that the suspension of police personnel is a mere eyewash. "In this case, a judicial probe should be held to generate confidence in the police in the BJP regime," Yadav tweeted.Meanwhile, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi cited other cases of custodial deaths in Uttar Pradesh and said the law and order situation is in complete disarray under the Bharatiya Janata Party's rule."Is there anything called human rights left in Uttar Pradesh?" Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kasganj-mayawati-slams-up-govt-over-youth-s-death-in-police-custody-101636613793432.html
11-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's Covid-19 tally rises by 328, 9 deaths||Karnataka reported 328 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,90,856 and the toll to 38,131. The day also saw 247 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,44,669, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban continued to top in the number of cases (176), as the city saw 102 discharges and five deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is now 8,027. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.27 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.74 per cent, the bulletin said. Out of 9 deaths reported on Wednesday five were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Dakshina Kannada (2) and one each from Bengaluru Rural and Ramanagara.Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 176, Hassan 29, Mysuru 15, Chikkamagaluru 14, Dakshina Kannada 13, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district also headed the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,53,353, followed by Mysuru 1,79,345 and Tumakuru 1,20,911. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,30,482, followed by Mysuru 1,76,750 and Tumakuru 1,19,632. Cumulatively a total of 5,16,90,177 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,17,748 were done on Wednesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-covid-19-tally-rises-by-328-9-deaths-101636614842635.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Increasing BSF jurisdiction shows distrust towards Punjab Police: Deputy CM||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, on Thursday moved a resolution, demanding the withdrawal of the Union home ministry’s directive that increases the Border Security Force’s (BSF) jurisdiction from 15km to 50km in the state. Also read: Punjab assembly: AAP, Akali MLAs protest, want special session extendedRandhawa termed the Centre’s move an attack on the federal structure and an expression of distrust towards the state police and the people of Punjab. He said the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in Punjab will challenge the notification in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The resolution moved by Randhawa said: “Punjab is a land of martyrs and the brave. Punjabis have made exemplary sacrifices in the freedom struggle and later on in the wars of 1962, 1965, 1971 and 1999 and received gallantry awards. Punjab Police is a unique patriotic force that has contributed in maintaining the unity and integrity of the country. According to the Constitution, maintaining law and order is the responsibility of the state government and for this purpose the government of Punjab is fully competent.” He said: “The decision of extending the jurisdiction of BSF from 15km to 50km by the Union government is an expression of distrust towards the state police and the people of Punjab. This is their insult, too. The Union government should have consulted the state government before taking such a major decision. The law and order situation in Punjab is totally under control. Extending the jurisdiction of BSF is symbolic of petty politics. All parties of Punjab have unanimously condemned this decision and demanded the Centre withdraw the October 11order issued by the ministry of home affairs, Government of India. Therefore, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha unanimously resolves that a resolution rejecting the notification of the central government in this regard may be passed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/increasing-bsf-jurisdiction-shows-distrust-towards-punjab-police-deputy-cm-101636613245169.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly: AAP, Akali MLAs protest, want special session extended||Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal MLAs on Thursday held protests in support of their demand to extend the special session of the Punjab assembly. Objecting to the adjournment of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha sine die after Thursday’s special sitting, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema of the AAP objected to the cancellation of question hour and zero hour. Also read: Punjab politics: Akalis, farmers clash in Ferozepur during Harsimrat’s visitThe legislators of both the AAP and the SAD entered the well of the House soon after it assembled for the special session and raised slogans against the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government, demanding a discussion on the shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilizer that has delayed wheat sowing in the state besides other issues. The Akali legislators arrived wearing black aprons and later staged a walkout. Earlier, the SAD had urged Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana KP Singh to extend the duration of the special session to 10 days to discuss key issues and take stock of the “unfulfilled promises” of the Congress government during the last session of the present House. Besides the DAP supply, the Akalis want complete loan waiver of ₹90,000 crore to farmers; jobs or unemployment allowance of ₹2,500 a month; increase in social benefits, including old age pension and shagun scheme; compensation to cotton growers after the recent pest attack; scholarship to Scheduled Caste students; and action against corrupt ministers and MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-aap-akali-mlas-protest-want-special-session-extended-101636611264532.html
11-11-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Bangle seller’s bail plea hearing deferred again||The hearing of a bail application at the Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court by a bangle seller who was arrested on molestation charges was on Tuesday deferred for the fifth time in two months.Taslim Ali, a resident of Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh who used to sell bangles, was picked up by police in Indore for allegedly molesting a 13-year-old girl and also for carrying two Aadhaar cards and two voter ID cards.Ali has been in the Indore district jail since August 23. He was arrested a day after he filed a complaint against several persons, alleging that they beat him and took away cash worth more than ₹10,000. Also Read: Extortion case: Third non-bailable warrant issued against Param Bir SinghFour persons who were arrested for allegedly beating up the bangle seller were granted bail and released from the district jail in September. Appearing in court for Ali, advocate Ehtesham Hashmi said, “Justice is getting delayed. Everybody knows that he didn’t do anything [wrong]. We have eyewitnesses, but he is [still] not getting bail.” The hearing of Ali’s bail petition at the high court had earlier been deferred due to various reasons after a sessions court rejected the bail plea on September 4.Hashmi said that he wouldn’t comment on judiciary proceedings, but the police and government counsel were trying to delay the matter.The government counsel Aditya Garg said, “Hearings can get deferred due to many reasons, it’s not an unusual thing. I can’t comment on this.”Taslim Ali’s brother Jamal Ali said the family has been facing a tough time financially since the bangle seller’s arrest. “Taslim has five children and he was the family’s sole breadwinner. I am waiting for his bail, so that we could return to our village,” said Jamal Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-bangle-seller-s-bail-plea-hearing-deferred-again-101636610544213.html
11-11-2021||Gurugram||Haryana reports 13 new Covid-19 cases; 9 from Gurugram||Haryana on Wednesday reported no Covid-related death but thirteen fresh cases of infections, pushing the total case count to 771,368. According to the Health Department's daily bulletin, the death toll remained unchanged at 10,050.Among the districts, nine cases were reported from Gurugram.The total active cases in the state were 95 while the overall recoveries were 761,200.The recovery rate was 98.68 percent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-reports-13-new-covid-19-cases-9-from-gurugram-101636606946240.html
11-11-2021||Patna||Chhath Puja festivities in Bihar wrap up after four days||The four-day Chhath Puja festivities in Bihar and other parts of the country wrapped up with devotees offering prayers on Thursday morning, the concluding day of the festival. Chief minister Nitish Kumar offered prayers at his official residence on Thursday along with his relatives. On Wednesday, too, the Bihar CM offered prayers and took a motorboat ride down the Ganges in Patna to greet devotees, who had turned up in hundreds of thousands at the city’s various ghats to offer prayers that are called “sandhya arghya”. Also Read: Devotees offer ‘Usha Arghya’ to the Sun on the last day of Chhath PujaThe Chhath Puja festivities this year were more vibrant and elaborate than they were last year, when Covid-19 restrictions were in place. Chhath Puja is Bihar’s most celebrated annual festival, comprising elaborate rituals and fasting by devotees. The Chhath Puja festival, which started this year on November 8, was also marked by people with roots in Bihar who are settled across the country as well as abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chhath-puja-wraps-up-after-four-days-of-festivities-101636606764097.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray hospitalised for treatment of neck pain||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday was admitted to a hospital for the treatment of neck pain, an official statement issued by the chief minister's office (CMO) said. In an official statement, Thackeray said that he has neglected his neck pain in his commitment to the government's battle against the Covid-19 pandemic.“I didn't even have time to lift my neck, of course, I said no to my neck pain, but I ignored it a little bit and the effect on my neck happened,” the statement said.“The doctor advised me to get proper treatment for this pain and will stay in the hospital for two or three days and get the proper treatment,” it added.The chief minister further stated that it is very important for everyone to take two doses of Covid-19 vaccines. “All you need to do is go to the nearest centre and get vaccinated immediately to keep your life safe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-hospitalised-for-treatment-of-neck-pain-101636604585912.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees decline in Covid-19 hospitalisations||With Maharashtra seeing a general decline in the daily Covid-19 caseload, the number of patients in the state hospitalised for the coronavirus disease has also fallen, recording 6,495. On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 1,094 new Covid-19 cases and 17 fresh deaths.The total case tally of the state stood at 6,620,423 on Wednesday, while the death toll touched 140,447. The test positivity rate for the day was 0.88%. Mumbai recorded 339 new cases and three deaths on Wednesday, taking its overall toll to 16,285.A total of 2,783 patients were in critical condition, with 1,132 in intensive care unit (ICU). Of the ICU patients, 587 were on ventilator support.Also Read: Mandaviya to meet health ministers to push for door-to-door vaccinationOn October 11, there were 12,756 hospital admissions for Covid-19, of which 5,048 were serious, with 2,043 patients in ICU.The number of Covid-19 cases recorded between November 3 and 9 has dropped to 6,364 from 8,430 reported between October 27 to November 2.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “We focused on isolating the infected patients and preventing the spread [of Covid-19]. In addition, we provided timely medication to prevent the patients’ condition from deteriorating. It paid huge dividends in the form of declining cases. Currently, most of the patients being admitted are mostly either senior citizens or people with comorbidities.”Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director at Masina Hospital at Byculla, Mumbai, said there are hardly any admissions of Covid-19 patients at the hospital. “We had around 80 Covid-19 patients admitted during the peak of the second wave in April. There was also a waiting list of at least 30 patients. Now we do not have any Covid-19 patients at all. Currently, the patients being infected with Covid-19 are displaying mild symptoms and they don’t need hospitalisation,” said Dr Mehra. Active cases in Maharashtra dipped to 12,410 from 15,485 on November 2. Around 80% of active patients were from five districts - Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Ahmednagar and Raigad. Among them, Mumbai has the most number of active cases at 3,532, followed by Pune (2,951).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-maharashtra-sees-decline-in-covid-19-hospitalisations-101636599383506.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab politics: Akalis, farmers clash in Ferozepur during Harsimrat’s visit||Activists of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) accused other of opening fire during a clash in Ferozepur during Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s visit on Wednesday.Police did not confirm the firing or anyone sustaining bullet injuries. However, a sports utility vehicle of Guru Har Sahai SAD candidate Vardev Singh Noni Mann was damaged with lathis by protesting farmers.Also read: Shortage of DAP fertiliser delays wheat sowing in PunjabThe SKM claimed that five farmers were injured when vehicles of Akali leaders allegedly tried to run over protesters. A video went was widely shared on social media where a few people were seen stopping Mann’s SUV in the middle of the road and then jumping on its bonnet. Later, they were seen in another video smashing the vehicle with lathis in a market.Akali leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal was in Ferozepur city on Wednesday to hold a series of party programmes. SKM activists, led by Harnek Singh Mehma, the district president of the Bharti Kisan Union (Dakaunda) had gathered to protest Harsimrat’s scheduled visit.Mehma said a delegation of farmers wanted to meet Harsimrat to raise questions related to the welfare of the agrarian community. “As we gathered, SAD leaders tried to hit us deliberately. In an attempt to save ourselves, I and a few others jumped on the bonnet of Mann’s car that dragged us to a distance. At least seven rounds were fired but we survived,” Mehma claimed while addressing the media.Denying the charges, Mann said a group of protesters led by Mehma attacked his SUV. “My vehicle was following the convoy of Harsimrat. Since I was trailing, the mob started smashing my vehicle and several rounds were fired. My personal security officer, a Punjab Police constable, had to open fire in the air in self-defence,” Mann claimed.Ferozepur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmandeep Singh Hans said: “This is a serious matter and I am personally looking into all aspects. It is premature to comment on the use of firearms by either side or a PSO attached with the Akali leader. We are examining various videos.”In a statement, general secretary of the BKU (Ekta Ugharan) Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said the SKM has resolved to hold a protest march in Ferozepur on Thursday in support of a demand to register a case of attempt to murder against the Akali leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-politics-akalis-farmers-clash-in-ferozepur-during-harsimrat-s-visit-101636599023754.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Eye on UP polls, Priyanka Gandhi to launch ‘padayatra’ in Lucknow today||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will on Thursday take out a ‘padyatra’ (foot march) across various parts of Lucknow as part of the grand old party's ‘Pragati Yatra’ launched last month in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. The foot march today is scheduled to begin at the Badi Kaliji temple in the Chowk area and end at the Dargah Hazrat Abbas after cutting through the Old City.According to a letter that the local Congress committee in Lucknow issued for the people of the city, the padyatra aims to raise awareness regarding the party's electoral promises, especially in the interest of women and public welfare.The route chosen for Priyanka Gandhi's foot march is seen as politically significant; according to Congress, it is intended to play on the "secular" chord of a Lucknow long past to propagate the party's idea of a nation. As per a report citing Ajay Kumar Lallu, the UP Congress chief, the padyatra on Thursday is aimed at reminding people that the thread which binds India is a shared legacy “above the realms of caste and religion”.Priyanka Gandhi has been active in campaigning for the party in Uttar Pradesh, ahead of the state assembly polls next year. She has taken the lead during Congress protests over a host of issues in the recent months, including the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, and issues of farmers, labourers and traders. On Wednesday, she also slammed the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government for allegedly attacking Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) workers in Shahjahanpur.Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go for assembly polls early next year.In the 2017 UP Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had secured 312 seats in the elections for the 403-member House. Samajwadi Party (SP) had bagged 47 seats, BSP had won 19 while Congress had bagged seven seats in the last Assembly polls in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eye-on-up-polls-priyanka-gandhi-to-launch-padayatra-in-lucknow-today-101636588405647.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Substandard living conditions irk voters of ward 3||On election day, voters in ward number 3, will go for a candidate who resolves the ever-increasing parking problem, works towards improving sanitation levels and upgrading the sewage system.After the reorganisation of wards, most areas of the erstwhile ward 19, are now the constituents of the Ward 3. It includes Sector 26, Sector 26-E, EWS Colony, Bapu Dham Colony Phase 1, 2 and 3, Police Line (Sector 26) and Madrasi Colony (Sector 26). Transport area has been excluded from the new ward.At the centre of the ward is one of the oldest clusters of housing created for economically weaker sections (EWS) of the society – the Bapu Dham Colony phases 1, 2 and 3. Created more than 40 years ago, the colony has expanded over the year in different phases. The area came into limelight last year when it became the city’s epicentre of Covid pandemic.“At the time of its inception, in fact even a decade ago, nobody visualised that people would face car parking problems. Even the planners didn’t earmark parking space in EWS housing. But now the situation has changed dramatically --for the worse,” said Harish Kumar, a local resident who runs a taxi. Residents complain the “community parking” space in the community centre is not enough. It only provides space for 30-40 cars, and so most of the cars are parked either on the roadside or in small parks and there is no space left even for emergency vehicles to reach the interiors of the area, say residents.An older problem for the area is the sewerage system. “The sewerage system was recently re-laid. But in areas like phase 2 and 3, the sewage overflows and leakages still remain. Either the MC didn’t complete the job systematically or the material used was substandard,” said Prakash Singh, a resident who works in a factory in Baddi.Health infrastructure also needs improvements in the area, say residents. Akash Shankar, an engineer and social activist, said, “There is a dispensary in the mandi but for the large population of the area, it is inadequate. A health centre with better facility is required here.”A visit to the area indicates roads in most areas and outer parks are in relatively good shape. Though residents inform that these improvements have happened only in the last four or five months. The general sanitation and garbage collection system, say residents, leave much to be desired. Yogesh Arora, running a wholesale business in vegetable and fruits, says, “MC garbage vans do come but the numbers are highly inadequate. People end up dumping their garbage in the open. Cleanliness should also be done more comprehensively in the area.” In the last elections, Dalip Sharma won as an independent candidate though later he joined the Bharatiya Janata Party.Yanki Kaliya, from opposition Congress party and a resident of Madrasi Colony, said, “There is space available for additional parking but nothing was done on this. No major projects have come up. Other colonies have new community centres, sports complex, etc but here we have nothing.”Sharma, said, “We have resolved most of the issues related to roads, sewage, parks and sanitation in the last five years.” On the parking problems, he said, “Earlier, there was no such problem, it has cropped up only recently. We will provide solution to it too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-substandard-living-conditions-irk-voters-of-ward-3-101636588948085.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Delhi judokas dominate Punjab Judo Association tourney||Delhi judokas dominated the second day of the National Cadet and Sub-Junior Judo Championship being organised by Punjab Judo Association under the aegis of Judo Federation of India at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, by clinching as many as six gold medals and two silver medals.AAP announces ward in-charges A day after “mistakenly” announcing the name of six candidates for the forthcoming MC elections, Aam Admi Party on Wednesday re-announced the same names but this time as election incharges of these same wards. Vandana Yadav has been appointed in-charge from ward number 9, Sandeep Dahiya from Ward No. 12, Ramchandra Yadav from Ward No. 15, Taruna Mehta from Ward No. 18, Amardeep Singh from Ward No. 27, and Sandeep Bhardwaj from Ward No. 35. Thieves strike at former govt official’s houseThieves targeted the Sector-51 house of a former inspector at customs department when the family was out for a ceremony of their son’s wedding on Tuesday. Complainant Ajesh said gold worth ₹15 lakh along with eight watches, one laptop, one DSLR camera and ₹1.5 lakh were stolen. Two held with illicit liquorTwo persons were arrested with illicit liquor from different parts of the city. Sandeep of Sector 25 was nabbed with 15 bottles of countrymade wine, while Anita of Colony Number 4 was held with 48 quarters of King Gold whiskey. Youth arrested for gamblingAjay, 24, a resident of Kishangarh, was arrested for gambling near the community centre in his locality. ₹3,132 in cash were recovered from his possession. He was booked under the Gambling Act and later released on bail.Dhanas man nabbed with knifePolice arrested Sanjeev Kumar, alias Kali, 24, of Milk Colony, Dhanas, for possessing a kamanidar knife. A case under the Arms Act was registered. MC panel’s nod to beautification of Maloya green belt MC’s environment and city beautification committee approved the rough cost estimated for landscaping works worth ₹14.03 lakh at Maloya green belt. It also approved rough cost estimated for open air gym equipment in two parks and a walking track. BJP slams Congress for ‘poor’ state of ESI hospitalThe BJP slammed the Congress for the ‘poor’ state of Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) hospital in Phase 7that caters to around four lakh workers. BJP state executive member Sanjeev Vashisht said, “When the Congress cannot run 30-bed hospitals, how will it run 300-bed hospital for which a foundation stone was laid in Sector 66.” Mohali MLA Balbir Sidhu could not improve anything in the ESI hospital even though he was the health minister.PUSA election sees 86% voter turnoutWith 872 voters out of total 1,011 casting their votes, 86% turnout was recorded during the election of office-bearers of Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA) on Wednesday. In the election of Panjab University ‘C’ Class Staff Association (PUCCSA), 70% voter turnout was recorded with 377 votes being polled out of 538.100 complaints disposed of at ‘rahat’ campWith an aim to provide speedy justice to residents, Mohali police on Wednesday organised ‘rahat’ camp in Mullanpur where more than 100 complaints were disposed of on the spot. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the camp will be organised periodically. PU V-C visits various departmentsPanjab University V-C Raj Kumar visited the museums of various departments, including Gandhi Bhavan, ancient history, fine arts , anthropology, zoology, and geology, and met the chairpersons and staff. He also took stock of the issues faced by them. State badminton meet from November 17 Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) will conduct Yonex Sunrise State Championships for Under-13, Under-15, Under-17 and seniors (boys and girls) from November 17 to 21 at Sector 38 (West) Sports Complex. CBA will also select teams for the forthcoming North Zone and National Championships. Players registered in Chandigarh and with CBA will only be eligible to participate in this championship.Unnati, Bharat take U-19 titlesUnnati Hooda from Rohtak outplayed Devika Sihag from Panchkula 3-1 (retired hurt) in the U-19 girls’ singles final during the 54th Yonex Sunrise Haryana State Badminton Championship held in Panchkula on Wednesday. Playing in the U-19 boys’ singles final, Bharat Raghav from Gurugram beat Raman 16-21, 21-11, 21-14 in a keenly contested tie. Legal Services Day celebratedThe Punjab State Legal Services Authority on Wednesday celebrated the Legal Services Day by organising an awareness programme at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. Students were made aware of the concept of free legal aid. Awareness programme held at Dera Bassi collegeSri Sukhmani College of Law, Dera Bassi, also organized an awareness camp on free legal services and women empowerment. CJM Baljinder Singh was the chief guest of the event that was attended by nearly 150 aanganwadi workers and sarpanches from 15 villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-delhi-judokas-dominate-punjab-judo-association-tourney-101636586122694.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers, SKM should form a political party: Haryana Democratic Front general secy Chitra||Haryana Democratic Front’s general secretary Chitra Sarwara on Wednesday said that to solve the impasse over three contentious agricultural laws, the protesting farmers and their umbrella body Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) should form a political party. “I think that the formation of farm laws is a result of politics, so the solution has to be political too. They (farmers) have to show their power politically. We’ve seen this recently during the bypolls, when the ruling BJP lost in many regions and the fuel prices were slashed drastically,” she told the media on the sidelines of the party’s second foundation day celebrations in Ambala Cantonment. However, party’s founder and her father Nirmal Singh differed from the statement and said that this is her personal opinion. But we will always support the farmers, he added. The HDF also passed a resolution to support the farmers’ cause. Nirmal Singh’s native village Mohra, his stronghold, has also been the centre of the farmers’ agitation and seen maximum participation in the protests. Most of the senior leaders of farm unions and activists belong to the same region. Nirmal and his daughter, considered close to the Hoodas, parted ways from the Congress just before the 2019 assembly elections on being denied party ticket. Both contested unsuccessfully as Independents. However, the party lost its first test after its formation when its mayoral candidate Amisha Chawla lost security deposits and the candidates could only win two out of 20 wards in the 2020 municipal elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-skm-should-form-a-political-party-haryana-democratic-front-general-secy-chitra-101636585702596.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||PEC to skip physical convocation this year too||Due to the Covid pandemic, no physical annual convocation will be held at Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh this year too. The decision was made in the last senate meeting after a discussion. This will be the second consecutive year when the graduating students will miss the annual convocation. PEC director Baldev Setia said, “We receive a number requests from the students who have been offered jobs and they are asked to report with their original degrees by a particular date.” As many as 654 students in BTech, 160 students in MTech and 27 students in PhD for academic year 2020-2021 were verified by the institute. They would have received their degrees during the annual convocation had that been held by the institute. The students are facilitated by the office of dean academics to get their degrees. No convocation at PU as wellPanjab University (PU) also skipped the annual convocation this year owing to the pandemic. Last year, the varsity had urged its research scholars to register on the National Academic Depository (NAD) to get their degrees online. In 2019, the varsity had held its 68th annual convocation on April 28, which was addressed by vice-president of India Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the chancellor of PU. A total of 1,020 students had received their degrees, including 493 PhD degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pec-to-skip-physical-convocation-this-year-too-101636585522767.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh Pro-Am Day: Delhi’s Kshitij and team claim top honours||Delhi-based professional Kshitij Naveed Kaul and his team won top honours at the Milkha Singh Pro-Am Day, a tribute to the legend, during the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021 held at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Wednesday.Kaul’s team won the Pro-Am event with a total score of 55.5. The team comprised amateurs Padamjit Sandhu, Saurabh Mangat and Bandy Singh. Kolkata-based professional Viraj Madappa and his team finished first runners-up with a score of 55.7. Madappa’s team consisted of amateurs B Chandra Sekhar, Mukesh Sharma and Sachin Bansal. Local lad Karandeep Kochhar’s team finished second runners-up with a score of 56. Kochhar’s team included amateurs Dalip Kang, Balvinder Singh Mattu and K Raghav Bhandari.The prize for the closest to the pin on hole number 8 was won by Varun Rao whose shot landed four feet and six inches from the pin.The prize for the Incredible India closest to the pin on hole number 11 was won by Col Ajaytaj whose shot landed five feet and six inches from the hole. The prize for the straightest drive on hole number 5 was bagged by Pauline Singh whose shot landed one foot and two inches from the centre of the fairway. The prize for the straightest drive on hole number went to Aman Bhaika whose shot landed one inch from the centre of the fairway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-pro-am-day-delhi-s-kshitij-and-team-claim-top-honours-101636585342731.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sudama, at Turkman||The legendary Sudama of the ancient age was an impoverished childhood friend of Lord Krishna. He didn’t have enough money to feed his children. But the Sudama in contemporary Delhi is well endowed with namkeens, biscuits, barfis, toffees, rusks, and many varieties of mouth freshener. The pavement kiosk bearing this celebrated name is even more rich in its GPS. It stands directly across the road from Turkman Gate, one of the only five surviving gateways of the Walled City of Delhi. Its rear faces the historic Ramlila Maidan.Nonetheless, the shop occupies a very little place in the world. The green-painted tin cabin looks like a papier-mâché artefact. Inside, sits the gentle owner as tightly as a pea in its pod. Everyone calls him fondly as Bhai Sudama.This evening the traffic is chaotic beyond belief. The air is numb with the cacophony of car horns. Cocooned in calmness, Sudama (the shop) is exuding friendly indifference to the surrounding bedlam. A dozen men—area’s rickshaw pullers and labourers—are gathered about the stall. Sitting quietly on their haunches, each person is holding either a barfi or a biscuit.Ensconced within his beloved kiosk, Bhai Sudama is feeling too bashful to talk of the tiny landmark that heroically holds its own in this neighbourhood of famous landmarks (Haj Manzil, Delhi Stock Exchange, Faiz Elahi Mosque, Ramlila Maidan, Holy Trinity Church and of course the Turkman Gate). “I opened it more than 20 years ago, no… may be 30 years,” he laughs, shaking his head, surprised by his confusion about the timeline.Moments later, he silently shifts on his cramped seat to “adjust” Muhammed Shamshul, a “lorrie driver” and a stall regular. Both men start to talk about the forthcoming wedding of Bhai Sudama’s daughter that will take place in his village in Madhubani, Bihar. The chitchat gradually shifts to gossiping about the personalities of Turkman Gate locality. These are no idle moments, though. Bhai Sudama is simultaneously handling ”hurry-hurry” customers who are continually showing up at the counter—one of them desperately wants a change of ₹500 (he is obliged).By now the sun has dipped behind the Civic Center, the multi-storey that stands on the other side of the Ramlila Maidan. The sky swiftly blackens. Bhai Sudama turns on the lamp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-sudama-at-turkman-101636584560946.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh floating solar power plant: MC House to take call this Friday||A floating solar power plant generating electricity worth ₹1.38 crore annually is being planned at the Sector-39 water works. The revenues will be shared between the Chandigarh administration and municipal corporation in 70:30 ratio. Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) will implement the project. “The 2MWp floating special purpose vehicle (SPV) floating power plant will generate 28 lakh units per annum and would be set up under the CAPEX mode where all the expenditure will be borne by the CREST,” stated a report submitted to the MC by the society. The proposal for the same will be submitted before the MC General House for its approval on November 12. Notably, an agenda for the same was brought before the MC House on August 30 also, but the House had sought more details from the CREST. In response, the CREST has submitted that the revenue share plan was decided by the UT finance department in 2015 for allowing use of MC building. “Therefore, same model has been proposed for floating SPV between MC and CREST for setting up floating solar power plant to be installed at raw water tank number 7 and 8 at Sector 39 water works,” the CREST has informed the MC. The cleaning, it said, can be done by shifting the power plan to one side of the tank as “panels are floating in nature or by dismantling them in case the tank is completely emptied”. Panels can be reinstalled later. “The floating power plant will be installed in such a manner that it can be shifted in any corner during maintenance,” said the CREST’s fresh submission to MC states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-floating-solar-power-plant-mc-house-to-take-call-this-friday-101636585162802.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal to host 82nd All India Presiding Officers’ Conference next week||The Himachal Pradesh assembly secretariat will host the 82nd All India Presiding Officers’ Conference and the 58th Conference of Secretaries of Legislative Bodies from November 16-19 in Shimla, speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said on Wednesday.The Conference of Secretaries of Legislative Bodies will be held on November 16 and that of the presiding officers will be from November 17-19.Addressing a press conference here, Parmar said presiding officers of 36 Vidhan Sabhas, Vidhan Mandal and Vidhan Parishads from all states and union territories of the country will attend the conference.“Nearly 400 delegates, including the 70 members from the parliament secretariat, will be in attendance,” said Parmar.Delegates include speakers and deputy speakers of all state assemblies, members of Himachal Pradesh assembly, the presiding officers, deputy presiding officers and secretaries.Besides, one government official each from 36 states, union territories, legislative councils and assemblies will participate in the conference.He said Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla will preside over the conference.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the conference on November 17 and Union minister of information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur will join on November 18.Parmar said it was a moment of pride for Himachal Pradesh, especially for the assembly secretariat that they will be hosting the centenary convention.He said a sight-seeing tour will be organised for the delegates on November 19 subject to the convenience of the host and departure of the delegates.Meanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has directed officials to make adequate arrangements for boarding, lodging and transportation of the dignitaries during the four-day conference. He said proper traffic plan should be ensured so that the general public does not face any inconvenience.He has also directed to decorate the Vidhan Sabha complex and Hotel Peterhoff, besides ensuring proper beautification of the entire city.Apart from it, an exhibition of traditional Himachal products will also be put up during the conference by various departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-to-host-82nd-all-india-presiding-officers-conference-next-week-101636583122576.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Three nabbed for using darknet to import marijuana||Three men, who used the darknet to import marijuana from Canada and sell it for huge profits in Delhi, have been arrested by the Delhi Police’s crime branch. Police said they recovered 1,873 grams of fine quality Canadian marijuana from the three men, adding that unlike the marijuana grown in India, imported marijuana is costlier.The darknet or dark web is a network within the internet which is not accessible through search engines. Over the past few years, criminals are increasingly using the darknet to smuggle drugs and weapons, police said.Joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar pegged the value of the seized contraband at ₹35 lakh. “The consignment was ordered on the darknet and payment was made in bitcoins. The selling price of the seized consignment is approximately ₹40,000-50,000 per ounce (28 grams), depending upon the paying capacity of the buyer. In the USA, it goes for about $600 per ounce,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-nabbed-for-using-darknet-to-import-marijuana-101636582853880.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||High court asks tribunal to decide on route permit disputes of Punjab transporters||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday referred to the state transport appellate tribunal the petitions on route permit disputes between the Punjab government and private transporters. The court was dealing with a bunch of petitions, including some filed by the state government, in which the tribunal’s stay order was challenged. “In all the appeals, an identical issue is involved. Therefore, it is appropriate for the tribunal to decide the lead case positively within a period of 15 days,” the bench of Justice Anil Kshetarpal said while disposing of the pleas. The court said that all the counsels would be allowed to assist the tribunal so that the issue is decided in the lead case to facilitate expeditious disposal of the remaining cases. The parties through their counsels were directed to appear before the tribunal on November 11 to work out the modalities of procedure to be followed at the time of hearing, the bench said. The Punjab transport commissioner had cancelled the extension of the original permits beyond 24 km to a large number of transporters in the state. One such order was passed on October 18, cancelling the extension with an immediate effect. The transporter concerned had approached the tribunal on November 1 against the decision and the latter stayed the October 18 order. Following this, other transporters too had obtained stay orders on November 3 from the tribunal. The government had challenged the November 1 order in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-asks-tribunal-to-decide-on-route-permit-disputes-of-punjab-transporters-101636582702384.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Teen ends life in Bapu Dham Colony||A 17-year-old girl was found hanging in the bathroom of her house in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, Chandigarh, on Wednesday evening. She was rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where she was declared brought dead. No suicide note was found at the spot. Police have initiated inquest proceedings on the statement of family members, who said, they did not suspect any foul play. Police said no external injury marks were found on the body. The body has been kept in the mortuary. Fruit vendor found hanging A day after a 50-year-old resident of Bapu Dham colony was found hanging in his house, family members handed over a handwritten note, purportedly written by the victim, accusing four people of harassing him. Police are verifying the allegations. The cops said further action would be taken after getting the handwriting examined.Police said the note handed over by the family talks of a video clip. Sources said that in the video clip, the deceased is seen crying and the four people named in the note had been showing it to different people in the mandi and harassing him. The deceased was a roadside fruit vendor in Sector 26, mandi. The body was found by the son when he returned home on Tuesday evening. He rushed the 50-year-old to GMSH Sector 16, Chandigarh, where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-teen-ends-life-in-bapu-dham-colony-101636580122470.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Nine test positive in Chandigarh tricity area||As many as nine people tested positive for Covid in the tricity on Wednesday, a slight dip from 16 cases on Tuesday. Mohali continued to contribute maximum Covid cases with four infections, followed by three in Panchkula and two in Chandigarh. After a steady decline of cases last month, Mohali is witnessing an uptick in Covid cases since November 1. However, no Covid fatality was recorded in the tricity on the day. In Mohali, three Covid cases were reported from Mohali city, while one surfaced in Dera Bassi. In Chandigarh, the cases were reported from sector 44 and Ramdarbar. Tricity’s active Covid cases dipped slight to 72 on Wednesday as compared to Tuesday’s tally of 74. Total of 43 patients are still infected in Mohali, followed by 22 in Chandigarh and only 7 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-nine-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101636579402248.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||16- year- old raped, impregnated in Ludhiana||A migrant worker was booked for raping, threatening and impregnating a Class-10 student. The victim is four months pregnant and undergoing treatment at the one-stop centre of the civil hospital. The matter came to light after the 16-year-old victim complained of a severe stomach ache. When she was taken to a clinic, it was found that she was four months pregnant. The victim’s mother said that Lal Bahadur had barged into her daughter’s room late at night and threatened to kill her. He raped her and fled. The victim remained quiet because she was scared. A case has been registered under Sections 376 (rape), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against the accused at Shimlapuri police station. The police have launched a manhunt to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-year-old-raped-impregnated-in-ludhiana-101636579282223.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue cases in Ludhiana: 25 more people diagnosed||Twenty-five more dengue cases were reported in the district on Wednesday, taking the count of infected people to 1,485. Around 3,666 people are symptomatic for dengue in the district. However, the diagnosis is yet to be confirmed. Of the total cases, 1,105 have been reported from Ludhiana city, while others have been reported from Khanna, Jagraon, Payal, Samrala, Sahnewal among other areas.Two fresh cases of CovidTwo fresh cases of the coronavirus were reported in the district over the last 24 hours. The total count of patients has reached 87,628, of which 2,107 patients have succumbed. The district has 19 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-cases-in-ludhiana-25-more-people-diagnosed-101636578982309.html
11-11-2021||Bhopal||Parents accuse Bhopal hospital of ‘hiding truth’||Ankush Yadav’s twin daughters were born on October 8, within seven months of his wife Ranjana‘s pregnancy. The couple knew they would face hardships and the children battled to tide over health problems that are often associated with premature births.On Monday, the girls died within 16 hours of being admitted to the childcare ward at Kamla Nehru Hospital -- where a fire on Monday claimed the lives of at least four newborns. One of Yadav’s daughters is among those in the fire deaths count -- the other, hospital authorities say, died due to “medical conditions” (like seven other children in the ward since the fire broke out at 8.30 pm on Monday).Yadav, however, alleged that both the girls were killed in the blaze. “If what the hospital people are saying is true, I should have been allowed to see my other child. I was given the bodies of my twins in boxes,” said the vegetable seller in Bhopal.Ankush said that he was at the nearby pharmacy, purchasing an injection, when the fire broke out. He was allowed to enter the hospital at around 2 am, and later informed that her one child died because of fire, and the condition of the other was serious. On Tuesday morning, one of the bodies was handed to him in a box; and that night, the other’s.“I have not shared the news with my wife as she would not be able to bear the pain of the loss,” he said.On Wednesday, the hospital administration said that a total of eight newborns, who were “saved” in the fire in the SNCU on Monday night, died due to other medical complications.These eight deaths are more than twice the average deaths reported at SNCU ward over a 36-hour period -- about two a day due to various complications, according to hospital records.Arvind Mishra, an activist working on health issues in Bhopal, said the neonatal deaths in MP is highest in India quoting a report of Sample Registration Survey (2018), which said the rate is neonatal deaths per lakh in Madhya Pradesh was 35.According to a national health mission, out of total admission, 11.5% newborns die at SNCU.“It is hard to understand that out of 40, eight i.e., 20%, newborns died due to medical complications in Kamla Nehru Hospital after the fire. The hospital should clear the actual cause of deaths,” he said.The fire at the broke out at the child intensive care unit reportedly due to a short-circuit in a ventilator machine. At the time of fire, there were 40 children in the ward that can house 60 newborns.The eight floor building of Kamla Nehru Hospital is a part of Hamidia Hospital, the biggest government hospital in Bhopal, and didn’t had a fire clearance for the past 15 years. Officials admitted that no fire safety audit of the building was done in the last five years.After the incident the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), under which the fire department comes, sought fire safety report from the hospital authorities. “We are going to review fire safety in all government hospitals,” said state health minister Vishwas Sarang.Even after the tragedy, the tussle between parents and the hospital continues.Seeta Vishwakarma, a resident of Bagsewaniya , in Bhopal, said the doctors told her that her two-day-old baby was absolutely fine after the fire. “But on Tuesday afternoon, they handed over her body to us.”Rahul Prajapati, a resident of Bhopal’s New Jail Road, said he was finding it hard to trust the hospital’s version. “The doctor said on Tuesday that the condition of the baby is serious, and they asked me to arrange blood. But later, a nurse informed that I lost my baby. I don’t know whether the death of my child is natural or not, but I lost trust in the government hospital.”Two parents refused to take the bodies, and demanded DNA tests to ascertain if the children were really theirs.The hospital insists these deaths were not related to the fire.“On Monday between 8pm to 12 midnight, we lost four babies [due to the fire]. But from Tuesday till 12 noon Wednesday, we lost eight more children due to other medical complications, and their death has nothing to do with fire,”said Dr Jyotsana Shrivasatava, head of the hospital’s paediatrics department.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday held a meeting with health department officials, and dean of Gandhi Medical College, Dr Jitendra Shukla, hospital superintendent, Dr Lokendra Dave, and hospital director, Dr KK Dubey, were removed; and a deputy engineer of Capital Project Administration (CPA), Awadesh Bhadoria, was suspended. CPA runs the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/parents-accuse-bhopal-hospital-of-hiding-truth-101636578470218.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU murder: 6 days on, police groping in the dark for headway||Six days since the wife of a Panjab University professor was found murdered at their residence on the university campus in Sector 14, Chandigarh police are still groping in dark. The body of Seema Goyal, 60, was allegedly found in her ground-floor room, by her husband, Prof BB Goyal, around 7:30 am on November 4, the day of Diwali. He had slept in another room upstairs the previous night. By the time police reached the spot, the body had been moved to the hospital. Preliminary post-mortem had found that there were strangulation marks on Seema’s body and injuries on her head. Prof Goyal had claimed that Seema’s hands and legs had been tied with a cloth and the house’s main door was bolted from outside. Police are questioning Prof Goyal repeatedly to verify his claims. The cops are also in touch with the victim’s daughter and brother for more clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-murder-6-days-on-police-groping-in-the-dark-for-headway-101636578502255.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialists take round the ‘begging bowl’ to protest inflation||Out on the roads to protest against inflation, particularly the rising price of raw material, industrialists shook begging bowls in front of commuters outside the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) office at Gill Road on Wednesday. As the indefinite protest against soaring prices entered the nineth day, owners of industrial units accused the Union government of only listening to the big corporate houses. The protesters said that the funds collected during the symbolic protest will be transferred to the Union government to draw its attention to the plight of small industries. Representatives of different industrial sectors, including bicycle, hosiery, auto parts, and textile, have demanded the formation of a regulatory commission to control the rising prices of raw material. Former UCPMA vice-president Inderjit Navyug said, “The Union government is turning a blind eye towards the problems of the industry. Steel prices have doubled over the last two years. We have already suffered due to the pandemic, and the rising prices of raw material is further taking a toll on us. Many units are on the brink of collapse, which will also lead to large-scale unemployment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-take-round-the-begging-bowl-to-protest-inflation-101636578444922.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Alternative land rights on anvil for moving occupants of unauthorised constructions||In order to remove unauthorised constructions in Chandigarh villages, the UT administration is considering giving alternative land development rights to people living in such constructions.Stating that the situation in city’s villages are too complicated because of large-scale illegal constructions, and limitations imposed by the Chandigarh Master Plan (CMP), UT adviser Dharam Pal, said, “As per the CMP, we cannot have constructions in green zones. So, we will have to remove all illegal constructions on such land.”For removing such unauthorised constructions, the administration is exploring different options under the proposed land-pooling policy. On Wednesday, the adviser held a high-level meeting on the issue.In the meeting, the final contours of the policy were discussed and Pal directed officials to formulate a draft proposal and put in the public domain for taking their suggestions.“One of the options under the land-pooling policy is to give alternative land development rights for people to move to other locations. This will allow us to give alternative housing options to them. This will also allow us to remove all unauthorised constructions in villages,” said Pal.Challenges galoreBut the road ahead for land pooling policy is not going to be an easy one. “In neighbouring Punjab and Haryana, where large tracts of contiguous lands are available, it is much easier to implement a land-pooling policy. But in UT, there are a lot of haphazard constructions within lal dora and outside it,” said Pal.Also, administration cannot go against the master plan. “Other option is bringing amendments in master plan, which will be a very lengthy and time-consuming process,” added Pal.Notably, the Punjab New Capital Periphery Control Act also restricts constructions in the periphery of around 16km (controlled area) of the city. Punjab and Haryana high court too has imposed restrictions on construction for protection of Sukhna Catchment Area within which many of city’s villages are located. Pilot village For overcoming such challenges, the administration is now planning to introduce the land-pooling policy in phases. As per the current administration’s thinking, the policy will be first introduced in villages, and if successful then it will be implemented parallelly in other villages too.The regularisation of the illegal construction and extension of the lal dora has been a long-standing demand of village residents, which has found strong support among all political parties.The administration has earlier ruled out extension of the lal dora, but is exploring ways to develop villages so that these constructions can be removed and alternatives be given to people living in these constructions.For this purpose, along with land-pooling policy, the administration has also started working on comprehensive village development plan as mandated by the CMP.The administration has roped in the Indian Institute of Human Settlement (IISH), Bengaluru, to formulate a land pooling and aggregation policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-alternative-land-rights-on-anvil-for-moving-occupants-of-unauthorised-constructions-101636577782257.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Chronic drug addict’ behind 30 vehicle thefts in Ludhiana||In a major breakthrough, the police have arrested a “chronic drug addict” who was responsible for around 30 vehicle-lifting incidents across the city, many of which took place at the civil hospital parking lot where he was formerly employed, on Wednesday. Twenty-three stolen vehicles, including 12 motorcycles and 11 scooters, have been recovered from the accused, Billa alias Laddu, who was arrested from the area under the Division-2 police on the basis of a tipoff. Investigating officer Rajwant Singh said, “So far, the accused has admitted to committing 30 thefts. There may be more, but Billa is unable to recall them as most were carried out under the influence of drugs.” Billa, who worked for a parking contractor at the civil hospital for five years, says he started living at the hospital after his parents’ death. It was there that he developed a drug habit and also learnt how to unlock scooters and motorcycles. It was to fund his drug habit that he started stealing vehicles. However, after the contractor started receiving multiple complaints of vehicle theft from the lot, he was sacked. Chucked out of his job, he started living on the footpath and started keeping an eye on scooters and bikes parked near the park, busy marketplaces and outside temples and gurdwaras.Would borrow money against stolen vehicles Rajwant said the accused, who suffers from a severe infection in his legs, would borrow money from people purportedly to seek treatment against the two-wheelers. “After stealing the vehicle, he would roam the city and borrow money from people on the pretext of getting treatment for his leg. In lieu of the borrowed amount, he would lend the stolen scooter or motorcycle. However, instead of getting treatment, Billa would buy drugs,” says Rajwant. Some of the stolen vehicles were recovered from a parking lot outside the Shamshanghat on Dholewal Road near the Military Cantonment,” said Rajwant.The accused was presented before the court on Wednesday and further sent to police remand. Rajwant Singh stated that currently they were probing the matter further. Cops are also trying to zero-in on the person supplying drugs to the accused and whether he had accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chronic-drug-addict-behind-30-vehicle-thefts-in-ludhiana-101636577722902.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||After ballistics report, SIT focuses on accused’s location||Officials probing the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are trying to establish the presence of the three accused, Ashish Mishra, his friend Ankit Das and his private gunner Latif, at the spot of the violence after a forensic report confirmed that shots were fired from their licensed weapons, said a member of the special investigation team (SIT) on Wednesday.The official said investigators were looking into the cell phone locations and call details report of the three accused, who are currently in jail. He said the SIT had also found some unclaimed mobile phones from the site and sent them for further examination.He said the ballistics report of the three weapons—a rifle, a repeater gun, and a pistol belonging to three accused— confirmed that firing was done from these weapons in recent times.But he added that there was no clarity on when and where the firing was done.He said the ballistic report was not sufficient to say firing was done by the same weapons at the site of the violence. He said the post-mortem examination of the four farmers, who died in the incident, had ruled out bullet injuries.He also said the ballistic report of one more weapon recovered from another co-accused, Satya Prakash Tripathi, was awaited.“Although Ankit Das and his gunner Latif had mentioned in their statements that they fired in the air to escape from the spot when the mob attacked them after a convoy of cars ran over a group of protesting farmers, Ashish Mishra had maintained that he was not present at the violence site,” he said.The SIT had recovered the weapons from Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, and Latif days after the violence. Ashish Mishra is the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’.Ashish Mishra, who has maintained he was not present at the site of the violence, was arrested on October 9. Das and Latif were taken into custody five days later.The farmers alleged there was firing during the violence and that a farmer from Bahraich died of a bullet wound. But two post-mortem examinations of the farmer ruled out bullet injuries.The post-mortem reports of the eight, who were killed in the incident, concluded they died of shock, excessive bleeding, and haemorrhage caused by ante-mortem injuries and that none of them received bullet injuries.Four farmers, three Bharatiya Janata Party workers, and a journalist were killed in the violence in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3.Farmers say a car belonging to Mishra ran them over while the accused blame farmers for torching vehicles and killing three people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-ballistics-report-sit-focuses-on-accused-s-location-101636577426676.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road cave-ins: MC to use tech to detect chinks in sewer lines||After facing a barrage of criticism over the Deep Nagar road cave-in, in which a woman and two schoolchildren had a close shave, the municipal corporation has finally decided to check the condition of the four-decade-old sewer lines crisscrossing the city’s underground. Ground penetrating radar will be used to check vulnerable points such as Deep Nagar, Dugri phase 2, Kaka Marriage Palace Road, Model Town Extension, and Fountain Chowk among other areas where cave-ins are frequently reported. This will allow the authorities to assess the state of the sewer lines without digging up the roads. So far, the MC officials had been claiming that it is not possible to locate leakages in underground pipelines. The MC had also proposed to replace the old sewer lines under the Smart City Mission. However, the project, which was to cost around ₹ 80 crore, is yet to see the light of the day. Officials say damage to the brick-sewer lines causes leakage, which in turn causes soil erosion and ultimately the caving-in of portions of roads. The municipal corporation has been blaming the laying of underground wires for damage to the brick sewers. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal is exploring options to assess the condition of sewer lines without digging up the area. Any hollow portions beneath the road will be identified and corrective measures will be taken. The matter was also discussed in the meeting of the MC’s finance and contracts committee (F and CC) on November 8. It will be difficult to identify leakages below the roads across the city, but the MC will cover the areas where cave-in incidents have been frequently reported.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-cave-ins-mc-to-use-tech-to-detect-chinks-in-sewer-lines-101636577362567.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue snuffs out two lives in Mohali, 119 new cases in Chandigarh tricity area||Dengue claimed two more lives in Mohali on Wednesday, taking the district’s fatality count to 35 this year. The worst-hit in the tricity, Mohali has witnessed as many as 33 dengue deaths in the past forty-one days.The latest victims of the viral infection include a 65-year-old man of Phase-7 who was admitted at IVY hospital in Sector 71; and a 45-year-old woman of Phase-10 who was undergoing treatment at Sohana hospital.Of the total 35 deaths this year, 29 were logged in October alone, followed by four in November. Two people had succumbed in September. This is the highest toll since 2018 when eight people had died. In 2019 and 2020, only one fatality each was confirmed.However, Chandigarh and Panchkula recorded no new fatality on Wednesday, keeping this year’s death tally at 3 and 1 respectively.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said, “Though there has been a drop in the number of cases over the past few days, the maximum cases are being reported from urban areas of Dera Bassi, Kharar, Phase-7, Phase-10, and 3B1.”She further said, “When our team visited these places, it was found that there was a lot of plastic waste such as carry bags, empty bottles, disposable glasses scattered, and stagnant water in various places in the villages. Plastic waste is the most suitable place for breeding mosquitoes as empty bottles, glasses and other items collect rainwater in which it is natural for mosquitoes to breed.” Arrangements were made by the health department to carry out anti-larvae spray, she added.Mohinder Pal Singh, president, residents’ welfare and development, Sector 79, said, “Fogging is not done on regular basis and at several construction sites in Mohali, water can be seen accumulated, which become a breeding mosquitoes.”119 more infected in tricityMeanwhile on Wednesday, the health authorities confirmed 119 fresh dengue infections in the tricity, with Mohali reporting 69 cases, followed by 26 in Chandigarh and 24 in Panchkula. The UT has so far recorded 1,133 dengue cases, of which 244 surfaced in November. Of the fresh cases on Wednesday, maximum cases were reported from Manimajra and Hallomajra. Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,437 while Panchkula’s case tally stands at 751.In Panchkula, the hospitals are flooded with suspected cases of dengue as there were 114 suspected cases of dengue till date, including 65 in government hospitals and 49 in private hospitals. Forty-nine suspected as well as confirmed cases of dengue are admitted in private hospitals, 65 patients in Government Hospital, Sector 6.As per the authorities, indoor fogging has been done in and surrounding areas from where confirmed dengue cases have been reported. These include Sectors 4,6,10, 14, 12-A, 25, 28, and other rural areas such as Mankiyan, Billa, Kheri, Bagwali, Jalauly villages and Sector 26.Meanwhile, Dr Suman Singh, director health services, Chandigarh, said, “The cases have started dipping in UT and admissions in government and private hospitals are improving. Now, less people are complaining about fever in OPDs.”‘Authorities need to step up preventive measures’“Though the temperature is falling in the tricity, the afternoon hours still have suitable temperature for the mosquitoes to breed. Besides temperature, other elements also contribute to the dengue outbreak. Water accumulation near construction sites, which are usually ignored during checking, result in more breeding,” said Dr Sonu Goel, professor, department of community medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER.He further added, “The health authorities are not doing intensive fogging in affected areas, even though they have mapped the localities. Also, people should participate in controlling the outbreak by ensuring cleanliness at their homes and localities and by allowing health teams to inspect their houses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-snuffs-out-two-lives-in-mohali-119-new-cases-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101636577182270.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab transport department saw rise of ₹1 crore in daily revenue in October: Minister Warring||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Wednesday claimed that the department witnessed an increase of ₹1 crore in its daily revenues in October. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Warring said the department generated ₹31 crore extra revenue from October 1 to October 31. “It signifies the massive potential of the department. This shows how Akalis were plundering Punjab by keeping it bereft of these financial resources for their illicit gains. If we can achieve this, why could not Akalis do it,” asked Warring, castigating Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal for running a “mafia” to ravage Punjab like Ahmad Abdali did. Warring said even Abdali would have felt belittled by the deeds committed by the Badals and their ilk. “Had this rate of revenue generation been maintained, Punjab would have been richer by ₹5200 crore in the last 14 years, which would have been utilised for the state’s progress and prosperity. Our transport fleet would have another 24,000 buses and more than 50,000 people would have got jobs had the Akalis not looted people of Punjab,” the minister claimed. Claiming that the department was committed to crack down on every illegal operator, Warring said the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) revenue had gone up to ₹54.74 crore in October against ₹39.01 crore in September, while the Punjab Roadways cloaked ₹49.57 crore in October against ₹34.15 crore a month before. Emphasising the success of measures initiated by the department, including implementation of the Justice Surya Kant judgement to weed out invalid and illegally run permit holders, Warring said that several vehicles were impounded in last one month. The minister said 50% of the daily illicit income generated by private transporters belonged to the Badals and 30% to their associate companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-transport-department-saw-rise-of-rs-1-crore-in-daily-revenue-in-october-minister-warring-101636576882616.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||A first: Punjab-cadre woman IPS officer to lead National Police Academy passing out parade||In a first, a Punjab-cadre woman IPS probationer officer will lead the passing out parade’ at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad, this year. Darpan Ahluwalia (27), an MBBS degree holder from the Government Medical College, Patiala, and who hails from Mohali, is only the sixth woman to lead the parade at the academy that has trained 73 batches of IPS officers so far. National security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval would be present during the passing out parade of 132 IPS probationers, including 27 women, three of whom are of Punjab cadre. Darpan’s father Gurinder Singh Walia is a retired joint director from the Punjab animal husbandry department. The 27-year-old is also the overall topper of the basic course phase-1 training that include indoor and outdoor courses. She also bagged the Martyr KS Vyas Trophy for internal security, public order and field crafts and tactics, said her father. The first preference of Darpan, who scored 80th all india rank (AIR) in the UPSC examination, was IPS. Besides, she was running an NGO that organised breast cancer screening camps. Darpan says she was inspired by her grandfather who served in the Punjab Police. “I used to hear a lot from him about how the police can impact society. Moreover, in this role, I will be more approachable to woman and can better serve them,” she said over phone from Hyderabad. The most fascinating part of her training, she said, was her experience of interacting with trafficking survivors. “I feel proud that I will be commanding the parade. Our batch will join as ASP probationers after the passing out,” she said. Gurpeet Kaur Deo of the 1993 batch, who was the first woman Punjab-cadre IPS officer, is posted as additional director general of police (ADGP) at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-first-punjab-cadre-woman-ips-officer-to-lead-national-police-academy-passing-out-parade-101636576342417.html
11-11-2021||Kolkata||At Nandigram’s ground zero, Suvendu Adhikari and TMC face-off over 2007 land stir||KOLKATA: Six months after Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee faced defeat in the assembly election at East Midnapore district’s Nandigram, the agrarian belt on Wednesday witnessed the ruling party and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari, who retained the seat, targeting each other while paying homage to villagers killed in 2007 during a violent movement against the then Left Front government’s bid to acquire land for a chemical hub.Though the government aborted the project, the violence continued for more than two years. The agitation was led by the Bhumi Uchched Protirodh Committee set up by local people, and who were supported by TMC.On November 10, 2007, ten farmers were allegedly killed by CPI(M) cadres who were trying to recapture a village. The TMC has been paying homage to these victims since 2011 when it came to power.Adhikari, who was then a local TMC leader, on Wednesday led a procession and addressed local people. The former minister claimed that he and members of his family, who hail from East Midnapore’s Contai, helped the movement.TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, who was part of a team that visited Nandigram on Wednesday morning, called Adhikari a traitor and accused him of creating a Hindu-Muslim divide during the March-April poll campaign.Amid the claims and counterclaims, the rivals paid homage to the victims separately at the memorial.“Didn’t Muslims die in the land movement? Mamata Banerjee stood by the farmers during those days. Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari, the local Lok Sabha member, did not even keep track of what was happening on the ground. Were the Adhikari’s helping the CPI(M)? ” Ghosh said.Countering Ghosh, Suvendu Adhikari, who held a meeting at another location, said: “Mamata Banerjee was a partner of the National Democratic Alliance at that time and BJP leaders, headed by LK Advani and Sushma Swaraj, raised the Nandigram issue in Parliament. They did not rest till the Lok Sabha condemned the attacks. TMC leaders could enter Nandigram only after Advani and Swaraj came here.”“The TMC is now targeting local BJP workers. I will file a public interest litigation to seek justice for those who faced post-poll violation,” Adhikari added.Mamata Banerjee was the face of the Nandigram agitation which played a key role in ending the Left Front’s 34-year-long rule in 2011. The movement started after 14 villagers died in police firing on March 14, 2007. The day is observed as Nandigram Diwas by the chief minister.On the eve of the state polls, Banerjee was injured in Nandigram when the door of her SUV slammed against her left foot. She alleged that some people in the crowd deliberately pushed the door. BJP leaders accused Banerjee of using the incident to gain political mileage. After the incident, she led the party’s campaign from a wheelchair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/at-nandigram-s-ground-zero-suvendu-adhikari-and-tmc-face-off-over-2007-land-stir-101636576042425.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Imports from Afghanistan via ICP Attari see a spurt||Imports from Afghanistan via the integrated check-post (ICP) at Attari have witnessed an increase in the last few days, officials of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) said. Nearly 70-75 truckloads of dry fruits, fresh fruits, onion, pulses and other items are reaching daily at the ICP, which facilitates India’s trade with Afghanistan and neighbouring Pakistan, from the Taliban-controlled country for the last three to four days against the earlier 40-50 truckloads, it is learnt. When the Taliban wrested power in Afghanistan in August this year, the imports via the land border had come down to just 5-10 truckloads, amid fear among the traders that the movement of goods may cease anytime. “On Wednesday, 73 trucks carrying various goods reached the ICP from Afghanistan. The count of trucks was 71 on Tuesday. The trade seems to have been going up,” said LPAI’s ICP manager Sukhdev Singh.Another ICP official said, “When the Taliban had started taking over control in Afghanistan, we thought that the trade would also stop. But thankfully, it continued and increased gradually. As the prices of onion are rising in India, we expect more onion from Afghanistan in the coming days. The daily arrival of trucks from Afghanistan is likely to be more than a hundred soon.”But the onion traders said that they are facing problem due to increased security measures at the border. “On Tuesday, of the 33 truckloads of onion that reached the ICP, 16 were returned. There is no space at the ICP. The security officials at the border have been examining all goods. They overturn the truck for checking of goods and keep the items at the ICP for at least four days. Onion is a perishable item and we have been facing damages of ₹1 lakh against every truckload. The goods should be checked and released on the same day. Many trucks are being returned and the traders are worried,” said Jatinder Khurana, an onion importer.He said, “The LPAI’s truck scanner is not working. Had it been functional, we would not face any problem. Even the trade would increase from 70 to 150 trucks. Many traders are not giving orders of their goods due to the slow process of examining at the check-post. Pakistan has two truck scanners on their side. Even Afghanistan has installed scanners.”The LPAI had installed the truck scanner to detect arms, ammunition, drugs and counterfeit currency, but the customs department had expressed reservations over its working.Sukhdev Singh said, “We have adequate space at the ICP. Only one or two trucks return sometimes due to security reasons. Even our truck scanner is working, but the customs officials have increased security since the Taliban took over. There are a few glitches in the scanner and our technical team is expected to fix it in a few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/imports-from-afghanistan-via-icp-attari-see-a-spurt-101636575803337.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Para-swimmer accused of procuring fake documents to get ₹2 crore award from Haryana govt||An activist has accused international para-swimmer Swapnil Sanjay Patil of procuring fake documents to claim an award of ₹2 crore announced by the Haryana government for sportspersons back in 2019.Activist PP Kapoor has also provided copies of documents including a ration card, Haryana domicile certificate and his passport which are contrary to his date of birth.According to Kapoor, Patil, who won bronze in the Asian Para Games in 2018, got Haryana resident certificate fraudulently even though he did not fulfil the required norms of the Haryana government as his family members are not residents of Haryana for 15 or more years.On the basis of the fake certificates, he applied for grant of cash award under the policy of the sports and youth affairs department after winning bronze in Asian Para Games.As per the reply of an application Kapoor had filed under the RTI Act, it was found that Patil had got a birth certificate issued from Karnal and a ration card from the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, Karnal.The record provided under the RTI reply revealed that the ration card was issued even before his birth date mentioned in the passport which has his residential address in Kolhapur, Maharashtra.The birth certificate was issued on February 22, 1998, showing his date of birth as January 6, 1998, while his ration card with his mother was issued on July 6, 1995, he added.The information was taken from different departments and it was found that Patil, with the help of some officials, managed to get all the documents to claim his association with Haryana for the cash award but due to some reasons, he could not get the award money, he added.However, officials of the Haryana sports and youth affairs department said no prize money was released to Patil. In fact, his application was rejected by the director sports as he was not found to be a permanent resident of Haryana, read a letter written by the director sports and youth affairs to the then Karnal deputy commissioner on November 5, 2019.Kapoor has claimed to have filed a complaint with the IGP Karnal range and Karnal SP demanding action against the officials involved in the issuance of fake documents and helping Patil.Reacting to the allegations, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said he will get these allegations examined and action will be taken if the allegations were found to be true.Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said appropriate action will be taken if any complaint is filed and allegations are proved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paraswimmer-accused-of-procuring-fake-documents-to-get-rs-2-crore-award-from-haryana-govt-101636575802210.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shortage of DAP fertiliser delays wheat sowing in Punjab||Wheat sowing in Punjab is way behind the schedule due to an acute shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser as only 27% (9.5 lakh hectares) of the total area to go under the crop has been cultivated so far. Worries of farmers as well as the state agriculture department are mounting since 60% of the total area was sown till the corresponding date during the previous rabi season last year. The delay in sowing is highly likely to impact the crop yield adversely, say agriculture experts. The state needs 5.5 lakh tonne DAP fertiliser this rabi season out of which 4.8 lakh tonne goes for wheat sowing as a key basal dose. But the farmers have received only 40% (1.96 lakh tonne) of the total requirement so far. Late harvest of paddy due to rain at the maturing stage also pushed ahead the sowing of wheat. The shortage of fertiliser is adding to the farmers’ woes. Of an allocation of 2.56 lakh tonne the state got for November, 45,000 tonne has been supplied to farmers. Experts at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) said a week’s delay translated into 2 quintal loss in yield as delayed sowing results in slow germination. Punjab has an average per hectare yield of 5,000 kg. Loss of every quintal of yield means a loss of at least ₹2,000 as the minimum support price (MSP) on the produce for the current season has been fixed at ₹2,015 per quintal. The experts said the best period for wheat sowing is up to November 25. “There will still a shortage of 75,000 tonne of the fertiliser with no arrangement to fill the gap. We are not sure the entire allocation for this month will reach the state,” said a senior agriculture department official. Nearly 50 rakes (goods trains) of DAP fertiliser lined up at the Mundra port in Gujarat are to be transported to Punjab (a rake carries average 3,000 tonne DAP), he added. The DAP fertiliser from the US, Russia and China fulfills 70% of the country’s need while the rest of 30% is manufactured domestically. This year, the DAP production in China and two other countries was hit due to Covid-19, pushing the rates in the international market. Alternate fertilisers PAU soil scientist RK Gupta said for each hectare, 135 kg DAP is required to be mixed in the soil before sowing. “There are alternatives such as single super phosphate (SSP) and nitrogen phosphorous and potassium (NPK),” said Gupta who suggested use of alternative fertilisers if the soil is deficient. “There are soils in Punjab where phosphorous content is sufficient. If more phosphorous is added it will lead of zinc shortage. So farmers are advised to act wisely and get the soil test done,” he said. Punjab has a stock of 74,000 tonne NPK and 85,000 tonne SSP, agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shortage-of-dap-fertiliser-delays-wheat-sowing-in-punjab-101636575562157.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||INSO, Congress slams Haryana’s move to recruit employees in varsities||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janata Party’s (JJP) Rohtak Lok Sabha nominee in the 2019 polls and its student wing Indian National Students’ Organisation (INSO) national chief Pradeep Deswal on Wednesday opposed the state government’s decision to make recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff in the state universities through the HPSC/HSSC thereby withdrawing the power of recruitment to the universities.Addressing a press conference in Rohtak on Wednesday, Deswal said the decision is an attempt to undermine the autonomy of universities. “INSO will not let the government do this. We strongly oppose this order and will launch an agitation against the government if the order is not withdrawn,” he added.Deswal launches attack on MDU V-CDeswal slammed Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) vice-chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh while raising questions on his educational qualification and PhD degree.“The education records of the V-C reveal that he had obtained the degrees through dubious means and by showing false experience certificates. The V-C had pursued a master’s degree (MA) in 2000, while surprisingly he had done PhD in 1999. Apart from this, the educational experience certificates used by him for his appointment as professor are wrong and fake,” he said.Giving an example of his teaching experience, the INSO president said the V-C had mentioned in the records that he had worked as a teacher in Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) in Hisar holding classes of students of MA journalism and mass communication.While at that time he was a government employee holding the post of DPRO. “His teaching record has itself exposed his false claim as it is not possible for a government officer to simultaneously work as a teacher at a university. Significantly, Rajbir Singh himself is holding an MA degree in journalism and mass communication when he was teaching the students in GJUST,” Deswal said.The INSO national president said if such ineligible persons continue to hold the posts like V-C, then education and educational institutions are bound to suffer.Ex-education minister, Jhajjar MLA seek enquiry against V-CSlamming the Haryana government’s decision to recruit employees through HSSC and HPSC in varsities, former education minister and Jhajjar MLA Geeta Bhukkal of the Congress said she had raised the issue in the Vidhan Sabha that the government is trying to end the autonomy of universities.“The education minister has assured the House that they will not snatch the autonomy of universities. We will bring a privilege motion against the government’s move in the upcoming session. The government should mark an enquiry against the MDU V-C as he is facing serious charges of irregularities in his academic qualification. A competent and eligible persons should be appointed as the V-C. Government has been shielding higher education council president Prof BK Kuthiala too, who is facing many complaints and FIRs,” she added.MDU V-C Rajbir Singh could not meet with the journalists after INSO chief Deswal levelled allegations against him and later he could not be reached for a comment as his phone was switched off.The public relations officials of the MDU have also refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inso-congress-slams-haryana-s-move-to-recruit-employees-in-varsities-101636575441876.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal lathi-charge: Charuni appears before inquiry commission, says farmers were attacked intentionally||Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday appeared before the one-member inquiry commission formed to probe the sequence of events that led to police lathi-charge at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28.Charuni did not disclose what he had told the inquiry commission in the written statement but said that they have enough evidence against the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha who was caught in a video directing the cops to hit the farmers on the head if they crossed the barricades.“Why were directions to crack the heads of farmers given to police and the protocol not followed?” he added.Justice Som Nath Aggarwal (retd), head of the commission of inquiry, said the government had demanded the government extend the one month’s deadline to four months – giving three more months to the commission to submit its report.He said statements of 25 people have been recorded as a list of 35 people as witnesses of the incident has been prepared by the commission including Sinha, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav and SP Ganga Ram Punia.In an interaction with the media, Charuni slammed Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement that a group of stubborn people are leading the farmers’ agitation, saying, “This agitation is led by farmers of the country who are worried about their and the upcoming generations’ future.”“Stubbornness of the BJP government has forced the farmers to hold protests and sit on roads for the past 11 months,” he added.Charuni has refuted any differences with other leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), saying that all farm leaders are working together.He said farmers will intensify their agitation from November 29 as 500 farmers will take out a protest march to the Parliament every day.“We will continue this fight until the government repeals the three farm laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-lathi-charge-charuni-appears-before-inquiry-commission-says-farmers-were-attacked-intentionally-101636575142797.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Untreated effluent from Haryana contaminating Yamuna waters: Report||Millions of litres of untreated effluent are being discharged into river Yamuna from Karnal’s Indri block contaminating the river which is considered a major source of drinking water in the national capital, shows the fifth report of the River Yamuna Monitoring Committee.As per reports collected from the stakeholders, around 66 MLD is coming from the industrial city of Yamunanagar and mixed in Yamuna water near Nabipur village after travelling to around 80km via Ganda Nallah, a ditch drain and Dhanaura escape canal from Yamunanagar to Indri block in Karnal district.Even as the issue was highlighted in almost all monthly meetings of the River Rejuvenation Committee held under the chairmanship of chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, there was nothing visible on ground to check the flow of toxic water into the river.The status report of the Implementation of River Action Plans submitted in the last monthly meeting on November 2, emphasised that sewage from unauthorised colonies is to be tapped or diverted at different locations by officials of the urban local bodies department to check pollution in Yamuna and Ghaggar rivers.The urban local bodies department failed to submit the action plan to check the flow of effluent in both Yamuna and Ghaggar from various discharge points highlighted by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), revealed the report.The report highlighted a huge gap between the estimates of sewage generation and actual sewage reaching the sewage treatment plants (STPs). Sewage generation in the industrial cities of Yamunanagar and Jaghadhri is much higher than the quantum of sewage reaching up to the STPs as in Yamunanagar 29.3 MLD sewage was generated but the actual discharge reaching the STPs was 43.7 MLD and in Jagadhri the actual discharge reaching to the STPs was 18.5 MLD against sewage generation of 16.86 MLD.Yamunanagar deputy commissioner Parth Gupta said the government has proposed to develop a 75 MLD STP to tap the untreated water flowing through the ditch drain, but which department (urban local bodies or public health engineering) will undertake the task, is yet to be decided.In Ompal Chaudhary and others v/s State of Haryana at the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the petitioner had highlighted how the said discharge is contaminating the groundwater and the foul smell is affecting public health at large. Multiple media reports have also explained the effects of the chemical discharge (including heavy metals) on the cattle, agriculture fields and the inhabitants.However, Nirmal Kashyap, regional officer of the HSPCB, said that the biological oxygen demand (BOD) in the subsequent months has decreased, suggesting that along with the untreated industrial waste, treated water from some STPs that started operations in the last two years, is also flowing into the ditch drain.On the other hand, in Panipat the actual discharge reaching to the STPs was 42 MLD against 81.80 MLD sewage generated, reads the report mentioning that the waste water reaching the STPs for treatment is higher than the estimated generation of sewerage in many towns.Moreover, of total 59 STPs in the Yamuna catchment area, only six have been upgraded and the rest do not meet the prescribed standards. Only 21 STPs are complying even though the deadlines for most STPs have already expired.Also, sludge management has not been scientific so far and the regional officers of the HSPCB did not give proper reports to establish that sludge is disposed properly.On the untreated effluent being discharged in river Yamuna, HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said, “We are taking samples on daily basis and have found the ammonia levels well within the prescribed limits. It is not exceeding the limits.”On tapping of pollution sources in Yamuna, he said, “Tapping of effluent in the river was going on large scale and any illegal discharge has been put on hold and special teams have been formed with the help of the district administrations concerned.”“If the CPCB issues any further directions, we are ready to follow them,” he added.The member secretary admitted that the untreated effluent from Dhanaura escape canal is being released into Yamuna. “But the departments concerned, including ULBDs and public health engineering department are working on it. There is need to set up a new STP in Yamunanagar, which is still pending for approval. The chief secretary has asked them to expedite the process.”Officials in HSPCB slammed the statements made by the officials and leaders of political parties of Delhi that Haryana was polluting Yamuna water saying that water reaching Faridabad from Delhi is more polluted than it reaching Delhi from Haryana, but they do not want to indulge in blame game.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/untreated-effluent-from-haryana-contaminating-yamuna-waters-report-101636574905925.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt has stopped paddy procurement in 12 districts: Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Wednesday accused the state government of stopping paddy procurement in 12 districts.“The anti-farmer and conspiratorial face of the BJP-JJP government has once again come to fore. Every day, the government is trying to ruin the farmers by hatching new conspiracies,” Selja said in a statement, asking the state government to procure crop from farmers at minimum support price (MSP) by removing the ban on government procurement.Selja said the BJP-JJP government has issued an order prohibiting government procurement of PR paddy at MSP in mandis of Jind, Ambala, Faridabad, Palwal, Hisar, Fatehabad, Jhajjar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Sonepat and Yamunanagar districts.“Neither is the crop being procured by the government at MSP, nor are farmers getting DAP fertiliser for sowing the next crop. Farmers are suffering and they are not being heard anywhere,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-has-stopped-paddy-procurement-in-12-districts-selja-101636574361847.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Interference in recruitments will undermine autonomy of universities: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said the state government’s move to interfere in the recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff of universities will undermine the autonomy of the higher educational institutions.In a statement, the leader of Opposition said recruitment in universities through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) is against the UGC guidelines and the National Education Policy 2020.The former CM said HSSC and HPSC have not been able to fulfil the responsibility of carrying out recruitments properly as is evident from job for cash scam and paper leaks plaguing these institutions.“While the central government is talking about giving more autonomy to universities through the new education policy, the state government is interfering in the autonomy of universities,” Hooda said.The Congress leader said they had raised the issue of inter-district transfer of teaching and non-teaching staff of the universities in the last assembly session.“The government had assured that it will not interfere in the functioning of the universities. But they continue to do so,” he said.Hooda said universities are capable of appointing the staff and there is no need for the government to interfere in their functioning.“Haryana is lagging behind in education. A huge drop has been witnessed in ranking of the state universities in the last seven years. Our appeal is that instead of destroying autonomous institutions, the government should take back this decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interference-in-recruitments-will-undermine-autonomy-of-universities-hooda-101636574181878.html
11-11-2021||Kolkata||‘Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde’: Amit Mitra’s piercing response to Bengal guv Dhankhar||KOLKATA: A day after demanding a white paper from Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on investments made in the state after five successive global business summits held by the administration, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday found the state’s former finance minister Amit Mitra calling out the governor in his unusually bitter response on social media.Responding to Dhakhar’s tweet, in which the state’s top constitutional authority contended that he hadn’t received any answer from the Bengal government even a year after seeking details on the outcome of the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS), Mitra posted on Twitter a copy of the response that he sent last year to Raj Bhavan and wondered why he was speaking in two voices.Mitra, whose tenure as finance minister ended on Tuesday as he did not contest the assembly polls owing to health reasons, drew a parallel between the Governor’s tweets and the dual personalities of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde in Robert Louis Stevenson’s famous 1886 novel.“Hon Governor’s tweet on Business Summits is a classic case of Dr Jekyll & Mr Hyde. On 9th Nov he strongly supported CM’s plan of next Summit. “I will leave nothing undone..” & ”togetherness” and within 24 hours he tweets venom on summits, by putting out a year-old letter to CM & FM,(me)!” tweeted Mitra. Mitra was appointed as principal chief adviser to the chief minister and finance department in the rank of cabinet minister on Tuesday. Mitra continued.“Governor said on 9th of Nov at Meet & Greet event as reported, “We have to ensure there is no room for conflict..no room for adversarial situation.. only one way, togetherness.” Very next day, he tweeted the OPPOSITE of these utterances, in a mode of all out conflict ? Shocking !!!” Mitra wrote in his second tweet. The November 9 event Mitra referred to was held at New Town on the eastern outskirts of Kolkata. It was attended by the governor, several foreign diplomats and captains of the industry. The chief minister announced at the event that the next BGBS will be held in March next year. The 2020 summit was not held because of the Covid pandemic. “It is shocking that he seeks response when I had officially responded with a 4 page letter on summits, giving data on investment offers under implementation, employment generation etc,(read letter below). Is he suffering from AMNESIA & needs HELP or is it a Machiavellian omission ?” Mitra said in his third tweet.He also put out the four-page letter on the outcome of the business summits that he wrote to the governor on September 24 last year.In his response to Dhankhar’s letter sent a month earlier on August 25, 2020, Mitra’s letter mentioned that the cumulative investment proposals received at BGBS between 2015 and 2019 amounted to ₹12,32, 603 crore and around half of this amount was in “investment mode.”“You would be happy to know that between BGBS 2015 and BGBS 2018, 50.27% of the investment proposals went into implementation mode. For BGBBS 2019, already ₹71,646 crore is under implementation. The employment generated through these investments is to the tune of 28,00,000 already,” the letter said.Mitra also said because of the success of the summit, the “state’s GDP climbed from ₹4.6 lakh crore in 2019-11 (the year before we came to office) to ₹12.5 lakh crore in 2019-20.” Dhankhar, who was in Delhi to attend a three-day national conference of governors, reacted to Mitra’s comments on Twitter. “Never expected such “low” from Dr Mitra. Blissfully he takes to a tangential evasive route. Where is response to the five issues flagged by me. A probe would reveal all skeletons so far well stacked,” he tweeted late on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dr-jekyll-and-mr-hyde-amit-mitra-s-piercing-response-to-bengal-guv-dhankhar-101636574062023.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Major fire breaks out at automobile unit near Doraha||A major fire broke out at R&R Udyog Pvt Ltd, which deals in automobiles , near Doraha (21km from Ludhiana) on Wednesday evening and over 60 tonnes of furnish oil stored in the unit went up in flames. Two oil tankers/trucks parked in the premises also caught fire, but no casualty was reported. The reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained.The fire broke out at around 6.30 pm and fire tenders from Khanna, Samrala and Ludhiana city were rushed to the spot. Khanna fire station officer Yashpal Rai Gomi said that two fire tenders each from Khanna, Samrala and Ludhiana were rushed to the spot and foam solution is being used to douse the flames. The fire fighting operation was on till the filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/major-fire-breaks-out-at-automobile-unit-near-doraha-101636573641919.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||19-yr-old hacked to death over matchbox in Amritsar||A 19-year-old boy was hacked to death allegedly by a grocery shop owner and his aides over a matchbox at the Mata Ganga Ji Nagar locality on Bhai Manjh Singh Road in Amritsar on Tuesday night. The deceased has been identified as Gurpreet Singh of the same area. Police have registered a case of murder against seven persons, including four unidentified persons. Those accused have been identified are Sarabjit Singh and his two sons—Dhyan Singh and Bhagwan Singh. Sarabjit runs a grocery shop in the locality. Gurpreet’s brother Lovepreet Singh said: “He was working as a labourer. On Tuesday night, my brother brought a matchbox from Sarabjit’s shop. The matchbox was wet. When Gurpreet went to Sarabjit’s shop again to return the matchbox, the shopkeeper refused. “A quarrel ensued after which Sarabjit and his two sons attacked my brother with sharp-edged weapons. He died on the spot and the accused fled the scene,” he said. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-South) Mangal Singh said Gurpreet had been facing three cases of robbery and he had returned from jail recently. “Some say the incident took place due to the use of cigarettes by the accused while some say it was due to matchbox. Our investigation is on and the accused will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19yrold-hacked-to-death-over-matchbox-in-amritsar-101636573462149.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||DCI lowers cut-off to fill vacant MDS seats||Faridkot Facing shortage of eligible candidates to fill all 158 master of dental surgery (MDS) seats in 12 dental colleges across the state, the Dental Council of India (DCI) has lowered the minimum qualifying marks and percentile for admission. The union ministry of health and family welfare has lowered the qualifying cut-off percentile for NEET-MDS by 23.029 percentile for each category (general, SC, ST, OBC and handicapped). As 35 of the total 147 MDS state quota seats remained vacant after four rounds of counselling conducted by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, including a stray round of counselling which ended on Wednesday. No candidate reached Guru Gobind Singh Medical College at Faridkot on Wednesday for the stray round of counselling for admissions to the MDS courses. Of the total 11 all-India quota MDS seats, four were reverted to the state last month. Following the cut in the percentile, the BFUHS will hold an extended stray round of counselling to fill the vacant seats. “No student participated in the stray round of counselling, so the MDS seats are left vacant in some colleges. Now, the medical university will hold fifth round of counselling with lower cut-off criteria to fill vacant MDS seats,” said BFUHS registrar Nirmal Ouseppachan. The qualifying percentile for the MDS has been lowered from 50 to 26.971 for the general category. For the SC/BC and handicapped candidates, the qualifying percentile has been reduced from 40 to 16.971 and 45 to 21.971, respectively. The cut-off score for the general category candidates has been reduced from 259 to 185 marks. For the SC/ST and handicapped candidates, the revised cut-off score lowered from 227 to 152 and 243 to 170 marks, respectively. Though the result of NEET-MDS was declared on December 31, 2020, the admission process is yet to be completed due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dci-lowers-cut-off-to-fill-vacant-mds-seats-101636573281994.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||In Ludhiana, Sukhbir woos migrants, promises Purvanchal Welfare Board||Facing protests from farmer unions and radical Sikh organisations in rural areas of the Malwa region, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal is wooing urban and predominantly Hindu voters in the run up to 2022 assembly elections.After visiting Hindu shrines Chintpurni in Himachal and Salasar Dham in Rajasthan, Sukhbir on Wednesday attended two Chhath Puja events in Ludhiana.He announced that if voted to power, SAD-BSP alliance government would establish a Purvanchal Welfare Board to focus on the welfare of people of the area who have settled in Punjab.The SAD president also visited a house of a migrant and exchanged greetings and presented sweets to the family.He said: “We also commit to establish a girls college in the area dominated by the people of Purvanchal, besides a mega school with a capacity of 5,000 students to ensure they have access to quality education.” He said all migrants would be covered under the ₹10 lakh per annum health insurance scheme.Sukhbir said a holiday would be observed in all districts dominated by people from the Purvanchal area during Chhath celebrations, adding that a five-acre lake would be developed in the city to facilitate them during the puja. He also announced that the chairman of the Purvanchal Welfare Board would be given a cabinet status if the alliance is voted to power. The SAD president attended two Chhath Puja events on Lohara Dhandari road organised by PD Yadav, Chanderbhan Chauhan and Thakur Vishvanath Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-ludhiana-sukhbir-woos-migrants-promises-purvanchal-welfare-board-101636573042112.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AG’s ouster: Berry resigns as AAG in solidarity with Deol||A day after the Punjab cabinet accepted the resignation of APS Deol as the state’s advocate general, an additional advocate general (AAG) Mukesh Berry too put in his papers exhorting the state government “not to ridicule and diminish the status and dignity of the senior advocates” of the high court. Deol, a designated senior advocate, was appointed AG after Atul Nanda who resigned in view of Captain Amarinder Singh’s ouster as the chief minister in September. Berry was appointed additional advocate general on November 8, even as talks of Deol’s ouster were doing the rounds. He has also remained associated with Punjab’s AG office in the past. “Without commenting on the decision of the Punjab government in accepting the resignation ……I hereby submit my resignation,” Berry’s resignation letter reads. Berry and Tarun Vir Singh Lehal, son-in-law of Punjab’s deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, were appointed additional advocates general by invoking special provisions by the state government on November 8. Many in the lawyers’ fraternity hailed his decision and came out on social media in his support. Congress MP and lawyer Manish Tewari in his tweet said that Berry has “eloquently summed up the disgust that a lot of us lawyers across the country feel at repeated subversion of constitutional offices by some members of the political class.” “Wish such politicians who perceive apolitical constitutional functionaries as soft targets to wage their proxy warfare find a better way to do their politics,” he further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ag-s-ouster-berry-resigns-as-aag-in-solidarity-with-deol-101636572861913.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||11 pvt buses impounded for violations in Zirakpur||Eleven tourist buses, including three belonging to Orbit Aviation Company owned by the Badal family, were impounded after transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring conducted a surprise check at Zirakpur on Tuesday night. Eight buses were impounded for not paying the tax, while three for running as stage carriers instead of contract carriers. The minister, along with regional transport officer (RTO) Sukhwinder Singh reached MacDonald Chowk around 12.15am. While checking tourist buses coming from Delhi, Shimla, Vaishno Devi and Punjab, they found eight buses running without paying tax, while three buses were running as stage carriers instead of contract carriers. Three buses of Orbit Aviation were impounded which were on their way from Mohali to Rajpura. The minister apologized to the passengers for inconvenience and they were dropped at the bus stand before the buses were taken to the police station. Other buses which were impounded belonged to City Land, Ram Dalal Holidays, Northern Tourist Buses, Himalayas Tourist Buses, and KTC. Pritpal Singh, manager (operations), Orbit Aviation Limited, said during the pandemic, most of the bus operators have not paid tax and were in the process to do so. Impounding of buses is totally political, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-pvt-buses-impounded-for-violations-in-zirakpur-101636572742503.html
11-11-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt mulls promoting electric vehicles on Char Dham routes||The Uttarakhand government is planning to promote the use of electric vehicles on Char Dham routes to protect the fragile ecology and environment of the Himalayan state. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj speaking on the sidelines of a flagging off ceremony of the Hoossein memorial rally, said, “We have received several suggestions on running electric vehicles on Char Dham routes. We are in talks with various electric vehicle manufacturing companies and have urged them to open electric vehicle charging stations on Char Dham routes along with cafeterias so that pilgrims or tourists can enjoy the local cuisine while they are charging their vehicles,” he said. “If electric vehicles are used during the Char Dham yatra, it would not only help the state but the country as a whole in saving valuable foreign exchange that is spent on fuel,” he said. The tourism minister also spoke on the plans of the Uttarakhand government to promote winter tourism in the state. On Wednesday, over 100 cars of different makes participated in the Nazir Hoossein memorial rally that was organised to retrace the iconic 1981 Himalayan Rally route. The event was flagged off by tourism minister Satpal Maharaj along with cabinet minister Ganesh Joshi from the Savoy Hotel in Mussoorie. “It is indeed an occasion of joy that a rally in memory of Nazir Hoossein, the architect behind the earlier editions of the Himalayan car rally that helped in putting the area on the international tourism map, is being flagged off from the Savoy which has been host to all such rallies in the past,” Satpal Maharaj said. The state government has received several proposals for such rallies and it is planning to link these rallies with other tourism schemes and circuits so that tourists are able to get a glimpse of the pristine culture of the state and the same would also benefit the locals involved in tourism activities, he added. Rajan Sayal the co-organiser of the event said, “The Himalayan car rally has succeeded in creating interest internationally among tourists and has opened a window to the pristine beauty of the state of Uttarakhand.” Nazir Hoossein in whose memory the rally was organised was the chief architect in conceptualising all Himalayan Rallies from 1980-1990.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-mulls-promoting-electric-vehicles-on-char-dham-routes-101636572682273.html
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Day after quitting AAP, Bathinda Rural MLA Ruby joins Congress||A day after quitting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Bathinda Rural MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby on Wednesday joined the ruling Congress in Punjab. Ruby was welcomed into the Congress fold by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu at a press conference here. All India Congress Committee secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the Congress MLA from Bathinda Urban, were also present. The 33-year-old first-time legislator’s exit is being seen as a setback for the AAP in the Malwa region of the state in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year. The AAP had won most of its 20 seats in Malwa in the 2017 state polls. Ruby said that she had joined the AAP to serve the people, but decided to leave the party as there was a difference in what its leaders say and what they do. “After seeing Arvind Kejriwal and his party’s policies, I felt that they would work for the aam aadmi (common man) but you get to know the reality after you join the party,” she told reporters in her first remarks after switching sides. On joining the Congress, Ruby said she was impressed with the party’s ideology. “The Congress is the asli aam aadmi party and is headed by a woman leader,” said the MLA, praising the Channi government for decisions taken for welfare of the people in such a short span. Asked if she has resigned from the membership of the state assembly, Ruby said: “She will meet the (Punjab assembly) speaker and whatever is required under the rules.” Sidhu, while welcoming Ruby into the Congress, said that she will be given due respect in the party. Channi said she aspired to work for the development of Punjab and had chosen the right party. Earlier, AAP legislature party leader Harpal Singh Cheema, while reacting to her resignation, said Ruby was not going to get the AAP ticket and, therefore, joining the Congress. “Ruby is our younger sister, be happy wherever you go. This time, she had no chance of getting a ticket from the AAP so she is joining the Congress. The Congress is requested not to cheat Ruby and should give her the ticket from Bathinda Rural,” Cheema tweeted. Hitting back at Cheema, Ruby accused him of not raising his voice for the party leaders or the people of Punjab. “When it was time for you to speak, you did not say anything. You neither raised your voice for the people of Punjab nor for Bhagwant Mann. As for the ticket, you can contest against me,” she tweeted, throwing a challenge to the legislature party chief. Ruby had announced her resignation from the AAP in a tweet on Tuesday night after having a meeting with Channi and Chaudhary earlier in the day. Last month, she had backed Mann for the party’s chief minister face and was said to be cut up with the leadership over the delay in making the announcement. So far, four rebel AAP MLAs – Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Jagdev Singh Kamalu, Pirmal Singh Khalsa and Nazar Singh Manshahia – have joined the Congress. While Khaira, Kamalu and Khalsa joined the Congress in June this year, Manshahia jumped ship in April 2019, just days before the parliamentary polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-quitting-aap-bathinda-rural-mla-ruby-joins-congress-101636572622060.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Master Plan public hearings to take place till November 24||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) extended the ongoing public hearing regarding the Master Plan of Delhi-2041 till November 24. The Master Plan was put up for public scrutiny in June this year. It will take the land-owning agency two or three months after the public hearing concludes to finalise and notify the plan, said a senior DDA official, requesting anonymity.The senior DDA official said, “We will hold four more public hearings in which elected representatives, municipal corporations, other government agencies and associations such as trader bodies will participate. People who have had the opportunity to present their views already can also participate.”The public hearings are scheduled for November 15, 17, 22 and 24. “There will be one session just for the municipal bodies, which are the main agencies for the implementation of the provisions of the Master Plan,” said the senior DDA official.During the first public hearing held on October 18, people raised demands for an increase in floor-to-area ratio (FAR), clarity on the status of unauthorised colonies, clarity in redevelopment norms, etc. “Some of the major demands are for an increase in FAR in both commercial and residential areas. We will examine them. But FAR is linked to factors such as the availability of water and other resources. Another demand is for clarity on the status of unauthorised colonies located on Master Plan roads. In such colonies, ownership rights can’t be given,” said the senior official.There were demands both in favour of and against the mixed land-use (MLU), the official said. “Though we have increased the right-of-way (ROW) to 24m where mixed land-use can be allowed, there are many who want it to be done away with. But a large section of people wants MLU and has suggested that grocery stores be allowed in colonies, even on roads with less ROW. During the pandemic, such shops were of great help to people in residential colonies,” he said.Initially, the land-owning agency planned to notify the Master Plan by the end of the year. But the process was delayed as the DDA had to extend the deadline for submission of public suggestions/objections by a month in July because various civic society members demanded more time due to the Covid-19 pandemic.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA joint front, said, “The DDA has reduced the entire public hearing to a joke. I have submitted objections on several issues. But my name was not there in any of their lists. They are just rushing into notifying the plan that is for the city’s future for the next 20 years.”On Wednesday, the land-owning agency held a public hearing in which over 4,300 people were invited. “We received close to 33,000 suggestions/objections. We have given people time to present their views,” said another DDA official, requesting anonymity.The official said that finalisation of the MPD-2041 will take at least two or three months, as the comments will be analysed and discussed with authority members, other committees, etc. “Necessary changes will be incorporated and the plan will again be tabled in the authority meeting before being sent to the ministry of housing and urban affairs for notification,” said the official.Till the time MPD-2041 is not notified, the current master plan (MPD-2021), which was notified on February 7, 2007, will continue to be in force.AK Jain, former planning commissioner at DDA, said, “Future developments will be impacted by the new master plan. But there will be no major change, as this plan doesn’t propose any radical changes. Important policies such as transit-oriented development, land pooling, etc, have already been notified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-master-plan-public-hearings-to-take-place-till-november-24-101636571188460.html
11-11-2021||Noida||Three arrested in separate theft cases in Gautam Budh Nagar||Gautam Budh Nagar police on Wednesday arrested three persons, including a habitual offender for whom police had announced a reward of ₹25,000 for his arrest, for their alleged involvement in a series of theft and snatching cases in Noida and Greater Noida. In the first case, Biskrakh police arrested a 25-year-old man involved in a series of theft and snatching cases in the district. The suspect was identified as Nazakat Mohammad, a resident of Loni in Ghaziabad.Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of Noida Central, said police received information about movement of the suspect near Hindon Pushta road in Greater Noida west. “A police team reached the spot and stopped the suspect for checking. He failed to produce the registration papers of the motorcycle. The police frisked him and recovered four gold bangles, two anklets, two rings, one wrist watch, one gold necklace, one countrymade gun, a stolen KTM motorcycle and ₹24,600 from his possession,” he said. Elaraman said during interrogation, the suspect revealed that he was involved in a series of theft and snatching cases in Noida and Greater Noida. “He was also arrested and sent to jail five times in the past. He again started committing crimes after he was out on bail. We found 30 cases registered against him in Gautam Budh Nagar and Delhi. The police had announced a reward of ₹25,000 on his arrest,” Elamaran said. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. In the second case, Dinesh Kumar, station house officer of Badalpur police station, said police arrested two people from Chidauli village on Wednesday and recovered a stolen ceiling fan, a battery, and one thermal scanner from their possession. The suspects were identified as Rahman (22), and Nusrat (24), both residents of Chidauli village in Badalpur. Kumar said during interrogation, the suspects revealed that on September 8, they had burgled a government primary school in the village and fled with the valuables. “The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search for two other accomplices, Mustakim and Khalil, who are currently on the run,” said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-arrested-in-separate-theft-cases-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101636571183254.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Pragati Maidan to host trade fair after a year’s gap||The revamped exhibition halls at the Pragati Maidan are being prepared to host this year’s India International Trade Fair. After missing the annual event last year due to Covid, the India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO) will be organising 40th India International Trade Fair over an area of 70,000 sq m which is almost three times the size of the event held in 2019 (23,000 sqm), officials of the ITPO -- the organisers of the fair -- said.Workers on Wednesday were seen busy testing escalators, finishing up plumbing and setting up frame booths for exhibitors to show-case their products at the giant hangar-like new exhibition halls at Pragati Maidan. The new halls which are part of international exhibition-cum-convention centre project at Pragati Maidan were inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi last month, and they will provide more than 70% space of this year’s annual trade fair event, ITPO official said. LC Goyal, the managing director of ITPO said more than 3,000 exhibitors, state governments and central ministries will be participating in the fair. The foreign participation, however, will be low this year with just nine countries taking part in the fair. The overseas participants are from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bahrain, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, UAE, Tunisia and Turkey, compared to 20 in the previous years.Goyal said they were aware of the Covid situation and taking required steps. He said the ticket sales will be regulated keep the maximum number of visitors at any given time inside the venue between 35,000 to 40,000. Tickets will be available for sale online as well as at 65 metro stations. No counters will be there at Pragati Maidan. “The ticket rates have also been hiked by 20% as a crowd management measure, and not with an aim to generate more revenue,” Goyal said. The ticket prices remain same for children while the entry will be free for senior citizens. In 2019, tickets for general visitors were available at ₹60 for adults and ₹40 for children on weekdays. On weekends or holiday, the rates increased to ₹120 for adults and ₹60 for children.The spacious new complex halls will also play a key role in ensuring social distancing. Goyal said that the minimum stall sizes have been increased from 9 sq m to 12 sq m while the passage pathway width has been raised from 4 m to 5 m. “Moreover, there will be 320 civil defence volunteers to ensure the compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour at the venue,” he added. The 14-day event will be held between 14-27 November with first 5 days reserved for businessmen-to-businessmen sale and the last entry will be permitted at 5:30 pm. For the normal visitors, the entry time will be between 9am and 5.30pm.The main underground tunnel connecting Mathura road and Ring Road- which is a key component of Pragati Maidan revamp project-is still not complete and it will not be used in this year’s annual trade fair. Goyal said that the underground parking and tunnel will be ready much before the next year’s IITF. “The exhibitors will be using parking near Bhairon Marg and enough parking provision has been made for visitors but from the next year we will be able to use underground parking under the Pragati Maidan,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-pragati-maidan-to-host-trade-fair-after-a-year-s-gap-101636571001844.html
11-11-2021||Noida||Tractor trolley driver held for death of two men in accident on Noida Expressway||A 30-year-old tractor trolley driver was arrested on Wednesday for his alleged involvement in an accident in which two people died on the Noida Expressway near Amity University on November 7. Police have identified the suspect as Ranveer Kumar, a resident of Mathura.Rajeev Kumar, station house officer of Sector 39 police station, said the two victims --- Ajay Kumar (32) and his friend Sohan Pal( 50), residents of Gejha village in Noida’s Sector 93, were travelling in an Maruti Suzuki Alto and were going for the car’s servicing in Noida. On the same route, a trolley loaded with paddy was going from Greater Noida to Noida.Ajay’s brother Dibbu Singh, who lodged a complaint in the accident case, said the tractor trolley was going in front of Ajay’s car nearly 200 metres ahead of the Mahamaya flyover. “The trolley driver suddenly took a left turn without giving an indicator. My brother, who was driving the car, lost control over the vehicle and hit the trolley,” said Singh. Both Ajay and his friend were trapped in the mangled vehicle and suffered severe injuries. The trolley driver fled the spot following the accident. Some passerby informed police and a team from Sector 39 police station reached the spot. They rushed the two victims to District Hospital in Noida where doctors declared them brought dead. The SHO said that a case was registered against the tractor trolley driver under Sections 304-A (death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC. “We had seized the tractor trolley and traced the driver using the vehicle’s registration number. On Wednesday, the driver was arrested from Mahamaya flyover in Noida,” he said adding that the suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tractor-trolley-driver-held-for-death-of-two-men-in-accident-on-noida-expressway-101636570763353.html
11-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP expels Howrah unit chief after he challenges Suvendu Adhikari||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expelled Surajit Saha, the Howrah central organisational unit president, on Wednesday afternoon, hours after he publicly questioned the honesty of Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the state assembly, and refused to take orders from former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders. Although the Bengal BJP has expelled quite a few district leaders since last year following allegations of infighting and indiscipline, Saha is the first who faced action for challenging Adhikari’s authority. “Adhikari alleged at an internal meeting on Tuesday that we lost the assembly polls in Howrah district because a section of our leaders are secretly in touch with TMC leader Arup Roy. How can a person who joined the BJP six months ago make such allegations? He has to prove this or else apologise to all BJP workers in Howrah. Adhikari should first prove his own honesty because in the Narada sting videos he could be seen accepting money,” Saha told reporters on Wednesday. Arup Roy, a cabinet minister, is the TMC’s most influential leader in Howrah. Though an accused in the high-profile Narada case that the Central Bureau of Investigation is probing, Adhikari, who joined the saffron camp in December last year, has not been named in the charge sheet unlike some of his former cabinet colleagues. The meeting Saha referred to was held hours after the state election commission agreed to the TMC government’s proposal to hold civic body elections in Howrah and Kolkata on December 19. Saha and Adhikari reportedly had an argument at the meeting which was convened at the state BJP headquarters to prepare for the polls. Although 25 leaders from Howrah were called, some were absent, party leaders said. Saha claimed that Adhikari wanted former mayor of Howrah Corporation, Rathin Chakravarty, who joined the BJP in January, to be the chairman of the election committee. Saha protested against the idea. “I said there are many efficient leaders and old-time workers in the BJP. We will not take orders from a former TMC leader against whom we brought charges of corruption in the Howrah municipal corporation. We do not want the BJP to turn into a B-team of the TMC,” said Saha. “I worked for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and dedicated my life to the BJP. Nobody needs to lecture me on allegiance. I have not received the expulsion letter yet. An elected district president cannot be expelled like this. They have to first issue a show-cause letter. Even if I am expelled I will remain dedicated to the party,” Saha said on Wednesday afternoon. The expulsion letter said Saha had breached discipline. “At the behest of Dr Sukanta Majumdar, president of BJP, West Bengal, and member of Parliament you are hereby expelled from the party with immediate effect for breaching organizational discipline,” BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee wrote in the letter to Saha. It was released to the media at around 5 pm. “Even if the discussions Saha is referring to take place, he cannot talk about this in public. He breached discipline,” said Majumdar. Adhikari, who was in East Midnapore district’s Nandigram on Wednesday, did not want to comment on the controversy. BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said the party will contest the Howrah civic polls with full strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-expels-howrah-unit-chief-after-he-challenges-suvendu-adhikari-101636570641947.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Three men held with fine quality marijuana imported from Canada||Three men, who used the darknet to import marijuana from Canada and sell it for huge profits in Delhi, have been arrested by the Delhi Police’s crime branch. Police said they recovered 1,873 grams of fine quality Canadian marijuana from the three men, adding that unlike the marijuana grown in India, imported marijuana is costlier.The darknet or dark web is a network within the internet which is not accessible through search engines. Over the past few years, criminals are increasingly using the darknet to smuggle drugs and weapons, police said.Joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar pegged the value of the seized contraband at ₹35 lakh. “The consignment was ordered on the darknet and payment was made in bitcoins. The selling price of the seized consignment is approximately ₹40,000-50,000 per ounce (28 grams), depending upon the paying capacity of the buyer. In the USA, it goes for about $600 per ounce,” Kumar said.According to confessional statements of people arrested for dealing in marijuana in the past few years, about one gram of marijuana grown in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh costs ₹10, or ₹280 for 28 grams. The price per gram of marijuana bought from Himachal Pradesh is more. The rate also depends on where it is sold in Delhi. For example, marijuana in south and New Delhi areas would be costlier than in outer or north Delhi, police said. Police said on November 8, they received a tipoff about a Delhi resident who had imported marijuana and was selling it in the city. Around 11.15am that day, police searched a house in Shalimar Bagh and arrested the three men from there. Police identified the three as Karan Sajnani,24, Priyansh, 22, and Sanjeev Midha,39, all residents of Paschim Vihar, Delhi.“During their interrogation, we learnt that Karan Sajnani has a family business of selling and purchasing used cars. Priyansh is his friend. Their common friend Pankaj Davar, a resident of Madipur, was engaged in procuring marijuana from the USA via courier and selling it in Delhi for a profit. About four months ago, Karan and Pankaj Davar procured a consignment of approximately 1.5 kilos of American marijuana, which was sold by Pankaj. About three months ago, another consignment was procured in the same manner. This time Pankaj cheated Karan and did not share the profit equitably, so Karan decided to work without him,” joint CP Kumar said.Around two months ago, Karan and Priyansh procured a kilo of marijuana from abroad and sold it to two men, Golu and Vicky (identified only by their first names), in Paschim Vihar.“A week ago, they ordered the recent consignment, which was intercepted by the crime branch. Priyansh has family business of tour and travels. Earlier, he used to buy marijuana from an Afghani national, who has now shifted his base to Russia. Priyansh is pursuing BTech from a reputed Institute of Technology in Rohini,” Kumar added.The two men confessed that they had roped in Sanjeev Midha to provide a place where the consignment could be delivered. Midha, police said, is listed as a “bad character” with the Pashim Vihar police station. In police records, a bad character is someone whose criminal record in kept as a separate file in the police station concerned. The activities of a “bad character” are monitored by the police to ensure that (s)he does not commit any crime. Police said Midha provided the two men with his brother-in-law Amandeep’s address. Police arrested the three after the consignment had reached Amandeep’s house in Shalimar Bagh.Police said Karan and Priyansh used the darknet to procure the contraband a self-deleting chat messenger service to seal the deals. Joint CP Kumar said the tentative seller is identified on the dark web, which opens with a special internet onion browser. “This onion browser directs internet traffic through a free, worldwide, volunteer overlay network, consisting of more than 6,000 relays. After striking a deal, payment is made in bitcoins or other acceptable cryptocurrency. Priyansh paid for the consignment using his own bitcoin wallet. The drug parcels are routed through an international courier or express mail service,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-men-held-with-fine-quality-marijuana-imported-from-canada-101636570582011.html
11-11-2021||Noida||Work on interchange loop in Noida to begin soon, say Yeida officials||The work on a cloverleaf interchange loop which, once completed, will seamlessly connect Yamuna Expressway with the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE), will begin as soon as the land issue is resolved, according to officials.Officials of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) said the work on this project has been delayed because farmers in the area refused to give up their land for this project because they wanted additional compensation.“We have discussed the issues with the landowners, who are now ready to give their land. Work on this project is about to start,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.The loop is to be built on 57 hectares of land.“The Yeida, in 2000, acquired the land at a rate of ₹1,300 per sqm. But in 2008, the government bought land for Eastern Peripheral Expressway and other projects from farmers at a rate of ₹3,500 per sqm. We, therefore, need more compensation. If it happens, we will let the work begin on loop,” said Mukesh Kumar, a farmer from Afzalpur. Land from the village is earmarked for the loop project.The loop is a crucial project as it will also provide direct connectivity from the upcoming Jewar airport to Delhi-NCR via the EPE.In the absence of the loop, motorists from Noida, Greater Noida and Delhi face inconvenience reaching EPE as they have to travel through many congested villages such as Kasna and Ghangola. This loop will immensely benefit motorists and offer a smooth ride to thousands of commuters, who use the 165km Yamuna Expressway and EPE.Yeida was scheduled to start work on the loop, to be built at a cost of ₹83.94 crore, by July 2019. The authority, in June 2019, issued a tender and hired a contractor for the project. It had fixed a deadline of 18 months for the project from the day the work starts on the ground.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which built the 135km EPE, will fund the project and Yeida will construct the entry and exit to connect the two important expressways. The EPE passes above the 165km Yamuna Expressway, near the Noida International University and Galgotia University campuses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-interchange-loop-in-noida-to-begin-soon-say-yeida-officials-101636570523293.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: AQI improves to enter very poor zone||Delhi’s air quality improved marginally to reach the ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday as the capital recorded an overall air quality index (AQI) of 372 – a drop from Tuesday’s 404, data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed. According to experts, though local meteorological conditions largely remained the same, a slight drop in the speed of wind that is bringing stubble emissions to Delhi has led to this slight improvement in the last 24 hours. Forecasts on Wednesday showed transport-level winds will once again pick up from Thursday onwards, with two days of ‘severe’ air a possibility once again. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), winds that transport stubble emissions from Punjab and Haryana to Delhi, are expected to pick up again over the next two days. This likely to deteriorate over the next two days. Though the number of farm fire incidents went up to 5,317 on Wednesday from 3,476 on Tuesday, their share in the overall pollution mix of Delhi stayed at 27%. Gufran Beig, founder and project director at Safar, says a combination of strong transport-level winds, along with calm wind speed over Delhi is likely to see ‘severe’ air again. “If the farm fires remain the same, the share of stubble burning will start increasing again from Thursday as winds from Punjab and Haryana will pick up speed. Meanwhile, Delhi will see calm wind conditions, which will help trap pollutants over the city,” he said. In an analysis done by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Wednesday, the body said this smog episode is expected to last another two days, with it already matching the first smog episodes of 2018 and 2020 – each of which lasted six days. “While very high concentrations of PM2.5 have hogged attention, the levels of gases – ozone, CO or NO2 -- have also remained elevated during this smog episode,” says Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager, Urban Lab, CSE, adding that if conditions do not improve, this smog episode is likely to overtake the 2019 smog episode, which lasted eight days. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 13.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, the lowest so far this season. It was 13.5 degrees on Tuesday. “A gradual drop in minimum temperature is expected over the next seven days, touching 11 degrees Celsius by November 16,” a met official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-aqi-improves-to-enter-very-poor-zone-101636570461810.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi University to start online classes on November 22||Another batch of incoming students at Delhi University (DU) will start classes away from the campus as online classes begin on November 22. In-person classes at DU colleges remain suspended since March last year when the university was closed after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the varsity allowed final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students to return to campus for practical and laboratory work in September, regular classes for students are unlikely to begin any time soon as another semester kicks off in the online mode. DU officials said that the semester will start in the online mode, to begin with. Both teachers and students have expressed concerns over the delay in the resumption of regular classes. Manoj Sinha, the secretary of the DU principals’ association and head of Aryabhatta College, said that the university was in a dilemma regarding the resumption of physical classes since a vast number of outstation students comprised the student population at DU. Sinha said that the university and colleges would need to figure out the modalities of the resumption of hostel facilities and other preparations. “Around 50% of DU’s strength includes students who are not from Delhi. The university and colleges need to make up their mind and accordingly set up facilities. Other preparations also need to be done before students can be called to the campus. We are currently undertaking a survey to seek details about the vaccination status of students in the second and third year,” said Sinha. He said that admissions for incoming students were currently taking place and it would be too early for colleges to ascertain their vaccination details, due to which in-person classes for students starting college on November 22 was not on the cards. “It’s possible that some students among the incoming batch will be below the age of 18. That is an area of concern. We can’t call them for classes in such a situation. The university is looking for solutions and hopefully by January things will be clearer,” said Sinha. He also said that the academic schedule had been prepared while keeping in mind that the semester was already delayed and it was necessary to initiate classes as soon as possible. Management of logistics and other facilities would take time, due to which classes would kick off in the online mode. Incoming students, however, said that an online semester would restrict them from experiencing the university experience. Sanjay (who goes by his first name), who will be pursuing his bachelors degree in political science from Ramanujan College, said that while he preferred in-person classes over online ones, there was little that students could do. “There can never be a replacement for physical classes. I hope regular classes can resume at the earliest so that we can get a taste of the campus life,” he said. Abha Dev Habib, who teaches physics at Miranda House, said that the university needed to issue a schedule outlining the time when physical classes for different semester students were likely to resume. “Now, the university should produce a schedule outlining resumption of in-person classes. It should bring back the third-year students first, which is the weakest batch. In order of priority, second-year and first-year students should also be called back to the university,” said Habib. She said that while first semester students could be called to campus by March next year, it was necessary for the university to prepare them for the possibility of physical exams in March so that there is an initiation of the routine cycle in some way. As per the academic calendar shared by the university, exams for the first semester students will take place in March but there is no clarity on the mode of examinations. For students that are currently studying in the second and third year, the online open book examination is scheduled from November end. A number of student groups and organisations such as AISA, KYS, SFI among others are currently holding an indefinite strike seeking a reopening of the university for the past three days. Students said that the strike will continue till the admission issues a notification outlining the reopening. DU declares ECA merit list Delhi University on Wednesday declared the centralised merit list of eligible candidates for admission to undergraduate courses under the ECA category. Like last year, the university did not hold sports and ECA trials this year. The list of eligible candidates as per the centralized ECA merit list is available on the university’s admission portal and eligible students can register their preferences for the allotment of course and colleges from Wednesday till Friday this week. Candidates will not get any further chance for registering their preferences for allotment of course and college after Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-to-start-online-classes-on-november-22-101636570401836.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi University professor murdered wife for dowry in Burari house, say police||A 38-year-old Delhi University (DU) assistant professor, Virender Kumar, was arrested along with his cousin, Govind Prasad, 29, in connection with the murder of his wife Pinky Singh in Burari on Monday. Police arrested the two men after questioning Kumar’s former driver, Rakesh, 31, who was arrested in the case on Monday evening. Kumar, who holds a PhD in Sanskrit, works as an ad hoc teacher at Ramjas College, police said. According to the police, Kumar allegedly admitted that he murdered his wife as he felt “cheated” after a cheque of ₹5 lakh, given to him by Pinky’s family as a “wedding gift”, bounced. Police said Kumar and Pinky got married in February 2020. Pinky’s family members also told police that Kumar was harassing her for dowry for the past several months. Police said former driver Rakesh was arrested on Monday evening after a police officer found him loitering in the Burari area “in a state of nervousness”. Police have now confirmed that this was part of the plan to mislead them. Police said Rakesh, when questioned, said he had come to surrender after killing his employer’s wife. After arresting him, a police team reached the couple’s home in Sant Nagar and found Pinky dead on her bed. Police then registered a case of murder and announced Rakesh’s arrest, adding that they were probing the role of others in the crime. Police said further Investigation revealed that Rakesh allegedly strangled Pinky and also electrocuted her till she died. According to police, Rakesh allegedly helped Kumar carry out the murder because he had a grudge against Pinky for sacking him as the family driver and getting him evicted from the building. Rakesh told police that Kumar had bought a WagonR car three years ago, which they used as a taxi with Rakesh as the driver.Police said at the time of Rakesh’s arrest on Monday evening, a separate team was probing Kumar, who had also been detained for questioning. THE HUSBAND’S ROLE Kumar allegedly told investigators that he was not at home at the time of the murder, but he made contradictory statements when asked as to why he was not at home. “It was on Monday morning that Kumar and Rakesh made plans to kill Pinky, even though they first spoke about it over 15-20 days ago. He told Rakesh about his marital issues and that the ₹5 lakh cheque had bounced. Rakesh, on the other hand, was upset because he was sacked from the driver’s post by Pinky and made to vacate the room he occupied,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi. DCP Kalsi said according to the plan, Rakesh was to surrender and mislead the police investigation. “Kumar would then help Rakesh get bail and provide him with legal aid. Rakesh did as planned and confessed to the murder on Monday. But there were inconsistencies in his statements. So we scanned the footage from over 300 CCTV cameras to ascertain the time when Kumar left the house. The evidence we gathered showed that both men were lying. Kumar was subjected to detailed questioning and he confessed to the murder. He also said his nephew, Govind Kumar, helped him in the crime,” Kalsi said. DOWRY ALLEGATIONS Pinky’s brother Manvir Singh said his sister and Kumar got married on February 16, 2021. It was an arranged marriage. Singh said a week after the wedding, Pinky was forced to return to her parent’s home in Vijay Nagar as Kumar started pestering her for dowry. “My father is a junior employee with the Indian Railways. He sold our house to pay the dowry but that was not enough for Pinky’s husband. Within a week, Kumar started harassing my sister. He also threatened Pinky and we filed a police complaint in this regard. He took Pinky back in August only after we threatened to pursue our complaint,” Singh said. DELHI TOPPED DOWRY DEATHS IN 2019 and 2020 Pinky’s killing has brought to fore the rise in dowry related crimes in the national capital. Among all metropolitan cities with a population of at least two million, Delhi reported the maximum dowry deaths in 2020. At least 111 women were murdered last year (2020) over dowry in Delhi, shows the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau. Lucknow came second on the list with 48 dowry deaths. In Mumbai, there were 12 cases, while Bengaluru reported 28, Kolkata nine and Chennai 3. In 2019, too, Delhi topped the nationwide list with 117 dowry related cases. An analysis of over 500 dowry related cases registered in Delhi in 2017 by HT showed that the dowry demands ranged from a buffalo to a gas cylinder; from an autorickshaw to an Audi car, from a few thousands to crores of rupees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-du-professor-murdered-wife-for-dowry-in-burari-house-say-police-101636570282091.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||No executive, political will to curb hawking in Chandni Chowk: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Wednesday pulled up the authorities for their failure to control encroachment of hawkers in the Chandni Chowk area, saying that there seems to be no executive or political will to curb squatting.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh observed that barring the Lutyen’s zone there is no other place in the city that is free of hawkers.The court said, “...why spare Lutyens’ zone. They (vendors) should be all over here. Let them be in front of the President’s House, Prithviraj Road, Delhi high court, India Gate and make it a jungle. Why leave this area, we all should face it.”It said all street vendors must be paying their “haftas” or commission to authorities, which is why they are allowed to squat there despite the area being a no hawking, no vending zone. It said that the officials evidently did not want any improvement in the situation because they’d rather have commission from these unauthorised vendors.“If there is no political and executive will, then let it go the way it has to, why should we be bothered. We are getting a feeling of complete defeat in this matter,” it said.The court was hearing a plea by Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal seeking direction to the authorities to remove illegal hawkers and vendors from the no-hawking and no-squatting area in Chandni Chowk, which has recently been redeveloped.On Wednesday, senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli informed the court that despite repeated directions to the Delhi Police to install 330 CCTV cameras, there isn’t a single one in the area to check encroachment.Additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal, representing the Delhi Police, said earlier due to the redevelopment work, cameras were not being installed. He, however, sought a week’s time to install the cameras and remove encroachments in the area.Additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan, appearing for the Delhi government, said some CCTV cameras have been installed by the government and he will report the exact number on the next date of hearing.The court directed the north corporation to immediately start preparing a street vending plan involving experts from the field of planning, including from the School of Planning and Architecture, IIT, PWD and other bodies.The bench directed the north corporation to file a status report indicating the steps taken in this regard and made it clear that its commissioner shall be personally responsible for complying with this direction.During the proceedings, the court also remarked that there was no point in removing hawkers today as they will return tomorrow.“Either you all (authorities) get together and put your hands up that you can’t do anything because you are ill-staffed or whatever. There is a lack of will to it. Don’t tell us that the police and municipal authority want to do something and it is unable to do it. Either you sort it out or we will issue contempt notice,” the bench said.The matter will now be heard on December 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-executive-political-will-to-curb-hawking-in-chandni-chowk-delhi-hc-101636570221674.html
11-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Deteriorating air leads to increase in patients with respiratory issues||Government and private hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar are reporting a deluge of patients coming in with respiratory issues. Doctors say the high pollution levels and deteriorating air quality in the district have triggered chest and breathing issues. Due to the worsening of air quality in the last one week, cases of respiratory diseases in out-patient departments (OPDs) of hospitals across the city have gone up in the last few days. Doctors said most complaints pertain to asthma attacks, breathing difficulties, bronchitis and burning sensation in the eyes, among other issues.“In the last one week, there has been a 25% increase in patients coming in with complaints of acute respiratory infection, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), acute bronchitis, bronchial asthma and fever. In cold weather, dust and smoke in air settle on a lower surface in the atmosphere, which triggers allergic reactions in the respiratory tract and spreads infection as a lot of viruses and bacteria are also present in this toxic air,” said Dr N K Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association, Noida. As per data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Noida has been recording “severe” air for six days since November 4--the day Diwali was celebrated. Dr Yatendra Singh, medical superintendent at Community Health Centre, Bhangel said among the patients suffering from respiratory issues, there is a large number of patients who are unaware of their allergies and asthma. “Many people are unaware that they are asthmatic or allergic to pollutants and their condition has aggravated into acute breathing problems since the pollution levels increased in the past week. We have been nebulising most of the patients and providing inhalers to the rest of them. In the last one week, there has been an increase of about 25-30% such patients in the OPD,” said Dr Singh.Doctors at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida said this time, patients with no history of bronchial asthma or COPD are also showing severe symptoms. “Surprisingly, we are seeing that not only are the diseases getting flared up in patients with history of respiratory issues but even healthy patients, with no history of bronchial asthma or COPD are showing severe symptoms since the last one week,” said Dr Devendra Kumar Singh, associate professor of respiratory medicine at Sharda University and Hospital, Greater Noida. He added about 50% of the hospital’s out-patient department (OPD) is filled with patients having moderate symptoms such as headaches, wheezing, coughing as well as breathing difficulties. “About two to three patients are currently admitted in the emergency ward as well, as they are suffering from severe symptoms and are unable to breathe. They have to be put on oxygen support or ventilators,” he said. Doctors at the district hospital in Noida’s Sector 30 have witnessed about 30% increase in patients complaining of dry and itchy throat, cough, fever and chest congestion. “Compared to a week ago, there has been a 30% increase in patients complaining of respiratory issues. All such patients are middle aged and most of them are those who have to go out for work,” said Dr Vikas Kheria, general physician at the district hospital’s flu clinic.At Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, 30% of all OPD patients are those suffering from respiratory problems. “Earlier, patients suffering from respiratory issues make up about 15-20% of the total footfall in the OPD. However, in the last one week, this has increased to 30%. About 1% of these patients with breathing difficulties, acute bronchitis or COPD also needed to be hospitalized,” said Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS.Dr D K Gupta, chairman at Felix Hospital in Sector 137, advised people to avoid going outdoors and always wear masks while stepping out. “N-95 masks are able to provide protection against PM2.5 pollutants in the air. Hence, people should start using them when going outdoors. Those who go for morning walks should avoid it as the air in the morning is at its most toxic level since the particles settle closer to the ground. As soon as people develop respiratory or breathing issues, they should consult their doctor,” said Dr Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-deteriorating-air-leads-to-increase-in-patients-with-respiratory-issues-101636570162045.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||RK Puram, Okhla Phase 2 now Delhi’s least polluted spots||RK Puram and Okhla Phase 2, two localities that featured in the list of Delhi’s 13 most polluted spots in 2018, have seen a turnaround in their air quality and are now ranked among the areas with cleanest air in the national capital, according to analysis by the state pollution control body.The Delhi Pollution Control Committee’s (DPCC) report — which ranked 39 localities that have air quality monitors — showed that Okhla Phase 2, Lodhi Road, Pusa, Aya Nagar, RK Puram and Nehru Nagar were among the city’s least polluted areas.The findings of the study show that between November 1 and November 8, RK Puram recorded only one “severe” air quality day, compared to eight in Jahangirpuri and Wazirpur, and five in Alipur.Okhla Phase 2, in comparison, saw its air quality index (AQI) breach the “severe” mark on just two of the eight days.RK Puram, officials said, performed poorly in the 2018 list because of then ongoing construction work involving two major Metro rail corridors: the Pink Line (connecting Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar via Moti Bagh and Bhikaji Cama Place), and the Magenta Line (connecting Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden via RK Puram and Vasant Vihar). Dust from the construction, coupled with high vehicular volume on the Ring Road and the Outer Ring Road, which flank RK Puram, combined to give the area pollution levels among the worst in the city at the time.“Since RK Puram is a largely residential area, it was easier for us to carry out awareness campaigns and control the pollution levels here. Once the Metro and the new Rao Tula Ram Marg flyover got constructed, a lot of the construction dust and vehicular volume was controlled,” a senior environment department official said.Okhla Phase 2, meanwhile, has benefited from stringent action against open waste dumping and garbage dumping, said officials.“Traffic jams also cause high pollution in this area. We are working with the Delhi traffic police to manage the snarls there. This will also help clean up the air in the area,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-hotspot-list-in-2018-rk-puram-okhla-phase-2-now-delhi-s-least-polluted-spots-101636570043222.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Parts of north Delhi have city’s worst air quality, pollution control body says||Jahangirpuri, Wazirpur, Alipur, Bawana and Mundka topped a list of most polluted areas among 39 localities in the national capital where air quality is monitored regularly, according to an analysis by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC).The DPCC marked the 39 localities based on the average AQIs reported at these stations between November 1 and November 8.To be sure, the air in Delhi has been at its worst in the first week of November this year, breaching levels not seen since January. The city recorded the season’s first ‘very poor’ air day on November 2 — for the first time since June 9 — and its first ‘severe’ air day on November 5, for the first time since January 19, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board.The localities were marked on the basis of the number of ‘severe’, ‘very poor’ and ‘poor’ air days recorded during the first eight days of the month.Jahangirpuri, Wazirpur and Alipur, all located in north Delhi, recorded five severe air days — from November 4 to November 8. Bawana, Mundka, Narela, Sonia Vihar and ITO recorded four severe air days each during this period — from November 5 to November 8, the analysis shows.After recording the cleanest October air for at least six years, Delhi’s air quality quickly spiked to dangerous levels on November 1, according to DPCC.Senior environment department officials explained that Jahangirpuri, which topped the list of the most polluted areas in the Capital, regularly records higher than city-average pollution readings primarily because of the location of the air quality monitoring station in the area. They said that open burning of garbage and biomass in nearby slum areas also adds to the high pollution levels in the area.Officials attributed the toxic air in Wazirpur to an industrial cluster in the area. They also added that open garbage burning was rampant in Jahangirpur and Wazirpur, and acted as the primary contributor of particulate matter levels in these two areas.Explaining the reasons behind high pollution levels in Alipur, the officials said it was emerging as a new pollution hot spot. They said high movement of heavy trucks and other traffic around Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar as well as the Bhalswa landfill could be the main factors responsible for the toxic air in the area.With air levels consistently in the severe, and nearly severe zones in Delhi, health experts have advised residents to take precautions especially during morning hours when pollutants usually are at the highest levels. Doctors have warned that long-term exposure to the toxic air can lead to several health problems to people of all age groups, including increase in blood pressure, under-development of lungs in infants, and chronic lung conditions cancers, low immunity, and depression among adults.Environment department officials said area specific action will be taken to curb pollution across the city. “There will be area-specific action that is required to fix pollution sources in these areas and the municipal agencies have been asked to sprinkle water, settle dust and look at any sources of pollution that can be fixed immediately,” a senior environment department official asking not to be named.A senior Met department official said Delhi recorded the cleanest October this year since record-keeping because of above-average rainfall recordings and the late withdrawal of monsoon. However, it also delayed the stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana.“Because of a late monsoon withdrawal, the window for stubble burning also shortened. This meant that the farm fires peaked around Diwali. The blatant violation of the ban on firecrackers this year and the contribution of stubble fire pushed the air in the severe zone. Also, northwesterly winds, low wind speed and falling temperatures are not helping with dispersal of pollutants, ” the official said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that to tackle specific, area-wise pollution concerns, Delhi needs localised air quality management plans.“While there is a larger plan that is in place in the form of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) and the Delhi government’s winter action plan, we also need plans on the localised level to function simultaneously. Many of the pollution hot spots have very specific geographical or demographic make, which are unique only to that area. The solutions for these unique problems also need to be unique and targeted,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parts-of-north-delhi-have-city-s-worst-air-quality-pollution-control-body-says-101636570041870.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s 13 hotspots continue to record alarmingly high levels of pollution||Delhi’s 13 pollution hot spots – identified first in 2018, jointly by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) -- for area-specific action, continue to record alarmingly high levels of pollution, data shows. In a review meeting held by the DPCC on Tuesday evening, air quality data analysed between November 1 and November 8 shows that not only do these locations continue to record ‘severe’ air, but newer locations with high pollution levels have also emerged during this period. These new locations -- Alipur, ITO, Nehru Nagar and Sonia Vihar -- all recorded at least four ‘severe’ air days during this period, levels exceeding even some of the existing pollution hot spots. While Alipur recorded five ‘severe’ air days during this period, the remaining three locations saw four severe days each, DPCC data shows. Delhi’s original 13 hot spots were Jahangirpuri, Anand Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Wazirpur, Punjabi Bagh, Dwarka Sector 8, Rohini Sector 16, RK Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela, Okhla Phase II and Vivek Vihar. While locations such as Bawana, Mundka, Narela, Jahangirpuri and Wazirpur, Okhla-Phase II are largely dominated by industries, residential hot spots such as Dwarka’s sector 8, Rohini’s sector-16 and Punjabi Bagh have different sources of pollution. RK Puram and Anand Vihar are polluted mostly because of heavy traffic movement around them. “Action can only be focused if each hot spot’s top sources of pollution are known. One can undertake measures such as sprinkling of water, but long-term action can only be driven if agencies know specific sources of pollution. Even then, it can take some time for pollution levels to drop as background emissions will remain high across the city,” says Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW). Among the emerging hot spots, ITO is characterised with heavy traffic, with vehicular emissions playing a key role in the PM 2.5 levels, especially during idling of vehicles. Alipur, located on the highway exiting Delhi from the north, also receives heavy traffic, in addition to receiving emissions form industries and the nearby Bhalswa landfill. The largely residential localities of Sonia Vihar and Nehru Nagar meanwhile may be recording instances of bio-mass burning, in addition to vehicular emissions and dust-upliftment. Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, says emissions from vehicles can end up releasing secondary aerosols and toxic chemicals in the air. Each time vehicles move, dust re-suspension also occurs. “If meteorological conditions are not ideal, these emissions can get trapped in the air and with dust, stay in the air for a long period. Stations located close to a source can record such high concentration easily,” he explains. On November 5, an anti-smog gun was installed at ITO by the Delhi government, to control upliftment of dust and pollutants in the area. The smog-gun was also inspected by environment minister Gopal Rai. Meanwhile, senior environment department officials said Alipur in north Delhi has a locational disadvantage, with close proximity with the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar and the Bhalswa landfill. The area also reports among the highest cases of garbage dumping and open garbage fires, according to action-taken reports. “Alipur is among the areas where a lot of work needs to be done. The pollution levels here remain higher than the city average because of the large movement of trucks and heavy vehicles. In this area at night tyres and other waste from vehicular repairs are set ablaze. The close proximity with the landfill, which also reports frequent fires, is also a problem,” the official explained. Residents also said that dust is another factor that is prevalent in this part of the Capital. Since many of the internal roads here are unpaved and broken, road dust constantly remains suspended in the air and is made worse by the high vehicular movement. In south Delhi’s Nehru Nagar, close proximity to the Ring Road was the primary cause of pollution. Between November 1 and November 8, high cracker bursting in this residential area could also be another reason for the sudden dip in air quality. Sonia Vihar, another residential suburb in north-east Delhi, is another area which could meanwhile be getting impacted by emissions from biomass burning, as well as dust from unpaved roads along the river’s banks. Professor Mukesh Khare from IIT Delhi said while dust and garbage burning are two factors which can lead to a spike in residential areas such as Nehru Nagar and Sonia Vihar, it is difficult to pin-point any additional sources of pollution in such a short window of analysis. He says moving ahead, identifying new hot spots should be done on the basis of the total emissions being generated in the area and not the PM 2.5 or PM 10 concentration. “PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentration is influenced by meteorology. If the location is near the border, trans-boundary pollution may impact it. Similarly, if there are calm winds there, pollutants will accumulate there. In order to identify a pollution hotspot, locations with the most emission count should be prioritized,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-13-hotspots-continue-to-record-alarmingly-high-levels-of-pollution-101636569921719.html
11-11-2021||Delhi||Boats, water sprinkling, bamboo barriers to clear foam in Yamuna on Chhath||Hundreds of people gathered on the banks of the Yamuna on Wednesday to perform prayers on the occasion of Chhath, defying the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) ban on celebrating the festival along the river, with authorities implementing some intriguing measures to remove the highly toxic foam that was floating on the surface of the river such as installing bamboo barricades, sprinkling water and running a boat through the froth at high speed. Experts, however, dismissed these measures as “merely optics”, and added that they will do nothing to address the basic problem of high pollution content in the river water. The 800 Chhath Puja venues set up by the Delhi government also witnessed large crowds, with MLAs of the party participating in the celebrations.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also participated in the celebrations. “This year, we faced lot of hurdles because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, we overcame all and now we are celebrating Chhath Puja. I pray for everyone’s well-being,” said Kejriwal, at a puja venue in East Kidwai Nagar.When asked about large number of people, including many led by two MPs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) -- Manoj Tiwari and Parvesh Verma-- celebrating the festival on the Yamuna banks in defiance of the DDMA order, Kejriwal said, “It is a pious occasion. It should not be politicised in any manner.”Massive foam built up on the surface of the Yamuna due to pollution levels touching unprecedented levels at Kalindi Kunj. On Wednesday, a government official said the revenue department, flood control department and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee decided to deploy two boats with a large cloth tied to them to remove foam from the river as an emergency measure. He added that at total of 15 boats were used to dissolve the foam. On Monday, Delhi Jal Board officials explained that high phosphate content, industrial pollutants, detergent in untreated domestic sewage, and water hyacinth near Okhla barrage caused the foam build up in the river. They said the froth indicates zero dissolved oxygen levels, which means that the water was unfit to support any aquatic life. A jal board official explained that water mixed with anti-phosphate agents was being sprinkled to clean the froth, debunking rumours that it was just plain river water. “Our teams are sprinkling water on the river to suppress the foam on a short-term basis. After we raised the issue, UP Jal Nigam officials visited the site and closed the Okhla barrage’s sluice gates so that no more polluted water reaches the area where foam formation takes place,” the official said. A senior DPCC official said deploying boats was only a short-term measure. “We deployed boats to remove the froth for the Chhath Puja. But we are also acting against sources of phosphates such as detergents, soaps, and other effluents. We are penalising owners of industries without effluent treatment plants or shutting them down. Delhi will also see a considerable improvement in the water quality once all sewage treatment plants are operational,” the officer said asking not to be named.Manoj Misra, the convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said the government is simply engaging in optics by adopting measures such as sprinkling water on the river. “Their engineers may have advised them to collect froth with boats or sprinkle water over the floating froth. These are optics which will have no effect on improving the water quality of the river,” he said.Misra added that the focus of the agencies should be on reducing industrial pollutants in the river by adopting zero-liquid discharge principle from industrial areas and restoring the natural flow of the river. Zero liquid discharge (ZLD) is wastewater management system that to ensure that there is no discharge of industrial wastewater into the environment. It is achieved by treating wastewater through recycling, recovery and reuse for industrial purpose.A major blame game over the toxic foam crisis has already begun among political parties in the Capital. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday the toxic foam floating on the Yamuna river was a gift to Delhi from the governments in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Chadha said about 105 MGD wastewater from the Yamuna in Haryana and about 50 MGD wastewater from the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh merged into Okhla barrage and this water had industrial waste, untreated detergents, and ammonia that led to the formation of the dirty frothing. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala hit back at Aam Aadmi Party leaders in Delhi, saying that it had become the Delhi government’s “habit” to blame the neighbouring state for everything.Earlier in the day, BJP MP (northeast Delhi) Manoj Tiwari and MP (West Delhi) Parvesh Verma participated in Chhat celebrations at two seperate locations in the banks of the Yamuna.Verma said, “The Arvind Kejriwal led government has failed to clean the Yamuna. Now he is trying to justify his failure by stopping people from celebrating Chhat Puja in the riverbank. This is not acceptable.”To be sure, the DDMA, which imposed the restriction, is chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who is an appointee of the BJP-led Union government. The Delhi chief minister is the Authority’s vice chairperson.In a press conference after Chhat celebrations on Wednesday, Tiwari said: “It is a serious matter as what should have been banned is not the chhatt pooja celebration but that poisonous froth in the river. The fact is the scheme should have been made to clean the river but the one being made is to ban that festival which actually cleans the river. Devotees are being stopped from going to ghats to prevent his own shortcomings from being exposed. The point is neither would they go near the Yamuna nor would they be able to see froth flowing in the river at Kalindi Kunj area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/boats-water-sprinkling-bamboo-barriers-to-clear-foam-in-yamuna-on-chhath-101636569862605.html
11-11-2021||Noida||Noida’s air improves, Ghaziabad still the most polluted in the country||The air quality in Noida showed some improvement on Wednesday for the first time since Diwali. With an air quality index (AQI) reading of 378, the city’s air was in the ‘very poor’ category. On the other hand, Ghaziabad again topped the list of most polluted cities in the country as with an AQI of 428, its pollution levels continued to be in the ‘severe’ category. According to the AQI bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Greater Noida too had ‘very poor’ air on Wednesday with an AQI of 374. An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Noida reeled under “severe” pollution levels for six days at a stretch since November 4--the day Diwali was celebrated. Official statistics of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) indicate that it is for the first time since 2018 that Noida suffered “severe” pollution levels for six days at a stretch. Last year, the city suffered from “severe” pollution levels for six consecutive days from November 5 to November 10. “The ‘very poor’ AQI of Noida is the result of less traffic on roads; there were hardly any traffic congestion on the day of Chathh Puja. Moreover, the impact of firecrackers burst during Diwali has considerably died down. It is likely that once the wind speed increases, more pollutants will be dispersed,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. According to official statistics, Ghaziabad city reeled under “severe” pollution levels for eight consecutive days from November 9 to 16 in 2017. “There is huge traffic volume in Ghaziabad due to Chhath Puja. The two air quality monitoring stations at Loni and Sanjay Nagar continued to record the higher ends in the ‘severe’ category. We have asked the authorities in Loni to increase the frequency of water sprinkling as there is high volume of dust on roads. The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation has also told us that they will be procuring more mechanical road sweeping machines and these will be deployed at Sanjay Nagar and at Delhi Meerut Road,” Sharma added. The Delhi Meerut Road is estimated to have a volume of 1.2 lakh passenger car units per day. Work on the Regional Rapid Transit System on the median of the road is also going on in full swing. This has led to an increase in traffic congestion, which increase the amount of PM2.5 in the air. As per the CPCB AQI bulletin, all the monitoring stations in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida were running high on PM2.5 and it also stood as the primary pollutant on Wednesday. “Air quality is expected to deteriorate for the next two days but will remain either at the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category or touch the lower end of ‘severe’ category. Calm local surface winds may cause stagnation, which weakens dispersion of pollutants. Today’s share of crop residue burning is 27% in PM2.5 and effective fire count is 5,317. Air quality is likely to improve on November 13,” said the forecast by the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar) on Wednesday. Environmentalists blame the agencies for lack of ground level action. “Their claims of abetting pollution through various action plans have fallen flat. The ‘severe’ AQI for seven days calls for some introspection by agencies in Ghaziabad. They are yet to procure the required equipment to tackle pollution. This indicates the seriousness with which agencies are dealing with pollution,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-air-imrpoves-ghaziabad-still-the-most-polluted-in-the-country-101636569681731.html
11-11-2021||Other||Three more test positive for Zika in Kanpur||Kanpur: Three more people tested positive for Zika virus infection in Kanpur on Wednesday. The total number of positive cases have now reached 109, out of which 17 have turned negative, according to chief medical officer Dr Nepal Singh. The total Zika active cases in Kanpur as of now are 91, he added. He said that the health department teams have intensified the screening and sampling for Zika virus, covering an area of six kilometer in IAF base, which is the center point. So far, the teams have collected 4,000 samples and covered 37,000 houses for reduction of sources of mosquito breeding, he added. Officials said those who have turned negative would remain under observation for a day or two before being discharged. The most of the patients are admitted to 7 Air Force Hospital in Kanpur’s Cantonment area. The first Zika virus case was found on October 23 in the city, following which there has been steady rise in the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-more-test-positive-for-zika-in-kanpur-101636569027750.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Now, Rajbhar's remark on Jinnah sparks row||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar on Wednesday said there would have been no Partition of the country had Muhammad Ali Jinnah been made India’s first prime minister, adding to the row on a remark on Pakistan’s founder by Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav earlier, and drawing a sharp reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Om Prakash Rajbhar, who was interacting with the media in Varanasi, recently announced an alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) for the Uttar Pradesh assembly election. Akhilesh Yadav had also praised Jinnah and said that he played a role in the freedom struggle along with Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. The BJP had reacted strongly to Akhilesh’s remark as well.Om Prakash Rajbhar further said, “Think why Atalji and Advaniji also praised Jinnah’s thoughts. That is why I think that if Jinnah had been made the first Prime Minister of the country, then there would have been no Partition of the country.” Reacting to Om Prakash Rajbhar’s remark on Jinnah, UP cabinet minister and BJP leader Anil Rajbhar alleged that the SBSP chief made the statement at the instance of the Samajwadi Party. Talking to the media at the circuit house in Varanasi, the minister said that the statement on Jinnah is an example of the narrow mentality of the SP and the SBSP.“These are the people who eat in this country, but sing the praises of another country. This statement has been (made) only in the greed of votes. This is an attempt to create unrest in the state by them,” he said. He accused the SP of doing the politics of appeasement. Anil Rajbhar said that in order to win the election, the SP and SBSP hurt people’s sentiments about great leaders and the people will give a befitting reply in the coming elections.Any amount of condemnation is less for the statement on Jinnah, he said.One who cannot respect great men can neither do good to the country nor understand the pain of the poor, deprived and common man, the minister said. UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh said as the Uttar Pradesh assembly election was approaching, there was a competition among the opposition leaders to praise Jinnah.He said Samajwadi Party leaders were not desisting from insulting countless freedom fighters by constantly comparing Jinnah with Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. Singh said that such comparison was also an insult to people, including backward classes across the country, who consider Sardar Patel as their ideal and draw inspiration from him.The backward classes of the state were eager to teach the Samajwadi Party a lesson, the UP BJP chief said.Singh said that the leaders of opposition parties have become victims of mental bankruptcy due to the politics of appeasement.These leaders of the SP and SBSP have forgotten that first Jinnah formed a party on the basis of religion and eventually got the country divided, Singh said.He said that Akhilesh and his leaders may not have realised the pain of Partition but the countrymen have not forgotten that yet.In view of the assembly elections, some are conspiring to spoil the social harmony in the state but people of the state along with the Bharatiya Janata Party will not allow any such mischief to succeed, he said.On October 31, Akhilesh Yadav, while addressing a public meeting in Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh, had said that leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel and Muhammad Ali Jinnah had played a role in India’s freedom struggle. The remark saw BJP leaders, including chief minister Yogi Adityanath, targeting Akhilesh Yadav and seeking an apology from “Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle,” Akhilesh Yadav had said.UP minister Anand Swaroop Shukla on November 6 had said to reporters in Ballia: “SP chief Akhilesh Yadav making a statement on Muhammad Ali Jinnah is not a common incident. Akhilesh Yadav has been the chief minister of UP while Jinnah is responsible for the partition of the country.”Shukla also said the SP chief should clarify as to under what pressure he is glorifying Jinnah. “I want Akhilesh Yadav to himself come forward, and get his narco test done,” Shukla said, adding that Jinnah is such a villain who no Indian would like to see or listen to. He further said that those heaping praises on Jinnah should go to Pakistan. The Samajwadi Party had demanded the sacking of Shukla for making controversial remarks against Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/there-would-have-been-no-partition-if-jinnah-had-been-made-india-s-first-pm-om-prakash-rajbhar-101636562181700.html
11-11-2021||Lucknow||Youth dies in custody,Kasganj cops claim he hanged himself from pipe in washroom||A youth called for interrogation at the Kasganj police station in an abduction case died in custody on Tuesday evening, with his family members alleging that he was killed by police personnel.The police claimed that Altaf, 22, who was accused of eloping with a minor Hindu girl, had strangulated himself using a string from his jacket hood in the washroom of the police lock-up and said five policemen had been suspended for negligence in the wake of the incident.The post-mortem report cited asphyxia as the cause of death, claimed police.Prashant Kumar, ADG (law and order), UP Police, said on Wednesday that five police personnel were suspended for their negligence in the custody death case. “Judicial inquiry will be conducted into the incident and further course of action will be decided based on the findings,” he said.Altaf, a resident of Ahroli village in Kasganj district, was working as a tile fixer. He was accused of abduction and eloping with a minor girl and a complaint in this regard had been filed by the girl’s family.“A case was registered at the Sadar Kotwali police station of Kasganj under Sections 363 and 366 (kidnapping, abduction) of the IPC against Altaf who was taken into police custody for interrogation on Tuesday morning. During interrogation, the accused went to the washroom at the police station, where he hanged himself to death from the tap,” stated AK Singh, ASP.“The accused was wearing a jacket with a hood and used its string which he tied to the tap in the toilet and hanged himself,” stated Singh.He said the body of the accused was sent for a post-mortem examination, which was conducted by a panel of three doctors. “Asphyxia because of hanging has been cited as the cause of death in the post-mortem report. The body was handed over to family members who conducted the last rites on Wednesday,” added the ASP.The five policemen suspended for laxity included in-charge of the police station Virendra Singh Indolia, sub-inspector Chandresh Gautam, sub- inspector Vikas Kumar, head moharrir Dhanendra Singh and constable Saurabh Solanki.Family members of the deceased alleged that policemen from Sadar Kotwali police station picked Altaf in a case related to a missing girl. “We were assured that Altaf would return soon, but news about his death came,” said Chand Mian, father of the youth who died in police custody.DOUBT OVER COPS’ THEORYThough police maintained that Altaf hanged himself to death, there were doubts on this theory as the tap was of plastic and was at a low level in the toilet.OPPN ATTACKS UP GOVTSamajwadi Party president of Akhilesh Yadav raised suspicion over the sequence of events narrated by the Kasganj police. “The death of the youth in police custody appears suspicious. Suspension of a few cops in the name of negligence is an act of cover-up,” he stated in his tweet.“There needs to be a judicial probe so that family members of the deceased can get justice and trust could be re-established in police under the BJP regime,” he added.The Samajwadi Party took to Twitter to attack the Yogi Adityanath government, calling the incident another misdeed of UP’s “thoko (trigger-happy) police.”“In UP, under the patronage of the chief minister, criminals and police are committing an encounter of law and order. The guilty policemen should face a murder case and must be punished,” the Samajwadi Party said in a tweet in Hindi.With different communities involved, police took no chances and heavy force was deployed when Altaf’s body was taken through the roads of Kasganj city for burial on Wednesday. Additional police force, including the PAC from nearby districts, was called in.The incident comes close on the heels of a sanitation worker, who was accused of stealing ₹25 lakh from Jagdishpura police station in Agra, dying in police custody after his health deteriorated during interrogation.AIMIM FOR JUDICIAL PROBEThe All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (UP) condemned the incident in Kasganj and asserted that the “custodial death must be viewed as an extension of the rampant police killings of innocent Muslims, Dalits and tribals in the name of police encounters,” read a press statement by the AIMIM.“Making a mockery of constitutional procedures and police code of conducts, chief minister Yogi Adityanath gives calls for ‘thok denge’, thereby giving a free hand to the police to kill. Our national president Asaduddin Owaisi said in his speech in Balrampur - of all the people encountered by the UP Police, 37% were Muslims,” stated the press statement.The silence of the self-claimed secular parties on these killings reveals their lack of conviction in challenging the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh government on issues concerning Muslims and other marginalised groups, alleged AIMIM leaders.AIMIM also demanded a judicial probe into the matter under a sitting high court judge along with reasonable compensation and government job to the next of kin of the deceased.‘My son was innocent, brutally murdered’“My son was innocent but was brutally murdered by them (police). I want justice for him. I had served him food. When he was about to have it, the police arrived. They asked him to come with them, not allowing him to put a morsel in his mouth,” said an inconsolable Fatima, mother of Altaf, who wants justice for her son.“The policemen told me that he will be sent back in half an hour. Two hours passed but he did not return. I went to the police station with the food for him but they did not allow me to give it to him,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/youth-dies-in-custody-kasganj-cops-claim-he-hanged-himself-from-pipe-in-washroom-101636550480657.html
11-11-2021||Mumbai||Telangana techie taken into custody for rape threat to cricketer’s baby: Police||MUMBAI: A 23-year-old software engineer in Telangana has been detained on suspicion that he posted a disgusting online rape threat targetting an Indian cricketer’s baby daughter after the infant’s father stood up to Twitter trolls for his teammate.A senior Mumbai police officer said the suspect, Akubathini Ramnagesh, is an engineering graduate from the Indian Institute of Technology-Hyderabad and was preparing for admission to do his post-graduation. He earlier worked as a software engineer in a food delivery app in HyderabadA statement issued by Mumbai police said the accused has been taken into custody in Telangana’s Sangareddy district, 60km from state capital Hyderabad, and is being brought to Mumbai. The cricketer came out in the defence of Indian pacer Mohammed Sami and condemned those who attacked him over his faith. Shami was trolled and abused by many people on Twitter after India lost to Pakistan in T20 World Cup.Twitter handle ‘Amena @criccrazygirl’ (now-deleted) posted a tweet where the user threatened to rape the cricketer’s daughter. It was initially claimed that @criccrazygirl was a Pakistani bot account but later a fact-check portal Alt News later found that the tweet was not posted by any Pakistani user, but an Indian.On November 8, the West Region, Cyber police station of Mumbai police registered a First Information Report (FIR) on a complaint by the cricketer’s manager. The case was registered under sections 354A (sexual harassment), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (criminal defamation) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) and 67B (publishing material depicting children in sexually explicit act) of the Information Technology Act.The Internet Protocol address of the computer system used to post the threat was identified during a technical investigation, a police officer said. Once this was done, a police team travelled to Hyderabad to nab the suspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hyderabad-techie-detained-for-online-rape-threat-to-cricketer-s-daughter-101636549648552.html
