12-11-2021||Lucknow||Kasganj custodial death:Congress assures all support to victim’s family||Agra Former union minister and Congress leader Salman Khursheed on Friday assured all legal support to the family of Altaf, who died in custody of Kasganj police on Tuesday. Khursheed said that the Congress was with the aggrieved family in all circumstances and would take the matter to the high court or Supreme Court if required. Khursheed, who met Altaf’s family in Kasganj, said, “The family of Altaf deserves justice and for this an FIR needs to be filed on their behalf. The Congress is with the family and there will be no laxity even if the matter is taken to the high court or Supreme Court. The Congress will do whatever is required.” “The father of Altaf is in poor health while mother is also not fit. Family members are not in a position to state their agonies. The party high command has sent me to communicate with them and assure them that the Congress stands by them,” he said. Earlier, Congress leader Rashid Alvi also visited the family and said that since the matter pertained to a murder, an FIR should be registered against the guilty cops. “The father of Altaf is under pressure of local administration and because of this he was compelled to state that it was case of suicide when in fact it was a case of murder,” said Alvi who added that he was here on the direction of party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and would report back to her. “The father is very frightened. Altaf was the bread earner for the family. The local administration has pressurized his father Chand Mian to give a clean chit to the police. The guilty cops need to be behind the bars,” Alvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kasganj-custodial-death-congress-assures-all-support-to-victim-s-family-101636741665459.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||2 men held for killing property dealer in Faridabad, 2 still on the run||Faridabad police on Thursday arrested two men for allegedly killing a 42-year-old property dealer over a monetary dispute in Jawahar Colony on Wednesday. Police said they were looking for two other suspects who were on the run. Police said the incident took place at about 10.30pm when the victim, Bhagat Singh, was walking to his house after purchasing milk from a nearby grocery store. As he exited a lane near his house, the four suspects allegedly intercepted him and started hitting him with rods and sticks. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that Ranjit Singh, Bhagat’s brother, told them Bhagat raised an alarm, following which he rushed out and witnessed four people assaulting him. “They threatened him against interfering. He informed the police and his neighbours, and the suspects fled from the spot,” Kadiyan said. Police said Bhagat suffered injuries on the head and neck, and collapsed on the spot within minutes. His family members took him to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival, said police. Kadiyan said they formed teams on Wednesday night after the murder, and identified the suspects through technical surveillance and statements recorded by the family members. Two suspects were arrested from Sector 20B of Faridabad on Thursday night and were identified as Gurmeet Singh and Babu aka Nishant (known by his first name only). Kadiyan said during questioning the suspects revealed that Bhagat had allegedly borrowed money from them and was not returning it despite repeated requests. “The suspects had approached his family members also but they refused to help. Bhagat had stopped answering their calls and was avoiding them, following which they planned to attack to threaten him, but he died,” he said. Police said the suspects had threatened him earlier as well, but he assured them he would return the money within a month. However, he then stopped taking calls. The iron rod and sticks used in the crime have been recovered by the police. The suspects were sent to judicial custody on Friday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-men-held-for-killing-property-dealer-in-faridabad-2-still-on-the-run-101636741306472.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Birth certificate is from BMC record: Nawab Malik to high court in defamation suit||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday reserved its order on a limited plea by Dnyandev Wankhede, who sought an injunction against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik from making defamatory posts or comments against him or his family on any form of media.Wankhede filed a defamation suit seeking damages of ₹1.25 crore against Malik last week. He claimed that Malik’s statements made on social media publishing platform, and in various press conferences, “caused harm to him and his family”, which includes son Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede.Wankhede’s lawyer Arshad Shaikh told the HC that the documents posted by Malik were not public documents, and Malik had violated their right to privacy by posting them in the public domain without duly verifying them.However, Malik’s advocate Atul Damle said that the injunction could only be limited to the allegations made against Dnyandev and not to his family members, who could approach the court for remedy if they so wished. He added that most documents referred to by Malik were either from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) records or from the social media accounts of members of the Wankhede family itself, reasonable verification was done before posting them.  “Verification is of some importance. The verification of an MLA has to be of a different level,” the single-judge bench of justice Madhav Jamdar observed. The court concluded hearing and reserved it for orders. On October 25, Malik tweeted a copy of a birth certificate, purported to be Sameer Wankhede’s, which showed his father’s name as “Dawood K Wankhede” with an asterix mark that pointed to a name scribbled on the side of the certificate, which read “Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede”. Malik further alleged that Sameer had forged a caste certificate to get a position in the Indian Revenue Service and that his family is Muslim.Both father and son have denied these allegations.Shaikh quoted an apex court order that stated that no one could publish anything pertaining to marriage or divorce without the consent of the concerned person whether it is truth or otherwise. “If he does so he will be violating the right to privacy,” Shaikh said. Shaikh also said that Malik’s allegations of extortion by Sameer Wankhede tarnished the image of the family and thus Malik and his party members should be restrained from posting or commenting on anything pertaining to them on any media. Wankhede’s lawyer argued that Malik’s claims were baseless as all official documents of his son and family members identified him (Dnyandev) as a Hindu who belonged to the Mahar community. The court had asked Shaikh in a previous hearing to file an affidavit to show how Malik’s posts caused harm to him. Shaikh submitted that the affidavit filed by Wankhede consisted of 28 documents which proved that his name was Dnyandev and not ‘Dawood’ as claimed by Malik. The documents included caste certificate, passport, statement of marks, degree certificate and police service records as well. Shaikh submitted that the documents of Sameer’s mother and sister also showed his father’s name as Dnyandev. Even Sameer’s school leaving certificate showed his father’s name as Dnyandev. The court had also asked Malik to file an affidavit stating that he had verified the documents and material pertaining to Sameer Wankhede posted on social media. Malik’s affidavit stated that he had reasonably verified the documents before posting them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/birth-certificate-is-from-bmc-record-nawab-malik-to-high-court-in-defamation-suit-101636741305044.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||Low wind speed, dip in temperature push Gurugram pollution into ‘severe’ category||A combination of low wind speed, dip in temperature and farm fires led to a steep rise in pollutants on Friday, with Gurugram recording an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 448 in the “severe” category. This is a deterioration from an AQI reading of 378 in the “very poor” category a day before, according to official data.In fact, all four air quality monitoring stations in Gurugram recorded “severe” air quality on Friday--the TERI Gram station recorded an AQI reading of 430, the Gwal Pahari station recorded 430, the Vikas Sadan station near mini-secretariat recorded 452, and the Sector 51 station recorded 447.An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Gurugram’s air quality plummetted into the “very poor” AQI on Diwali, which was celebrated on November 4, and the day after. For three consecutive days after, Gurugram had a “severe” AQI, which implies that the air quality is hazardous and may cause respiratory effects even to healthy people and serious health impacts to people with lung or heart diseases. Gurugram’s air improved slightly to “very poor” on November 9, and has now deteriorated again into the “severe” category.The Haryana Pollution Control Board said the Commission of Air Quality Management met on Friday to discuss measures to combat the situation and is likely to announce certain measures on Saturday. Officials also said that all steps recommended to combat “severe” air pollution are already in effect and they are keeping a watch on the situation.The Haryana Pollution Control Board said that they have implemented Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures and all steps required to meet the “severe” AQI have been put in place. “A meeting on the emerging situation was held on Friday and additional measures to curb pollution are likely to be announced soon,” said S Narayanan, member-secretary, Haryana Pollution Control Board.Even as government officials mulled different strategies to manage the pollution situation, experts on Friday said that people in Delhi-NCR were facing an air emergency and the situation was likely to deteriorate further as pollutants were not going to dissipate soon.“The wind is very calm and the temperature has also dipped, while the number of farm fires has increased this year as compared to last two years. A few days ago, the situation had relatively improved because of a depression in the Bay of Bengal. The wind had caused a dissipation of pollutants. But for the next 15 to 20 days, no change in weather is likely, which will make things worse,” said Dr Anurani Sharma, associate professor, Teri School of Advanced Studies.According to the experts, the low temperature and lack of wind create an inversion layer resulting in the non-dissipation of pollutants, which remain stagnant within the atmospheric boundary layer. “This is what is happening in Delhi-NCR and there is likely to be no let-up in pollution. To improve the situation, the government should work on reducing local-level pollution,” said Dr Sharma.According to the India Meteorological Department, the temperature is likely to dip further as snowy winds from northernmost states like Himachal Pradesh and Jammu Kashmir reach the plains. On Friday, the maximum temperature of Gurugram was 28 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 13.4 degrees Celsius.Air quality experts, meanwhile, said that immediate steps were required to curb vehicular, construction-related, and industrial pollution. “A substantial amount of pollution in Delhi-NCR is caused by vehicles and it is time emergency measures were taken to reduce it. Construction sites must be inspected and all materials covered. Fuels which are not clean should not be allowed to be used by industries,” said Anumita Roy Choudhary, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.She also called upon people to refrain from waste burning and ensure that they remain indoors and don’t get exposed to pollutants. “The government must take immediate measures in Delhi and other NCR districts,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/low-wind-speed-dip-in-temperature-push-gurugram-pollution-into-severe-category-101636741125056.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Police personnel worked 58 more days than other govt employees, should get extra salary: DGP tells state||The director-general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey has sent a proposal to the state government requesting them to pay police personnel in the state a month’s additional salary, as throughout the year they have worked on public and government holidays, without leaves. The DGP cited examples of other states that pay their police personnel one month’s additional salary every year as an incentive allowance. Pandey on Wednesday wrote to the additional chief secretary (home), requesting him that the police personnel should get one month’s salary (basic pay+ dearness allowance) as incentive allowance. His letter (of which a copy is with HT) states, “To maintain law and order, the police personnel have to remain present on duty even on government holidays as well as public holidays. As a result, they are not allowed to take public holidays like other government employees. Hence, they must be compensated.” According to police officers, there are in all 137 government leaves allotted to government employees every year. But, the police personnel get only a total of 79 days, including 52 government holidays, 15 days of additional leaves, four days of miscellaneous leaves and others. The additional leaves that the police personnel get are valid only for that particular year. If these leaves are not utilised or encashed, they get lapsed, an officer said. According to the DGP’s proposal, on average an officer works additional 58 days every year, if compared to other government employees. The working hours of police personnel are also longer than those of other government employees and the nature of their work is stressful and exhausting. In Punjab, incentive allowance is given to police personnel for working on public holidays. Similarly, other states like Orissa, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram and Haryana too give one month’s salary along with additional leaves as incentive allowance, cites the proposal. On the same ground, the policemen in Maharashtra should also get this incentive allowance, Pandey requested in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-personnel-worked-58-more-days-than-other-govt-employees-should-get-extra-salary-dgp-tells-state-101636741065103.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||As admissions dip, some Mumbai hospitals want to be fully ‘non-Covid’ facilities again||With Covid-19 cases on a steep decline, some hospitals in Mumbai were hopeful of going back to being fully non-Covid facilities. However, in a joint meeting of private hospitals held last week, though it was decided to reduce the beds meant for Covid-19 patients, the authorities agreed to have a system wherein the entire bed strength can be activated if the cases witness a sudden surge. “A few hospitals were keen on removing the Covid-19 beds completely and convert into fully non-Covid facilities. But it was jointly decided that we simply reduce the bed strength and utilise them for non-Covid patients, if needed. However, the conversion [into a non-Covid facility] should be in such a way that the beds can be reverted for Covid-19, if a surge happens,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, chief coordinator for private hospitals and the civic body. Dr Bhansali cited an example of Bombay Hospital, where he practices. The hospital had 122 Covid-19 beds, of which only 20 have been kept functional now. “The remaining beds can be activated as soon as the demand arises,” he said. “A majority of the public hospitals have now fully resumed non-Covid work. It is only logical to allow all private hospitals to utilise their bed strength for non-Covid patients,” said Dr Deepak Baid, former president of the Association of Medical Consultants. The civic-run Rajawadi Hospital has reduced its Covid-19 wards from four to one. Other public hospitals have also started using most of their bed strength for non-Covid patients. Of the 15,582 Covid beds in the city, 14,326 were vacant on Friday, according to the civic body dashboard. Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 cases now hover between 200 and 300. The hospital admissions have drastically come down too. “But we have to exercise caution as many other countries are already seeing a spurt. We may also see a similar rise in cases after December,” said Dr Bhansali. Members of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force have also said that a third wave is likely between December and January. In May 2020, the Maharashtra government had invoked five laws to cap the prices of private hospitals owing to the pandemic. The state further extended the cap during the second wave as well. Currently, Mumbai has the 80:20 rule, wherein 80% of Covid-19 patients have to be charged as per the state’s capped prices, while 20% can be charged according to the private rates. “With hardly any admissions, the hospitals are leaving the patients to choose whether they wish to opt for state rates or go for upgraded rooms at private rates. But not all are aware about such a price cap,” said a doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-admissions-dip-some-mumbai-hospitals-want-to-be-fully-non-covid-facilities-again-101636740826840.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra education dept to refund only 21% of board exam fees||Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will refund only 20.85% of the nearly ₹104 crore collected as exam fees from approximately 2.9 million secondary school certificate (SSC, Class 10) and higher secondary certificate (HSC, Class 12) students for academic year 2020-21. The Bombay high court on July 29 this year directed the state government to consider refunding exam fees after board exams were cancelled on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. SSC students paid ₹315 each as exam fee, of which the board will refund ₹59, or 18.73% of the original fees. Similarly, HSC students paid ₹415 each, but the board plans to return ₹94, or 22.65%. The decision to refund the fees was notified by MSBSHSE on November 11, three and a half months after a July 29 order by Bombay high court asking the state government to consider returning students’ money. A senior state education board official said that while no board exams were conducted in 2021, the state board was asked to prepare for a common entrance test (CET) for all class 10 students aiming for seats in first year junior college (FYJC). “Even though eventually the CET was also scrapped, the state board had already invested in the software as well as paid for exam papers to be set in advance. We had to pay for work already done which was deducted from the exam fees paid by the students. The remaining fund is being disbursed to students,” the senior official said on condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media. The notification states, “Both SSC and HSC exams were scrapped this year due to increasing Covid-19 cases. Following the Bombay HC order, the state board has decided to refund exam fee amount to respective students.” It adds that to get the money, students will have to visit mahahsscboard.in and fill in information of individual students on the provided links on the website starting Friday, November 12. In July, a retired school principal from Sangli district filed a petition in the Bombay HC questioning the state board’s decision to not refund exam fees to students. The petitioner had highlighted how like every year, MSBSHSE charged exam fees from 1.575 million SSC and 1.319 million HSC students in the 2020-21 academic year. This amounts to around ₹104 crore, which the petition highlighted should be returned to students as no exam was held. “The exam fee is charged to cover charges for paper setters, invigilators, paper assessment, transportation of question-and-answer booklets, printing costs, etc. No such activity was undertaken in 2021 due to the initial delay and eventual scrapping of exams. Therefore, there is no need for the state board to retain such a large sum of money,” said a Mumbai teacher who is also part of a teaching and non-teaching staff union in the city. Activist and parent Manisha Pawar said, “This is a joke. No exam was conducted, and even the online CET was not confirmed. For the state board to claim they’ve invested money on this cannot be believed. The board should be held for contempt of court for not following the Bombay HC orders in true spirit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-dept-to-refund-only-21-of-board-exam-fees-101636740764999.html
12-11-2021||Pune||FIR in cheating case against Kiran Gosavi at Bhosari||PUNE Kirani Gosavi, believed to be a key witness in the NCB’s drugs-on-cruise ship case, has a fourth FIR registered against him in Bhosari, under the Pimpri-Chinchwad police. Vijay Kumar Siddhaling Kanade (33), a resident of Chakrapani Vasahat, Bhosari, and a native of Latur lodged the complaint against Gosavi at the Bhosari police station on Thursday evening, alleging that Gosavi defrauded him of ₹2.25 lakh after he was promised a job in Brunei. The Pune police have already registered FIRs against Gosavi at the Faraskhana, Lashkar and Wanowrie police stations, all in cheating cases. According to police, Kanade was looking for a job online. On March 21, 2015, a mail was received from Shiva International on the mail ID of the complainant. The mail stated that he had been selected for a hotel management job abroad. Gosavi is believed to have met Kanade at Nashik phata in Kasarwadi where he took ₹30,000 in cash. After that, on April 5, 2015, Kanade paid Rs40,000 to Gosavi at the office of Shiva International, Majiwada, Thane. Over a period of time Kanade paid a total of ₹2,25,000 to the accused Gosavi Assistant inspector Gokul Mahajan said, “Investigation is underway.” Gosavi is currently under the custody of the Lashkar police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fir-in-cheating-case-against-kiran-gosavi-at-bhosari-101636740645053.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||NDMC opens its first toy bank for underprivileged children at Bapu Dham||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) opened a toy bank at Bapu Dham creche in Chanakyapuri here on Friday with the aim to provide toys to underprivileged children. Dr Ramesh Kumar, NDMC’s medical officer (health), who inaugurated the toy-bank, said toy banks all over the world work on the principle of ‘recycle toys, recycle smiles’. “All children should have an opportunity to play with toys, since they stimulate mental and emotional intelligence. Since toys are instrumental in mental development of children, this toy bank is for underprivileged children in the area, who cannot afford to buy toys,” he said. Kumar further said the initiative will help bring a smile on children’s faces. “It will also reduce waste generation as the old and unused toys, which otherwise get discarded, will be reused.The bank will also promote reuse of goods and articles and reduce wastage of toys, mostly made up of plastic and fur,” he said. Kumar also said more such banks will be opened in the NDMC area, where people can donate toys. He also urged people to participate in the drive so that they can help in making the environment cleaner. On December 26 last year, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) also opened a first-of-its-kind toy bank in the Najafgarh zone for children who can’t afford them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ndmc-opens-its-first-toy-bank-for-underprivileged-children-at-bapu-dham-101636740466206.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Pune RTO collects ₹3,386,400 in fines from people without PUC certificates||PUNE The Regional Transport Office (RTO), Pune, has collected ₹3,386,400 in fines from 3,386 vehicle owners in the last three years for not carrying pollution under control (PUC) certificates.One has to pay ₹1,000 if the vehicle does not have a PUC certificate.“After the process of acquiring PUC certificates went online, more people have become active in getting certificates. Even old vehicles (older by more than 15 years) which need re-registration need to have PUC certificates. If one does not have a PUC then one cannot do registration of their vehicle,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer.The PUC vans are deputed at petrol pumps and highways which makes easy access for people to get the certificates.“When a person is caught for PUC violation– an online memo is generated and all the documents are checked, whichever document is missing for that fine is collected,” added Bhor.The number of violations has increased in the last six months (April-October) with RTO officials on duty penalising 1,114 people and collecting ₹11,14,000 in fines.“We get three-four people in a day who don’t have or carry the PUC certificate or have not renewed it. Since many colleges have not started offline classes, the numbers of youth coming for getting certificates are less,” said Suraj Gokhale, whose PUC van is placed on Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) circle road.With air quality deterioration being high during the winter season, authorities are making sure vehicles in core areas of the city do not add up to the increase in pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rto-collects-rs-3-386-400-in-fines-from-people-without-puc-certificates-101636739985056.html
12-11-2021||Noida||Man arrested for rape, blackmailing woman in Greater Noida||A 26-year-old man was arrested on Friday for raping a 28-year-old woman in Rabupura in Greater Noida. Police have identified the suspect as Aman Sharma, a resident of Marhara village.Dinesh Kumar, station house officer of Rabupura police station, said the woman, who is a mother to two children, filed a complaint against the man at the police station on October 6. “The woman said about a year ago, Sharma befriended her and offered her tea laced with sedatives at his home. He allegedly raped the woman and blackmailed her on various occasions,” said Kumar. In the complaint, the woman also alleged the involvement of an 18-year-old neighbour in the case. The SHO said police investigation showed the victim and the man were neighbours and knew each other. “The woman is from a Dalit community. A case was registered against the two suspects under Sections 376-D (gang-rape), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 504 (intentional insult), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and also under Section 3(1) and Section 3(2)(v) of the Schedules Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act. “Sharma was on the run since the complaint was filed against him. On Friday, police received information that he was at his house. A police team searched his house and arrested him,” said Kumar. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. The SHO said the role of the other suspect is being probed. In another case, a 40-year-old man was arrested for molesting a 10-year-old girl in Noida’s Sector 22 on Friday. The suspect was identified as Shiv Kumar, a native of Aligarh. He was living in a rented accommodation in Chauda village in Sector 22, said police. Sudheer Kumar, SHO of Sector 24 police station, said the girl was playing outside her home when the suspect reached there on Thursday afternoon. “He touched the girl inappropriately. The child returned home and informed her parents, who then filed a complaint with police,” he said. The suspect, a cab driver, fled the spot after the incident. The SHO said on Friday, a police team conducted a search and arrested him from Sector 22 in Noida . A case has been registered against him under Section 354-A (sexual harassment) of the IPC and Sections 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-rape-blackmailing-woman-in-greater-noida-101636739864984.html
12-11-2021||Noida||With AQI at 488, Noida overtakes Ghaziabad to be most polluted city in India||Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida experienced the worst pollution levels this season as the air quality index (AQI) spiked to the higher end of the ‘severe’ category on Friday. According to the AQI bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), with an AQI of 488, Noida was the most polluted city in the country on Friday, a spot occupied by Ghaziabad on at least seven days this season. On Friday, the AQI in Ghaziabad was 486, making it the second most polluted city. The pollution levels in Greater Noida were no better with the city recording an AQI of 478. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.It is the second time this season, ever since the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) was implemented on October 15, that Noida has emerged as the most polluted in the country. The last time the city was this polluted was on November 5, a day after Diwali. On the other hand, Ghaziabad was the most polluted in the country on seven days-- October 16, 29, November 1, 2, 6, 10 and 11.  Since November 4--the day Diwali was celebrated, Ghaziabad has been experiencing ‘severe’ air for nine days till Friday (November 12). In comparison, Noida has had eight days of ‘severe’ air, barring November 10, while Greater Noida had five such days. “The entire Ghaziabad/Noida region has seen considerable spike in pollution levels due to the inversion layer, which has come down due to low temperature. As a result, the dispersion of pollutants, including those from external sources as well as local sources, is becoming difficult. This is why there is a spike in pollution levels and this phase may last for a couple of days as the mercury is likely to drop further,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board, Ghaziabad. “The north westerly winds are bringing in the stubble fires from neighbouring states, which was about 35% (on Friday) with no decline in fire counts. On our part, we have asked the local agencies to increase water sprinkling and road sweeping to control dust, which causes spike in PM10 levels,” said Sharma. According to the CPCB records, all the four air quality monitoring stations each in Noida and Ghaziabad, besides the two in Greater Noida, touched the 500-mark for PM2.5 concentrations in past 24 hours ending on Friday. Officials said that the PM2.5 concentrations are this high due to low temperatures at night. The forecast by the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar) on Friday said that ‘severe’ pollution is likely to be there on Saturday due to increase in stubble related fire counts and increase in transport level wind speed at night. “The effective fire count increased to 4,056 today (Friday). Today’s share of crop residue burning is about 35% in PM2.5. Drop in minimum temperature is likely for the next two days resulting in air quality to be in ‘severe’ to upper end of ‘very poor’ category,” the Safar forecast said on Friday. The sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), after a meeting on November 12, directed the concerned states and implementing agencies to be ready for implementation of measures listed under the ‘emergency’ category of the Grap. The committee directed that its previous orders of November 8 about measures under the ‘severe’ category of Grap should be followed stringently. It also advised all the government/private and other establishment to reduce vehicle usage by at least 30% by way of encouraging work from home, car-pooling and optimising the field activities. It has also advised people to limit outdoor activities and minimise exposure. Officials of the committee said the air quality exceeded the threshold limit of 500 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) for PM10 and 300 mpcm for PM2.5 at 01.00 hours and 03.00 hours on Friday. They also said meteorological conditions for dispersal of pollutants will be highly unfavourable till November 18.The deteriorating air quality in the region is spelling horror for residents who are struggling with a host of respiratory issues. “I developed severe asthma attack early Friday morning. One of my friends rushed me to the hospital, where I was given immediate treatment, including injections. I have been facing difficulty in breathing due to the high pollution levels,” said Anil Kumar, one of the patients in the out-patient department of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital in Ghaziabad. Health experts said people who have asthma problems and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are having respiratory issues due to high level of pollution. “We have to increase the dose of medicine for such patients. There are many others, whose condition is getting worse and need hospitalisation. There are young patients who travel a lot and have developed issues such as bronchitis, upper respiratory tract infections and allergies,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “Since Diwali, there has been a 60-70% increase in the number of patients coming in with respiratory problems and the numbers have not declined. It is advisable for people to wear N-95 mask, which provides better protection against pollutants, or a medical mask in case the N-95 mask is not available. We also advise people, who are immuno-compromised, to take up flu vaccination (yearly) and pneumococcal vaccination which is taken once in every five years,” Dr Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-aqi-at-488-noida-overtakes-ghaziabad-to-be-most-polluted-city-in-india-101636739685147.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Minimum temperature set to increase in Pune: IMD forecast||PUNE Pune city on Friday reported a marginal rise in minimum temperatures, with Shivajinagar recording 11.9 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, Pune city reported its coldest day of winter season so far, with minimum temperatures dipping to 10.9 degrees Celsius; 4.8 degrees cooler than the normal forecast temperature.On Friday, Lohegaon reported 14.5 degrees Celsius, Pashan reported 12.6 degrees Celsius, Chinchwad and Lavale reported 17.4 degrees Celsius and Magarpatta reported 18.3 degrees Celsius.Speaking about the change in temperature, Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune said that a gradual rise in night temperature is likely from November 13.“The cooler northern winds were penetrating Maharashtra which dropped the mercury, resulting in cooler nights all across Maharashtra. On Friday, Jalgaon was the coldest in the state at 10.6 degrees Celsius, after which Pune city reported the lowest minimum temperature at 11.9 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi.In the next few days, Kashyapi added that the night temperature may increase making nights gradually warmer.“Many parts of the state may witness cloudy weather along with light rainfall which will be accompanied with thunderstorms and lighting till November 16. This is likely to increase the minimum temperature all across Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minimum-temperature-set-to-increase-in-pune-imd-forecast-101636739087633.html
12-11-2021||Other||Noida officials, police halt house demolition drive midway as farmers protest||During a demolition drive in Noida’s Gejha village on Friday, the Noida authority’s anti-encroachment team and police personnel faced strong resistance from the local farmers, and they were forced to leave the site even without completing the drive, said officials.The Noida authority’s land department and a team of local police reached Gejha village on Friday, to demolish a house built by one farmer -- Anil Pal -- on a nearly 700-square-metre of the land.According to the authority, it had “acquired the land for planned development there” and the house needed to be demolished. The team reached the area around 10am on Friday and demolished four rooms, and other structures built to keep fodder for animals, on the land.Pal, however, said that it was his “ancestral land and it belonged to him”. He and his family members resisted the demolition, and soon other local farmers joined them and started shouting slogans against the Noida authority.“This is my ancestral land. It does not belong to the Noida authority. It is trying to acquire my land forcefully,” said Pal.Around 11:30am, farmer leaders from Bhartiya Kisan Parishad (BKP) reached the site in protest.Seeing that the situation was getting heated up, the team left the site, and police filed an FIR against Pal in the local police station.Reacting to this, the angry farmers at the spot started rebuilding the already demolished structures there. “We started reconstructing the house of the farmer, who is the rightful owner of the land and the house. We have reconstructed walls, and the farmer’s house will be reconstructed as before at the earliest... The Noida authority is playing with fire, it is destroying the lives of farmers... We have decided to protest against the authority at Noida Sector 6 from Monday, to protect the rights of the farmers,” said Ashok Chauhan, a BKP leader.BKP has been protesting against the Noida authority since September 1 this year, at a community centre in Harola village near Sector 6, and also disrupting construction work at different sites, led by the Noida authority. “Now, we will start protesting right in front of the gate of the authority’s office... The authority officials are not in the mood to work for the farmers’ welfare,” said Sukhbir Yadav, BKP president.Meanwhile, the Noida authority said on Friday that it will visit the site again and remove the farmer’s illegal structure to free the government land. “We demolished the structure because it is built on government land. It does not belong to Pal. If the structure is being rebuilt, action will be taken against the people concerned, according to the law. We took a lawful action against the famer, and we will continue to do so. We will inquire into Pal’s claims and act accordingly,” said Praveen Mishra, additional chief executive officer of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-officials-police-halt-house-demolition-drive-midway-as-farmers-protest-101636739086418.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses plea against DU considering only Class 12 marks for admissions||New Delhi The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea by the Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) challenging the varsity decision to consider only class 12 marks while admitting students from the Kerala state board. Students in the Kerala board are graded combining the marks of class 11 and 12.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh dismissed the plea saying it was “highly belated” and was devoid of merit.“They have changed it, so changed it, how can anyone grutch about it… If you don’t want to read the clear writing on the wall, then that is your choice,” the bench said while taking note of an admission bulletin, issued by the university in June, which said that if a candidate’s mark sheet contains both class 11 and 12 marks, (s)he shall be admitted only on the basis of the class 12 marks.DUSU, in its plea, said it was approaching the high court against the “arbitrary, irrational and unfair conduct” of authorities that have violated the fundamental and legal rights of innumerable students.It said that in terms of the consistent policy, certain state boards, including the Directorate of General Education (Higher Secondary Wing), Government of Kerala, gives a consolidated mark sheet of both class 11 and 12 marks. The policy explicitly states that to determine grades of students, combined marks of both 11 and 12 shall be considered, it said.Advocate Ashish Dixit, representing DUSU, said the Delhi University for several years correspondingly incorporated provisions in the admission bulletin stating that in cases where state boards publish marks of both 11th and 12th standards, the merit of students shall be determined based on such consolidated mark sheets.However, the Delhi University has unilaterally and arbitrarily decided in its admission process of 2021-2022 that students would be admitted only on the basis of class 12 marks, he said adding that when the admissions began for the sessions 2021-2022, the colleges raised and conveyed objections concerning mark sheets containing marks of both class 11 and 12.The plea was opposed by Delhi University’s counsel M Rupal who questioned DUSU’s locus standi to file the petition since the union only represented students of Delhi University and not those who are yet to take admissions.He further said the admission bulletin was issued by the varsity in June and the petitioner approached the court in October, which was highly belated.However, Dixit said the issue was first highlighted on October 4, then a representation was made to the vice-chancellor on October 9 but to date, no decision has been taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-against-du-considering-only-class-12-marks-for-admissions-101636738905043.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||India-NZ Kanpur Test: Players to do their own laundry, clean toilets||With a view to ensuring safety amid the Covid pandemic, players of Indian and New Zealand cricket teams will do their own laundry and clean toilets during the first test of the two-match series to be played at the Green Park stadium here between November 25 and 29, said administrative officials and management officials of the hotel where the two teams would be staying in a bio-secure bubble. For the first time the hotel staff would not be allowed to enter the rooms of the players on 14th and 17th floors, they added. “The two floors have been reserved for the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The entire staff working on these two floors will be quarantined a week before the match,” said a hotel official adding that the laundry would be stocked in the rooms for a week.The used laundry would be kept in special bags as a part of the Covid protocol and it would be washed separately if the players asked for. Otherwise, they would do the needful, the hotel official said.The Kiwi players, however, have made it clear it that they would not venture out of their rooms for food which would be placed outside their doors. In addition, the team management has made it clear that its players would clean their toilets and wash laundry, he said.As for the food in the stadium, no buffet would be organised for the two teams like on the previous occasion. Instead, the teams would be given food packed in special Bento boxes imported from Japan for the match. Bento, or box lunches, are part of Japanese food culture.Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association’s venue director Dr Sanjay Kapoor said the hotel was ready as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) designed to keep the players in a bio bubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indianz-kanpur-test-players-to-do-their-own-laundry-clean-toilets-101636738844938.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||IIT-Delhi to begin academic session for first-year students from November 29||New Delhi: The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, will start the academic session for first-year undergraduate students on November 29 in the online mode, university officials said on Friday. “Classes for the first-year undergraduate students will start from November 29. JEE Advanced got delayed so the seat allotment is currently underway. Classes will take place online initially,” said professor Shantanu Roy, Dean Academics, while addressing a pre-convocation press conference. The institute will hold its 52nd convocation ceremony on Saturday across multiple venues on campus.Roy added that the onboarding of students into the hostels will take place in a graded manner to ensure compliance with all safety measures and protocols. “Over a period of time, if things remain well, we expect the DDMA (Delhi Disaster Management Authority) order to offer further relaxations. We will then start moving to actual classrooms. Not all courses will go offline immediately. Core courses in different disciplines will go offline first and the elective courses will be continued online,” said Roy. Officials said that they were discussing plans for holding offline examinations in the future, noting that a cap on 50% occupancy in classrooms will continue. “The modalities of mapping classrooms, number of students in a course, and the courses that will that be prioritised will be done as per an elaborate plan that we have worked out. However, to begin with, classes will held online,” said Roy. The institute aims to start physical classes for students from January next year. During the 52nd convocation ceremony slated for Saturday, 2,117 students -- 843 undergraduate students, 986 postgraduates, and 288 PhD scholars -- will graduate from IIT-Delhi.Meanwhile, IIT Delhi Director, professor V Ramgopal Rao, shared that the institute had received the highest ever endowment -- ₹75 crore -- from its alumnus Anant Yardi, president and founder of Yardi Systems, under the endowment fund. He said the grant will be used for the creation of state-of-the-art laboratories in the newly established School of Artificial Intelligence (ScAI). “The future progress of a nation will depend on its AI capability. This generous gift will catalyse cutting edge research in AI and related areas and propel ScAI and IIT Delhi in their quest for building better solutions for the benefit of our society, environment, industry and nation,” said Rao. Outlining the roadmap for next year, the director shared the institute was taking various steps to become more comprehensive to help improve its global university rankings. “We are recruiting aggressively for the school of public policy. We had also started the school of interdisciplinary research which is doing well. From next year, a bachelors in design course will also be started,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iitdelhi-to-begin-academic-session-for-first-year-students-from-november-29-101636738724952.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Pune district admin organises fire-fighting demo for hospitals in Bhor||PUNE Taking serious cognisance of the Ahmednagar hospital fire that killed 11 patients, the Pune district administration begun its has fire audit. As part of the safety awareness drive a ‘live’ fire-fighting operation for hospital staff was held at district rural hospitals in Bhor taluka. Bhor is a tourist destination with several forts and tourist spots. “A special interaction and ‘live’ fire-fighting demo was organised for doctors and hospital staff on Thursday. Also, an interaction with not only government, but private doctors was held on how to overcome emergency situations. Arrangements made at the hospitals were discussed,” said Rajendra Kachare, Bhor’s sub-divisional officer (SDO). “We are taking all the necessary effort to keep the tourist places safe and also to provide necessary help to people during emergency situations. We appeal to tourists coming to Bhor to follow the Covid protocols strictly as the Covid pandemic is not over yet,” added Kachare. Rohan Nalawade, a trekker said, “We often go to various forts and our next plan is to go to Raireshwar fort in Bhor. We are going to follow the Covid norms and take with a limited number of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-admin-organises-fire-fighting-demo-for-hospitals-in-bhor-101636738605040.html
12-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to be presented as global investment destination at Dubai Expo||Rajasthan will be presented as the global investment destination at the Dubai Expo during the Rajasthan Week kicked off on Friday.The official inaugural session of the Rajasthan pavilion on Saturday will be graced by the state's Industry Minister Prasadi Lal Meena, Urban Development Minister Shanti Dhariwal and the minister of state for Industry Arjun Singh Bamaniya, according to an official statement.Besides, senior state bureaucrats and officials from the state's industry and commerce department will also be present, it added.The inaugural session at the Dubai Expo will also mark the international launch of the Rajasthan government's mega investment summit 'Invest Rajasthan 2022'.On Friday, the programme was inaugurated under the aegis of Rajasthan Business and Professional Group at the India Club Dubai under the direction of Rajasthan Foundation Commissioner Dheeraj Srivastava. Industry experts Naveen Sharma, G R Mehta, Dinesh Kothari, Vasu Shroff, Gul Banswara also expressed their views during the event.Global Business Foundation President Chandra Shekhar Bhatia, Conveners Sahitya Chaturvedi and Nilesh Jain gave a grand welcome and felicitation to the delegation.Over the next seven days, the representatives of the Rajasthan government and industries will hold intense discussions with several major investors visiting the pavilion and at other venues in Dubai.During the week, several memorandum of understandings are also expected be signed between the state government and aspiring investors. The officials will also hold discussions and round table meetings with the investors present in Dubai during the period. In the sequence, a round table discussion on the stone sector is also scheduled for Saturday.The state officials shall also meet representatives of the Dubai Chamber of Commerce for further strengthening mutual trade and investment.The international show will be a platform to highlight Rajasthan's advantage as an investment destination and lay ground for major investments towards shaping trade and industrial scenario of the state. A series of the recent policy decisions by the state government have created a transparent and conducive investment environment.The state, which is rich in mineral and natural resources, is also adding new advantages with the development of mega infrastructure projects such as Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor and Piped Gas grids. The upcoming HPCL-Rajasthan Oil refinery and Petrochemical Complex and Fintech park will add more avenues for investment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-be-presented-as-global-investment-destination-at-dubai-expo-101636738014020.html
12-11-2021||Noida||No need for ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign in Gautam Budh Nagar: Health officials||The ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ vaccination campaign launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accelerate and sustain vaccination momentum will not be taken up extensively in Gautam Budh Nagar as officials here claim to have administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more beneficiaries than the targeted population. The nationwide campaign was launched on November 3 and a government order dated November 5 from the National Health Mission stated a comprehensive action plan to be followed by all states/Union Territories till November 30. “We have already covered 120% of the targeted population with the first dose of Covid 19 vaccine in the district. The action plan detailed in the government order is for those districts, whose vaccination coverage percentage is lower than the state average. We have already administered the first dose to 18 lakh beneficiaries against a target of inoculating 15 lakh people,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. The first-dose vaccination has crossed 100% as several people from other districts and a migrating population have also been vaccinated in Gautam Budh Nagar.The action points mentioned in the government order include creation of multiple vaccination teams or ‘vaccination toli’ to ensure 100% vaccination coverage in a targeted geographical area, intra-state competitions to administer maximum number of doses in 24 hours, local ‘bazaar haats’ to create awareness, utilization of social media for same and taking help of local influential personalities to encourage people to take the jab. Apart from this, the order also directs districts to approach the ‘missed-out’ and ‘left-out’ beneficiaries and ensure they are vaccinated. “We have been carrying out cluster sessions of vaccination across the district regularly. The health department’s local Asha and ANM workers mobilize those who have not been vaccinated yet. During these cluster sessions, over 80 government Covid vaccination centres conduct inoculation sessions; no slot booking is required here,” said Tyagi. Though the district has officially vaccinated all of its population with the first dose, there are still many who have been left out of the vaccination programme, admitted Tyagi. “There are still around 15,000 people in the 60+ age group, who have not yet been vaccinated. According to official records, all the beneficiaries in the 45-59 age group have been jabbed with the first dose. The health department is working to ensure the remaining get vaccinated," said Tyagi. District magistrate Suhas L Y said some people have been left out of the vaccination programme because of regular movement of migrants and residents.“Since Gautam Budh Nagar is an urban district, there is a large floating population here. This is why even though we have administered more beneficiaries than the targeted population with the first dose, there are still many in the district who have been left out. Vaccinations have been going on smoothly as we have a target of vaccinating 10,000 beneficiaries each day,” said Suhas. The chief medical officer did not respond to calls and messages for comment. So far, the district has vaccinated total 28,54,110 people, of whom 18,22,525 have received the first dose while 10,31,585 people are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-need-for-har-ghar-dastak-campaign-in-gautam-budh-nagar-health-officials-101636738364913.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Sassoon hospital’s fire compliance stuck due to revision of norms, estimates||PUNE The city’s largest hospital, Sassoon General Hospital, which is run by the government, has not yet got a fire compliance approval from the state government.The hospital administration is currently revising the implementation of its fire safety strategy as per norms laid down by the National Safety Council. Earlier the PWD had estimated that work valued at ₹4.5 crore was pending with regards to fire safety, primarily in the old buildings of the hospital campus. At any given point of time there are hundreds of patients admitted and thousands working to keep the hospital and the BJ Medical college functioning.Dr Vinayak Kale, dean of the BJ Medical college and Sassoon General said, “The revised proposal is being prepared as per the norms of the National Safety Council. The earlier one which we had prepared was as per another agency. The PMRDA has revised estimates as per the norms of the NSC. The new NSC order came in just a month ago and we are now working on the new order.”When asked why the earlier fire safety proposal was not put in place Dr Kale said that while the hospital had sent the earlier proposal it had not been accepted at the time due to certain rectifications that were needed, which were later met. “By the time the proposal could be accepted the central government made it mandatory for all hospitals to work on fire compliance as per the National Safety Council,” Dr Kale said. A senior official from the hospital requesting anonymity said, “There was a review by the commissioner of medical education on Wednesday and additional information has been sent on Thursday. Revised estimates were submitted on Friday. The revision was necessitated to comply with the fire safety audit conducted by the agency appointed by the government, while the earlier one was prepared by the PWD electrical department. The revision is under process to comply with the standards set by this new government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sassoon-hospital-s-fire-compliance-stuck-due-to-revision-of-norms-estimates-101636738306318.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||What was the offence in housing Tablighi Jamaat attendees, HC asks police||The Delhi high court on Friday rebuked the Delhi Police for registering FIRs against Indian nationals who provided accommodation to foreign attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at the Markaz Nizamuddin at the start of the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020, and asked the police to state what offence these individuals had committed in giving shelter at a time when no one could move anywhere.Justice Mukta Gupta’s remarks come while hearing a plea by 60 Delhi residents seeking to quash FIRs registered against them for allowing Tablighi Jamaat attendees to live in mosques or their homes. She said Jamaat attendees sought refuge in homes and mosques before the lockdown came into effect and nobody could go anywhere after it was imposed.“Wherever anybody was residing, the person needed to continue. A person could not even shift if they were with their grandparents, parents… nobody could go out of the house. Wherever you were, you were just suddenly static. So, there was no question of changing the place at that time.When the lockdown was imposed, there was no bar on anybody residing over there,” the court said.It asked the police to state what offence these people had committed by giving shelter to foreigners and those from outside Delhi, and questioned whether there was any notification to throw out such foreigners on to the streets.“Suddenly a lockdown is imposed, where does one go? On the street? He will remain where he is. What is the offence committed? Is there any bar on residents of Madhya Pradesh to come and stay in Delhi or stay in any temple, masjid, gurdwara?” justice Gupta said.“What is the offence? What is the violation? Or was there any notification that everybody will throw out whosoever is staying somewhere,” the judge said.Appearing for the petitioners, their counsel Ashima Mandla told the court that the police had packed the people like sardines in quarantine centres at the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020.She also said three of the 13 FIRs are peculiar because they were against private persons, who were accused of giving refuge in their own homes.In a written reply, the police said Indian nationals “deliberately allowed” foreign nationals to live in mosques or reside in their houses in violation of government notifications which were in effect in March last year.The city police counsel also told the court that the investigating officer of these cases was recently changed and sought time to file a detailed status report.The court granted additional time to file the report and posted the matter for hearing on December 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/what-was-the-offence-in-housing-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-hc-asks-police-101636738304891.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||No entry in TMT buses for those who are not vaccinated with even single dose||The Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) will not allow commuters who have not taken even a single dose of Covid-19 vaccination to travel by civic buses, henceforth. Commuters who wish to travel by TMT buses will need to keep the vaccination certificate handy, states the order released by Thane mayor, on Friday. Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske and municipal commissioner Vipin Sharma have stated that strict vigilance will be enabled at bus stops, to ensure that vaccinated people board the city buses. Naresh Mhaske, mayor Thane, said, “We have realised that there are many who continue to be reluctant in getting themselves vaccinated, hence, we are coming up with various means to reach out to as many as citizens possible. Just like the railways, all those who have vaccination certificates will be issued bus tickets. If need be, we shall include additional staff at bus stops for checking vaccination certificates. Such measures will help identify those who have not been vaccinated.” Earlier this week, TMC had asked its staff to get vaccinated before the end of the month, or their salaries will be withheld.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-entry-in-tmt-buses-for-those-who-are-not-vaccinated-with-even-single-dose-101636737826639.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Families of MSRTC workers join protests in Pune; strike continues on day 14||PUNE The Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers’ strike continued on the 14th day on Friday, as family members of workers joined the protest at the ST colony near Swargate. At least 100 family members, including women, children and elderly people, protested to support the demands made by the workers. “Today, family members of the MSRTC workers staged a protest at the ST colony to show our support to the strike. The state government should understand our condition. Already 36 of our workers died by suicide in last two years due to financial crises and other issues. To resolve these issues making the organisation a state government department is the only answer,” said Swati Bhosale, relative of an MSRTC worker. A Kruti Samiti of unions was formed to have a conversation with the state government, but apparently, the main demand of merging the MSRTC into the state government’s departmental system was compromised. Hence the strike and all 13 depots in the Pune division are closed. So far, 100 workers from the Pune division have been suspended by the MSRTC. Also, restrooms for workers are closed at the Swargate ST stand. “We are going to plan more aggressive protests from next week, if the state government continues not to hear our voices. All 13 depots will remain closed till our demands are fulfilled,” said Santosh Mundhe, a protesting worker. To ease the transport crisis, private tourist bus associations have operated their vehicles from inside theST stands, after government permission.A total of eight private contractor-owned buses were operational from Swargate, Wakdewadi and Pune railway station ST stands offering services to Kolhapur, Aurangabad and Mumbai. “We have started operations of private contractor-operated buses from our ST stands. The number will increase in the coming days and proper police protection is provided to these buses,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Ramakant Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/families-of-msrtc-workers-join-protests-in-pune-strike-continues-on-day-14-101636737825295.html
12-11-2021||Bhopal||MP Congress seeks police case as Ranaut compares freedom struggle with alms||The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Friday submitted a complaint to the police demanding action against actor Kangana Ranaut for reportedly stating that India won true Independence in 2014, when the Narendra Modi government came to power, and that the one obtained in 1947 was "alms". A delegation of the party led by its general secretary and media in charge KK Mishra and including state spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta handed over an application against the actor at Habibganj police station here. They demanded that Ranaut be booked for spreading hatred and enmity among people, adding that her statement was an unpardonable sin against freedom fighters, revolutionaries, martyrs as well as former governments before 2014. The application sought that she be charged sections 124 A (hatred or contempt), 504 (provocation to break peace) and 505 (promoting enmity) of the IPC, with Mishra telling PTI he would move court if the police failed to take action. Earlier in the day, a group comprising the kin of freedom fighters had set afire an effigy of Ranaut on MG Road in Indore for her comments. One of the protesters, Asha Govind Khadiwala, said Ranaut must apologise to the nation for hurting the valour and sacrifice of freedom fighters. The protesters later submitted a memorandum at the Indore divisional commissioner's office.The actor had said at a recent event organised by a news channel that the Independence of the country in 1947 was not freedom but "bheek" (alms), while the country truly became free in 2014, a reference to the BJP coming to power at the Centre under Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-congress-seeks-police-case-as-ranaut-compares-freedom-struggle-with-alms-101636728049573.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Mahamana’s thoughts will continue to inspire nation: Shah||VARANASI Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday said the thoughts of Mahamana Pt Madan Mohan Malaviya (1861-1946), who fought for equality and social justice throughout his life, will continue to inspire the nation for a long time.Shah, who reached Varanasi on a two-day tour of east UP, visited Lanka area here soon after his arrival and paid tribute to Mahamana, the founder of Banaras Hindu University (BHU), on his death anniversary. “I paid tributes to Mahamana Pt Madan Mohan Malaviya ji at Banaras Hindu University on his death anniversary,” he tweeted later. “Considering education as an infallible weapon for the progress of the nation, the thoughts of Malaviya ji, who fought for equality and social justice throughout his life, will continue to inspire the nation for a long time,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mahamanas-thoughts-will-continue-to-inspire-nation-shah-101636737705098.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Head constable stabbed in road rage incident, seriously injured||A 52-year-old police head constable was seriously injured after three people attacked him with a knife on Thursday night over a road rage incident under the Ashiana police station limits in Lucknow, police officials said here on Friday.The police so far have failed to arrest the assailants. The injured head constable is undergoing treatment at Lok Bandhu hospital in Lucknow where his condition is stated critical.Inspector of Ashiana police station Dheeraj Kumar Shukla said head constable Shyam Singh Yadav is currently posted in the security of the Lucknow bench campus of the Allahabad high court. The head constable’s wife Sushma Yadav has lodged a First Information Report (FIR) under Indian Penal Code section 307 for attempt to murder against unidentified assailants, Shukla said.As per the FIR, the incident took place when the head constable was returning from a vegetable market on a motorcycle and tried to overtake a loader vehicle. The head constable had a confrontation with the vehicle driver when he did not give him the right of way.The confrontation turned into a fight. The vehicle driver and two others attacked the head constable with a knife, seriously injuring him. The assailants fled with the vehicle leaving the head constable bleeding profusely on the road. Some passer-by rushed him to hospital and informed the police about the incident triggered by road rage.The inspector said the police are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed in houses and business installations located on the entire stretch to trace the assailants through the vehicle’s registration number. He said efforts were on to identify the assailants and they will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-head-constable-stabbed-in-road-rage-incident-seriously-injured-101636737644867.html
12-11-2021||Noida||40 men arrested in Greater Noida for drinking liquor in public||Greater Noida police arrested 40 people who were caught drinking liquor at public places on Thursday night. Police said while 35 people were arrested in Bisrakh, five were apprehended in Surajpur. Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said police teams were patrolling in the limits of Noida Central police station on Thursday night to maintain law and order. “We found several people consuming liquor at public places. There were people on the roadside consuming liquor on their motorcycles and cars. Some people bought liquor from the wine shops and started drinking on the spot. Bisrakh police team brought 35 people to the police station and booked them under Section 290 (public nuisance) and Section 151 (knowingly joining or continuing in assembly of five or more persons after it has been commanded to disperse) of the IPC,” said Elaraman. The police arrested the suspects and released them only after slapping fines on them. Surajpur police also arrested five people for drinking at public places on Thursday night. Ajay Kumar, station house officer of Surajpur police station, said police registered a case for creating public nuisance against the suspects. “The suspects were released on bail bonds from the police station. They have been told to appear before the court when they get summons,” he said. Greater Noida west residents said police should conduct frequent drives to crack down on people drinking at public places. Sumil Jalota, a resident of La Residentia, said there is a wine shop in Milak Lachi village near Cherry County society where a number of people openly drink in the evening. “It becomes difficult for people, especially women, to go to the market in the evening. We have also found people drinking outside a wine shop near Bisrakh roundabout, about 200 metres away from the police station. Frequent enforcement drive is needed to discipline people,” Jalota said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/40-men-arrested-in-greater-noida-for-drinking-liquor-in-public-101636737587909.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 222 new Covid cases, 13 deaths on Friday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 222 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths due to the infection on Friday. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,992 deaths reported and 2,994 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 96 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 366,443 and the death toll went up to 6933 as nine more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 94 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 521,674 and the death toll went up to 9,205 as two more deaths were reported on the day.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 32 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,115 and the toll stood at 3,505 as two more deaths were reported.Pune district, meanwhile, also saw 39,364 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Friday and in total 1,23,39,668. Out of which 79,03,403 are first doses and 44,36,265 are second doses. A total of 652 sites saw vaccination out of which 495 were government centres and 15 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-222-new-covid-cases-13-deaths-on-friday-101636737586229.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Investigators release new set of five photographs||Special investigators probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case of October 3 have released a new set of five photographs for the identification of suspects in connection with the second FIR (no. 220) which is related to the mob violence after the death of four farmers. A total of eight people were killed in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri that day.The special investigators, in a press release issued on Friday, urged the people to identify the suspects in the photographs and help in the ongoing probe.The second FIR was lodged in connection with the violence during which two BJP workers and the driver of a car were killed after the vehicle allegedly mowed down four farmers. Sumit Jaiswal, a Lakhimpur nagar palika ward member, lodged the second FIR. He is among 13 accused in the first FIR (number 219), which is related to the death of four farmers and a journalist.While assuring reward and anonymity, the investigators said those identifying the suspects from the photographs could provide the name, address and mobile numbers of the suspects to the members of the special investigation committee.The investigators said they received some photographs and videos while gathering evidence in connection with FIR number 220.A group of people with sticks and clubs from different angles is visible in the new set of five photographs presumably of the crime spot.The special investigators probing FIR number 220 had earlier released six photographs of the suspects on October 19 for their identification.So far, four people, Vichitra Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh, have been arrested in connection with the second FIR.Among these four, Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh have been granted police custody remand till November 13.Meanwhile, a member of the special investigation committee refuted reports that the strength of the nine- member probe team headed by DIG Upendra Agrawal had been increased to expedite ongoing investigations.He said confusion may have arisen when some other police personnel were called in to discharge works not related with investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-investigators-release-new-set-of-five-photographs-101636737584864.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurates Hunar Haat in Lucknow||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday inaugurated the 32nd Hunar Haat in Lucknow and termed it the perfect platform to promote and preserve the traditional art and craft of the country.The initiative is not only promoting the indigenous artisans, but also benefitting them monetarily, Mansukh Mandaviya said. “To increase the income of artisans and craftsmen of the country, there is a need to provide national as well as international markets to their indigenous handmade products and Hunar Haat has proved to be an important platform in this direction. Handicrafts of India have gained fame all over the world through it,” Mansukh Mandaviya added.“It is very necessary to promote, encourage and respect the art and crafts of indigenous artisans and craftsmen of the country. The hidden art and craft across the country are being recognised through Hunar Haat,” Mansukh Mandaviya said.Hunar Haat is an initiative of the Union ministry of minority affairs aimed at providing a platform to promote and preserve the traditional art and craft of the country.Besides, Union health minister Manshukh Mandaviya said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given the slogan of “Vocal for Local” to fulfil the vision of an “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) which is being carried forward by Hunar Haat.Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Uttar Pradesh ministers Suresh Kumar Khanna, Brijesh Pathak and Jai Pratap Singh were present at the inauguration of the Hunar Haat.The families of freedom fighter Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan and those who sacrificed their lives for the security and dignity of the country were honoured on the occasion. Over 500 artisans and craftsmen from 30 states and Union Territories, including Rajasthan, Delhi, Nagaland, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Ladakh, have brought their indigenous products made of wood, brass, bamboo, glass, cloth, paper, clay to the Hunar Haat. The event would also host a series of cultural and musical programmes. Several artistes, including Annu Kapoor, Pankaj Udhas, Kumar Sanu, Alka Yagnik, Altaf Raja and Suresh Wadekar, would perform at the event that would conclude on November 21.Officials with the ministry said over 6.75 lakh artisans, craftsmen and people associated with them have been provided employment and employment opportunities through this initiative of the minority affairs ministry over the last six years.This time, the ministry has also made an arrangement for online shopping. Hunar Haat will also be available on hunarhaat.org and the GeM (Government e-Marketplace portal). Online buyers can log on to the portal to make purchases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/union-health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-inaugurates-hunar-haat-in-lucknow-101636737525072.html
12-11-2021||Other||Stubble burning: Bihar plans to ‘name and shame’ violators||PATNAIn a bid to discourage the practice of stubble burning during the upcoming harvesting season for kharif crops, the Bihar government has decided to “name and shame” violators and has made it mandatory for farmers hiring combine harvestor machines to furnish an affidavit that they would not burn crop residue in their fields, officials familiar with the matter said.On Friday, all district magistrates in the state were given detailed instructions on management of crop residue during the harvesting season ahead of rabi crop by development commissioner Amir Subhani and state’s agriculture secretary N Saravana Kumar.“Stubble burning causes air pollution and soil erosion. This time, we will be strict in our approach towards use of combine harvestors by farmers,” said Kumar.He said farmers hiring combine harvestors and those driving it would also have to get prior permission from the districts administration.In Bihar, stubble burning in districts of Kaimur, Rohtas, Bhojpur, Buxar, Nawada and parts of north Bihar has become common over the last few years owing to large-scale use of combine harvestors, the machines that harvest grains in a fast manner, leaving high density of crop residue. Officials say farmers using these machines resort to stubble burning to clean up the crop residue fast so that they can sow their next crop , which leads to high pollution levels and decline in soil quality.Among other steps to be taken to deter farmers from burning stubble are monitoring of farm fires through satellite images on a real-time basis. “ We are procuring satellite images of farm fires on real time basis from the state pollution control board and remote sensing agency, which are being shared with district agricultural officers and DMs,” said another senior official.Sources said the agriculture department is also planning “naming and shaming” of farmers found engaged in stubble burning by putting their names and pictures at the panchayat bhawans, besides stopping their farm incentives through direct benefit transfer( DBT) for three years. Over the last few years, the agriculture department has been pursuing the policy of stopping DBTs to farmers caught in burning stubble. From 2019 to 2021, registration of 2,347 farmers have been blocked for DBT facility in 22 districts, as per latest data of the agricultural department.In Friday’s meeting, DMs were also asked to engage anganwaadi workers, Jeevika volunteers and those associated with rural employment guarantee programme MGNREGA to create awareness on the ill-effects of stubble burning among farmers in the rural areas. Fighting farm firesFarm incentives through direct benefit transfer will be blocked for three yearsNames and pictures of violators will be put up at panchayat bhawansMonitoring of farm fires through satellite images on a real-time basisFarmers hiring combine harvestors to swear not to burn crop residue in fields||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stubble-burning-bihar-plans-to-name-and-shame-violators-101636737471453.html
12-11-2021||Other||Para-Olympics badminton gold medalist nominated for ‘Player of the Year’ award by BWF||PATNA: Ace shuffler Pramod Bhagat who won a gold medal in the Tokyo Para-Olympics has been nominated among six international players in the para-badminton (male) category for the ‘Player of the Year Prize’ by the Badminton World Federation.He has been nominated in two categories - ‘Player of the Year’ and ‘Para-Badminton Pair of the Year’ category alongside Manoj Sarkar, who had bagged bronze in the singles event. Born in Hajipur, Bhagat is world’s number one ranked player in para-badminton men’s singles. Prior to Para-Olympics, he has also won gold in the Asian Games and World Championships.Bhagat who had contracted polio in childhood did not let his disability come in his way and chased his dream with courage and conviction. As he watched his neighbours play badminton, he developed interest and thereafter there was no looking back.“Getting nominated for the top honour is a great feeling. I just got to know about it on Thursday,” said Bhagat from Odisha, where he honed his skills as a player and is also employed with the Employee State Insurance or portion (ESIC) there.Bhagat became the first Indian to win gold in para-badminton as the sport made its debut at the Tokyo Para-Olympics this year. He was also awarded the Arjuna Award in 2019.The ace shuttler said that his family had shifted to Odisha quite early, though he keeps going to his native state. “I studied in Odisha, played here and now work here. As my family members live in Bihar, I keep going there. At present, my name has been nominated. The winner will be announced later,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paraolympics-badminton-gold-medalist-nominated-for-player-of-the-year-award-by-bwf-101636737466438.html
12-11-2021||Patna||JD(U) MLC fuels Jinnah fire in Bihar, RJD, Cong hit back||PATNAThe controversy over Mohammad Ali Jinnah, which started with the statement of Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, got further fuelled on Friday in Bihar, with ruling Janata Dal (United) legislator Khalid Anwar putting part of the blame for Partition on the Congress as well as Jawahar Lal Nehru.“Jinnah was a great freedom fighter of united India and has great respect in Pakistan. There is no doubt that he was a big leader. He was responsible for the Partition of the country, but no less responsible was the Congress and Pt. Nehru, who became the Prime Minister of India,” Anwar told a TV channel when asked about his views on remarks about Hindutva in Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s book. “I told them that this was the divide and rule politics of the Congress that led to the partition of the country. This is the brand of politics Congress plays and has been playing,” he said.A few days ago, Bihar chief minister had dismissed debates over Jinnah as “irrelevant” . “Did Mahatma Gandhi like Partition? No, he didn’t. It all happened due to the situation that then unfolded. Later, Pakistan also got divided. What is the relevance of discussing about it,” Kumar had said.However, Anwar’s statement triggered immediate reactions. BJP MLC and minister Samrat Choudhary advised those praising Jinnah to shift to Pakistan. “This is a country which prays Mother India and Mahatma Gandhi. Those who want to praise Jinnah should move to Pakistan. There is no place for such elements in India,” he said.Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha described the debate over Jinnah as “unfortunate” and a reflection of “lack of knowledge about history” just to deviate people’s attention from issues that concern them. “Of late, people who have no sense of history and have not read about freedom movement or how things were shaped, particularly 1945 onwards leading to partition, are trying to pit one great leader against another just to distract people’s attention from core issues. But then, what else you expect when a Padma Shri recipient lady says that the actual freedom India got was in 2014. Another person said India got freedom on 99-year lease. A couple of years ago, a leader described Nathuram Godse as the greatest patriot and she sits in the Parliament. These unfortunate statements tell that we are heading for a disaster “ Jha said.Former Bihar Congress chief Anil Sharma said distorting facts could not change history. “It is established that Jinnah was adamant on Partition, as he wanted a separate Islamic state, while the leadership of the Congress was in the hands of Gandhiji, who had clearly said Partition would happen only over his dead body. Congress cannot be blamed for it by any stretch of imagination. It is just a figment of imagination of some people to take political advantage by distorting historical facts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-mlc-fuels-jinnah-fire-in-bihar-rjd-cong-hit-back-101636737465068.html
12-11-2021||Patna||Top Maoist leader held in Jharkhand||PATNATop Maoist leader Prashant Bose alias Kishan Da has been arrested in Jharkhand along with his wife Sheela Marandi, a senior police officer said on Friday.According to the official, Bose and his wife were arrested between Jamshedpur and Saraikela Thursday evening while they were on their way to attend a “secret” meeting.“Bose had suffered paralysis attack and he is unable to move anywhere on his own. His associates were taking him to a safe place but he was nabbed midway,” the officer said, requesting anonymity. Bose, wanted in several criminal cases, is a senior leader of CPI (Maoist)’s central committee and is also the secretary of the outfit’s eastern regional bureau, which includes Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha. The official said Bose has been arrested for the first time and police were trying to work on leads provided by him during interrogation. Police officers, however, are tight-lipped about the prized catch at the moment.While Jamshedpur’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dr M Tamil Vanan denied Bose’s arrest in areas under his jurisdiction, Saraikela SP Anand Prakash said on phone said that he would be informed immediately in case Bose is arrested. SM Khopde, additional director general (operations) in Bihar Police, said he came to know of Bose’s arrest from the media but had received no official information from Jharkhand police. In the last five years, no case had been registered against Bose in Bihar, Khopde said, adding that he was collecting information from districts concerned. Bose hails from 24 Parganas district in West Bengal and his wife is also said to be member of the CPI (Maoist)’s central committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/top-maoist-leader-held-in-jharkhand-101636737405279.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh GSDP grows 19.6% in first quarter of 2021-22||Uttar Pradesh’s estimates for the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) show an increase of 19.6% in the first quarter of 2021-22 (April to June 2021) as against the contraction of 22.5% in the corresponding period in 2020-21, according to the State Planning Institute (Economics and Statistics Division), Uttar Pradesh. The GSDP (at constant prices) in the first quarter of 2021-22 is estimated to be ₹2,30,673.02 crore vis-à-vis ₹ 1,92,896.17 crore in the corresponding period in 2020-21. GSDP in the first quarter of 2019-2020 was ₹ 2,57,639.79 crore.The Uttar Pradesh GSDP (at current prices) is estimated to be ₹ 4,05,835 crore in 2021-22. Uttar Pradesh GSDP shrank by nearly 5.9% in 2020-21 following the adverse impact of Covid on the state economy. The estimated increase of 19.6% in the GSDP, therefore, indicates that the Covid-affected economy is recovering in the state but it is yet to reach the pre-pandemic level.“Yes, these estimates show that the state economy has made a sharp recovery in Q1 of 2021-22 after the whopping contraction of 26.2% in GSDP in Q1 and 5.9% in the whole year of FY21. But these estimates have to be seen in the right perspective. Firstly, the high growth of 19.6% in the GSDP is due to “low base effect” as this growth comes over a huge contraction of GSDP in Q1 of 2020-21. Secondly, the loss in GSDP caused by Covid-19 is yet to be fully made up as the GSDP ( ₹ 2,30,673.02 cr) in Q1 of FY 22 is lower by 13.3% compared to the GSDP ( ₹ 2,61,265.50 crore) in the corresponding quarter of pre- pandemic year 2019-20,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics, Lucknow University. Minister for finance Suresh Khanna, while briefing media persons recently, claimed a consistent increase in the state’s revenue collections and said the UP economy was coming back to near normal. The Gross State Value Added estimates for the period show the highest growth in the secondary sector (40.9%) followed by tertiary (16.3%) and the primary (5.8%) sectors in the first quarter of 2021-22. In 2020-21, the contraction was 4.5% in the primary, 42.9% in the secondary and 22.8% in the tertiary sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-gsdp-grows-19-6-in-first-quarter-of-202122-101636737344760.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||34 samples collected in UP’s Ambedkar Nagar after Zika-infected man visits dist||Four pregnant women and 30 others in Ambedkar Nagar district have come under screening after a Lucknow man, who had tested positive for Zika virus, visited their place.“The man lives with his family in Lucknow. He reached Ambedkar Nagar, his native place, at 3pm on Thursday and shortly after he left back for Lucknow as he came to know about the result of his sample test,” said Dr Sultan Khan, an epidemiologist in Ambedkar Nagar.Ambedkar Nagar health officials, who had got inputs about the Zika-infected man’s movement from Lucknow to Ambedkar Nagar, acted swiftly and reached Saya, the locality the man visited in in Ambedkar Nagar, and started screening.“As per the protocol, we have screened people in the entire area he visited and they will be under follow-up too,” said a senior health official in Ambedkar Nagar. “Pregnant women have high risk from Zika virus as it can pass from the pregnant woman to her foetus,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, Indian Medical Association, Lucknow Chapter. “Based on limited research, it is possible that infection can cause serious birth defects in the foetus,” said Dr Sheetal Verma, senior faculty of microbiology at KGMU.As many as 34 samples, including those of four pregnant women, have been taken by the health team in Saya, a semi-urban area of Ambedkar Nagar, and have been sent to the lab at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, for testing.Ambedkar Nagar has not reported any Zika case till now. While Kanpur has reported maximum 108 Zika cases, Lucknow has reported three and one has case has been detected in Kannauj district so far.The officials in Ambedkar Nagar communicated the district administration and health officials in Lucknow about the arrival and returning of the Zika-infected man. The man is in isolation at his home in Lucknow now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/34-samples-collected-in-up-s-ambedkar-nagar-after-zika-infected-man-visits-dist-101636737165105.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj’s Good Samaritan donates goat milk for dengue patients||With the city witnessing increasing number of Dengue cases and the common man’s belief that goat’s milk supposedly being effective in bringing up the blood platelet count, the owners of these animals have hiked prices of goat milk up to ₹500 per litre in Prayagraj. However, the city also has some Good Samaritans like Sanjay Saran aka Guddu Bhai, a resident of Chatham Lines of Prayagraj, who is providing milk of his over half-a-dozen goats free of cost to around 50 to 70 persons every morning. Prayagraj has so far recorded 891 dengue cases out of which 643 have been reported from urban pockets while the rest 248 are from rural areas. Guddu used to run a tea-shop on the road leading to Iswar Saran Degree College but the pandemic forced him to close the shop and he is barely able to make two ends meet.However, despite facing the challenge, he refrains from charging any money for the milk of his goats. “Earlier, I used to have around 100 goats but now the numbers have come down to just seven but as all of these are yielding milk I thought of donating the same to the needy. Although, I don’t charge for it but there are some who do give some money out of their own free will which I keep to meet the expenses of fodder for my goats,” said 36-year-old Guddu.Guddu has been doing this for the past two months now and as the dengue outbreak is getting worse in the city, more and more people are coming to his house. “I give 100-150 ml of milk to 50-70 people every day as I also want the sick to get well anyhow,” he said. However, medicos of the city do not endorse consuming goat milk for dengue patients.“As far as the standard protocol or the practice goes, in terms of treating dengue patients, there is no scientific proof that goat’s milk has any benefits in increasing the platelet count. Moreover, we never recommend consuming milk without boiling it and people should refrain from doing the same,” said associate professor at MLN Medical College and eminent physician of the city, Dr Manoj Mathur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagrajs-good-samaritan-donates-goat-milk-for-dengue-patients-101636736987662.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi education dept gears up to launch deshbhakti classes for classes 6-8||New Delhi: More than a month after the Delhi government rolled out the Deshbhakti Curriculum for classes 9 to 12, the education department is now gearing up to launch the same for classes 6 to 8 in over 1,000 state government schools.The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will hold an orientation for teachers of these classes next week. “SCERT is now going to organise a one-day orientation for the below-mentioned dates for Cohort 2 (classes 6 to 8) Deshbhakti Curriculum Nodal Teachers to apprise them about the Deshbhakti Curriculum and its implementation process. It is requested to all the school principals to allow the nodal teacher of only cohort 2 to attend the same,” the body said in a statement, adding that the training would take place on November 15 and 16.On September 28, the Delhi government launched the Deshbhakti Curriculum for students studying in over 1,030 Delhi government schools in the capital to create “staunch patriots” instead of “money-making machines” in the country. Currently, the curriculum is only being taught in classes 9 to 12, and education department officials had said that it would be rolled out in the remaining classes once the schools reopen for them. All public and private schools in the capital were allowed to resume in-person lessons for all classes from November 1 onwards.Deshbhakti nodal teacher for Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya Sector-8 Rohini Deepak Kumar said, “It is expected that after the workshop concludes, Deshbhakti classes for junior wing may start from November 22 onwards. The workshop would include discussing the curriculum and the handbook with the teachers of these designated classes. Following the workshop, the nodal teachers will train others in their schools on how to conduct these classes.”A senior education department official said they will release a detailed circular, and classes 6 to 8 would hold Deshbhakti classes November 22 onwards.“Since classes 6 to 8 will have one Deshbhakti period everyday, we will be releasing a detailed circular very soon explaining all the classroom activities. The circular will also guide teachers on how to conduct these classes for the middle school students,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-education-dept-gears-up-to-launch-deshbhakti-classes-for-classes-68-101636736567808.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Ensure transparency in laptops, tablets distribution: UP Dy CM||Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Friday instructed the officials concerned to ensure that laptops and tablets were distributed in degree colleges in a proper and transparent manner. On October 23, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced his government will begin distribution of laptops, tablets and smartphones among the youths by November end.Sharma, who also holds secondary and higher education department, issued this instruction while chairing a meeting of secondary and higher education officials in Varanasi. On the issue of examination centres for the upcoming UP Board exams, he said government inter and aided colleges should be made centres on priority. Self-financed colleges and schools should be made centres in case of special need, Sharma added.He further said it should also be ensured that necessary arrangements like boundary wall, generators/inverters, closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras, separate toilets for boys and girls and control rooms etc were available in the colleges before finalising them as examination centres.Sharma gave clear instructions that every work should be done properly, fairly and transparently. No work should be done against the rules under any pressure or recommendation, he added.The deputy CM also said lakhs of appointments had been made on the basis of merit and eligibility of the candidates with full transparency by the BJP government in the state. Recently, 1645 lecturers were appointed in Varanasi division alone, he added.Sharma asked about the joining of newly appointed lecturers from the district inspector of schools. He also asked the higher education department officials about their problems and assured them to address them on priority. Later, the deputy CM also participated in a meeting of BJP office bearers in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-transparency-in-laptops-tablets-distribution-up-dy-cm-101636736507543.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Diwali vacation extended, schools in Pune to reopen from November 22||PUNE Ahead of the National Achievement Survey (NAS) 2021, the Diwali vacation was cut short till November 10. However, the education department has issued guidelines to extend the vacation now till November 22 after the survey is done. Earlier, schools were struggling to get students acquainted with the offline mode. However, now the process is delayed by another week.Before the reopening of schools, teachers are struggling to get the students back on track as offline education begins again.As per the notification issued by the education department late on Thursday evening, Diwali vacations were from October 28 to November 10.Sunanda Wakhare, education officer (secondary), Pune district, said that due to the NAS 2021 two days, November 11 and November 12 the schools will remain functional.“After this, schools are requested to take five more days of leave from November 13 to November 18. After this, on November 19, schools will remain shut due to Guru Nanak Jayanti. And so, all schools will reopen on November 20, which is Saturday,” said Wakhare.As November 21 is Sunday, the schools will reopen from November 22.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association, said that the extended leave will not affect the students’ attendance.“On November 11 and November 12, the students barely attended schools in these two days. In the yearly planning, the Diwali vacation is till November 20. Parents and teachers usually plan an outstation stay during this time and so the extension of holidays on the occasion of Diwali is an apt course of action for schools,” said Gaikwad.Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, said that this frequent change of schedule is not good for students as it might affect them.“Many students must have gotten back from their village and would be disappointed if they returned earlier. In these two days, the attendance of school was very poor,” said Sinnarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/diwali-vacation-extended-schools-in-pune-to-reopen-from-november-22-101636736505939.html
12-11-2021||Pune||National Achievement Survey gets good response in Pune district||PUNE The district witnessed an overwhelming 93 per cent of students’ attendance for the National Achievement Survey (NAS) 2021 conducted in over 234 schools in the district till 9 pm on Friday.The survey was developed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) for assessing the students for learning outcomes.Speaking about the turnout and response from students, Varsha Kokil, district-level coordinator for Pune district, NAS 2021, said that the response in the district was good.“For Class 3, the response was 95.68 per cent, for Class 5 the response was 93.21 per cent and for Class 8, the response was 94.93 per cent. For Class 10 the response was 88.55 per cent in the district. Though there were 234 schools, a total of 272 classes were tested. And so, there were 272 observers and around 370 field instructors in Pune district,” said Kokil.As per Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), till 9 pm, 32 districts in Maharashtra have reported attendance of students for National achievement survey 2021 to be between 91 to 95 percent. Officials said that four districts Nagpur, Nanded, Raigad and Latur were not able to submit the data by Friday evening. In other parts of the State, the survey was conducted smoothly through the state.There were 7300 schools from the State and a total of 2.4 lakh students were to participate in the survey. Students from classes 3,5,8 and 10 participated in the survey.She added that schools and teachers were preparing for the survey for a week now.As per Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT), for Class 3, 98.04 per cent schools participated in the survey. For Class 5, 8 and 10, 100 per cent participation was reported by schools.Arti Sharma, principal, Army Public School, Khadki, said that students were very keen and enthusiastic to participate. As only 30 students were randomly selected through a lottery system to participate, others also wanted to join them.“The survey went very smoothly. However, the pupil survey for Class 3 had difficult language for students. The language used were too sophisticated for students of that age. They could have used simple language to make the survey easier for students of Class 3. Except for that, the rest of the survey went fairly well,” said Sharma.Kokil said that NAS 2021 was a new type of survey and the purpose of the survey was to design a new curriculum and teacher training programmes.There were a few schools in rural parts of the district wherein social distancing was not followed.However, Kokil denied any such incident. “There was a maximum of 30 students participating in the survey. And every school has a hall big enough to accommodate 30 students. We did not receive any such complaint from any observers. Schools were also asked to maintain all Covid-19 protocols while the survey was conducted,” said Kokil.Due to the state transport strike, many teachers who were involved in the survey as observers and field instructors were forced to use private vehicles.“Many teachers got together and carpooled if their school was in the same area to streamline the process. This has helped many teachers who had to come back to Pune city to submit the test material,” said Kokil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/national-achievement-survey-gets-good-response-in-pune-district-101636736085024.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||UP govt, govt-aided schools in a fix over class 9 exams on OMR sheets||Principals of government and government-aided secondary schools affiliated to UP Board are in a fix over the board’s decision to conduct half yearly and annual exams of Class 9 partly on optical mark recognition (also called optical mark reading or OMR) sheets.Reason: In accordance with the government order, they are now needed to get the question papers printed, procure answer-sheets for descriptive questions and OMR sheets all within ₹25 that they are allowed to collect from students as exam fee.In such a situation, the principals have already expressed their inability to conduct the examination partly on the OMR sheets to UP Board. State president, Principals’ Council, Brajesh Sharma said though the principals welcome the new system but for implementing it the state government should also provide a specific budget.“Already, the expenses of all online works are being borne by the institutions and it is not possible to incur extra expenditure of OMR sheets also by them,” he claimed.Under the new National Education Policy (NEP)-2020, the UP Board has made it mandatory to conduct a part of half yearly and annual examination of class 9 on OMR sheets from this academic session. This has been done so that the students can be prepared for future competitive examinations.Under this new system, now the class 9 question paper of 70 marks for the written examination has been divided into two parts: The first part of the question paper will have multiple-choice questions of 20 marks which students will have to answer on the OMR sheet while the second part will have descriptive questions of 50 marks which students will have to answer on conventional answer sheets. In these question papers, questions related to higher-order thinking skills will also be included. UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla has already sent instructions in this regard to all the district inspectors of schools on November 2.According to the annual calendar released by the UP Board on August 14, the half-yearly examinations are to be held in November and the annual examinations are to be held in February 2022. Though UP Board officials are reluctant to comment on the issue as any decision with regard to a budget for government-aided schools in this regard can be taken by the state government only.A delegation of principals of government-aided institutions did meet UP Board secretary on November 9 in this very regard, shared Murarji Tripathi, principal of Sarvarya Inter College, Bahadurganj, who was part of the delegation“The UP Board secretary informed us that the sample of OMR sheet to be used in class 9 examinations from this session has been uploaded on the board’s official website. He made clear that for this no provision has been made by the government for charging of any additional fee,” Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-govt-aided-schools-in-a-fix-over-class-9-exams-on-omr-sheets-101636735905024.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||UP police SI recruitment exam begins amid strict vigil in Prayagraj||The Uttar Pradesh police sub inspector (SI) recruitment exam-2021 got under way under strict surveillance of police teams and special task force units here on Friday. Senior police officials themselves visited various examination centres in the city. The documents and details of all aspirants were properly scanned before they were allowed to appear in the examination. The examination will be held online in three shifts at seven examination centres in the district from November 12 to 20.Police officials have chalked out a strategy for conducting fair examination and recruitment process for which senior officials held meetings and briefed the cops about the steps to be taken for avoiding any anomalies and use of unfair means during the examination. Besides local police, STF Prayagraj also kept a strict vigil at examination centres along with those who have been active in providing solvers and unfair means to aspirants of different competitive examinations earlier. Police officials said three surveillance teams were roped in to a keep close watch on suspects and collect information about the persons who may try to use unfair means during examination process. Circle officers were deployed at examination centres. Besides, a nodal officer was also appointed at each examination centre.During the direct recruitment examination on Friday, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sarvshrestha Tripathi visited the examination centres at different places and reviewed arrangements. The SSP said there was no report of any untoward incident from any examination centre. “The recruitment process is being conducted under strict surveillance and foolproof security arrangements,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-police-si-recruitment-exam-begins-amid-strict-vigil-in-prayagraj-101636735365264.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Two complaints filed against actress Kangana Ranaut in Pune||PUNE Two complaints were lodged against actress Kangana Ranaut at Chatushringi and Sinhagad police stations in the city on Friday.The Bollywood actor’s comments on the freedom movement have stirred a row as she said Congress is an extension of the British rule and India attained her ‘real freedom’ in 2014, apparently referring to the BJP coming to power in 2014. What India got in 1947 was ‘bheek’ (alms), the actor said.The first complaint has been lodged at the Chatushringi police station in the city.NCP general secretary Sameer Uttarkar stated that her statement about the country’s independence in a programme was controversial.In the second complaint, All India Professional’s Congress Pune (South), the professional wing of the Indian National Congress has demanded strict action against actor Kangana Ranaut under PASA (Prevention of Anti-Social Activities) Act, for her recent statement given in an interview on a prominent English language channel.AIPC (Pune) has written a letter to the senior inspector of Sinhagad road police station stating, “Ranaut has publicly insulted many freedom fighters by making offensive statements about the country’s freedom struggle... and has hurt the feelings of Indian citizens.”“The statement has hurt the feelings of the people of the country and a wave of anger has arisen in the society. Also, such an offensive statement is likely to create law and order problems and disrupt social harmony. However, it is requested that immediate action be taken against Ranaut by filing an FIR under PASA Act 1985’, the complaint letter written to police stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-complaints-filed-against-actress-kangana-ranaut-in-pune-101636734647786.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||MSRTC strike: 4 days after stir, some staffers return to work||MUMBAI Five days after Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s (MSRTC) bus services came to standstill owing to the state-wide strike, some employees have started returning to work from Friday. The corporation operated 36 buses from various depots on the Dadar-Pune, Mumbai-Satara, Nashik-Pune, Pune-Thane, Nashik-Dhule, Solapur-Akkalkot and Rajapur-Burmbewadi routes. A total of 17 buses were operated from Mumbai, including from Dadar and Mumbai Central bus depots. The BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) also operated additional buses on MSRTC routes from Panvel and Dadar, among other places.“Employees are returning to work slowly. We had nearly 2,000 employees returning to work from the mechanical and transport departments and are expecting more to return soon. We are trying our best to reduce commuting hassles and will resume bus services in full strength. Employees are being provided protection and we will pay salaries to all of them,” said a senior MSRTC official.MSRTC’s 250 bus depots were shut after a section of employees called for a strike from Monday morning, demanding an increase in salary, merger of the corporation with the Maharashtra government, increase of dearness and house rent allowances.MSRTC, which is one of the largest transport corporations in India, has suffered a loss of ₹126.49 crore owing to the employees’ strike. The organisation has stated that the accumulated losses of the organisation are around is ₹12,000 crore. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar at the latter’s residence Silver Oak in south Mumbai on Friday over the issue. Thackeray was accompanied by representatives of MSRTC employees and senior MNS leaders. MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar said Pawar heard the employees’ demands and assured to resolve the matter. “As chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) and deputy CM and finance minister (Ajit Pawar) are unwell, Raj saheb decided to meet the NCP chief after a delegation of MSRTC employees approached him on Thursday, requesting his help in resolving their issues. We want the issue to be resolved and no employee should be forced to take the extreme steps of suicide. More than one lakh MSRTC employees are suffering from financial crisis and we want them to come out of this situation,” Nandgaonkar told reporters after the Thackeray-Pawar meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/msrtcstrike-4-days-after-stir-some-staffers-return-to-work-101636734646495.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Fourth cycle of genome sequencing: 75% sample from Covid patients test positive for Delta variant||In the fourth cycle of genome sequencing, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tested 281 samples from Covid-19 positive patients in Mumbai, of which 75% (210 patients) have tested positive for the Delta variant of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and 25% (71) have tested positive for Delta derivative of the virus. Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant.Out of 281 patients, four patients have died and all four of them had not taken any dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. They were all also over 60 years of age. None of the vaccinated patients has died. Results have also revealed only eight out of 281 patients, who took the first dose and only 21 people who took both doses, had to be hospitalised. None of them needed oxygen supply or intensive care.Also, among the 281 patients whose samples were collected for genome sequencing, 26 patients (9%) are in the age group of 0 to 20 years. These include 85 patients (30%) in the age group of 21 to 40 years, 96 patients (34%) in the age group of 41 to 60 years, 66 patients (23%) in the age group of 61 to 80 years and eight patients (3%) in the age group of 81 to 100 years.The Delta variant, also known as B.1.617.2 of Sars-Cov-2, was first detected in India in late 2020. As per the Centre for Disease Control (CDC), the Delta variant causes more infections and spreads faster than earlier forms of the virus that causes Covid-19. The civic body has previously conducted three cycles of genome sequencing. The results of the first lot of samples were declared on August 23, the second on September 21, and the third on October 11. According to information from the BMC’s health department, samples for this fourth cycle were collected over the past two-three weeks. A genome sequencing lab has been set up by BMC at Kasturba Hospital. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the lab on August 4, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fourth-cycle-of-genome-sequencing-75-sample-from-covid-patients-test-positive-for-delta-variant-101636734528570.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Political parties in Pune condemn actress Kangana Ranaut’s comments||PUNE Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and various other organisations condemned actress Kangana Ranaut’s comments on Friday and demanded to withdraw her Padma Shri Award.The Bollywood actor’s comments on the freedom movement have stirred a row as she said Congress is an extension of the British rule and India attained her ‘real freedom’ in 2014, apparently referring to the BJP coming to power in 2014. What India got in 1947 was ‘bheek’ (alms), the actor said.Congress party’s women wing agitated on Friday afternoon and party’s leaders Ramesh Bagwe, Abhay Chajjed and Mohan Joshi were present. Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe also criticised the actress.NCP protested at Balgandharva chowk and demanded to withdraw her Padma Award which she received recently.National Students Union of India demanded to admit actress at Mental hospital located at Yerawada. Various other organisations in the city issued the press statement and condemned her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/political-parties-in-pune-condemn-actress-kangana-ranaut-s-comments-101636734349177.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Thief seeks blessings before stealing donation box from temple in Thane||The Naupada police in Thane city have arrested a burglar for allegedly stealing a donation box from a Lord Hanuman temple earlier this week. What left even the police amused, however, was that the thief was seen on CCTV footage touching the Lord’s feet before committing the theft.According to the Naupada police, the incident was reported to them on Thursday by Mahant Mahavirdas Maharaj (57), the priest at the Kabirwadi Hanuman Temple near the Khopat Bus Depot, Thane (W). The complainant, in his statement, said that the theft occurred sometime between 8pm and 9.30pm on Tuesday. The priest had stepped out for some work during that time period and returned to see that the donation box in front of the idol was missing, officials said. The priest informed that the amount in the donation box was ₹1,000.The police then examined the CCTV footage inside the temple and saw a young man entering the temple and touching the idol’s feet before picking up the donation box and fleeing the scene. Footage from outside the temple also showed a second accomplice waiting outside the temple and leaving with the first accused.“We started making inquiries with residents of the area around the temple, working on the assumption that a local would be in the best position to know when there would be the least number of people present in the temple. We showed stills from the CCTV footage to a large number of locals and got several leads as to the identity of the suspects,” senior police inspector Sanjay Dhumal, Naupada police station said.Based on these inquiries, the police started rounding up suspects for questioning and picked up Rabodi resident, Kejas Mhasde (18), on Thursday evening.“Inquiries confirmed his involvement in the theft and he also revealed the identity of his accomplice, who was also picked up from Rabodi,” Dhumal said.The accomplice, identified as Suraj Torane (21), was picked up from his residence and both the accused were placed under arrest late on Thursday night. The police have also recovered the donation box and ₹536 cash from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thief-seeks-blessings-before-stealing-donation-box-from-temple-in-thane-101636734346029.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Mountainous Achievement||“What a delightful and powerful experience it is to read a good book about India.” -Manu Joseph author of ‘Serious Men’. As an erstwhile voracious reader, who in recent times has seldom found a book that ‘reaches the parts that need reaching’, it is hard to describe the thrill and sheer pleasure that reading Saumya Roy’s recently published ‘Mountain Tales’ has afforded me these past few days. Set in the forgotten vertiginous garbage mountains of Deonar – which are said to stretch over 132 hectares, rising to over 164 feet and receive 5,500 metric tonnes of Mumbai’s waste daily – it follows the true story of a small community of rag pickers who live amongst the vast, teetering piles of rotting food, plastic bottles, medical waste, broken glass and twisted metal and make a living out of it. To write a book about what most would consider a dark, desolate subject and yet manage to infuse it with so much tenderness, heroism and humanity, is where Roy’s mastery as a writer lies. With her journalist’s eye and a poet’s turn of phrase, Roy enchants the reader from the get-go, with her introduction to the book’s 17-year-old “tall athletic and fearless” protagonist Farzana Shaikh, born under the mountains’ shadow, whose life over the next eight years – packed with hair raising danger, undaunted daring and gut-wrenching despair – mirrors that of her family and community. Roy’s deeply humane and empathetic portrayal of Farzana’s family, starting with its patriarch Hyder Ali – an embroiderer’s assistant from Bihar who had come to Mumbai as a young man to find work and had ended up entangled in the mountain’s lure (“he had heard of the mountains that never ran out of work-vast dumping grounds at the edge of the city, where the remnants of everything that Mumbai consumed came to die’) – along with that of the Siddiquis, Shaikhs, Kambles and Khans, evokes the writing of some of her favourite authors such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez, John Steinbeck and Naguib Mahfouz. That she has infused some of the most marginalised people on the planet with a larger-than-life quality, making the reader so deeply engaged with their struggles, hopes and dreams, is just one of the reasons that make Mountain Tales an astonishing accomplishment. *****************************************************************************************************************************The other reason is of course that it’s all true. These men and women who we feel for, despair and empathise with, through her writing are not some fictitious characters conjured up by a skilful author to tell a story, but real, living, breathing people, who actually exist and go about their lives to this day in a suburb of Mumbai, perhaps not too far from our own homes and lives. How had Roy managed to delve so deeply into their lives? How had she won their trust? What did they make of the book? “I got to know them over a period of eight years,” says the Mumbai-based former journalist whose initial introduction to Deonar’s community of rag pickers was as a microfinance lender for the foundation she’d begun with her father in 2010 to provide loans to the city’s marginalised micro-entrepreneurs. “I began visiting as a non-profit lender at first, and then with their consent, spent time in their homes, visited schools, clinics, hospitals, graveyard, markets, shrines with them. Over hundreds of hours, they scribbled in my notebook, fed me, laughed and cried as they told me of their lives lived in the shadow of these mountains. There were things they didn’t want to talk about and I respected that. At other, unexpected times, they began to speak of these and other stories….They wanted to speak about their lives, their so-far unspoken trauma.” But the idea of writing a book about the community crystalized in 2016 when mysterious fires began to consume Deonar’s mountains and threaten the already fragile existence of the community around it. Thinking she’d write a couple of articles on the subject, Roy threw herself even deeper in it, and from here she said the idea for the book grew organically.************************************************************************************************************************Immersing herself in her subject, Roy says she walked the mountains alone and with her subjects, attended hundreds of hours of court proceedings of the ongoing 26-year-old legal battle that was to decide Deonar’s fate and sourced archival material on its history through Right to Information (RTIs) queries, becoming something of an authority on the subject. This intense focus forms the larger narrative of the book and provides a fascinating study of overconsumption, the lack of urban planning and the absence of a political will, which has resulted in mountains of garbage growing often 18-storeys-high in India’s celebrated financial capital. Even more compelling is Roy’s portrayal of the people whose lives are inextricably linked to it, the men and women who live under it and daily scour it for anything they can resell to feed their families. What is remarkable is how in spite of their daily existential struggles to surmount extreme poverty, illnesses and accidents, the book affords readers with moments of unexpected hope, tenderness, joy and love, taking us into a world of birthday parties, teenage romances, joy and sunlight under the mountain’s shadow; depicting mothers who heroically subject their bodies to dangerous clinical trials to feed their children; brothers whose undying love for their sisters prevail over tragedies and tribulations, and steadfast paramours undeterred by the vagaries of fate and physical appearances.************************************************************************************************************************Above all, Roy’s book tells the story of Mumbai and its denizens, those who live lives of conspicuous consumption – acquiring insurmountable piles of objects, only to discard them soon– and the people who live off the dregs of this runaway ingestion. Through the heaps of castaway cell phones, high-heel shoes, make-up, clothes, milk and coffee containers, it tells of the apathy that allows a city to exist cheek by jowl with those whose every meal and day is a challenge. Most importantly, it speaks of the need to acknowledge our shared humanity with those we often disregard or ignore. As Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and author Geeta Anand said about Mountain Tales: “Read it for a most delicious story, read it to understand India, read it to know what it is like to grow up in extreme poverty in the shadow of enormous wealth. If you read one book about India, read this one.” Meanwhile, the Deonar mountains still loom as do the court battles to shut them down, along with the people whose fragile lives depend on it. Mumbai’s invisible twin, its lengthening shadow, the elephant in its room…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-mountainous-achievement-101636734044746.html
12-11-2021||Ranchi||Top Maoist leader Prashant Bose nabbed in Jharkhand||The Jharkhand police late on Thursday night arrested a senior Maoist leader, Prashant Bose alias Kisan Da (81) after specific inputs from intelligence agencies. But, police officials are tight-lipped about the arrest as of nowThe arrest of Bose, also known as Nirbhay, Kajal, Budha and Maneesh, is possibly a big blow to the Maoist movement, as he is alleged to be the head of the Eastern Regional Bureau (ERB), which includes Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha. Bose hails from the 24 Parganas district of West Bengal. People in the intelligence agency familiar with the development said that Bose, along with his wife Sheela Marandi, was arrested between Jamshedpur and Saraikela when they were on their way to Saranda forest to attend a secret meeting. Bose, who has been underground for over three decades, is one of the senior most Maoist leaders and currently held the charge of central committee member, central military commission and politburo member, while his wife is believed to be a member of the central committee. She is a native of Dhanbad. An intelligence official said that Bose had been arrested for the first time and police were trying to work on leads provided by him during his interrogation. The arrest comes in the backdrop of a series of reverses the Maoists have faced in several states, notwithstanding their capabilities to inflict deadly blows on security forces in Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar. According to the police, Bose was also the former chief of the Maoist Communist Centre of India and was one of the ideologues, who oversaw the reunification of the revolutionary forces, which led to formation of the CPI (Maoist). Bose had suffered paralysis earlier and he is unable to move anywhere on his own. “His associates were taking him to a safe place but he was nabbed midway,” the official said. The arrest of the duo will have an impact on the morale of the Maoist cadre and the revolutionary activity in north India. However, SSP (Jamshedpur) Dr M Tamil Vanan denied that Bose had been arrested in his jurisdiction. Saraikela SP Anand Prakash said over the phone that in case of Bose‘s arrest, he would be informed immediately. ADG (Operation), Bihar, SM Khopde said in the last five years no cases have been registered against Bose, but he was trying to gather details from concerned districts. He, however, said that he had got news about Bose’s arrest from the media and not from his Jharkhand counterparts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/top-maoist-leader-prashant-bose-nabbed-in-jharkhand-101636733204665.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports first Covid deaths after 21 days, active caseload at 371||Delhi on Friday reported the first fatalities due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in November after two people succumbed to the infection. With this, the national capital’s streak of not registering any Covid-related death for 21 days straight came to an end. The last time the city logged a death due to the virus was on October 22. The death toll of Delhi now stands at 25,093, according to updated data on the government’s health bulletin.Covid-19 deaths in the national capital have been on a downward swing since September, with only five fatalities being reported in the month, followed by four in October. Also, the four deaths last month were the lowest monthly toll that Delhi witnessed since the pandemic struck in March 2020.Also Read | Covid-19: Delhi maintains no-death streak for 11 days straightMeanwhile, the daily caseload of 62 infections on Friday was a marginal rise from Thursday’s tally when 40 cases were reported. The cumulative case count of the city currently stands at 14,40,332. Also, 56 new recoveries have pushed the total number of recovered cases in Delhi to 14,14,868. The case positivity rate of the city, which improved to 4.81 per cent on Thursday from Wednesday’s 4.82 per cent, remained unchanged on Friday. The active caseload in Delhi is 371.As far as vaccinations are concerned, as many as 2,10,47,291 eligible beneficiaries have been inoculated with jabs so far, of which, 81,035 were administered the shots in the last 24 hours. Of the total vaccinated individuals, 1,32,49,323 have received the first dose and the remaining 77,97,968 have been jabbed with the second shot as well, the health bulletin data showed.The news may come as a respite since Delhi has been battling ‘severe’ category air quality since Diwali when the blanket ban on bursting of firecrackers went for a toss. The situation, though saw slight improvement a few days after the festivities came to an end, has come back to ‘severe’ levels owing to stubble burning and smoggy conditions.Also Read | Thick haze envelopes New Delhi as air quality worsens; mercury dips to 12.6°CAccording to a PTI report, authorities have advised Delhiites to regulate their outdoor activities and also informed government and private offices to cut down vehicle emissions by at least 30 per cent as the air quality index (AQI) in the national capital moved closer to the ‘emergency’ level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-first-covid-deaths-after-21-days-active-caseload-at-371-101636732334448.html
12-11-2021||Pune||PMRDA planning committee polls: BJP, NCP win majority seats, Congress defeated||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have maintained their seats in proportion to their voter share, but Congress which rebelled from Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was defeated in the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) planning committee elections.The voting was held on Wednesday and results for the same were declared on Friday.The voting was held for a total of 30 seats, among which BJP got 16, Nationalist Congress Party got 12 seats, Shiv Sena won one and an independent candidate won one.The elected members for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, municipal councils falling under the PMRDA region and gram panchayat elected the members.NCP offered Congress one seat but it rejected the offer and preferred to fight alone.Congress has ten members in the municipal corporation but, it got only eight votes. As two members diverted their votes, Congress city unit president issued notice to party leader Aba Bagul and asked for clarification.NCP leader Prashant Jagtap said, “BJP is claiming that the victory margin is huge but all parties have got seats in proportion.”BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “NCP claimed that it will be successful in taking away some votes from BJP but it has failed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmrda-planning-committee-polls-bjp-ncp-win-majority-seats-congress-defeated-101636731644726.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Loan fraud: ED attaches assets worth ₹68.77 crore of Usher Agro firm in Mumbai||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached assets worth ₹68.77 crore of Mumbai-based firm Usher Agro and its group companies as well as its managing director Vinod Chaturvedi and others in an alleged bank fraud case. The seizures include immovable assets of ₹53.46 crore and movable assets worth ₹15.31 crore, the agency stated on Friday. Chaturvedi was arrested by ED on September 17 under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for allegedly siphoning of ₹915.65-crore bank loan. The money laundering case against Chaturvedi is based on the first information report (FIR) lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in January 2019 against Usher Agro Ltd, Chaturvedi, Manoj Pathak and others. It has been alleged in the FIR that the group had taken a loan from a consortium of banks and siphoned of the amount. “During investigation, the proceeds of crime have been quantified to the tune of ₹915.65 crore. Further investigation has revealed that the promoters had formed 15 shell companies and carried out bogus transactions with the firms. Also, the group companies have carried out bogus transactions with DHFL’s (Dewan Housing Finance Corporation) group companies,” an ED statement read. In 2019, Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) had also arrested Chaturvedi in connection with another fraud case in which he had allegedly availed loan from a foreign bank by submitting forged documents.More assets of the accused and the company are likely to be seized in the future, ED sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/loan-fraud-ed-attaches-assets-worth-68-77-crore-of-usher-agro-firm-in-mumbai-101636730581547.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Pune’s Bharat Natya Sanshodhan Mandir to release book on Marathi theatre||Pune: ‘Swaranatya Rasganga’, a special informative book by Bharat Natya Sanshodhan Mandir theatre group, will be released by Maharashtra Legislative Council deputy speaker Neelam Gorhe at the theatre in Sadashiv peth on Saturday (November 13). The book is published by Bharat Natya Mandir to highlight the history of Marathi theatre and celebrate the 127-year-old tradition of Bharat Natya Sanshodhan Mandir’s amateur-experimental theatre in Marathi. “The book will carry informative and interesting history of 150 years of Marathi theatre,” said Abhay Jabde, working president of Bharat Natya Sanshodhan Mandir. “Veteran actor Sharad Ponkshe will be the chief guest and the book’s authors Archana Sane and Yashshree Punekar and editor Gopal Avati will be present. After the book release ceremony, 15 singers will perform ‘Swaranatya Rasganga’, while veteran singer-actor Charudatta Aphale will present one of the popular pieces from the plays that have been presented at Bharat Natya Mandir,” he said. The preface of the book with rare photographs and anecdotes is written by Ravindra Khare, veteran actor and trustee of Bharat Natya Sanshodhan Mandir. The book will be available at the theatre at a discounted rate. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-bharat-natya-sanshodhan-mandir-to-release-book-on-marathi-theatre-101636730504749.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||800 families in Khadegolavli area of Kalyan getting muddy water for 10 days||Around 800 families residing in Khadegolavli area of Kalyan have been receiving muddy water for the last 10 days. Despite many complaints, the residents have not received any positive response from the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).Irked by the poor response, they approached the local water department office and were assured that the pipeline repair work would begin next week and that water tankers would be provided for the residents in the meantime.A senior officer from KDMC said, “We have asked the concerned department to provide water tankers in these areas. It has been identified that there is a blockage in the pipelines leading to those areas. We shall be starting repair work on Tuesday to ensure that the smooth flow of clear water resumes.”Nitin Mishra, a 43-year-old resident of Khadegolavli said, “This area consists of lower middle-class population and has a mix of chawls and small residential buildings with four storeys. All through the Diwali week and later as well, we have been receiving muddy water. Most of us ordered mineral water separately for cooking purposes as it was the festive period. Moreover, our repeated complaints have fallen into deaf ears.”A group of residents, on Friday, approached the water department and took support from the local political leaders to complain about the lackadaisical attitude towards them.“We approached the water department and explained the problems we were facing. It has agreed to start the necessary repair work next week. However, we have been spending from our own pockets for almost two weeks now,” said Bharti Gotekar, a resident of Khadegolavli.“This is not a one-off incident. Since the last six months, there have been several instances when we have received muddy water and the situation has improved after we have made complaints to the civic body. There are multiple high rises that have come up in Kalyan that are getting a proper supply of water. Why are we being ignored despite staying here for decades?” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/800-families-in-khadegolavli-area-of-kalyan-getting-muddy-water-for-10-days-101636730444673.html
12-11-2021||Bhopal||Set up cow hostel, minister tells MP university that starts cow research centre||Bhopal/Sagar: Union minister Parshottam Rupala on Friday asked a Madhya Pradesh university to set up cow hostels for people who want to care for cows but have no space to keep them. The minister’s suggestion came at an event to establish a cow study and research chair at Dr Harisingh Gour Central University in Sagar.Parshottam Rupala, Union minister of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, travelled to the university 150km from state capital Bhopal for an event to seal a memorandum of understanding for the Kamdhenu Study and Research Centre at the university. This is a first of its kind chair in India that will carry out research on cow and cow products. “The university should establish a big centre for the shelter of cows on the lines of hostel for students. Our ministry and I personally are also ready to cooperate in this. It will promote cow protection in the state,” the minister said, recalling that Prime Minister Narendra Modi started similar hostels in Gujarat when he was the state’s chief minister.The National Cow Commission set up in 2019 has also been promoting the concept for cow hostels.“We know from childhood the importance of cows in many aspects including milk production, manure production and various medicinal uses. Unfortunately, with time we have forgotten the importance of indigenous cows,” he added.The university vice-chancellor Neelima Gupta responded to the minister’s suggestion, saying: “We will also take a decision on opening cow hostels in the university”.MP’s Gopalan and Livestock Promotion Board president Mahamandaleshwar Swami Akhileshwaranand Giri said Madhya Pradesh is the state of most cow lovers and cow servants. He said the world’s largest cowshed can be established in Dr Harisingh Gour University in collaboration with Madhya Pradesh Gau Samvardhan Aayog. MP is the first state to have a cow cabinet formed in 2020 for the conservation and security of cows in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/set-up-cow-hostel-minister-tells-mp-university-that-starts-cow-research-centre-101636730024544.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Stay at home: Delhi-NCR air quality on brink of ‘emergency’||Authorities on Friday advised people to limit outdoor activities and told government and private offices to cut vehicle use by at least 30 per cent as air quality in Delhi-NCR inched towards the emergency level amid a rise in emissions from farm fires and unfavourable meteorological conditions.Over 4,000 farm fires, accounting for 35 per cent of Delhi's pollution on Friday, played a major role in pushing the 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) to 471 by 4 pm, the worst this season so far. It was 411 on Thursday.A sub-committee on Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) said meteorological conditions will be highly unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants till November 18 and agencies concerned must be fully ready to implement measures under 'emergency' category.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said the 24-hour average concentration of lung-damaging fine particles known as PM2.5 in Delhi-NCR crossed the 300 mark around midnight and stood at 381 micrograms per cubic metre at 4 pm on Friday, over six times the safe limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre.The PM10 level was recorded at 577 micrograms per cubic metre, over five times the safe limit of 100 micrograms per cubic metre.According to GRAP, the air quality is considered to be in the 'emergency' category if the PM2.5 and PM10 levels continue to be above 300 micrograms per cubic metre and 500 micrograms per cubic metre respectively for 48 hours or more.After reviewing the situation, the sub-committee on GRAP said, "Government and private offices and other establishments are advised to reduce vehicle usage by at least 30 per cent (by working from home, carpooling, optimising field activities etc). People are advised to limit outdoor activities and minimise their exposure.” "Concerned agencies must be in complete readiness for implementation of measures under 'emergency' category as per GRAP (Graded Response Action Plan)," an order issued by the committee read.The GRAP -- a set of anti-pollution measures followed in Delhi and its vicinity according to the severity of the situation – comes into force in mid-October when air quality levels start worsening.The measures to be followed in the 'emergency' situation include stopping the entry of trucks in Delhi, ban on construction activities and introducing the odd-even car rationing scheme.CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava observed that in view of unfavourable meteorology, stubble burning and poor dispersion resulting in accumulation of pollutants, the coming week is critical regarding Delhi-NCR's air quality.The CPCB said an action-taken report is received daily from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana Pollution Control Boards but these are awaited from Delhi Pollution Control Committee and Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board.According to an analysis by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee, people in Delhi breathe the worst air between November 1 and November 15 every year. The city has recorded severe air quality on six of the last eight days after Diwali.Faridabad (460), Ghaziabad (486), Greater Noida (478), Gurgaon (448) and Noida (488) also recorded severe air quality at 4 pm on Friday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".A layer of eye-stinging smog lingering over Delhi-NCR thickened on Friday, giving an orange tint to the sun and lowering visibility to 200 metres at several places in the region.India Meteorological Department officials said moderate fog and low temperatures in the morning -- a low of 12.6 degrees Celsius on Friday -- and calm winds have been trapping pollutants close to the ground."Visibility levels at the Indira Gandhi International Airport and the Safdarjung Airport dropped to 200-500 metres due to moderate fog. It intensified on Friday due to high humidity," an official said.Green think tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has said the ongoing smog episode is a public health emergency and could be the longest in four years. In another report, it said vehicles accounted for more than 50 per cent of Delhi's pollution from October 24 to November 8.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecasting agency SAFAR, stubble burning has accounted for at least 25 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution for nine days on the trot, starting November 4.Gufran Beig, the founder project director of SAFAR, said stubble burning generally contributes to PM2.5 but this time its coarser particles in PM10 are also becoming a lead pollutant at several locations in Delhi."This is a new feature in the winter. This is mainly because of the particle growth mechanism due to high humidity at night and increased humidity during the day probably due to water sprinkling which increases the holding capacity of the air. Since the flow is regular, many PM2.5 particles are growing towards PM10 (sic)," he said.The share of farm fire in Delhi's pollution had increased to 48 per cent on Sunday, the highest since November 5, 2018, when it was 58 per cent.Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution had peaked at 42 per cent on November 5. In 2019, it accounted for 44 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on November 1.Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday launched the second leg of the campaign to control dust pollution. On Thursday, he had launched a month-long campaign to prevent the open burning of waste and biomass in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stay-at-home-delhi-ncr-air-quality-on-brink-of-emergency-101636726881756.html
12-11-2021||Other||{Maharaja Ranjit Singh birth anniv today} 24 years after announcement, birthplace Sangrur village awaits Maharaja’s statue||Sangrur Residents of Badrukhan village, believed to be the birthplace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, in the district have been waiting for the installation of the statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh for the past 24 years, when the then Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal promised to pay tribute to him in this form. The project has hung fire since. Born on November 13, 1780, Sikh historians say that the Maharaja was born in Badrukhan. This was also the native village of his mother Raj Kaur, and the culture of that time was that the first child was to be delivered at the mother’s native place. Some historians, however, contend that he was born in Gujranwala in Pakistan.In June this year, Punjab public works department (PWD) minister and Sangrur MLA Vijay Inder Singla said the state government had sanctioned ₹99.1 lakh for the development of a park and the installation of a new statue of the Maharaja. The work on the park is in progress, but the statue has not been installed so far.Randeep Singh Mintu, son of a former sarpanch, said, “The SAD-BJP and the Congress, both, ruled for over 10 years after the announcement, but no one worked to install the statue of the Maharaja. The fort where the Maharaja was born in the village should be declared a museum and the state government should take responsibility for its care and maintenance.”Sunam Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Aman Arora said, “I have raised the issue twice in the state assembly. The SAD, which claimed to provide a regime like that of Maharaja Ranjit Singh failed honour him by the installation of a statue.”The SAD government had observed the birth anniversary of the Maharaja at state-level functions in 1997, 2001 and 2007. The Congress governments have held no such event.“Work on the park and the statue near the Chandigarh-Bathinda national highway in the village is on and will be completed within 20-22 days,” Singla said. Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said the Maharaja will be remembered on his birthday in Badrukhan on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharaja-ranjit-singh-birth-anniv-today-24-years-after-announcement-birthplace-sangrur-village-awaits-maharaja-s-statue-101636728704325.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar civic body plans to acquire fire fighting bike to enter narrow lanes and avert disaster||The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) plans to introduce a fire-fighting bike with a capacity of 40 litres of water. This will enable UMC to enter smaller lanes in the city to douse fire and avert a major mishap.Leelabai Ashan, UMC mayor, said, “We have suggested to the civic body to make arrangements and plan to purchase a fire-fighting bike that will have access to all parts of the city. The fire brigade officers have also started enquiring about the benefits and usage of these bikes.” According to an officer from the fire rescue team, “The market price for the vehicle is around ₹15 lakh and hence we have planned to go for an assembled piece that will come to around ₹8 or ₹10 lakh. Such a provision will only help provide additional support to the fire brigade team from Ulhasnagar,” said a senior fire officer from UMC.The fire-fighting bike will comprise a water tank with a capacity of 40 litres and a fire bomb that helps douse fire within seconds. Such provisions will help control the fire in case of an emergency and if the fire brigade is unable to reach the disaster spot due to the crammed lanes.Ulhasnagar is a mix of residential areas, small-scale business units and factories along with shops and commercial establishments. As all these function simultaneously amidst narrow lanes that have illegal parking and often cause traffic jams, it makes it difficult for the fire brigade to reach on time during an emergency. A fire-fighting bike can access such locations and reduce the impact of the fire until the fire brigade finds its way.UMC is still working out the budget and will soon make provision to purchase a fire-fighting bike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-civic-body-plans-to-acquire-fire-fighting-bike-to-enter-narrow-lanes-and-avert-disaster-101636727864822.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai traffic cops fine 12,090 for riding without helmets||The Navi Mumbai traffic department has intensified its drive against helmetless riders in the last 12 days. Around 12,090 people were fined for not wearing helmets during this period. These also included pillion riders without helmets.“The intention was to spread awareness among the two-wheeler riders and pillion riders on the importance of wearing helmets. It is compulsory for the pillion riders too to wear a helmet. During an accident, there is no guarantee as to who will fall and who will have what per cent of injury. Hence, it is always better to be safe than sorry and follow all the traffic rules,” DCP (traffic), Purushottam Karad, said.Of the 12 days, the highest number of cases was reported on October 30 with 2,100 cases and the least number was reported on November 4 with 395 cases.“When it comes to accidents, four-wheelers top the number of accidents followed by two-wheelers. But when it comes to deaths caused due to accidents, bikes top the list followed by four-wheelers. This year, a total of 580 accidents have been reported till October,” Karad added.The traffic department plans to continue with the drive along with signal jumping, triple seat ride on two-wheelers, driving without seat belt and talking on phone while driving. The department also plans to take actions like cancelling the license in case of repeated offences instead of simply levying a fine. The fine for not wearing a helmet is ₹200, which was levied in cash as well as e-challan.“Apart from the highways, internal roads also had the drive as most of the times people tend to take it lightly while riding on internal roads,” police inspector Bapurao Deshmukh from Vashi traffic unit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-traffic-cops-fine-12-090-for-riding-without-helmets-101636727509320.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane police go all out against criminals, rule flouters in surprise checks||Thane police have initiated an ‘All Out Movement’ for the criminals and rule flouters in the Thane commissionerate. Between Thursday and Friday, different teams of local police, traffic police, narcotic team and crime branch have arrested several accused in different cases.The narcotics department of Thane police has registered 61 cases in which the team of officials conducted searches at all places including bus stops, railway stations and other hiding places in Thane and nabbed the drug addicts.Fourteen accused were arrested for carrying weapons without having licence and 15 arrested were having non-bailable warrants against them. Also, around 14 externed accused wanted in different cases were arrested.A senior police officer from Thane police said, “The ‘All Out Movement’ was the idea of the Thane police commissioner, Jai Jeet Singh. The idea was to conduct surprise checks and arrest culprits. Around 152 police officers and 834 police constables were involved in this movement all over the Thane commissionerate.”The Thane traffic police too have upped the check on drunk-driving and have been registering almost 50 cases per day over the last few days. Apart from drunk-driving, around 5,000 cases of traffic violations are also registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-police-go-all-out-against-criminals-rule-flouters-in-surprise-checks-101636727384125.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Malawi mangoes enter Navi Mumbai’s APMC market from Africa||Malawi mangoes, known to be replicas to Devgad Alphonso, entered the APMC market on Friday. Ever since the Malawi mangoes started getting imported from Africa, for the first time, the rates have reached as high as ₹1,200 to ₹1,500 per kg.“A total of 270 boxes arrived on Friday and over the period of a month, around 40 tons of mangoes are expected to reach us. The increase in petrol charges, air freight, import duty and other taxes have led to the increase in the price,” Sanjay Pansare, director of fruit market in APMC, said.Besides, the increasing demand in the UK, the Gulf and Malaysia has also led to increase in price, Pansare added.Each box consisting of 3kg mangoes were sold from ₹3,600 to ₹4,500 per box. “Within hours, all the boxes were sold and the buyers were retailers from Colaba, Cuffe Parade and Crawford. From next week, the shipment is expected to be twice a week. As the supply will increase, it will be sold to Ahmednagar, Surat, Balgaum and other places too, wherever Devgad mangoes are in demand,” he added.Around 11 years back, a few Alphonso mango sticks were sent to Malawi in Africa from Ratnagiri. They were grafted and planted across a 26-acre farm, which is now a 600ha farm. These mangoes started being imported to India in 2018. In 2018, 40 tons of mangoes had reached APMC, which then cost ₹1,500 per 3kg box. In 2019, around 70 tons of mangoes reached and in 2020, due to Covid, only 15 tons could be imported at ₹2,500- ₹3,000 per box.The Indian mangoes are not available in October-December, when mangoes are harvested in Malawi. Hence, there is no clash between both the seasons. Indian Aphonsos arrive from January through August from various parts of South and Konkan belt of Maharashtra. This year, Malawis are expected to be in the market till December 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malawi-mangoes-enter-navi-mumbai-s-apmc-market-from-africa-101636725884624.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbra, Bhiwandi observe bandh to condemn attacks on Muslims in Tripura||In the backdrop of the Tripura riots, members of Islamic organisation – Raza Academy in Mumbra – have called for a bandh in parts of the city. Raza Academy has insisted on a peaceful protest and has appealed that no shops should be forced shut. Market areas of Bhiwandi and Mumbra had downed their shutters on Friday morning.“Condemning the attacks on Muslims in Tripura, we ordered for a peaceful voluntary protest on Friday,” said Faziya Sheikh, member of Raza Academy in Mumbra.From 9am till around 5pm, all the shops in the market areas of the city remained shut. Similarly, Bhiwandi city also observed a bandh with shops in Lala Commercial Centre and main market areas remaining shut. As per the local police, neither complaints nor instances of violence were reported from Mumbra or Bhiwandi on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbra-bhiwandi-observe-bandh-to-condemn-attacks-on-muslims-in-tripura-101636724687054.html
12-11-2021||Dehradun||2 Kashmiri students in Dehradun questioned after tip-off, released: Police||DEHRADUN: Two students from Jammu and Kashmir studying in Uttarakhand capital Dehradun were questioned by the police for hours before being released, a police officer said on Friday. The officer said the decision to question the students at the city’s Premnagar police station was taken after input was received from the J&K police about their possible links to a terror suspect.“Acting on the input from the J&K police, we called the two to the police station for questioning which went for several hours. However, they were later released after police didn’t find anything suspicious from them related to the input,” the officer said. Uttarakhand director general of police Ashok Kumar, however, insisted that the decision to question the two students was part of an ongoing verification exercise.“The students were asked to report to the police station as part of the routine verification process of students and people from other states staying in Uttarakhand,” said Kumar.Nasir Khuehami, national spokesperson of J&K Students Association, said they reached out to authorities back home after the two students were picked up by the police. It appears they did send an input that the two students used to “hang out with a person linked to militancy in Kashmir in their area.” “Upon speaking to the police authorities in Kashmir it was found that they had come to know that the two, hailing from Kupwara district of Kashmir, were seen with some suspected elements in their area. They sent the input to Uttarakhand on the same asking them to find out more on it after which both were summoned by the police for questioning in the matter,” said Khuehami. He added, “Both were released on Friday after 16 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/2-kashmiri-students-in-dehradun-questioned-after-tip-off-released-police-101636724384177.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Flight operations at Delhi airport runs smoothly despite smog conditions||Despite low visibility on Friday morning, flight operations continued smoothly at Delhi airports.Speaking to ANI, a senior airport official on anonymity said, "On Friday morning, Delhi airport witnessed low visibility but flight operations are running smoothly. Both the runways are operating fine. There is an issue of low visibility, but it didn't affect the flight operations."The national capital on Friday morning got engulfed in a thick layer of smog as the air quality in the region remained in the 'very poor' category.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) under the Ministry of Earth Science reported that the air quality is in the 'very poor' category in Delhi with an air quality index (AQI) of 390.According to the government agencies, AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 are marked as severe/hazardous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/flight-operations-at-delhi-airport-runs-smoothly-despite-smog-conditions-101636718363518.html
12-11-2021||Dehradun||‘Wise men should…’: Harish Rawat’s advice to Salman Khurshid on book row||HALDWANI: Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat on Friday waded into the row over Salman Khurshid’s controversial statement in his book, saying his party colleague should correct his statement in the book that has touched off a political firestorm and should avoid any comparisons that “strengthen venom-spewing forces in society”.“Politicians, or for that matter, wise men should avoid making such statements,” Rawat, a former Uttarakhand chief minister, said in Haldwani in response to questions on Khurshid’s remark in his book “Sunrise over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times”.At one point in the book, Khurshid referred to Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints “being pushed aside by robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years.”The Congress has already distanced itself from Khurshid’s comment. Rawat reiterated that this could be Salman Khurshid’s personal view, “but the Congress and we all don’t agree with it.” Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has already stressed that comparing Hindutva to Jihadist Islam was an exaggeration.In a tweet earlier, Azad said the Congress may not agree with Hindutva as a political ideology distinct from the composite culture of Hinduism, “but comparing Hindutva with ISIS and Jihadist Islam is factually wrong and an exaggeration.”The BJP has been unsparing in its criticism. On Friday, the Madhya Pradesh government said it is exploring the option of banning Khurshid’s book in the state.MP home minister Narottam Mishra saw the comment as a reflection of the approach of top Congress leaders who leave no opportunity “to attack our faith”.To be sure, Khurshid has underlined that the statement was being misinterpreted. “I have not called these guys terrorists, I have just said they are similar in distorting religion. What Hindutva has done, it has pushed aside Sanatan Dharma and Hinduism and it has taken over a robust, aggressive position similar to Boko Haram and those other guys,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/wise-men-should-harish-rawat-s-advice-to-salman-khurshid-on-book-row-101636719343915.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Fire in Navi Mumbai’s Panje wetlands to chase away migratory birds, allege environmentalists||Following a fire at Panje wetlands on Thursday, environmentalists have alleged that the fire to the dry grass was man made apparently to chase away the migratory birds to suit the vested interests of those trying to convert the biodiversity into a concrete jungle.NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan lodged a fresh complaint with CM Uddhav Thackeray and have also drawn the attention of the High Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee to the fire incident.“These nonstop attempts to sabotage the wetlands are alarming,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.The wetlands continue to be starved of tidal water flow as the water inlets to the 289ha area continue to be blocked. This, despite the Raigad Collector stating in his affidavit to the National Green Tribunal that the choke points at Panje wetlands have been removed.Earlier, two miscreants had set crackers on fire, making the birds fly helter-skelter. As many as 50 species of birds visit the wetlands during the migratory season from October to May, and they move to other suitable areas during the monsoon.Raigad district collector, Dr Mahendra Kalyankar, messaged NatConnect quoting his team that what was stated in the affidavit to National Greens Tribunal was correct. Kumar said he presented the GPS photographs, which the collector asked his team to crosscheck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-in-navi-mumbai-s-panje-wetlands-to-chase-away-migratory-birds-allege-environmentalists-101636718455155.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh sent to ED custody till November 15 in PMLA case||A Special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Court on Friday sent former Maharashtra home minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh to Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody till November 15. Additional Sessions Judge HS Satbhai on Friday sent Deshmukh to ED custody.The former home minister was arrested after more than 12 hours of grilling by the agency on November 2 in which the officials said he was evasive while answering them so they could arrest him and demand his custody.Appearing for the agency on Friday, in the third remand application counsel Shriram Shirsath told the court, “That the agency had requested the court for recording the statement of dismissed police inspector Sachin Vaze who is one of the accused in the case. However, its application was rejected by the court as Vaze was presently in the Mumbai Crime branch’s custody till November 13 in an extortion case. However, as Vaze’s custody was ending on November 13 they can record Vaze’s statement after which it will require Deshmukh’s custody to confront with facts/evidence which may occur after recording a fresh statement of Vaze.”The court was told that Vaze collected money from several bar owner’s on Deshmukh’s behest which was allegedly laundered.Shirsath also told the court that in their investigations it further emerged that Deshmukh was involved in the transfer and postings of police officials in Maharashtra and Mumbai and so further statement of Deshmukh is yet to be recorded to unearth the truth.The agency told the court that a private person from Deshmukh’s constituency has been summoned by the agency on November 13 and he was handling certain prestigious projects. The agency after recording the statement of the said person will require Deshmukh’s custody to confront him with the facts that emerge from that as well thereafter.The ED, in its remand application asking for three more days of custody, told the court that Deshmukh has played a very crucial role in the offence of money laundering. He has not provided the required information regarding the laundering of proceeds of crime. The agency told the court that certain key persons have been called for questioning to confront with facts aroused during the recording of statements of Deshmukh and his custody will be required to confront with facts that may arise after ED’s questioning them.Deshmukh, who appeared before the court in a white kurta and pants, told the court that he was in ED custody for the last ten days. “I have been questioned every day for more than eight to ten hours and have answered more than 200 questions put by the agency to me.”Deshmukh even submitted an application before the agency, retracting all his statements given to the agency.Senior counsel Vikram Chaudhri, who argued for Deshmukh along with Aniket Nikam, told the court that this was the third remand application of Deshmukh.“He was questioned for the full day on 1st of November and arrested late night on 2nd of November. A holiday court had given ED custody of Deshmukh till the 6th of November, later, the holiday Sessions court sent Deshmukh to judicial custody. However, the agency appeared before the Bombay High Court and after the consent of both parties, Deshmukh was sent to ED custody till November 12. Now, their application for further custody is not maintainable as with consent and after seeking instructions they had made a statement and demanded the custody before the highest court in the state.”Chaudhri further told the court that Deshmukh had appeared before the agency voluntarily to prove his bonafide without applying for any anticipatory bail application and his petition was pending before the apex court. The agency had told specifically before the Bombay High court that Deshmukh was just a suspect and not an accused and they only needed some explanation from him.The agency has not arrested accused number one Sachin Vaze, though it says he played a key role in the offence. “Only two people arrested in these offences are my personal assistant’s Kundan Shinde and Sanjeev Palande,” he said.“The person who made the allegations, former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Where is he?” Chaudhri questioned.He said the applicant who went to their office and was co-operating with the investigations was arrested by the agency.“The country is passing through a phase where there is complete anarchy and chaos. The only saviour is the judiciary. Behind any dark order, there is a sacred order.”Chaudhri asked the court why can’t the agency record statement or confront Deshmukh during judicial custody.After hearing both sides, the court sent Deshmukh to ED custody for three days.Earlier, NCP leader and daughter of NCP Supremo Sharad Pawar, Supriya Sule, came to the Session’s Court and had a detailed discussion with the counsels of Deshmukh. Sule left the court premises after greeting Deshmukh.Meanwhile, the anticipatory bail application (ABA) of Hrishikesh Deshmukh, the younger son of Anil Deshmukh, was adjourned by the court to November 20.In its earlier remand application, the ED alleged, “Deshmukh has emerged an important cog in the wheels.” Deshmukh has emerged as the main beneficiary, he is required to be interrogated in custody. In its application seeking Deshmukh’s remand, the agency said a foreign angle cannot be ruled out.The ED alleged that on Deshmukh’s instructions, Vaze had called a meeting of bar owners from Mumbai and demanded a monthly amount of ₹3 lakh from each of them.In its charge sheet, the agency said that Vaze had collected ₹4.70 crore from various bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021 at Deshmukh’s behest. According to the agency, Vaze handed over the extorted money to Shinde and subsequently, a part of the amount was routed to the charitable trust in Nagpur through various shell companies.The agency claimed that its investigation began after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that Deshmukh had directed Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from establishments in Mumbai. Singh approached the Bombay high court (HC) and filed a petition in the matter. Based on HC’s order, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) initially conducted a preliminary enquiry and on April 21 registered an offence under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, after which ED started its investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-sent-to-ed-custody-till-november-15-in-pmla-case-101636717785451.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Close shave for 56 Gujarat tourists as tree stops bus from rolling down hill||Fifty-six tourists from Gujarat had a narrow escape when a private bus skidded off the road and hit a tree that stopped it from rolling down the hill near Baijnath town of Kangra district on Friday morning. Also read: China building up troops, infrastructure along Himachal borderTwo passengers suffered minor injuries, Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Khushal Chand Sharma said, adding that the tourist bus was on its way from Manali to Dharamshala when the accident occurred at 4.45am. “There were 56 people on board. All of them are residents of Ahmedabad in Gujarat. The driver lost control of the bus while negotiating a sharp bend near Avahi Nag temple, a kilometre ahead of Baijnath town,” Sharma said. As the bus dangled dangerously, passengers screamed for help. Local residents rushed to their rescue and alerted the police. The police and fire department personnel rescued the passengers with the help of the local residents. The injured were administered first aid at Baijnath hospital. The place where the mishap occurred is prone to accidents. The SP said that investigation is on but it appears the driver misjudged the turn as it was dark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/close-shave-for-56-gujarat-tourists-as-tree-stops-bus-from-rolling-down-hill-101636717003718.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Pollution Control Board’s tempo catches fire in Thane; none injured||A tempo, contracted by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to measure air and sound pollution at Metrorail construction sites in Thane district, caught fire in Thane on Friday afternoon. No casualties were reported in the incident.According to Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) officials, the vehicle was registered to Skylabs Pvt Ltd, a private laboratory working with the MPCB.“The vehicle, which is basically a tempo fitted with pollution measuring equipment, was on its way from Mira Road to Thane when the incident occurred. It was idling at the Nagla Bunder signal when smoke started coming out of it. The driver and three passengers immediately vacated the vehicle just as it burst into flames,” DCP (Traffic), Balasaheb Patil, Thane City, said.Motorists who witnessed the incident immediately reported it to the Thane Fire Brigade and a fire tender, a rescue vehicle and a Hydra vehicle was rushed to the spot. The fire was doused within an hour although the vehicle sustained severe damage. No one was injured in the fire, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-pollution-control-board-s-tempo-catches-fire-in-thane-none-injured-101636715504143.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Flamingo boat rides by Coastal and Marine Biodiversity in Airoli resumes to overwhelming response||The flamingo boat rides conducted by the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre (CMBC) in Airoli have received overwhelming responses ever since it was restarted on October 15 after the second lockdown.According to the officials, more than 750 birdwatchers from across Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai enjoyed the boat rides in the first 25 days. Last year, the rides were restarted on November 1 (after the first lockdown) and the number of visitors in the first month was less than 600.NG Kokare, range forest officer from the centre, said, “We have two types of boats here. The big boats can accommodate 24 birdwatchers and they move at a normal speed. Apart from the driver, such boats have a guide to give information to people on board. The smaller boats, which can accommodate only seven people, are speed boats. Normally the members of a family or a group of friends opt for such boats, and there the driver himself plays the role of a guide.”Depending on the existence of flamingos, the boats go either towards Vikhroli or Vashi, and return to the centre. A ride is completed in an hour.“Usually flamingos come to the creek in October and stay here until the onset of monsoon in June. Visitors can see the birds from close quarters during the rides. We decide the timing of the rides depending on the high tide and low tide of the day. In our centre, we are strictly following the Covid-19 protocols,” Kokare said.CMBC also has a separate information centre and their team explains different aspects of mangroves, birds, crabs among others by showing pictures there. “Entry to that centre is free for people who come for boat rides. But we take a nominal fee from the other people,” another official said. The official said, “Earlier we also had the online booking system. However, the tours and travel agencies would book all the boats beforehand and that would deprive the other people. Also, those agencies would charge their customers anything between ₹1,000 and ₹1,500 for a ride whereas we take only ₹396 from one birdwatcher on a 24-seater boat on weekdays.” Shwetha Shinde, 41, a resident of Ghansoli who took a boat ride, said, “Even as I was born and brought up in Navi Mumbai, I had never seen flamingos so closely until I took the ride. That day we were taken towards the Vashi bridge and it was a unique experience. We could see both Mumbai and Navi Mumbai on either side of the creek. Every nature-lover should enjoy the boat ride at least once.” The birdwatchers can book their boat rides on the CMBC helpline 99876 73737.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/flamingo-boat-rides-by-coastal-and-marine-biodiversity-in-airoli-resumes-to-overwhelming-response-101636714843376.html
12-11-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: November 12-18||Iapar International Theatre Festival 2021The Iapar International Theatre Festival will be held from November 12-18”. Some of the performances will take place in person, while many workshops and other activities will take place online.Contact on +91 7775052719 or iapar.festival@gmail.com for further information.‘Ways to Deal With Monsters In Your Cupboard’Co-created and performed by Anushka Vaze (India) and Florian Von Der Thannen (Austria)‘Constant Acts of Disobeying’Directed by Aditi VenkateshwaranPerformed by Margot Bareyt, Sayli Kulkarni, Tanvi Hegde, Divesh Idnani, Nikhil Ravi ParmarWhen: Friday November 12, 7pmWhere: The Box, Karve road, ErandwaneTo PahaTo AaheWritten by Mrinalinee Vanarase; Directed by Vidyanidhee Vanarase; Performed by Ashish Vaze When: Saturday November13, 7 pmWhere: The Box, Karve road, ErandwaneDarwinWritten by Mrinalinee Vanarasep; Directed and performed by Vidyanidhee VanaraseWhen: Sunday, November 14, 5pm to 7pmWhere: The Box, Karve road, ErandwaneOnline master classes1. Artivism: Theatre for Social Engagement: By Jerry Adesewo (Nigeria)Saturday, November 13; 4:00-5:30pm2. Riyaz of an Actor: By Geetanjali Kulkarni (India)Sunday, November 14; 4:00-5:30 pm3. Rangasangeet: by Sanjay UpadhyayMonday, November 15; 4:00-5:30pm 4. Dreaming the Future- Theatre and Cultural Heritage: by Fabio Toledi (Italy)Monday, November 15; 6pm5. Building a Character: by Bhagirathi Bai Kadam Tuesday, November 16, 4pm6. The Organic Body: by Nichola Pianzola (Italy)Tuesday, November 16, 6pm 7. Expressing Yourself: An Actor’s Toolkit: by Jyoti Subhash Wednesday, November 17, 4pm Nomadic culture reflected in the skills of the Actor: By S Sarantuya (Mongolia)Wednesday, November 17; 6pm9. Life in Theatre: A Journey: By Dr Neelam Man Singh Thursday, November 18 4pm 10. Verbatim Theatre: By Selina Busby (UK)Thursday, November 18; 6pm Big Gigs, featuring TarqeebMultiple mediums define digital artist and music producer Tarqeeb’s philosophy. Dedicated to building and showcasing an internationally relevant Indian sound, minus the clichés, he’s using tightly-tailored DJ sets —and, from deep meditative dubstep/jungle to Indian electronica.When: Friday, November 12; 8pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkChildren’s workshop A workshop for children followed by a visit to see “Anandi Sansar”, a collection of copper-brass utensils. Registration fee Rs500 per student. For more information call 9922913457When: Saturday, November 13, 11amWhere: Tambat Ali Saturday Night ‘live’: Sushant Diivgikar + Top StoreyQueer Superstar, aka Sushant Divgikar, along with brilliant musicians from different parts of the country take over the stage churning our most beloved bangers and absolute favourite classics. When: Saturday, November 13, 8pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Korgaon ParkArt talks: Nachiket PrakashNachiket Prakash unravels his photographic process from image selection to upcycling of visuals. Join us to explore visuals and ideas of juxtaposition through the lens of the artist.When: Saturday, November 13, 3pm Where: VHC, Koregaon Park.Tribute to John Lennon + The Beatles Tribute nights are back, paying homage to all-time favourites, The Beatles & John Lennon. A genre of music that combines a particular guitar-driven rock sound with a particular era of time, this time by Vineet Alurkar & the Bavdhan Booze BandWhen: Sunday, November 14, 8pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkHeritage WalksJoin the Pune Heritage Walk to explore the old city and its by-lanes on foot. Hear intriguing stories of the rise and fall of the Peshwas, walk through the old city and visit temples, wadas and bazaars, admire the different architectural styles and learn about the traditional art and craft forms that have been part of the city’s history and many more such interesting anecdotes about our Cost: ₹600 per personTo register call 9405591758When: Sunday, November 14; 9am Where: Shaniwarwada (Dilli Darwaja)Contemporary signaturesA group show featuring over 50 artists, touted as one of the biggest shows to be held in Pune with over 100 works of art. The show is being brought to you by thecurators.art – a contemporary online galleryWhen: November 19-24Where: Monalisa Kalagram, Koregaon Park||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-november-1218-101636714543541.html
12-11-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Self publishing is the write reality check||Can I make money writing books? What does it take to publish a book? Is self-publishing better than going through a publisher?Questions that I used to ask myself many years ago. Questions that many individuals have asked me this past year - as many as a dozen in the past quarter itself.So let me begin with a definitive piece of data my father provided helpfully - several times - in my initial years as a struggling writer. “Most writers live in poverty. Those who don’t, have a job; and many eventually die hungry. If you think you have something to say that others may pay to read, have the courage to back your own book - print it yourself instead of chasing publishers for years and then printing it on your own under their name.”I thought he was very discouraging but I always respected his advice. So, I got a job. In fact, I got several. But I also ‘felt’ that I was special, born to write. I guess every writer thinks their book is great. I sure did. Secretly, I was waiting to be discovered, to have the appreciation of my friends and family turn into the adulation of millions.But I am a restless sort of person, blessed with very little (probably no) patience. So, eventually, I stopped waiting to be discovered and sent out manuscripts to different publishers. My decision making was always based on evidence, and 14 rejections were not just a sign but hard evidence, so I learned from the rejections ... and decided to publish my own book. By that time (20 years after my first rejection), self-publishing had become easy. Really. Easy.You have several options for self-publishing. There are tonnes of companies and startups who will ‘self-publish’ you. Tonnes. Well, at least 40 companies last I checked. Here’s my take now: self-publishing means do-it-yourself. So do it yourself. It won’t cost you anything more than time, effort, and printing-related expenses.There are of course helpful platforms that have been established by very kind people to help you publish stuff yourself very quickly, very easily. You just have to upload your manuscript and click and click, say yes or no to minor details they ask for (fine print may or may not tell you that they will reformat or realign to fit their software) and voila! Your book will be published! You are an author! That’s how I published my first eBook on Apple iBooks and Amazon’s KDP (Kindle Direct Publishing). iBooks was the smoother quality experience since it was integrated with word-processing and production software. KDP has a super-secret process with little control to the author over formatting.Okay so the book did not look or feel as you originally imagined it and if you Google or Bing yourself you may not find yourself and your creation as easily as you thought you would, but that requires some more work. So, I waited and waited and after a few copies were sold, I read the fine print on the various platforms and learned the third big secret about the book business: Writing a Book, Publishing a Book, and Selling a Book are three completely different industries in today’s age. And: most books don’t really sell. Apparently, the average non-fiction book (print) sells 200-300 copies in the first year and maybe around 1,000 copies in its lifetime across years. There are differing numbers for this metric and none reliable for eBook sales since they are not easily tracked or verified. If you think hard about it, a bulk of that first-year sale really comes from an author’s network. So, if you are going to self-publish, do the math first.For the next book, I hired a designer and then an illustrator and then replaced them and … eventually did everything on my own including the cover design. Lesson: In the book business you don’t need a graphic designer, you need someone who understands print and digital publishing.By the time of the third book, I had two very fast learning team members who actually had experience with my subject matter and photo-editing and they picked up the software skills quickly and it turned out to be the best book … till it went to the press (since I wanted hard copy). Long story short, it took four books, considerable effort, time to train and some investment to get the printing and publishing right. Because the second big unwritten secret of publishing books in the digital age is that all the ‘quick and easy and in minutes’ is meant for text-driven books. If you have images or illustrations or even require a set of specific fonts or style of editing, it’s a different timeline and cost. Becoming a publisher is not too difficult if you want it badly enough. You just have to register for ISBN (International Standard Book Number) - that’s where your formal copyright comes from - and it doesn’t take too long: a week or so at most. Printing is on-demand, any small or medium-sized press will print and bind the books for you and it’s best for you to collaborate with them and supervise especially if colour is involved. You can print a copy at a time and price your book accordingly or you can print in bulk if you are optimistic about sales (bulk printing reduces your cost per copy, giving you a better margin per copy sold but your house fills up with unsold copies).It was on the fifth book that I learned the Number 1, the big, the ultimate secret of publishing: You can write as much as you want - and let’s assume it’s pure gold - it has to sell for you to make money.According to an industry estimate, there were 1.7 million self-published books in the US alone in 2018. So, add the millions for the global market and yours would be one of the several million (and counting) out there waiting to be noticed by readers.The biggest benefit of self-publishing is that you can publish on any subject and in any format. The opinion of editors and publishers doesn’t matter since it’s your money that you are spending. Most of the digital publishing companies are mostly tech platforms which means they need you and your network on their platform so that their user numbers (and therefore valuation) increase. They are not magicians, and they are unlikely to guarantee sales. My tip is to get your book on as many platforms as you can because you never know where you could get a sale from. And to invest in promotion and marketing.To succeed as an author, you’ll have to know the way the market works and make difficult informed choices at every step, because: like all good things in life, self-publishing is a great way to build character.Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-self-publishing-is-the-write-reality-check-101636714246560.html
12-11-2021||Bangalore||Plug in your earphones please: Karnataka high court bans loud music on public buses||The Karnataka High Court has decided to impose a ban on playing loud music or videos on mobile phones while travelling in state buses. The court order was issued while hearing a writ petition seeking restrictions on “noise disturbance inside buses”.The high court said that if any passenger travelling on a Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus refuses to comply with the order, the driver or the bus conductor “can deboard” him or her. The bus may also be halted until they are offloaded, the order read.The rule will be implemented immediately, said KSRTC’s public relations officer Latha TS. “Playing loud music in buses by passengers disturbs other passengers as well as the driver and conductor. Hence, as per the order from the transport department, we are implementing the rule immediately and all drivers and conductors have been made aware of the new rule,” the officer was quoted as saying by the Indian Express.The person asked to deboard can also not claim a refund on the bus fare. The existing Rule 94 of the Karnataka Motor Vehicles Rules (1989) also bars passengers travelling on such vehicles (“stage carriage”) should refrain from “singing or playing any musical instrument or operating a transistor radio”.The Karnataka high court further stated that officials on the bus should first request passengers to not play songs or videos on loud music. The KSRTC said it would create awareness about noise pollution and make announcements about the new rule at bus stations and terminals, as well as their social media handles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/plug-in-your-earphones-please-karnataka-high-court-bans-loud-music-on-public-buses-101636711092288.html
12-11-2021||Other||1.31 lakh students in Punjab take National Achievement Survey-2021||As many as 1.31 lakh students of 3,722 schools in Punjab on Friday took the much-awaited National Achievement Survey, 2021, aimed at assessing competencies of students of students of third, fifth, eighth and tenth grades. Also read: Punjab elections: AAP releases first list of 10 candidatesAt least 7,000 students appeared for the exam in 208 government and private schools in Ludhiana district alone. A sample of 30 students from each class of the selected schools appeared for the exam. The field invigilators (FIs) deputed for the exam reached the schools at 7.30am following which they conducted a draw to select the final sample of students to appear in the exam. “The FIs chose the students randomly as slips were picked by them. Videography of the process was done following which the selected sample of 30 students of Class 5 in our school took the exam,” said Brinder Chawla of the Punjab Agricultural University’s Government Senior Secondary Smart School. As many as 337 FIs were appointed for the exam in Ludhiana, including teachers, lecturers, block mentors, district mentors and representatives from the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET). Teachers take written exams, too According to officials, there were two invigilators for Class 3 students and one each for Classes 8 and 10. Students initially took the written (objective type) exam followed by the pupil questionnaire (PQ) session where they were asked questions related to their fellow students, families and teachers. The subject teachers of math, science, English and social studies also took the written exam pertaining to teachers’ questionnaire (TQ) and schools’ questionnaire (SQ), where they were asked school-related questions as part of the survey. The NAS exam concluded at 2.30pm. Pargat hopeful of Punjab bagging first position Punjab education minister Pargat Singh lauded the education department along with principals, teachers and students for their efforts in preparing for the exam. “I hope Punjab bags the first position in the country,” he said. Ludhiana district education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra said: “Our students, teachers and the school managements have worked hard for the NAS exam. We want to be the best in the country. I’m certain our students will make us proud,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/131-lakh-students-in-punjab-take-national-achievement-survey2021-101636711843321.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Former BJP minister grabbed land donated for a temple: Nawab Malik||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Friday alleged that a minister in the previous BJP-led state government in Maharashtra grabbed acres of land that had been donated to a temple. He said that he would disclose the name and other details in the coming days. On Thursday, Malik said that NCP is planning to soon meet Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials in Mumbai demanding to expedite the pending inquiries against some of the political leaders who are in BJP now. Though Malik did not name any of the leaders, he said one of them is a union minister and another a former state minister, indicating at Narayan Rane and Kripashankar Singh. Cases were lodged against them when they were in the Congress a few years ago. Talking about the raids on Wakf related properties by the ED, Malik said on Friday that the ED should support the clean-up drive undertaken by his department for the Waqf properties. “I want to expose all those people who have grabbed lands donated for religious institutions such as masjid, dargah and temples. I want all these people behind bars,” he told reporters. On Thursday, ED conducted raids at seven places in Pune and one place in Aurangabad in connection with the Pune Waqf Board land scam case after an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) was registered by ED. The FIR stated that the trust, which is registered with the Waqf Board, owns eight hectares in Maan village of Mulshi taluka. The government was scheduled to give compensation of ₹9.64 crore to the trust and accordingly released ₹7.7 crore. The trust later complained to the Waqf – the Muslim charity board – that it had not received any compensation from the state. During an inquiry by the deputy collector (land acquisition), it was revealed that Shaikh and Mulani had submitted fake documents to claim the money. Following a complaint, Shaikh and Mulani were arrested. Meanwhile, BJP leader Haji Arfat Shaikh alleged that Nawab Malik illegally elevated peons in the minority affairs department as officers and leased out Waqf properties illegally. Arfat said that the decision was taken without having a majority in the Waqf Board for such decisions. He also alleged that the minister did the appointments of the officers in the Waqf Board without consulting the chief minister or the state cabinet. Refuting the allegations, Fadnavis accused Malik of buying property from persons linked with the underworld, and an accused in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-alleges-former-bjp-minister-grabbed-land-donated-for-a-temple-101636709264255.html
12-11-2021||Bhopal||Seeking legal opinion to ban Salman Khurshid’s book: Madhya Pradesh minister||The Madhya Pradesh government is seeking legal opinion for banning Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s book “Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times”, state home minister Narottam Mishra said on Friday.The book, which explores the Babri Masjid-Ram Janambhoomi issue and the legal battle on the matter, has triggered a controversy for saying “a robust version of Hindutva” has pushed aside classical Hinduism. It has equated Hindutva with terrorist groups such as Islamic State, which overran parts of Syria and Iraq before it was routed.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) espouses Hindutva, or Hinduness, as its ideology that defines Indian culture as per the values of India’s dominant faith - Hinduism.Also Read: ‘Exaggeration’: Ghulam Nabi Azad on comparing Hindutva with jihadist IslamMishra alleged Congress leaders leave no opportunity to “break Hindutva” and to divide Hindus into caste. He accused Rahul Gandhi of patronising this division. “That is the same idea that Salman Khurshid is carrying forward,” he said. “They leave no opportunity to attack our faith and to divide India into castes. About Hindutva, the Supreme Court has said that it is a way of life but they did not leave Hindutva too. Now, Congress president Sonia Gandhi should clarify with whom she stands.”Opposition Congress leader Ajay Yadav said it was the BJP leaders, who were defaming Hindutva. “This statement of the home minister is nothing but a political gimmick as people can buy the book online. But by making such statement, the state government is attacking freedom of speech.”RN Singh, a legal expert in Jabalpur, said, “The state government can ban a book or publication under Section 95 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The section says the government has the power to ban a book that contains objectionable matter that is intended to promote feelings of enmity and hatred among different communities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/seeking-legal-opinion-to-ban-salman-khurshid-s-book-madhya-pradesh-minister-101636708783271.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Level-3 fire breaks out at scrap godown in Mumbai’s Mankhurd, no injuries reported||At least 15 godowns were affected as a major fire (Level 3) broke out at one of the scrap godowns in Mumbai’s Mankhurd near Kurla at 3.21 am on Friday, officials said. The fire was extinguished at around 8.31 am after over five hours of fire fighting. Cooling operations have been going on. No injuries have been reported in the fire yet. The fire brigade pressed 13 fire engines and 12 water tankers to the spot, according to information from the Mumbai Fire brigade. Assistant Commissioner of the M/East ward, Mahendra Ubale, who was at the site of the fire said, “Approximately 15 structures (all godowns) have been affected by the fire. The land is owned by the collector and leased to those who are operating the godown. Cooling operations have been going. The cause of the fire has not been determined yet. It will be established by the fire brigade through their enquires later.” Cooling operations take place hours after the fire is extinguished to ensure no embers remain in the materials burned during the fire as those can reignite the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/level3-fire-breaks-out-at-scrap-godown-in-mumbai-s-mankhurd-no-injuries-reported-101636707524399.html
12-11-2021||Kolkata||Elephant herd damages crops in West Bengal’s East Bardhaman district||Around 50 elephants wreaked havoc in West Bengal’s East Bardhaman district just ahead of paddy harvest. The elephants came in from neighbouring Bankura district, becoming the largest herd in recent times to have damaged crops in East Bardhaman (also called East Burdwan). There were no reports on casualties or injuries. “A huge herd, comprising 40-50 elephants, wreaked havoc in a dozen villages in East Bardhaman since Thursday. This is the largest herd we have ever seen. Earlier, elephants used to enter the district in herds of around 10. They inflicted heavy damage to crops as it is the paddy harvest season,” said Abhedananda Thander, a legislator from Ausgram in East Bardhaman. After the herd entered the district, villagers tried to scare them away using elephant chasers and firecrackers. It resulted in the herd splitting into two smaller ones, both of which later went on separate paths, damaging crops.Also Read: Chhattisgarh SP, wife hurt as they try to escape elephant that charged at themSenior forest officials rushed to the spot to figure out how the tuskers could be given a safe passage back to the forested district of Bankura.“More than 150 forest officials from three forest divisions and at least four ‘hula parties (elephant chasers)’ have been deployed. On Thursday night, we tried to drive the elephants back to Bankura, but some villagers put up fire barricades along that route to protect their crops from damage. So, the elephants went in different directions. We are now trying to unite them and push them back to Bankura. We can’t allow the elephants to stay in East Bardhaman as there are no forests here,” said Debal Roy, West Bengal’s chief wildlife warden. Conservation efforts in recent times have resulted in West Bengal’s elephant population shooting up to 700 from around 175 in 1989. West Bengal accounts for the second highest number of man-elephant conflict incidents in the country after Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/elephant-herd-damages-crops-in-west-bengal-s-east-bardhaman-district-101636707343547.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||NBCC slapped with ₹5 lakh fine for violating dust-control norms in New Delhi||New Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday slapped a fine of ₹5 lakh on the Central government-owned NBCC (India) Limited for flouting dust-control norms at its construction site in eastern Delhi’s Karkardooma locality. Addressing the media during a surprise inspection of the site, Rai said, “I have inspected the NBCC construction site. Dust prevention norms were being violated here. The Delhi government has slapped a fine of ₹5 lakh on the agency for non-compliance [of norms].” NBCC (India) Limited is constructing the Karkardooma East Delhi Hub in the area, which will be the Capital’s first transit-oriented development project. Spread over an area of 37.42 hectares, the project will have residential, commercial and green spaces.Also Read: Govt plans new housing complex for employees in south Delhi’s GhitorniThis week, The Delhi government launched the second phase of its anti-dust campaign across the Capital. It involves inspection of construction sites and ensuring pollution at the local level doesn’t spike to add substantially to New Delhi’s poor air quality. Since November 5, a day after New Delhi celebrated Diwali, the city has recorded five days of “severe” air quality. At 1pm on Friday, the city’s hourly average air quality index was 464, categorised as “severe” on the Central Pollution Control Board’s AQI scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nbcc-slapped-with-5-lakh-fine-for-violating-dust-control-norms-in-new-delhi-101636705903166.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘To promote mother tongue’: Punjab govt makes Punjabi compulsory in schools||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced on Friday that Punjabi will now be a compulsory subject for all students in the state, from classes 1-10. In addition to this, the language is mandatory in offices as well, Channi said in a Twitter post.“To promote mother tongue, Punjabi has been made a compulsory subject for all students in classes 1 to 10 in Punjab. Schools will be fined up to ₹2 lakh for violation. Now, Punjabi is mandatory in offices. Also, Punjabi will be written on top of all the boards in the state,” the chief minister said in a tweet, in both Punjabi and English.
12-11-2021||Bhopal||Two radio-collared tigers found dead in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve||Two of the three tigers who were radio-collared in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve and helped understand an unknown aspect of feline behaviour - the brotherhood of inseparable cubs Heera and Panna in July - died this month, officials said on Friday.“One-year-old Heera was killed by villagers in Satna [on November 1] and he was fitted with a radio collar in January this year,” said an official, who did not wish to be named. Another three-year-old tigress was found dead in the reserve’s Rampur buffer zone on Wednesday. The two were part of a study being conducted in collaboration with Dehradun’s Wildlife Institute of India (WII).The state forest department and WII planned to fit radio collars to study the behaviour of 14 tigers living outside the reserve’s core zone of about 15,000 sq km--the Panna landscape. The collars were first fitted on the three tigers.Also Read: Bear found dead in MP’s Panna Tiger Reserve“In the study, aspects such as sharing food and water and spending time with each other came out. The real study of the journey started in July when the tiger moved to the landscape in search of his territory. But before it could reveal more details, his skinned carcass was found at hillock of Satna,” said the official.The official said the study related to the movement of the tiger, the distance the animal covers in a day, how it searches the prey, finds out whether it is a safer place or not, the reason for staying at a particular place for some days and for moving ahead. “All this has gone in vain with the death of the tigers.”The three-year-old tigress was fitted with a radio collar in February as she was moving in the buffer zone already home to two tigresses. “The tigress did not move much in the past 10 months,” the official said.“Losing two tigers is painful and their death has interrupted our study going on for the past 10-11 months to know about how tigers move and the selection of their territories. The study would have provided us insight into their behaviour in areas having the human presence.”Forest officials said the tigress died of some internal injuries. “Prima facie, the cause of death appears to be natural due to an injury near her neck. All the body parts were found intact and there were no injury marks suggesting a territorial fight,” said UK Sharma, field director, Panna Tiger Reserve.Principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) Alok Kumar said the deaths have affected the study. “But now, the collars will be fitted on other tigers,”Sharma said the Centre and WII choose the reserve for the study after the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) included it in the Man and Biosphere programme.The reserve has undergone substantial ecosystem restoration in the buffer zone. The Unesco included it in the programme for creating a conducive environment to reintroduce tigers and making people aware of them to reduce human-animal conflict.In 2008, the reserve lost all its tigers. The forest department reintroduced a male and a female tiger in 2009. The tiger population in Panna has since increased to over 56, according to forest department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/two-radio-collared-tigers-found-dead-in-madhya-pradesh-s-panna-tiger-reserve-101636700623123.html
12-11-2021||Kolkata||Two alleged Bangladeshi cattle smugglers shot dead in Bengal: BSF||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday said it shot dead two alleged Bangladeshi cattle smugglers in West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district.This comes on the day union home secretary Ajay Bhalla is scheduled to meet West Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi in Kolkata to discuss pending land acquisition for construction of border fence, road projects, Border Out Posts, and Integrated Check Posts.“Around 3am on Friday miscreants from the Bangladesh side ventured into Indian territory and tried to smuggle in cattle by setting up improvised bamboo cantilever. Initially, BSF warned them but the latter did not pay any heed. When BSF used non-lethal weapons, the smugglers attacked the BSF troop with sharp weapons and sticks. Sensing an imminent threat to life, BSF opened fire,” the BSF said in a statement.Also Read: Home secretary Ajay Bhalla to visit Bengal, likely to meet top BSF officersAt least two dead bodies were recovered from the scene and a BSF personnel was also injured.West Bengal shares a 2,216km border with Bangladesh. The India-Bangladesh border, particularly in West Bengal, is one of the most porous frontiers. The union home ministry in March 2020 told Parliament that in 2017, 2018, and 2019, security agencies arrested 1,175, 1,118, and 1,351 people along the India-Bangladesh border.The Centre in October extended the jurisdiction of BSF in states such as West Bengal, allowing it to carry out search, seizure, and arrests within 50 km from the international borders. This limit was earlier 15km.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has objected to the move. She wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 24 saying the decision was meant to torture common people and suffered from serious constitutional impropriety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/two-alleged-bangladeshi-cattle-smugglers-shot-dead-in-bengal-s-cooch-behar-bsf-101636699602757.html
12-11-2021||Kolkata||Home secretary Ajay Bhalla to visit Bengal, likely to meet top BSF officers||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla will meet West Bengal chief secretary H K Dwivedi in Kolkata on Friday to discuss pending land acquisition for construction of border fence, road projects, Border Out Posts (BOPs) and Integrated Check Posts (ICPs), people familiar with the matter said.Bhalla is also expected to meet officers of the Border Security Force (BSF), coast guard and district magistrates from border areas to discuss security-related issues.The Centre in October extended the jurisdiction of BSF in states such as West Bengal, allowing it to carry out search, seizure and arrests within 50 km from the international borders. This limit was earlier 15km.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has objected to the move. She wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 24 saying the decision was meant to torture common people and suffered from serious constitutional impropriety.Also Read: ‘Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde’: Amit Mitra’s piercing response to Bengal guv DhankharOfficials, who did not want to be named, said Bhalla may discuss coordination related issues with the West Bengal government, particularly on security matters.Among other key issues to be discussed are security arrangements at ICPs, which are key to trade and easier movement of people across friendly countries. The ICPs are entry and exit points on India’s land borders and house facilities such as customs, immigration, border security, quarantine, among others, within a single facilitation zone. In 2019-20, 40% of India’s total trade with Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, and Pakistan took place through the six ICPs at Agartala, Petrapole, Raxaul, Jogbani, Moreh and Attari.Bhalla’s visit comes a week after the National Investigation Agency caught a Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh terrorist from West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district.Apart from work on new BOPs, security at unfenced border, infiltration, smuggling of drugs, fake currency notes and cattle will also be discussed by Bhalla with the security forces, people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/home-secretary-ajay-bhalla-to-visit-bengal-likely-to-meet-top-bsf-officers-101636694922553.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Consider reducing gap between two vaccine shots’: Maharashtra tells Centre||With the target to inoculate 100% of its targeted population of 91.44 million by November 30 against Covid-19, the Maharashtra government has urged the Centre to reduce the gap between two doses. The state government has stated that it will help them speed up the inoculation, officials said.State public health minister Rajesh Tope, during his virtual meeting with union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday, said that the ministry should consider reducing the gap between the two shots of the Covishield vaccine. Tope also apprised the minister about the ongoing programme in the state to boost the inoculation drive. Health ministers from other states and union territories too participated in the meeting. Tope said that the state government is working to administer at least one dose to all the 91.44 million eligible population by November 30. Till 8 pm on November 11, Maharashtra administered 101,201,096 doses, of which at least one dose was given to 68,512,744 beneficiaries, while 3,26,88,352 people are fully vaccinated. A statement from the state government quoted Tope, “The speed of vaccination can be accelerated by reducing the gap between the two doses of Covishield vaccine. The union ministry must consider this suggestion.” He added that the state has initiated programmes such as Mission Kavach Kundal, Mission Yuva Swastha to push the vaccination. “Public awareness is being created to allay the doubts of the citizens about vaccination. Efforts are being made for this through the help of opinion leaders and religious leaders,” he said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Thursday added 997 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 6,621,420. For nearly a week, the state has been clocking under 1000 cases daily (with an exception of November 10). Maharashtra added 28 fatalities, pushing its Covid-19 death toll to 140,475.The state’s active case count dipped to 12,352 on Thursday. Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Ahmednagar and Raigad are the top five districts with the most active cases. These five districts contribute to 80.15% of the state’s total active cases with 9,901 cases.A day after surpassing 300 cases on Wednesday, Mumbai added 276 fresh Covid infections, taking its tally to 759,562. Mumbai added two deaths due to Covid-19.Besides Mumbai, a chunk of the fresh cases came from Pune district (205), Ahmednagar (106), Thane (103), Raigad (74), and Nashik (50).The state’s active case count dipped to 12,352 on Thursday. Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Ahmednagar and Raigad are the top five districts with the most active cases. The daily positivity rate continued to remain under 1% for the second day straight at 0.92%. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 108,086 samples. The overall positivity rate was 10.41%.According to the state health department data on November 9, 11 districts, including Pune, Sindhudurg, Amravati, Palghar, Parbhani, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Nashik, Satara, Jalna and Akola, have a higher weekly positivity rate than the state’s average of 1.35%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/consider-reducing-gap-between-two-vaccine-shots-maharashtra-tells-centre-101636691143241.html
12-11-2021||Patna||Returning after celebrating Chhath Puja? Check list, full schedule of special trains here||With the culmination of the four-day Chhath Puja festivities on Thursday, people who returned to Bihar from other states to celebrate the festival at home will be returning to work. To facilitate their return journey, Indian Railways, which earlier operated festival specials for Diwali and Chhath Puja, will operate another set of special trains. These trains will connect cities such as Patna and Danapur to Delhi, Howrah etc. Here's their list:(1.) 01683/01684 Patna-Anand Vihar Terminal Gati Shakti Superfast: The train will leave Patna for Delhi at 5:45pm on November 12, 14, 16 and 18, reaching its destination at 9:50am the following day. In the reverse direction, it will depart for Patna at 11:10pm on November 13, 15 and 17, and arrive at its destination at 3:45pm the following day. Halts at Danapur, Pandit Deen Dayal Junction, Varanasi, Prayagraj Junction and Kanpur Central, among others.(2.) 03358 Danapur-Howrah Chhath Special: Journey will begin at 2:30pm on November 12, and conclude at 2am on Saturday. Halts at Patna, Bakhtiarpur, Mokama, Kiul and Jhajha etc.(3.) 03695/03696 Rajgir-Anand Vihar Terminal Festival Special: Service scheduled for departure at 2:45pm on November 13 and 16, with arrival at 10:30am the next day. Return journey on November 14 and 17 at 12:30pm, with arrival at 7:30am the next day. Stoppage at Bihar Sharif, Bakhtiarpur, Patna, Ara, Buxar and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction etc.(4.) 03679/03680 Rajgir-Anand Vihar Terminal Festival Special: Train will leave at 2:45pm on November 12, 15 and 18, with arrival at 10:30am the following day. Return journey scheduled to commence at 12:30pm on November 13, 17 and 19, and conclude at 7am the next day. Bakhtiarpur, Patna, Ara, Buxar and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction among stoppages.(5.) 08010 Patna-Shalimar Festival Special: With halts at Rajendranagar Terminal, Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Mokama, Kiul etc, train will leave at 3:15pm on November 14, and arrive at 9:10am on November 15.(6.) 08112 Patna-Tatanagar Festival Special: Departure scheduled at 3:15pm on November 15, with arrival at 5:05am on November 16. Halts include Rajendranagar Terminal, Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Mokama, Kiul.(7.) 04551 Raxaul-Anand Vihar Festival Special: Train will leave at 1pm on November 12, and arrive at 7pm the following day. It will stop at Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Barauni Junction, Mokama, Bakhtiarpur, Patna, Danapur, Ara, Buxar and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction.(8.) 06044 Danapur-Ernakulam Festtival Special: Journey scheduled to commence at 1:30pm on November 14, and conclude at 3:40pm on November 15. Stoppages include Patna, Bakhtiarpur, Mokama, Kiul etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/indian-railways-to-run-special-trains-after-chhath-puja-check-list-and-full-schedule-here-101636687849904.html
12-11-2021||Bangalore||Several coaches derail as boulders hit Kannur-Bengaluru Express; passengers safe||Several coaches of the Kannur-Bengaluru Express derailed early on Friday as the running train was hit by falling boulders when it was travelling in the Toppuru-Sivadi section. No injuries were reported following the derailment that took place at 3.50am. The train had left Kannur at 6.05pm on Thursday.According to the South Western Railway, after several boulders came crashing down and struck the running train, several coaches were derailed.Officials said the Divisional Railway Manager of Bengaluru-Shyam Singh, along with a divisional team of senior officers and doctors, reached the spot on an accident relief train (ART) at 4.45am. A team from Tamil Nadu’s Erode Junction also left for the spot on an ART. “All 2,348 passengers on board are safe. No casualty or injury was reported,” said Aneesh Hegde, the chief public relations officer of South Western Railway.Also Read: Ferozepur division of Railways: Chain pulling, gate dashing incidents on rise post CovidHe said, “A total of 15 buses are being arranged at Toppuru for the convenience of the passengers. Five buses are being arranged at the accident site. Refreshments have been arranged.” After the accident, the KSR Bengaluru-Ernakulam Superfast Special that was scheduled to leave at 6.10am was diverted to travel via Baiyyappanahali, Bangarapet and Tirupattur. The Nagercoil Jn-KSR Bengaluru Festival Special, scheduled to arrive at 9.10am, will also be diverted to run via Salem, Tirupattur, Bangarapet and KSR Bengaluru.The 5.30am scheduled departure at Salem of the Salem-Yesvantpur Express Special is set to be pushed back by three hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/several-coaches-derail-as-boulders-hit-kannur-bengaluru-express-passengers-safe-101636689162671.html
12-11-2021||Other||Orissa HC says Congress-proposed 6-hour bandh is illegal||A day before the Congress in Odisha called for a 6-hour bandh demanding the resignation of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra in the murder case of Kalahandi woman school teacher, the Orissa High Court on Thursday said the party can’t enforce bandhs and asked it not to observe bandh in the state on Friday.Hearing a PIL filed by Cuttack-based businessman Naresh Mishra, the High Court said bandh is not permissible while the party may organise hartal. “The agitators cannot disrupt vehicular movement, train services, force anyone to support the bandh call or close any establishment forcefully,” the HC said. Pradesh Congress Committee working president Chiranjib Biswal, on behalf of the party, assured the court that they will observe a peaceful bandh.In 1997, the SC, in Bharat Kumar K. Palicha and another Vs. State Of Kerala case, said bandhs are unconstitutional. The apex court said there cannot be any doubt that the fundamental rights of the people as a whole cannot be subservient to the claim of the fundamental right of an individual or only a section of the people.Earlier, the Congress party called for a statewide bandh in Odisha on November 12 from 6 am to 12 pm demanding the resignation of Dibya Shankar Mishra over his alleged links with Govind Sahu, the prime accused in the sensational Mamita Meher murder case.A decision in this regard was taken by the Odisha unit of the Congress at the party’s working committee meeting held on November 1. The meeting was attended by party’s Odisha in-charge A Chella Kumar and president, Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee, Niranjan Patnaik. Congress has also demanded the registration of a criminal case against the minister and his arrest.HC lawyer Soumya Mohanty, who appeared for Mishra, said, taking into account the gravity of the matter, the Court took up the petition for hearing. “Everyone would have to shut their business establishments voluntarily or under force had the bandh happened,” said Mohanty.Since last month, the opposition BJP has called bandhs in several western Odisha districts including Bolangir, Kalahandi and Bargarh demanding Mishra’s resignation over his alleged proximity to the main accused in the murder of Mamita Meher, a teacher in a private English medium school of Kalahandi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/orissa-hc-says-congress-proposed-bandh-is-illegal-101636688443659.html
12-11-2021||Other||CEO of Odisha’s top govt IT agency falls victim to cybercrime||The chief executive officer of Odisha’s e-governance agency on Thursday fell victim to cybercrime when someone hacked into his WhatsApp account and duped his friends of ₹7 lakh faking financial distress.Manoj Kumar Pattnaik, chief executive officer of Odisha computer application centre, that powers several e-governance initiatives of the Odisha government, alleged that five of his contacts sent ₹7 lakh to a bank account since Tuesday afternoon after receiving WhatsApp messages that he needed money for treatment. Assuming the messages as genuine, some of the close contacts of Pattnaik transferred money to the bank and UPI accounts shared by the fraudster.“I received an unknown call on my WhatsApp on Tuesday afternoon. The caller did not utter a word and I hung up after around 30 seconds,” said Patnaik.Hours later, Patnaik realised the hacking of his WhatsApp account when some of his friends told him that they had received a message from him asking for money. Soon, he was flooded with phone calls from his contacts, including his office staff who sent money to the fraudster.The cybercrime wing later registered a complaint on its own with a deputy superintendent of police taking up the investigation of the case. Patnaik said he would lodge a formal complaint with the police on Friday. Some of his contacts, who became victims of the phishing messages, have already lodged complaints with the police.Ishaan Sinha, a renowned cybercrime investigator who has trained police forces of several states to fight cybercrime, said Patnaik may have fallen victim to a cybercrime practice called social engineering in which cybercriminals use cloning software and spoof call software to mimic a person.“These people trawl social media sites to see people with high net worth and use social engineering that involves manipulating people into breaking normal security procedures and best practices to gain unauthorized access to their contact list. They then mimic the person and call or send messages to their contacts making them believe to be coming from a genuine person. The number which the fraudsters call or send messages from can be a different number than that of the victim’s, but to his contacts, it appears to be genuine,” said Sinha.He said such frauds normally operate from Jamtara in Jharkhand, Bharatpur in Rajasthan, Mewat in Haryana, Mathura and Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. “Despite all their practices, these scamsters do get caught,” he said.As per the statistics of the National Crime Records Bureau, last year Odisha saw a 30% jump in cybercrimes compared to 2019 with many unsuspecting people falling victim to such crimes during online payment and UPI transactions. A total of 1,931 incidents of cybercrime were reported in 2020, an increase of 30.03 per cent from 1,485 in the previous year and a staggering 129 per cent hike from 843 in 2018, the NCRB report stated.The rate of cybercrime was 4.2 per lakh population in Odisha, higher than the national rate of 3.7, the NCRB’s ‘Crime in India 2020’ report said. With 220 cases, Odisha recorded the highest incidents of defamation, morphing and indecent representation of women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ceo-of-odisha-s-top-govt-it-agency-falls-victim-to-cybercrime-101636687243094.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 150 firefighters deployed as massive fire breaks out at scrap market Mankhurd area||A massive fire broke out at Mandala scrap market godowns in the Mankhurd area of Mumbai on Friday. According to the report by ANI, 12 fire engines, 10 tankers along with 150 firefighters have been deployed at the site to douse the fire.The fire began at around 3am. No report of casualty has come so far.The authorities are also working to ascertain the cause of the fire.Several shops in the market keep electric wires and scrap materials in a scattered manner. The market is located on Veer Jijamata Bhonsle Marg in the eastern suburb of Mumbai.More details are awaited.In September as well, the market had reported an incident of fire. At that time the blaze was confined to seven to eight shops in the market, where different types of scrap material, including empty chemical drums, was stored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-150-firefighters-deployed-as-massive-fire-breaks-out-at-scrap-market-101636686345239.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi to experience fog, min temperature likely to be around 12 degrees||Delhi is likely to see shallow to moderate fog as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be at 12 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 16 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature on Thursday was 25.2 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 12.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal.Delhi’s air quality was in ‘severe’ category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 451. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 411.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said, “The AQI today is in the middle range of very Poor category. Winds at transport level (925 mb) have reduced today but no change in wind direction, so the air quality remained in the same category of ‘very poor’. It is likely to be in the ‘upper end of very poor’ to ‘severe’ category for the next two days. The effective fire count reduced to 3914 today. Today’s share of crop residue burning is about 26% in PM2.5.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-experience-fog-minimum-temperature-likely-to-be-around-12-degrees-101636685622817.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sadhu with chai||His robe is saffron. His turban is black. His beard is white. His nails are long. But it is his gaze that is the most formidable aspect of his personality. So disconcertingly sharp and penetrating, like a mere touch of a razor which cuts deep into your flesh.“I’m a sadhu,” he says, the tone of his voice is soft and filled with extreme kindness, and at once shatters the earlier uneasiness caused by the directness of his eyes. Manglu, as he introduces himself, is sitting down on a central Delhi pavement, near the Ashram flyover. He is having chai, given to him (for free) by a tea stall owner, nearby. “I have no money… for a very long time I’ve been living without money,” he says. “I go to a dhaba and they offer me dal-chawal without me asking for it. I go to a chai stall and they offer me chai without me asking for it.”Manglu is sitting with his back resting on his two bundles, which are, he says, filled with blankets. His face looks calm, his posture has a languidity that comes after one’s body has grown used to its immediate surroundings. Perhaps he has been familiar with this footpath for long. “I’m new to Delhi,” he mutters, informing that he arrived some days back in a train from UP. Manglu agrees to give a sense of his biography, but does that in a handful of brief sentences. “I’m 70. I have lived most of my life inside and outside of temples, and always in the temples of holy towns. I was in Ayodhya for some years. Before Ayodhya, I was in Vrindavan. Before Vrindavan, I was in Kashi Vishwanath (Benares).”Manglu offers no reason why he has picked Delhi as his new address. After all, he doesn’t have any relative or friend here. “I have no friend or relative anywhere.” He says his parents are dead. “My father was a farmer near Ayodhya.” Manglu never married. He never feels lonely, he says. “I live in the sangat (company) of Gods.”Where will he live in Delhi? Will he try to find a temple for a long-term stay? Manglu becomes motionless. He directs his sharp gaze towards the cup of chai in his hand, as if lost in meditation, perhaps mulling on the query. In the end, following a long silence, as if slowly emerging from a process of careful deliberation, he speaks up—“I will sit here for some time.”Meanwhile, across the road—on the road divider actually—a fakir is sitting, quietly watching the traffic go by.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-sadhu-with-chai-101636671916350.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||New buildings in Delhi may need vector control steps||All new buildings coming up in the national capital may soon be required to obtain an additional “occupancy certificate” (OC) clearing the structures for several anti-mosquito measures on the premises, according to several officials familiar with the matter and documents seen by HT.As per a gazette notification by the Delhi government in October that made dengue, malaria and chikungunya notifiable diseases under the Epidemic Diseases Act, municipal health officers have been designated as the new controlling authority in this regard for all new buildings, both commercial and residential, and have been empowered to issue the occupation certificates.The decision comes at a time when cases of dengue -- a vector-borne disease that impacts the city every year -- are on the rise. Delhi’s dengue tally crossed the 2,000 mark on Monday, and civic bodies have reported a total of 2,708 cases till November 8 this year.The trend puts the 2021 outbreak on course to eclipse the one in 2018, when the city recorded 2,798 cases. The death toll, 9, is now the highest since 2017, when 10 people died of the infection. Delhi reported its worst dengue outbreak in 2015, when 16,000 people were infected and at least 60 died of the disease, according to official records.The new regulations, signed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal last month, state: “No person shall occupy a new building (government, semi-government or private) unless an occupation certificate is obtained from the controlling officer of the respective local body regarding the requirement of anti-mosquito systems in such premises.”A senior public health official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that detailed guidelines for builders and building owners will be issued soon. “There are several such provisions in the regulations issued in Daman and Diu (in 2016) as well as Goa, and they are being studied to formulate the Delhi guidelines,” an official involved in the process said on condition of anonymity.A second official said that regulations such as a prescribed minimum slope level on roofs to prevent water stagnation, and mosquito proofing of water tank covers and drains connecting water sources, among others, will be standardised based in the guidelines in line with the gazette notification issued by the Delhi government.Public health officials said that the developers will have to make the necessary changes in line with the anti-mosquito measures, without which the building cannot be legally occupied.So far, buildings in Delhi must have a “completion certification” -- a mandatory legal document which attests that a new building has been constructed, and completed according to fire safety norms and regulations of the Buildings Act. This certificate is awarded only if the local bodies are satisfied that the building has been constructed according to the approved building plan and unified building by-laws (UBBL) standards have been met.While existing buildings are not covered by the new occupancy certificate, officials said it remains the responsibility of owners or occupiers to ensure that there are no conditions conducive for mosquito breeding in the premises. While the new notification states that “no person shall maintain any collection of water in which mosquitoes breed”, there are existing provisions of issuing challans and legal notices if such conditions are found in the premises.A third SDMC public health official said that the buildings which have a sump well or overhead tank should have a mosquito-proof arrangement.“In many cases, we notice that the covers are inadequate to prevent mosquito breeding, and they are be easily dislodged. Overhead tanks are also an important source of mosquito breeding in vulnerable areas,” the official said.A 2018 analysis by the public health department found that the domestic water storage containers constituted 33% of the mosquito breeding sites detected by the domestic breeding checkers.“The guidelines will also incorporate the minimum slope level to prevent water stagnation and the designs of sunshades or porticos to minimise mosquito breeding sites. There should be a minimum number of drain outlets based on the catchment areas and netting can be mandated in case of water source that is open to sky,” the third official added.The notification also attempts to deal with the problem of residents not allowing the civic officials to check the mosquito breeding sites on their premises. “For the purpose of enforcing provisions of these regulations, the inspecting officer may enquire and inspect... any land or building and the occupier of building shall give all facilities necessary for such entry and inspection,” the notification states.It proscribes the obstruction, and says it can be treated as an offence under section 188 of Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, builder groups welcomed the move even but said there should be safeguards to ensure it doesn’t become another bureaucratic hurdle.Pankaj Bajaj, the president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (NCR chapter), said that the developers have no in-principal objection.“We would welcome any move that is good for public but the necessary conditions should be incorporated within the existing framework of by-laws so that we don’t need a separate approval step. Enough public consultation should be carried out in this regard,” he said.Sunil Vohra, who heads Delhi Municipal Contractors Association, also said that the new occupancy certificate may become a harassment tool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-buildings-in-city-may-need-vector-control-steps-101636670518704.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||AQI rebounds to severe zone as pollutants linger in Delhi's air||Pollution levels rose sharply on Thursday as winds died down, pushing the air quality index (AQI) back into the severe category after a day of slight respite when it was still very poor.The AQI was at 411 when the Central Pollution Control Board released its 4pm pollution bulletin, and by 10pm, it had risen to 431 with average PM10 and PM2.5 pollutant levels nearing the emergency threshold.The emergency threshold is when PM10 concentrations cross 500ug/m3 and PM2.5 300ug/m3.Weather experts attributed the deterioration to a drop in wind speed, which was caused by unusual circulation patterns over the country: a depression over the Bay of Bengal stretching into southern India and over parts of the eastern coast has blocked winds that sweep in from the northwest, flow over the Indo-Gangetic plains.The north-westerly winds are what bring in the smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, and as they flow further over the Indo-Gangetic plans, they eventually disperse these pollutants away as well.“South-easterly winds (due to the depression) have reached central India, up to Madhya Pradesh, and are stopping the stubble smoke-carrying north-westerly winds from passing freely. Since the winds are getting trapped over Delhi and adjoining areas, pollution is also concentrated over this region leading to high AQI recordings,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet weather services.Such formations are unusual but they occur this time of the year every few years.Weather forecasters said such conditions could persist over the region for the next 24-48 hours.Thursday’s was the sharpest fall in air quality since the day after Diwali, when the AQI shot up to 462 from 382 a day before.The AQI remained in the severe zone for two days after that, relenting only on November 8 briefly when winds picked up.Now, with wind speeds in single digits, local pollutants are being trapped and mixed with emissions from farm fires. The Union ministry of earth science’ air quality early warning system said that the surface wind speed in the city on Thursday was only 4-8kmph, and this further dropped after sundown.The mixing depth—the height above the surface throughout which pollutants can be dispersed—in Delhi was 1,400 metres on Thursday. According to Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune, the ventilation index—a measure of air pollution based on the speed of the wind and the height of the column of air in which smoke or other pollutants mix—was also as low as 6,000m2/s.Experts say a ventilation index lower than 6,000 m2/s, along with an average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants.“Slow winds during daytime and calm winds during evening/night are extremely unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. The air quality is likely to remain in the upper end of the very poor category on Friday and further deteriorate from November 15, and may reach the severe category. The predominant pollutant is expected to be PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres),” a senior official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), a central air quality monitoring centre, on Thursday 3,914 fires were reported from Punjab and Haryana, which contributed to 26% in Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels. This was only a notch down from the last two days when the share of stubble smoke in the air was 27%.“Fire pollution plume (carbon monoxide from the last two days of heavy stubble burning in northwest India is now spreading across the Indo-Gangetic Plains and parts of Madhya Pradesh...,” said Sachin Ghude, scientist and project lead at the IITM.This year, farm fires are taking place later than usual due to a delayed withdrawal of the monsoon rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aqi-rebounds-to-severe-zone-as-pollutants-linger-in-city-air-101636670170838.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal | 60-year-old Shimla man charred to death in house fire||A 60-year-old man was charred to death after a fire broke out in his flat in Vikasnagar locality of Shimla on Thursday. The victim, Kishor Bajaj, lived alone at C-26, Set No 10, SDA Colony, Vikasnagar. The fire broke out in the ground floor flat at 4.30am. Two fire tenders, one from Chotta Shimla and one from the Mall Road were dispatched to the spot. It took firefighters one-and-a-half hours to douse the flames. Bajaj’s body was recovered inside the flat. It has been sent for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-60-year-old-shimla-man-charred-to-death-in-house-fire-101636669420742.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt-backed startup raises ₹101-crore funding||Backed by the Punjab government’s Startup Punjab Hub (Neuron), a research and innovation company ‘GRAINPAD Private Limited’ has raised ₹101.74-crore funding for its artificial intelligence medical product. “The product ZINI can be used in OPD and hospital waiting areas. It will carry out a thorough interview and redirect patients to the doctor of the correct specialty. Thus, saving doctors’ and patients’ time” the company’s chief executive officer-cum-managing director Rohit Sharma said. The company has been a part of the Startup Punjab Hub (Neuron) at STPI Mohali since 2018. Startup Punjab, which is the state government’s nodal cell for promoting innovation and entrepreneurship, had recently awarded the GRAINPAD ₹3 lakh as seed grant. Secretary-cum-director, industries and commerce, Sibin C, who is also state startup nodal officer, said that to encourage entrepreneurship in Punjab, the state government offers various fiscal incentives, including seed funding, interest subsidy, and lease rental subsidy, as outlined in the industrial and business development policy (IBDP), 2017. “All incentives that are available for MSME units are also available to startup units as per IBDP 2017,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-backed-startup-raises-101-crore-funding-101636669060810.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Financier arrested for duping Gurugram resident of ₹5 crore||Property dealer-cum-financier, Ram Lal Chaudhary, was arrested by the Chandigarh police on Thursday for duping a Gurugram resident of ₹5 crore after promising him high returns in an investment. Complainant Atulya Sharma of Gurugram told the police that the accused, who is a resident of Sector 46, had lured him in 2015-2016, promising to make him “the king of real estate”.Sharma arranged the money by selling his house in Mumbai, taking loans from banks, selling his personal jewellery, utilising his entire provident fund, gratuity, life savings and some cash borrowed from his father. He had paid the full amount in cash, in installments between July 2015 and January 2016. Sharma said he had paid the money during his meetings with the accused at Meridian Hotel on Janpat Marg, New Delhi, and sometimes even in the latter’s car which used to be parked on the highway in Gurugram. He alleged that the accused’s son also used to come to collect the amount. One such meeting had taken place in Toy Hotel, Chandigarh. Once the complainant paid the full amount of ₹5 crore, the accused started avoiding his phone calls. When he realised that Chaudhary had no intention of investing the money, Sharma asked him to return it but the latter refused. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector-34 police station on Thursday. Chaudhary will be produced before the court on Friday. Had duped others in name of relief from courtA special investigation team (SIT) headed by Devinder Sharma, deputy superintendent of police, Chandigarh, along with inspector Devinder Singh and inspector Narinder Patial as members, was constituted to look into Chaudhary’s involvement in other criminal activities and to ascertain the details of other persons involved in the crime. In an official release, police said they have received more complaints against Chaudhary, accusing him of duping people of their money on the pretext of getting them relief in court cases. Chaudhary has long list of cases against him Ram Lal Chaudhary had been named as accused in a number of cases, including accident, cheating and NDPS Act. Chaudhary, was one of the accused in the infamous rape-on-wheels case registered in 2002 and the murder of the live-in-partner of his son who was a model; he was acquitted in both cases. He was convicted and fined ₹800 in December 2008 in a case of negligent driving registered in October 2008 in Manimajra. He is named as accused in a drugs case registered in March 2005 in Panchkula. A cheating case was registered against him in September 2008 at Sohana police station, Mohali. A case of theft is registered against him in Rohini police station of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-financier-arrested-for-duping-gurugram-resident-of-rs-5-crore-101636668700666.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||16-yr-old girl dies of dengue in Mohali, 105 infected in Chandigarh tricity area||A 16-year-old girl succumbed to dengue in Mohali on Thursday, taking the district’s death toll to 36 for this year. The girl was a resident of Mubarakpur in Dera Bassi and was undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32, Chandigarh. No new dengue fatality was reported from Chandigarh and Panchkula. Meanwhile, 105 fresh dengue infections also surfaced in the tricity on the day, with Mohali reporting 64 cases, followed by 24 in Chandigarh and 17 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16yrold-girl-dies-of-dengue-in-mohali-105-infected-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101636668520496.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali also records one Covid fatality, 13 test positive in Chandigarh tricity area||A 55-year old resident of Mohali’s Banur area died of Covid on Thursday while undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, health authorities said. With this, Mohali’s total fatality tally has reached 1,070.As many as 13 people also tested positive for the infection in the tricity, a slight uptick from nine cases on Wednesday. Mohali reported seven cases while three cases each surfaced from Chandigarh and Panchkula. Tricity’s active cases shoot up to 83 on Thursday as compared to Wednesday’s tally of 72. Total of 50 patients are still infected in Mohali, followed by 23 in Chandigarh and 10 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-also-records-one-covid-fatality-13-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101636668280623.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers, contractual workers stage protest, block Morinda-Sirhind Road||Agitating over their respective issues, farmer unions and contractual workers laid siege to the Morinda-Sirhind Road and part of the Chandigarh-Ludhiana Road on Thursday. The farmers are opposing the closure of paddy procurement in some parts of Punjab, while contractual workers demanded revision of The Punjab Protection and Regularization of Contractual Employees Bill (2021), which they said had overlooked staff hired through a service provider. Protesting contractual employees from 15 departments said they will not lift the protest until there demands are met. They said only 36,000 people will benefit from the bill, while 1.3 lakh employees will not be regularised. Meanwhile, farmers also held a protest at the Chandigarh-Ludhiana Road at the same site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-contractual-workers-stage-protest-block-morinda-sirhind-road-101636668160519.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Four held for holding dog fights in Amritsar||Four people were arrested for holding dog fights in Fatehwal village, which falls under the Ajnala sub-division, on Thursday. The six canines in their possession were also rescued. The accused are Captain Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Satnam Singh of Fatehwal village and Amanpreet Singh of Batala. A former sarpanch, Pooran Singh, and three other Ajnala residents -- Samra, Harry and Mantej -- have also been booked. Twenty-one motorcycles, two scooters, a car, a 10m electrical wire, 10 tables and two searchlights were seized from the spot. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), rural, Rakesh Kaushal, said, “The chairperson of the non-governmental organisation (NGO) People For Animals, Amritsar, told me that some people had been organising dog fights in the village. Immediately, a team was sent and the accused were arrested on the spot. We have also rescued six pitbulls.” “Sometimes, the animals are injected drugs to win the fight, thereby endangering their lives,” he said. A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 428 (mischief by killing animal), 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) and 149 (every member of unlawful activity) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Gambling Act at the Ajnala police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-held-for-holding-dog-fights-in-amritsar-101636667920547.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sanitation a major concern in ward 4||Though part of City Beautiful, several localities in ward number 4 lack basic amenities, including access to clean drinking water, paved roads, and a proper garbage collection and disposal system. Prominent among these are Basti Kishangarh, Basti Bhagwanpura, and Shastri Nagar, which had panchayats that were disbanded after these became part of the municipal corporation in 2018. Having had no local authority for several years and set to vote for the first time in municipal corporation elections, residents here now want a councillor who is easily accessible and has the willingness to work for the development of the area.The other three localities—Manimajra (R), Indira Colony and IT Park, however, were earlier part of other wards, and are better in terms of sanitation and infrastructure.So far, no political party has announced its candidates from the ward.The ward has no planned system of garbage collection and disposal. Though in some areas, door-to-door garbage collection, with segregation of wet and dry waste, is done, heaps of garbage can still be seen on the roadsides. Even the forest areas, parks and dried nullahs are all filed with garbage.In Basti Kishangarh and Shastri Nagar, unpaved roads, clogged sewer lines and irregular water supply make life difficult for the residents. “Roads in the area are in a bad shape and carpeting has not been done for the last five years. Even when we had a sarpanch, no developmental works were initiated in the area but the condition worsened in 2018 when our basti was linked with the MC. Despite levying heavy taxes on electricity, water and garbage disposal, MC authorities are not providing the services as expected,” said Mewa Singh, 80, a retired military officer, who lives in Basti Kishangarh. Manoj Lubana, president of Chandigarh Youth Congress and resident of Basti Kishangarh, said “In late evening hours, people can be seen selling illegal liquor in the area. Basic needs such as clean drinking water, parks for children, sanitation, good roads and street lights are missing in the area of Chandigarh. The authorities should ensure development of rural areas and colonies on similar lines of urban sectors.”In Shastri Nagar area, residents have no option but to pay from their own pockets to ensure basic facilities. A 26-year-old resident of Shastri Nagar, Raju Harnarayan, said, “A tubewell got approved for the area but was never installed. Sometimes, the area doesn’t get access to drinking water for over a month. People have to walk to different areas to get buckets filled with water. With such poor conditions, how can we say that we are part of well-planned and beautiful city.”“We had to pay from our own pockets to install streetlights and sewerage system. Though the area is badly affected with dengue, health authorities never came here for fogging,” he added.Though people living in Indira Colony and IT Park have access to basic facilities, the areas lack maintenance and sanitation. Subhash Dhiman, chairman, resident welfare association, Indira Colony, who is also the vice-president of All Manimajra Welfare Association, said, “Residents expect better infrastructure and sanitation in the area. Carpeting of roads and provision of clean drinking water are the key issues which need to be resolved, immediately. In the long run, parks should be beautified and parking facilities should be made available for.” KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Manimajra (R), Basti Kishangarh, Basti Bhagwanpura, Indira Colony, IT Park and Shastri NagarSeat: Women reserved ward (general)Voters: Approximately 23,000Key Issues:• Poor infrastructure including roads, sewerage, streetlights• No access to clean drinking water• Garbage dumps on roads; poor sanitation and cleanlinessLOCAL VOICESRoad carpeting has not been done for the past five years. Even when we had a sarpanch, no developmental works were initiated in the area. The condition only worsened after our basti was linked with the MC.Mewa Singh, 80, retired military officer, Basti Kishangarh. We are not expecting malls or complexes, we just want basic amenities such as clean drinking water, proper sanitation and cleanliness, and good roads to travel. Neither did the sarpanch initiate developmental works nor have we seen any change after MC took over three years ago. Neelam Devi, 35, housewife, resident of Basti Kishangarh.Political parties often nominate people from faraway places. We want local candidates to contest elections so that they can be approached in time of need. Sometimes, stamping documents for making passports, Aadhar cards, or other government documents take months in the absence of councillors.Ram Naresh, 67, a businessman who lives in Indira ColonyStreets plunge into darkness after 5 pm, raising safety concerns for residents, especially women and children. Also, parks in the area are not being maintained and have no facility for children. The area has no provision of public toilets or public water tankers.Shamsudin, 70, painter, resident of Indira Colony||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sanitation-a-major-concern-in-ward-4-101636667800496.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Honey Thakur is new PUSA president||Honey Thakur was declared the president of Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA) after the counting of votes on Thursday. The former senior vice-president, Thakur got 431 votes and defeated his rivals Poonam Sharma, Dr SS Mann and Dr Sushil Kumar. Polling was held on Wednesday. Deepak Sharma won the post of senior vice-president, Rajeev Kumar will be the vice-president, Baljinder Singh was elected the general secretary of the body, while Manjeet Singh and Raj Kumar will hold the post of secretary and finance secretary respectively. The post of publicity secretary was bagged by Varinder Singh. The elected executive members include Rajan Sharma from officer constituency, Chand Kumar Sharma and Sudarshan Singh from superintendent constituency. Seven other members were elected from the assistants’ constituency and four from the clerk constituency.Meanwhile, Rama Nand was elected the president of Panjab University Class ‘C’ Staff Association (PUCCSA) and Ram Parsad was elected the vice-president. Krishna Kumari, Paramjit Singh and Dharam Pal Singh bagged the posts of general secretary, joint-secretary and treasurer respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-honey-thakur-is-new-pusa-president-101636667560449.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Gangrape convict held for raping minor||A 28-year-old gangrape convict was arrested again by the Chandigarh police on Thursday for allegedly raping a 15-year-old Manimajra resident. Identified as Kunal alias Kallu of Manimajra, he was booked on the complaint of the victim’s mother.The complainant said her teen daughter had left the house around 9 am on Wednesday without telling anyone. She later came to know that the accused, Kunal alias Kallu, had taken away her daughter on the pretext of marriage. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping, abduction), 376 (3) (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act was registered at the Manimajra police station. Sensing the gravity of the case, a special investigation team (SIT) was immediately constituted under inspector Neeraj Sarna, Manimajra station house officer, who within five hours of the complaint, traced the kidnapped teenager and arrested accused Kunal. The medical examination and victim’s statement before the magistrate confirmed rape. The accused is married and has two sons while his wife has abandoned him. He had previously been booked for gangrape and kidnapping of a minor in 2017. A case in this regard has been registered on May 12, 2017 under sections 376(D), 363 IPC and POCSO Act. In March 2018, he was convicted and awarded 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment by the court. He was sent out on special parole on June 23 this year due to the pandemic. Ram Darbar resident arrested A Ram Darbar resident identified as Gaurav has been arrested for raping a 14-year-old resident of Dadumajra colony. The victim told the police that the accused has been raping her for the last two years on the pretext of marriage. A case under Section 376 and POCSO Act was registered at Sector 31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gangrape-convict-held-for-raping-minor-101636667380444.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Finance and contract committee approves works for city||The finance and contract committee (F&CC) has approved to provide tertiary treated network to supply TT water for various parks adjoining CHB flats in Sector 63-A, Chandigarh. Accordingly, the members passed to lay HDPE pipe lines to various parks, construction of brick masonry chambers, irrigation hydrants etc at an estimated cost of Rs. 44.13 lakhs .The committee considered and fixed ₹5.74 lakh as the reserve price for one year for the paid parking contract on V-3 road, Sector 26, adjoining fruit and vegetable market.The work of boring and installation of deep bore tubewell in lieu of low discharge/abandoned tubewell at Daria at ₹29 lakh and at Mauli Jagran at ₹29 lakh was approved.The work of reconstruction of two public toilets block in Sector 22-A (ladies & gents opposite parade ground) & 22 B (opposite bus stand), Chandigarh, after demolition of the old toilets” at an estimated cost of Rs. 33.43 lakh was sanctioned by the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-finance-and-contract-committee-approves-works-for-city-101636667140539.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Parking contractor penalised for overcharging||Acting tough on overcharging at paid parking sites, a team of the municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday penalised the contractor of a parking site, in front of Kiran Cinema, Sector 22-D, Chandigarh. The contractor was told to pay up ₹7,500 for the violation.On the orders of MC commissioner Anindita Mitra, the team penalised the contractor concerned after verifying the complaint received on the Whatsapp number of the commissioner, from a law student. The student had alleged that on the eve of Diwali, the parking attendant at Kiran Cinema had issued a pass of ₹30 instead of the regular fee of Rs. 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-parking-contractor-penalised-for-overcharging-101636666900378.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police arrest Sector 29 resident for vehicle theft||The police have arrested a resident of Sector 29, Chandigarh, on charge of vehicle theft. The accused has been identified as Amir Khan, 32, a resident of Sector 29, Chandigarh. The police said the accused was a drug addict and a habitual offender. He works as a part-time driver. He was arrested by a special investigation team constituted under the supervision of Gurmukh Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, East). Amir was arrested on a tip-off from near the HDFC Bank, Phase 1, Industrial Area, Chandigarh. He was caught driving a stolen Activa with a fake number plate. During the interrogation, he said he had stolen the two-wheeler. During further investigation, the police recovered stolen Mahindra Gusto and an Activa from him. The accused had stolen a purse and mobile phone last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-sector-29-resident-for-vehicle-theft-101636666660738.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party ‘B team’ of Congress, says BJP’s Vinod Tawde||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is the ‘B team’ of the Congress, and the Congress only favours the rich. This was stated by Bharatiya Janata Party’s national secretary and municipal election in-charge Vinod Tawde at a press conference here on Wednesday. Taking a dig at the Congress, he said, “The Congress wants to buy the voters of Chandigarh on the basis of money by giving tickets to big builders and moneylenders, but the Chandigarh voters cannot be bought at any cost.” Tawde was accompanied by election co-in-charge Rajya Sabha MP Indu Bala Goswami, state president Arun Sood and mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. Tawde said an election steering committee of 85 people had been constituted under the leadership of Sood, MP Kirron Kher, former MP Satya Pal Jain and former president Sanjay Tandon. The party would seek re-election on the basis of the work done by it in the past five years, said Tawde. The manifesto of the party for the municipal elections will be prepared in the form of a citizen’s charter on the basis of public participation and suggestions. Tawde said that all the divisions of the BJP would prepare a list of candidates willing to contest at their level and send it to the district team and after considering them the team of the BJP districts would shortlist contenders and send it to the state election committee. The ticket would be finalised by the election committee after discussing with the authorised officials of the state / national level and the candidates would be announced. He claimed that the party would win 100% seats in these municipal elections. “The opposition is completely scattered and people are well aware of the culture of the opposition and there will be no grand alliance of opposition parties. Our party is ready to deal with all situations,” said Tawde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-aam-aadmi-party-b-team-of-congress-says-bjp-s-vinod-tawde-101636666603080.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||7,500 flats to be constructed to make Panchkula slum-free: Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta||To make Panchkula slum-free, nearly 7,500 flats will be constructed in Sectors 20 and 28. This was stated by Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta during a meeting of the Panchkula development advisory committee where he discussed seven issues of the district.During the meeting, the role of citizens was discussed in making the city free of encroachment, slums, stray cattle, street dogs, drugs, pollution and plastic. In the meeting, it was decided that where on one hand, the administration will play a crucial role in solving the issues, at the same time, social organisations, educational institutes, students and industrialists will also give their contribution.Gupta, who is the chairman of the Panchkula development advisory committee, said, “The government has granted sufficient funds for the development of the city. We are spending a good amount on the maintenance and the beautification of the city. However, the money can be utilised in a better way if the citizens also come forward and help.”To make the city slum-free, Gupta said, “We are constructing 7,500 flats on 58 acres at the cost of 876.65 crores in Sectors 20 and 28. Here, people living in the slums of Rajeev colony, Indira Colony, and other slum areas will be relocated.”He said to make the city cattle-free, a cow shelter had been made at Sukhdarshanpur, where 1,000 stray cattle have been kept. And for stray dog menace, dog hostels would be built.Apart from this, many other issues were discussed like pollution control, plastic waste and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7500-flats-to-be-constructed-to-make-panchkula-slum-free-haryana-vidhan-sabha-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-101636666480466.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Panjab University house allotment committee to take up objections of dental faculty||The objections raised against house allotment rules by the faculty members of Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital will now be taken up by the house allotment committee (HAC) of the university.The decision was taken at a meeting of a special panel constituted by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Thursday. The panel was constituted after the dental faculty members wrote to Panjab University’s dean university instruction (DUI) raising objections against the rules related to the waiting list of G type, F type, T-1 and T-1 (flats) houses on the campus. During the meeting of the panel, headed by Professor Sukhbir Kaur, on Thursday, the members discussed the objections, including from the dental faculty and allotment rules of residential accommodation, after which the panel recommended that objections of dental faculty and others must be taken up by the house allotment committee (HAC) and the issue of lowering the scales in the eligibility as proposed should also be addressed by the HAC.HAC to meet in a fortnightA member of the panel, who attended the meeting said, “It was also recommended that the HAC must meet within a fortnight and resolve the issue so that the list can be displayed next month for all the categories.”In their representation, the dental faculty members have stated that the faculty has not been given the benefit of any single promotion under the career progression scheme till now. Hence their pay scales will never match their respective peers in the university.“So, to bring about the parity in this context, the eligibility criteria for T-1, T-1 (flats) and F-type houses for senior assistant professors/senior lecturers of the dental institute should be 12 years of service when the assistant professors working in other teaching departments of Panjab University become eligible for these categories of houses (as they get promotion from assistant professor to associate professor in 12 years through CAS),” the letter states.They have also demanded that the condition of minimum basic pay of ₹40,000 for F-type houses and basic pay of 45,000 for G-type houses should be eliminated as it is not only arbitrary, unjustifiable but also discriminatory.Promotion policy matter pendingThe matter of promotion policy for the dental faculty of Panjab University is still hanging in balance at the university. Two years have already passed since members of the dental faculty of the university’s dental institute raised the issue regarding their promotion policy and approached the high court, the matter still hangs in balance at the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-panjab-university-house-allotment-committee-to-take-up-objections-of-dental-faculty-101636666421983.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational: Shiv Kapur, Abhijit Chadha share round one lead at Chandigarh Golf Club||Six-time international winner Shiv Kapur and local lad Abhijit Singh Chadha got off to flying starts with brilliant rounds of eight-under 64 to share the first-round lead at the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021 being played at the Chandigarh Golf Club.While Dubai-based Kapur had a bogey-free day, two-time PGTI winner Chadha, playing at his home course, fired an eagle, seven birdies and a bogey.Delhi’s Rashid Khan produced an impressive error-free seven-under 65 to be placed third.Shiv Kapur, 39, who has had a few starts on the European Tour this year, picked up his first birdie of the day on the fifth hole and didn’t look back thereafter as he collected seven more birdies, including two on the 16th and 17th.Interestingly, Kapur had enjoyed a similar start at the 2018 edition of the event when he had shot the first round of 65 to be the joint leader.Shiv said, “I was solid all the way round. I didn’t birdie two of the short par-5s and left a couple of putts out there, but overall it was a clean card with no bogeys. I also holed my fair share of putts. I hit lots of fairways and all 18 greens in regulation. However, it’s a long way to go and I will look to try and build from here.“I’ve not played enough competitive golf of late, so I was worried about being a little bit rusty. But the good start to the week helped me shake off the rust. This is a great tune-up for me ahead of the restart of the Asian Tour in a couple of weeks from now.”Abhijit Singh Chadha, 30, who began his round from the 10th tee on Thursday, recorded a 64, courtesy his hot putter. After sinking his first birdie on the 13th, tall and lanky Abhijit added an eagle, six more birdies and a bogey to his card. He sank a 45-footer on the fifth and a 30-feet putt on the seventh.Newly-married Abhijit said, “The two 30-ft plus putts were the highlight of the round. It’s been a slow season for me, but I’ve worked a lot on my putting and things are coming together now. Playing in home conditions also always helps.”Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, the seasoned Gaurav Ghei of Delhi, Kshitij Naveed Kaul, another Delhi-based player, and Gurugram’s Tapy Ghai were all in tied fourth having shot scores of 67.Aadil Bedi was the third Chandigarh player in the top-10 as he struck a 68 to be tied eighth.Among the marquee names in the field, Jyoti Randhawa, SSP Chawrasia, Udayan Mane and former champion Ajeetesh Sandhu of Chandigarh carded 69s to be tied 12th while Gaganjeet Bhullar and former champion Chikkarangappa were a further shot back in tied 26th place.Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar, the defending champion and PGTI Order of Merit leader, shot a 72 to be tied 50th.Tournament host Jeev Milkha Singh, who had good friends and fellow Chandigarh professionals Amritinder Singh and Gurbaaz Mann as his playing partners, returned a 75 to be placed tied 89th.Jeev said, “I was pleasantly surprised that I turned at even-par despite being so rusty. I managed myself quite well off the tee and kept it in play. On the front-nine, I made three bogeys from the centre of the fairway so that was a little disappointing and just showed that my iron-play was patchy today. I’m looking forward to a better second round.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-shiv-kapur-abhijit-chadha-share-round-one-lead-at-chandigarh-golf-club-101636666420925.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Hockey Academy’s Sanjay Kumar, Maninder Singh in FIH men’s junior World Cup||Sanjay Kumar and Maninder Singh from Chandigarh Hockey Academy, Sector 42, have been included in the India team which will compete in the FIH men’s junior World Cup starting in Bhubaneswar from November 24. Dragflicker Sanjay will assist the captain and Olympic bronze medallist Vivek Sagar Prasad during the tournament while Maninder will be one of the forwards of the Indian team. From Dabra village near Hisar, Sanjay shifted base to Chandigarh to learn hockey as a youngster and never looked back. 21-year-old Sanjay, whose father is a farmer, first hit headlines when he captained the winning India team in the School Asia Cup in 2017. Thereafter, he hogged the limelight in the 2018 Youth Olympics held in Argentina where India took silver and he was the vice-captain of the team. Incidentally, Maninder was also part of that Indian team. 20-year-old Maninder belongs to Bhagarhia village, near Sangrur, and joined the Chandigarh Hockey Academy, Sector 42, in 2010. The duo has been training under coach Gurminder Singh at the Chandigarh Hockey Academy, Sector 42. “Both Sanjay and Maninder are going to play crucial roles during India’s campaign. They have been doing well in the last few years and are in good form,” said coach Gurminder. According to Anil Vohra, general secretary, Hockey Chandigarh, five players of Hockey Chandigarh namely Sanjay, Maninder Singh, Sukhman, Diljeet Singh and Amandeep were part of the junior national camp and Sanjay along with Maninder were selected in the team. India begin their campaign on November 24against France. They will take on Canada a day later on November 25 in their second match in the round-robin league. This will be followed by their match against Poland on November 27. The knockout matches will take place between December 1 and 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hockey-academy-s-sanjay-kumar-maninder-singh-in-fih-men-s-junior-world-cup-101636666300315.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly passes resolution against Centre’s 3 farm laws||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Thursday passed a resolution against the three contentious farm laws seeking their repeal, saying the Centre had “unlawfully ventured into the state’s domain”. The House also passed the Punjab Agricultural Produce Market (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to “safeguard the interests of farmers” and also annulled a law on contract farming passed by the state assembly in 2013. The House saw five adjournments and naming (barred from attending the session) of all the Akali MLAs during the discussion, as all attempts by speaker Rana KP Singh to diffuse the situation proved futile. In October last year, the Vidhan Sabha had also passed a resolution against the farm laws when Amarinder Singh was the chief minister and also introduced three bills as an attempt to negate the central legislations. But the bills remained with the governor and were never sent to the President for approval. The situation on Thursday got out of control after chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi targeted Akali MLA Bikram Singh Majithia. Angry party legislators led by Majithia walked into the well of the House and had a heated exchange of words with their counterparts on the treasury benches as the former sought an apology from the CM. Channi hurriedly announced to table a “white paper” on power sector, but the SAD members continued to protest, forcing another adjournment. Accepting that the words used against Majithia were “uncalled for”, the speaker ordered five adjournments and expunged Channi’s remarks besides taking the MLAs of the ruling party and that of SAD to his chamber in a bid to pacify them. Following a warning, the speaker ordered the Akali MLAs to go out of the House for the remaining period of the sitting as they refused to stop raising anti-CM slogans and remained adamant on apology. It was second and concluding day of the last session of the Congress government’s current tenure, specially called to pass resolution on the farm laws and table a white paper on power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the previous Akali-BJP government. Earlier, agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha moved the resolution followed by a debate during which state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu blamed the SAD for the three laws, claiming that a beginning was made by then CM Parkash Singh Badal by notifying the Contract Farming Act, 2013. “The three laws (by the Centre) are extension of the one passed by the Akalis,” Sidhu said. Leader of opposition and Aam Aadmi Party MLA Harpal Singh Cheema also accused the Akalis of supporting the farm laws. “SAD president Sukhbir Badal, Parkash Singh Badal and then Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal supported the laws and only snapped ties with the BJP when farmers started an agitation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-passes-resolution-against-centre-s-3-farm-laws-101636665703034.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||J&K: Private schools forcing parents to buy new books, uniforms to be derecognised||With private schools forcing parents to purchase new books and uniforms from the school campus or designated shops, the government has threatened to derecognise schools if they do not desist from the practice.The school session in Kashmir is already over or on its last legs in many private schools have not only changed the books and uniforms but also asked parents to buy books from particular shops or from the campus where stalls have been set up. Many parents have slammed the schools’ move saying it was a new way to make money. “It is a big scam,” said Manzor Ahmad, a government employee, whose son got promoted to next class last week. “The school has also changed the books. This is the pattern after every two years. Either they change half the books or the whole set to force parents to buy new books,” he said. Another parent, Ishfaq Ahmad said schools did this to earn commission and despite government orders the big schools are continuing with the practice. Kashmir director of school education Tasaduq Mir said, “It has again come to the notice of this directorate that recognised private schools are selling books and uniforms on the school premises. Parents are being forced to purchase books from some specific private shops. Besides, the exercise of replacing existing books with the new ones is becoming the norm for recognised unaided private schools. This has been viewed very seriously. The practice is against the instructions already issued on the subject vide series of communications issued earlier.” Meanwhile, defending the decision to change books, the principal of a private school, requesting anonymity, said, “We change books after five or six years when we feel students need new books according to the new curriculum. This is a baseless allegation that schools change books every year. If this is being done then action should be taken against such schools or administrations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jkprivate-schools-forcing-parents-to-buy-new-books-uniforms-to-be-derecognised-101636665640490.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Ahead of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit, PEC not to allow outsiders without prior info||Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, on Thursday said the institute is a high-alert zone, as the President of India Ram Nath Kovind is going to visit the institute on November 16. The notice issued by the chief security officer stated that no outsider, guest or student is allowed to stay in the campus without prior information of the authority concerned . Other brief storiesPanchkula dog show on Nov 14
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Akali leader Majithia dares Punjab CM Channi to give single proof of wrongdoing by him||Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday slammed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi for making “false allegations” on drugs against him and challenged him to give a single proof of wrongdoing by him in any such case.Addressing a press conference along with party MLAs outside the Vidhan Sabha after they were not allowed to enter the House on the alleged use of derogatory remarks by Channi against him, Majihia said the Congress government was now trying to frame him in a new case. The Congress government, he said, had become frustrated over the fact that no case could be made out against him in any of the earlier drug cases in which they were trying to frame him. “This is why the CM took the route of levelling false allegations against me. I want to make it clear that I will not be intimidated by such tactics. I only raised the sentiments of the people in the special session and I don’t have any ill will against Channi,” he said.Majithia claimed that when Channi was an MLA he had been taken him along to plead the case of his brother Manmohan Singh before then deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal when Manmohan’s name had cropped up in the Ludhiana City Centre scam.The Akali leaders said that even Congress ministers like Brahm Mohindra, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Pargat Singh admitted that the CM used derogatory remarks against Majithia in the House. “Some Congress MLAs like Kuldeep Singh Zira even threatened our member Pawan Kumar Tinu,” said the Akali legislators.Earlier, during the House proceedings, the Akali MLAs wore black gowns to register their protest against problems faced by farmers, including the DAP fertiliser shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-leader-majithia-dares-punjab-cm-channi-to-give-single-proof-of-wrongdoing-by-him-101636665405153.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Special assembly session: Punjab government tables ‘white paper’ on private thermal plants||The Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government on Thursday tabled a ‘white paper’ in the Vidhan Sabha, with a focus on shortcomings in setting up of private thermal plants in the state when the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was in power. On the second day of the two-day special session for discussion on the power purchase agreements (PPAs), the government in a nine-page document said these thermal plants caused loss to the state exchequer to the tune of crores of rupees besides burdening the consumers. Taking part in a debate, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said that these thermal plants put an additional burden of ₹50,000 crore and the power requirement was jacked up from 2,000 megawatt to 4,000 MW to bring in more private players by the then SAD-BJP government, ignoring the estimates given by the Centre. “Initially, a proposal was to set up plants under the build, operate and transfer (BOT) system but were actually executed under the build, operate and own (BOO) mode by the then government, thus benefitting the private players,” he added. The cancellation of PPAs was one of the Congress’ promises ahead of the 2017 polls. The assembly also introduced the Punjab Energy Security Reform, Termination and Re-determination of Power Tariffs Bill, 2021, to provide remedial measure for development of the power sector. The bill has clauses of termination of PPAs and re-determination of tariff. Similarly, the Punjab Renewable Energy Security Reform, Termination and Re-determination of Power Tariff Bill, 2021, was introduced to deal with PPAs from renewable energy sources. The ‘white paper’ mentions that the PPAs do not have a provision to impose penalty in case the plants fails to supply power during the peak paddy season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-assembly-session-punjab-government-tables-white-paper-on-private-thermal-plants-101636665107449.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 55,573 farm fires so far, Patiala has worst AQI among cities||Punjab recorded 55,573 cases of farm fires till Thursday with Patiala topping the chart of the state’s most polluted cities with an air quality index (AQI) of 296 which is bracketed as “poor”.Bathinda was second most polluted city with an AQI of 283, followed by Jalandhar at 271, Khanna and Ludhiana (259), Amritsar (251), and Mandi Gobindgarh at 239, according to data procured from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Ropar was the least polluted with 161 AQI.Sangrur district registered maximum 566 fresh cases of farm fires in the state and Mohali the lowest at six. A Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) official said the AQI will continue to deteriorate in the coming days as there is no respite from stubble burning cases in the state. “The major bottleneck in the management of paddy stubble is the small window between paddy harvesting and sowing of wheat,” he said.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugarahan) leader Manjit Singh said farmers had no alternative but to burn the paddy residue as the government had failed to provide any assistance to curb the problem.“Mere machinery won’t help as a farmer has to spend at least ₹5,000 to dispose of stubble over one acre. How can farmers afford this when they are already in financial distress? We are demanding ₹200 per quintal from the state government to manage stubble,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-55-573-farm-fires-so-far-patiala-has-worst-aqi-among-cities-101636664800395.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Closure of Riyali market reprisal for Fatehpur defeat: Himachal farmers’ body||Slamming the state government for shutting down the temporary grain market in Mand area of Fatehpur assembly segment in Kangra district without prior notice, the Himachal Kisan Sabha (HKS) alleged that the move was BJP’s reprisal for its defeat in the byelection. Incidentally, the market had been opened just before the byelections last month. “Such a decision soon after losing the election in Fatehpur exposes the malice and anti-farmer policy of the state government,” said HKS state president Kuldeep Singh Tanwar.“It was said that procurement at the Riyali Grain Market was to continue till November 30. However, procurement was stopped much earlier without prior notice,” he said, The name of Riyali Grain Market has also been removed from the government portal. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has cited the lack of paddy inflow in the Riyali market for the same. However, farmers say a large portion of paddy crop is yet to be harvested in the area. “The FCI is acting on behest of state government,” alleged Talwar, adding that if procurement of paddy in the Riyali market is not resumed, the Mand unit of HKS and the Kisan Samyukta Sangharsh Samiti will launch a stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/closure-of-riyali-market-reprisal-for-fatehpur-defeat-himachal-farmers-body-101636664680406.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||ASI held in Tarn Taran for letting off drug peddler after taking ₹6.7 lakh bribe||A Punjab Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was arrested in Tarn Taran on Thursday for allegedly letting off a drug peddler after taking a bribe of ₹6.7 lakh. The accused, Harpal Singh, was posted as in-charge of a police post in Tarn Taran city. He was produced in a local court that sent him to judicial custody. A departmental probe has also been initiated against him. A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 18, 59 and 61 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the accused. According to the first information report (FIR), Harpal had nabbed one Daya Singh of Algon Kothi village in Bhikhiwind sub-division with 15-kg opium. However, Daya was released with the contraband after the ASI was given ₹6.7 lakh bribe, it is allleged. The FIR says Harpal had links with many drug smugglers. Sources said some more police officials were also involved in the case, but they were not named in the FIR. Harpal Singh, who was already facing at least two more criminal cases, was given postings at prominent locations, it is learnt.This is the second such incident in the last four days in the border district. Two constables were arrested and as many head constables were booked for letting off two drug smugglers held with 21-kg opium after accepting ₹40 lakh bribe on Sunday. The contraband was not shown in the police record either. The investigation had also hinted at the involvement of an ASI, who was posted with a senior police official. The police are yet to arrest the two head constables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asi-held-in-tarn-taran-for-letting-off-drug-peddler-after-taking-rs-6-7-lakh-bribe-101636664260263.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: Tension in Ludhiana village after two idols found vandalised||Tension sparked at Bondali village of Samrala after some unidentified person(s) vandalised the idols of Lord Hanuman and Lord Bhairo Nath on Thursday. Samrala police have registered a case for hurting religious sentiments against unidentified accused. The idols were installed in the compound of dargah of Lakh Data Peer. Samrala SHO Parkash Masih said they were scanning CCTVs to identify the accused. Restaurant owner held for serving hookahA restaurant in Sarabha Nagar’s main market was found serving hookah to customers during a raid by Division Number 5 police on Wednesday. Its owner and his brother have been arrested. The police have also recovered five hookahs from the restaurant. The accused have been identified as Manjot Sahib Singh and Kanwardeep Singh of Model Town. ASI Lakhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had received a tip-off that the staff at Unplugged restaurant was serving hookah. Police commissioner has imposed a ban on the sale as well as serving of hookahs in Ludhiana. A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-brief-tension-in-ludhiana-village-after-two-idols-found-vandalised-101636664080255.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ferozepur clash: Akali candidate from Guru Har Sahai booked for murder bid on SKM activists||Vardev Singh aka Noni Mann, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate from the Guru Har Sahai constituency for the assembly elections, and his driver were booked on Thursday for an attempt to murder on Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) activists in connection with a clash that took place in Ferozepur city a day before. The accused were not arrested yet, police said. A case was registered against Mann and his driver Gurvinder Singh at the Ferozepur city police station under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act. In his complaint, Harnek Singh Mehma, SKM leader and the district president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), said Mann fired three bullets at him and Lovepreet Singh besides firing four rounds in the air to intimidate the farmer protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday.The complainant said that Mann’s driver Gurvinder tried to hit them with the vehicle. Some people sustained injuries due to the alleged rash driving that was aimed at attacking the SKM activists, it was alleged.Ferozepur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmandeep Singh Hans did not respond to repeated phone calls and messages.Ferozepur range deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Inderbir Singh said, “An FIR was lodged on the basis of the complaint filed by the farmer leader. We have to ascertain various charges made against Mann and his driver. The police have not registered an FIR against the farmer activists yet.” The police officials were silent on any evidence in the allegations levelled by SKM and SAD against each other of indiscriminate firing at a crowded place in the city. There was no confirmation either of the police having found bullet shells from the spot.The FIR was registered after the SKM activists started an indefinite dharna outside the Ferozepur police headquarters on Thursday morning. The dharna was lifted after their demand for registration of a criminal case against the Akali leaders was met. Rubbishing the charges levelled against him, Mann accused the police of working under political pressure.He alleged that it was the protesters who fired on his vehicle.The protesters forcibly stopped his SUV and jumped on its bonnet, but the driver drove to save the occupants, including him, from the mob, he alleged. “On Wednesday evening, I submitted a complaint and video and photographic evidence to the police about the attack on us but no action was taken. Several videos are in the public domain where my SUV was seen attacked and damaged by the mob. My official security guard Karamvir Singh was also attacked by the goons after he opened fire in the air to protect me from the violent mob,” Mann claimed.The clash between the SKM and Akali activists took place on Wednesday when Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal was in the city to hold political programmes. Harsimrat has accused the Congress leadership of planning an attack on the Akali leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ferozepur-clash-akali-candidate-from-guru-har-sahai-booked-for-murder-bid-on-skm-activists-101636664021016.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rocket shell in park triggers panic in Ludhiana||Panic gripped residents of Sarabha Nagar, one of the posh localities of the city, after locals noticed a rocket shell in a park on Thursday evening. The police cordoned off the area and also covered the shell with sand bags. A bomb disposal team was also called to defuse the shell. According to the locals out on evening walk, a rocket-like structure was lying near the compound wall of the park. On observing closely, they found it to be a live rocket shell, following which the police were alerted. Joint commissioner of police J Elanchezhian said immediately after receiving the information, a team reached the spot and vacated the park. He added that the police have taken all security measures and there was no need to be panicked. However, people have been warned against going near the spot. Elanchezhian said that a technical team was called for defusing it. The police are also in contact with the army, it has been learnt. The police suspect that the shell could have come in the scrap from bay countries. As per them, the importer might have dumped it in the canal and some group of boys searching for coins on Thursday during the Chhath Pooja could have found the shell and left it in the park. However, the police are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area to get clues on how it reached the park. Previous similar incidentsOn October 24, some workers had found 200 buried cartridges in a government school while digging the land for making a recharge pit in Pawa village. The Sahnewal police had registered an FIR and initiated investigation.On February 9, 2020, rocket shells, hand grenades, three rocket launchpads and other ammunition were found from a plot in Gill village in Ludhiana while digging. Later, the police had defused the explosives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rocket-shell-in-park-triggers-panic-in-ludhiana-101636663900777.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 224 more farm fires seen this year, official says data misleading||The air Ludhiana residents breathed on Thursday continued to remain in ‘poor’ category with PM 2.5 count reaching 262, a major reason for which is attributed to spike in stubble burning incidents. The data provided by Punjab Remote Sensing Centre shows that Ludhiana has witnessed 224 more cases of farm fires as it did last year during the corresponding period. While 4,330 cases were reported in 2020, 2021 has so far seen 4,554 farm fires. In 2019, the figure was 2,532, while 2,481 incidents were logged in 2018. A year before that, 3,239 cases of stubble burning were registered. Daler Singh, a former agriculture department official, said it has been noticed that fire incidents see a rise during the period preceding the election year. “We had witnessed a spurt in farm fires in 2016 (7,697) and similarly, such incidents are on the rise this year as well. It appears that the authorities have been directed to go soft on farmers and not to penalise them for setting stubble on fire. As the state is due to go to polls early next year, the government does not wish to rattle the farmers, who are also agitating against the three farm laws.”In Punjab, the number of FIRs registered in 2019 was 1,737, which fell to 48 in 2020. This year, the number is zero. An official, requesting anonymity, said even last year, the administration had gone easy on farmers as they had begun protesting against the central government. However, a farm union leader said the stubble management has become completely infeasible due to high input cost. “With the rise in diesel prices and other farm machinery items, the in-situ and ex-situ management of paddy straw has become very expensive. Farmers are already under financial stress. If the government wants farmers to handle straw, they must provide ₹5,000 per acre as incentive,” said Jagtar Singh from BKU (Ugrahan).It was on November 1 that the authorities had claimed 37% dip in the stubble burning cases. But in the next 10 days, a record number of crop residue burning incidents were witnessed in the district. According to chief agricultural officer Narinder Singh Benipal, the data is misleading. “It has been noticed that farmers are not setting entire stubble kept in the field on fire. Instead, they are setting afire a small portion of crop residue, which is also being reflected in the fire incidents data,” he said. Meanwhile, amid the reports of hoarding leading to the shortage of DAP fertiliser, Baldev Singh, joint director, agriculture (inputs), visited Ludhiana and assessed its availability. He said reports of tagging of non-essential products by cooperative societies and private dealers were pouring in and warned of action against those involved in such activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-224-more-farm-fires-seen-this-year-official-says-data-misleading-101636663724084.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram gives PWD the stick over pace of road projects||Underscoring that roads are the lifeline of the hill state, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday asked state public works department officials to expedite construction and maintenance of roads in the state. Presiding over a review meeting of the PWD, the chief minister said, “The state government will take serious note of the delay in achieving financial targets and achievements under NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development). “Not only do the delays hamper development, but they also adversely affect funding for the state. The government will take strict action against the erring officers in case of any laxity,” said Thakur. He also directed the PWD to launch a special drive to carry out patch work and tarring on major roads and to identify landslide prone areas and prepare mitigation detailed project reports (DPRs). “Superintending engineers and other field officers must regularly inspect roads and submit their reports to higher authorities. Quality work must be ensured and laxity in this respect will not be tolerated,” he said. Directing officials to complete projects pertaining to NABARD and PMGSY within the stipulated time period, the chief minister said 401 projects had been sanctioned under NABARD since 2018-19. “DPRs of 167 projects worth ₹898 crore are under scrutiny with NABARD and 39 projects worth ₹349 crore are with the planning department. Twelve projects amounting to ₹195 crore have been sanctioned in the current financial year, an eight projects worth ₹64 crore have been completed,” he said, adding that the Centre had sanctioned 3,683 roads, with a length of 21,859 km, under PMGSY. Thakur said funds should be re-appropriated so that projects nearing completion can be completed at the earliest. “The Himachal Pradesh State Road Transformation Project is another ambitious project of the state government that intends to strategically transform the core 2,000-km road network. A state road network of 650 km will be upgraded, while another 1,350 km will be periodically maintained,” the CM said. The chief minister also directed NHAI authorities to expedite work on the Kiratpur- Ner Chowk-Manali and Parwanoo-Solan-Dhalli national highways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-jai-ram-gives-pwd-the-stick-over-pace-of-road-projects-101636663600257.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana clocks six Covid cases, one death||Six persons tested positive for Covid while one death was reported due to complications related to the virus in Ludhiana on Thursday. It was on September 22 when the district had reported six infections on a single day. The lone casualty reported on Thursday was a 50-year-old woman from Ramgarh Bhullar in Jagraon town. She was undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. The Thursday fatality has taken the district death toll to 2,108.While a total of 87,634 people have been infected with the virus, 85,502 residents of the district have successfully defeated the contagion. There are currently 24 active cases in the district.29 dengue cases reportedTwenty-nine cases of dengue were reported on Thursday which took the total count of infections to 1,514, 1,122 of which have been detected in the city alone. The number of suspected cases registered in the city is 3,745.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-clocks-six-covid-cases-one-death-101636663540327.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Industrialists’ protest against increasing rate of raw materials takes ‘unique’ turn||Continuing their protest against the rising prices of raw materials in a ‘unique’ way, industrialists under the banner of Consortium of Industrial Associations sold tea at the protest site outside the office of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) on Gill Road on Thursday. The protest by different industrial associations entered its tenth day on Thursday. Symbolising how the prices remain in control when the power is in hands of the government, but tend to increase rapidly when the control is shifted to private sector and big corporates, the industrialists fixed the rate of ‘Modi’ tea at ₹2 per cup and ‘Ambani/Adani’ tea at ₹500 per cup. The industry has been demanding formation of a regulatory commission at the central level to control the rising prices of raw material and inflation in the country. Stating that the big corporate houses are “increasing the rates by forming cartels and enjoying monopoly”, the protesting industrialists said that the prices of steel have almost doubled in the last two years. Not only steel, but prices of other raw materials like rubber, aluminium, and nickel have also risen arbitrarily, they added. Representatives of different industrial sectors, including bicycle, hosiery, auto parts and textile, have been participating in the protest. General secretary of FICO Rajeev Jain and general secretary of UCPMA Manjinder Sachdeva said many of the small units were on the verge of collapsing due to the rising prices of steel and other raw materials. “The government should fulfil the demand of the industry and form a regulatory commission, otherwise we will be forced to raise the agitation to the next level and it will be spread across the state,” they added. Send money collected during agitation to DelhiAccusing the Union government of favouring big corporate houses in exchange of kickbacks, the protesters sent a demand draft of ₹3,512 to the Centre along with a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, apprising him of the rising prices of raw material.The amount was collected during the symbolic protest organised by them on Wednesday, wherein they begged from commuters. Sachdeva stated that ₹1,500 was also collected by selling tea during the protest on Thursday and that amount will also be transferred to the PM Modi as a fund, so that the Union government pays heed to their problems||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-protest-against-increasing-rate-of-raw-materials-takes-unique-turn-101636663360372.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Siblings beat up stepmother, her son over property dispute, booked||One month after the death of their father, two siblings, along with their aunt, thrashed their stepmother and stepbrother over a property dispute, police said on Thursday. The accused had allegedly torn the clothes of their stepbrother’s wife. The accused (name withheld to protect the identity of one of the victims) are residents of Textile Colony. The complainant said that her husband had died on October 5 following an illness. “On November 5, when we were going to our factory for Vishwakarma puja, they stopped us and said they wanted their share in the property. When we resisted, the accused thrashed me and my son. When my daughter-in-law tried to intervene, they assaulted her too and tried to tear her clothes,” she added. The victims were taken to hospital by their relatives. The complainant added that she got married in 1987. “I had been taking care of my two stepsons and a stepdaughter ever since. I have one son and one daughter. After the death of my husband, my stepchildren started harassing me for their share in the property,” she told the police. ASI Raj Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under sections 323, 354, 506, 341 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused and a hunt is on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-siblings-beat-up-stepmother-her-son-over-property-dispute-booked-101636663180199.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Freak accident leaves man dead, wife injured||A Jamalpur resident died in a freak accident after a loose tyre of a tractor trailer hit his car near Doraha, police said on Thursday. His wife has also sustained injuries in the mishap, which took place near Kaddon village. The victim has been identified as Inderjit Singh, 58, of Gobind Nagar in Jamalpur. He, along with wife Harjinder Kaur, was returning home after visiting their daughter in Patiala on Wednesday. Harjinder Kaur, 55, said when they reached Kaddon, a tyre of a tractor trailer coming from the opposite side got detached from the vehicle and hit their Maruti Suzuki car. The impact of the collision was so strong that both of them suffered severe injuries after they got stuck in the mangled car. Passersby came for their help and rushed them to hospital. Her husband died while undergoing treatment, she added. ASI Hardam Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under sections 279 (reckless driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304-A (causing death due to negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC has been registered against the accused at the Doraha police station.The accused driver has been identified as Narinder Singh Dharaud of Doraha, who is on the run. A hunt is on to nab him, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-freak-accident-leaves-man-dead-wife-injured-101636663000355.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: Trekking banned in high-altitude mountain passes||After back-to-back tragedies in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts, the Kangra district administration has banned trekking on mountain passes at a height of at least 3,000m above sea level. “In the wake of recent tragedies in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti, trekking on mountain passes (3,000m and above) in Kangra district will remain prohibited till further orders,” said Kangra deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal. The orders were issued under sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Kangra has around a dozen mountain passes across the Dhauladhar mountain range, which are widely used by gaddi shepherds to cross over to either side with their herds. Some of the passes at an altitude of 3,000m and above are Baleni Pass (3,710m), Minkiani Pass (4,298m), Gaj Pass (4,140m), Bhim Ghasutri (4,580m), Inderhara (4,374m), Kundli Pass (4,550m), Toral Pass (4,575m), Talang Pass (4,250m), Singhar Pass (4,315m), Waru Pass (3,850m), Jalsu Pass (3,600m) and Thamsar Pass (4,750m). Except Thamsar Pass that connects Bara Bhangal village of Baijanth subdivision with Bir all other passes lead to Chamba district. Trekking on these passes is extremely dangerous even in summers due to unpredictable weather, mist and high-velocity winds. Mountain tragedies On September 12-13, three trekkers had died near Manimahesh Lake in Chamba, while trekkers were killed and 15 others were rescued on the Manali-Khamengar Pass in Lahaul-Spiti district the next week. Seven trekkers had died after being caught in a snowstorm over the Lamkhaga Pass that connects Uttarkashi in Uttrakhand with Chhitkul in Kinnaur. On October 25, three trekkers were killed in a snowstorm on Buran Pass while trekking from Rohru to Sangla in Kinnaur. Seven of their companions were rescued alive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachaltrekking-banned-in-high-altitude-mountain-passes-101636662940370.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Panjab University enhances DA for employees||Panjab University has enhanced the dearness allowance (DA) for its employees from the existing rate of 189% to 196% of the pay.The hike in DA will be effective from July 1, 2021. The decision was communicated to the heads of departments and branches of Panjab University on Thursday from the university’s finance and development officer (FDO).The communication stated that in reference to the central government notification dated November 1, and in pursuance of authorisation given by the board of finance (BoF) duly approved by syndicate and senate in 2014, the competent authority has approved to enhance the DA from the existing rate of 189% to 196%.The enhancement in DA will be applicable to Panjab University pensioners and employees, working on temporary, contract and daily wage basis and drawing pay in the relevant pay band and grade pay to whom the payment of DA was earlier sanctioned by the varsity.Panjab University has said that the enhancement of DA will be added in the pay bills of November, 2021 payable in December, 2021 onwards and the payment of arrears for the month of July 2021 will be made in due course of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-panjab-university-enhances-da-for-employees-101636662760184.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Special Punjab assembly session: Seeking extension in duration, SAD, AAP stage walkouts||Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) members on Thursday staged separate walkouts from the House in support of their demand to extend the two-day special session of the state assembly. Minutes after the House assembled, members of the two frontline opposition parties started opposing a motion moved by parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra for adjournment of the assembly sine die at the end of the day’s proceedings. AAP member Kultar Singh Sandhwan said the House did not belong to one party, but to entire Punjab. “There are so many important issues that need discussion, especially DAP shortage and recruitment of people from other states,” he told the treasury benches. SAD MLA Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra also said that the session should be extended. When speaker Rana KP Singh said that the special session had been convened to discuss the farm laws, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema sprung to his feet and opposed the adjournment of the assembly sine die after Thursday’s sitting. He also objected to cancellation of the question hour and zero hour. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi intervened at this stage, assuring the members that farm bills, regularisation of employees, power pacts and all other issues would be discussed. “If it is needed, we can extend the session to 10 days,” he added. However, AAP and SAD members were not satisfied and started raising slogans. They entered the well of the House before staging separate symbolic walkouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-punjab-assembly-session-seeking-extension-in-duration-sad-aap-stage-walkouts-101636662403873.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Narrow escape for two in broad daylight firing, over old enmity||Two persons had a narrow escape after four miscreants opened fire at them in broad daylight, at Madanpura roundabout in Mohali on Thursday afternoon.The incident took place around 4 pm, when the four accused, in a white Tata Safari car, hit the motorcycle of the victim, Rohit. As Rohit and his friend, Jaswinder Singh, fell on the ground, the accused opened fire at them but the two managed to run in different directions and take cover in nearby houses. A few minutes after the incident, Rohit received a voice message on his phone, asking him “how he felt about the trailer”.Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said, “During the preliminary probe, it emerged that the accused were known to the victim and the attack took place due to an old enmity.”Police have recovered an empty shell of a bullet from the spot. Police are scanning closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area to identify the accused. In his statement, Rohit said he had stepped out to buy medicines for his mother and later around 4pm, he went to Madanpur to drop his friend Jaswinder. As he reached near the roundabout, a white Tata Safari, which was already there, deliberately hit his bike. Four persons stepped out of car, of which he identified three as Ravi Kumar, Gauri and Bunty, with whom he had a verbal spat some time ago. One of them was holding a pistol while the other had a sword, said the victim. He said on seeing the weapon, he ran for cover. The accused opened fire at him but the bullet missed him and he took shelter in a house in Madanpur village. Police have registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act against the accused.Rohit’s mother, Ragini, said her son used to work in a factory earlier. He had to leave the job due to an enmity with some persons. She said she would send her son to some other place as the accused wanted to kill him over a minor issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-narrow-escape-for-two-in-broad-daylight-firing-over-old-enmity-101636662400201.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to see partial water supply disruption today||Water supply will be partially disrupted in the city on Friday due to urgent maintenance works at Kajauli. There will be no pumping of water from Kajauli water works Phase I to VI, to water works, Sector 39 Chandigarh.In Sector 4 to 47 (C&D), Sector 48 to 56, Sector 61 & 63, there will be normal water supply at full pressure in the morning (3.30 am to 9 am) but there will be no water supply in the evening (6 pm to 8 pm).In rest of the city, morning water supply will be normal but in the evening the pressure will be low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-see-partial-water-supply-disruption-today-101636662040071.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGIMER starts Covovax trials for children||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) started Covovax vaccine trials for children, aged between 2 and 17, on Thursday and administered a dose to a child. The child did not experience any side-effects, officials said.Covovax— a vaccine against Covid-19 for children, which is primarily developed by the US firm Novavax Inc, will be mass produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, mainly for the below-18 age group. Covovax is the third Covid-19 vaccine to be tested in children in India, after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D.PGIMER is among the 10 institutes conducting the trials, aimed at checking the safety and immune response of the vaccine. The institute aims to immunise around 100 children, with two doses of 0.5 ml each, on Day 1 and Day 22 respectively. “After receiving vaccine vials on Wednesday, we inoculated the first dose to a child. The child was kept under observation for 30 minutes. The child didn’t suffer any side effects post the jab. The vaccine is safe and we have given appointments to other children, who will be administered the vaccine in coming days,” said Dr Madhu Gupta, professor, Community Medicine and School of Public Health, and Principal Investigator of the project.So far, around 100 children, aged between 2 and 17, have registered to volunteer in the trials. “The children will be screened for eligibility and the vaccine will only be inoculated to those with stable health conditions,” said Dr Madhu Gupta, adding that in the initial stages of the trials, the efficacy of Covovax is said to be over 90%. After administering both the doses, children will be screened and the results will be studied for six months. The institute will submit its findings to the SII and Government of India. PGIMER invites child volunteersWhile inviting children to register as volunteers, PGIMER authorities said: “Parents of healthy children, who want their children to participate in the trials, can fill the consent form and send it to the institute through email, text message or telephone numbers. The consent form is available at https://forms.gle/rmFo2kJrjwivHaeA8 and can be sent at covovax2021@gmail.com or 7347665382 or 7347665383.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-starts-covovax-trials-for-children-101636661260279.html
12-11-2021||Other||Channi announces vigilance probe into PPAs||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday announced a vigilance bureau probe into Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) that the state entered into from 2007-2017, the decade that the SAD-BJP alliance held power. Addressing the House after the tabling of the White Paper on power sector (2006-07 to 2020-21), Channi said he was ordering the vigilance department to fix responsibility on those involved in derailing the state’s economy by looting the state exchequer for their vested interests. “These PPAs hit the power sector and resulted in high cost of power in the state. Such was the process adopted for these PPAs that in some cases, rates were negotiated thrice without tenders,” said Channi, reiterating his government’s commitment to nail dishonest leaders of the SAD-BJP government, who amassed ill-gotten wealth through mafias of sand, transport and drugs.Welcoming Channi’s announcement, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema demanded that the vigilance probe needed to be time-bound. Channi, however, chose not to respond. Before this, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had said that the PPAs had cost the government ₹50,000 crore. Higher education minister Pargat Singh had said that Punjab never needed the power, as projected in the PPAs.On sacrilege cases, Channi said investigations would be brought to a logical conclusion, so that perpetrators of such heinous crime were given exemplary punishment. Channi adds big sharks involved in drug mafia would not be spared. The CM added he was quite hopeful that sealed reports on drugs menace would be opened on November 18 with the intervention of Punjab and Haryana high court. Training his guns at Majithia, the CM said the Akali leader was trying to intentionally disturb the special session, since its start just to find an excuse to be ousted from the House. “Majithia and his party men didn’t have courage to face the criticism against Akali Dal’s misdeeds of rampant corruption and nepotism during its misrule of over 10 years,” he claimed. Lambasting the AAP for ridiculing the state government for taking pro-people decisions, Channi added that he was from a humble background and was an Aam Aadmi (common man) in the real sense. “I am well-versed with a common man’s concerns and hardships and am working to make life easier for them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channi-announces-vigilance-probe-into-ppas-101636660420118.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram 1st in Haryana to fully vaccinate over 80% of its eligible population||On Thursday, Gurugram became the first district in Haryana to vaccinate over 80% of its eligible population with both doses against Covid-19, bagging praise from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar who conducted a review meeting during the day.“The vaccination campaign in Gurugram has been very successful with the district topping the administering of both the first and second doses of the vaccine. The percentage of Covid-19 vaccination administration in Gurugram district is much higher than the national average, which is 79% for the first dose and 38% for the second dose. In Gurugram, the percentage of first-dose vaccination is 123% while the percentage of second-dose vaccination is 80% right now,” said Khattar, while conducting the review meeting via video conferencing.In the district, first-dose vaccination has crossed 100% as several people from other districts and a migrating population have also been vaccinated in Gurugram.The chief minister, while instructing the deputy commissioners of all the districts, said that every person above the age of 18 should be given the first dose by December 31 and the second dose by the end of January.“Under the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ programme, you can take the help of volunteers registered on the ‘Sarman Portal’ during the door-to-door vaccination process. We will also consider the possibility of making Covid-19 vaccination a mandatory factor for availing services provided at saral kendras across the state,” said Khattar.Officials from the district health department said that Gurugram is now trying to achieve 100% vaccination by the end of this year, though the state government has all the districts given time till January 2022.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “The chief minister praised Gurugram district as the vaccination percentage here is higher than both Centre and state. We are probably one of the first districts in the country to have vaccinated over 80% of our eligible population with both doses. The district task force will also meet on Friday where further strategies to increase the pace of vaccination will be discussed.”In Gurugram, over 1.78 million people are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination and over 3.65 million have already been vaccinated in the district. In the district, the percentage of first-dose vaccination is over 100% as many people from other districts and the migrating population have also been vaccinated in Gurugram.On Thursday, 10,945 people were given the Covid-19 vaccine in the district, said officials, with 2,866 people being administered the first dose and 8,079 being given the second dose of the vaccine.On Friday, the first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 43 centres and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at five centres. The second dose of Sputnik V vaccine will be administered at Polyclinic in Sector 31. Door-to-door vaccination will also be carried out at 178 localities in Gurugram district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-1st-in-haryana-to-fully-vaccinate-over-80-of-its-eligible-population-101636660000087.html
12-11-2021||Other||Bill cleared to make Punjabi compulsory for Classes 1-10||Chandigarh The Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Thursday passed 15 bills including two significant bills related to the Punjabi language. Higher education and languages ​​minister Pargat Singh introduced the bills, which included ‘Punjabi and Other Languages ​​Education (Amendment) Bill, 2021’ and ‘Punjab State Language (Amendment) Bill 2021’. Punjabi and Other Languages ​​Education (Amendment) Bill, 2021, makes Punjabi a compulsory subject for all students from Classes 1-10 in schools across the state. It also provides for levying of fine on educational institutions not complying with this mandate, of up to ₹2 lakh. According to the bill, if any school violates the provisions of the Act or the rules made under it the first time for more than one month, the institute shall be liable to a fine of ₹50,000. Likewise, if they violate for the second time for more than one month, schools shall be liable to a fine of ₹1 lakh. Similarly, violation of the act for the third time exceeding one month, schools will be fined 2 lakh.The second Punjab State Language (Amendment) Bill, 2021, makes it mandatory for officers/employees to conduct all official business in Punjabi, otherwise, a fine of ₹500 would be imposed following recommendations of the language department, Punjab. A fine of up to ₹2,000 for the second violation and up to ₹5,000 for the third offence. The penalty will be levied by the distribution and expenditure officer concerned on the salary of the employee running foul of the law.During the session, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi reiterated the commitment of the Punjab government to promote Punjabi. “Punjabi will now be a compulsory subject in all schools in the state up to Class 10. We will also ensure that Punjabi will be written on top of all signboards in the state.”Pargat said, “Punjabi is our mother tongue and we are initiating all possible steps to promote it.” He added that of 23 posts if district language officers, 21 were vacant and these would soon be filled. A state-level board or committee will also be formed to implement the State Language Act. On the same pattern, district level committees would also be formed to enforce the Punjabi Language Act.Other bills passed include ‘The Punjab One Time Voluntary Disclosure And Settlement of Building Constructed in Violations of the Building m By Laws Bill’ and bills on the setting up of Plasksha University and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bill-cleared-to-make-punjabi-compulsory-for-classes-110-101636659881898.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi sewer network to cover all eligible homes by June 2022, says Jain||State water minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the government plans to connect all households under “sewered areas” with the existing sewer network by June 2022. He also said the sewer lines that meet the city’s stormwater drains will be disconnected by March 31 next year.Jain held a board meeting with senior Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials on Thursday, and discussed water contamination, mixing of storm-water drains and sewage line and projects related to improving wastewater collection.He said all the households will get sewer connections and no household will be allowed to discharge wastewater into nearby drain or Yamuna.“The Delhi government is committed to laying sewer lines in all colonies. All officials were given a month’s time to formulate the policies for the implementation of the water and sewer connections. Timelines for these projects have been fixed,” he added.“This will divert all wastewater from the stormwater drain into the sewage treatment plants (STP). I have directed DJB officials to complete this project within six months so that wastewater can be diverted to STPs and only clean water flows into the river. A monthly assessment will be done to keep an account of the work that is being done in these projects,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sewer-network-to-cover-all-eligible-homes-by-june-2022-says-jain-101636659880026.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Witness in murder trial found dead with gunshot wound to head in Delhi||A 36-year-old real estate businessman was found dead with a gunshot wound to his head in a building in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur early Thursday, police said. The man’s body was in a flat on the fourth floor of the building, where he had allegedly gone for a party with at least three other persons, including a woman who was known to him. Police said the woman called the police control room around 4.45am on Thursday to inform them that the man had shot himself dead.Senior police officers said they are probing the case as a potential suicide and murder. They are awaiting the autopsy report to ascertain the cause of death and whether any foul play was involved. The officers said the man had a policeman posted for his security since he was a witness in a murder case.The identity of the deceased has been withheld since it could be a case of suicide, although no suicide note was recovered from his possession or the flat where the body was found. Police also did not clarify who lived in the flat or who owned it.A photograph circulating on social media purportedly showed that the building had the signboard of a real estate company. Whether the man ran that company or not, was also not clarified by the police.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said on Thursday around 4.45am, a woman called the police and informed them that a man had come to the building for a party and he shot himself dead inside a fourth floor flat. A police team reached the building and found the man dead. He had a gunshot wound to the head and a revolver was found near his body.The body was moved to a government hospital mortuary for autopsy, while a forensics team cordoned off the building and collected fingerprints and other evidence. The post-mortem examination was conducted after the deceased’s family members were informed about his death.“The autopsy has been conducted and further inquiries are underway,” said Jaiker, who refused to share any details of the case.According to the police, the man lived in south Delhi and initially, two policemen were deputed as his security cover. Later it was brought down to just a single policeman and that too only during the day. The constable was off duty when the man died in mysterious circumstances.at the time of death, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/witness-in-murder-trial-found-dead-with-gunshot-wound-to-head-in-delhi-101636659339957.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar sets two-month target to vaccinate all eligible people||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday set the target of achieving 100% vaccination in two months, saying the administration of vaccination to all citizens of the state should be done on a war footing to ward off the chances of third Covid-19 wave.Khattar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is personally reviewing the vaccination campaign. Directing the officials to remain alert, he said 100% target of vaccination should be achieved in Haryana by completing the second phase in two months.Reviewing the ongoing vaccination campaign in Haryana with the DCs through video conferencing, the CM said in the fairs being organised in districts under Mahamari alert - Surakshit Haryana, only those who have vaccination certificate should be allowed to come.He said arrangements should also be made to vaccinate people by setting up camps on the spot at the places having a gathering of more than 500 people. He said sufficient quantity of Covid-19 vaccine is available in state.The CM directed that all citizens should be fully vaccinated under the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign and said the first dose of vaccination should be administered to all by December 31.For this, he directed for constitution of additional teams and ensuring supply of other necessary resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-sets-two-month-target-to-vaccinate-all-eligible-people-101636659280914.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Probe pending in 17 criminal cases against MPs, MLAs: Haryana informs HC||The Haryana government has informed the Punjab and Haryana high court that probe in 17 criminal cases involving MLAs and MPs is pending.In an affidavit, inspector general of police (administration and law and order) Sanjay Kumar said in 30 cases final reports have been submitted before trial courts and 17 cases are under investigation.The affidavit gives details of FIRs but does not name accused MPs/MLAs in all the cases. The affidavit reveals that only five cases are from 2020-2021, while the rest are from prior to that, with highest of six cases being from 2016 and two from 2017. The oldest FIR pending is from 2005.The affidavit further states that all officers concerned have been asked to apprise the courts of these proceedings before HC and file applications for vacation of stay orders, wherever obtained by any party. Directions have been issued to complete probe expeditiously, the court was told.The report also reveals that explanation has been sought from investigating officer for delay in completing probe in a 2016 FIR involving controversial MLA Gopal Kanda and his brother Gobind Kanda. However, their involvement has not been established so far.Earlier this year, the state government had told the court that the state police has filed either cancellation or untraced reports in 23 criminal cases registered against eight sitting or former MLAs this year.The court was hearing a plea in which it is monitoring probe in criminal cases against law makers upon orders from the apex court since February 2021. Now the case stands adjourned for January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-pending-in-17-criminal-cases-against-mps-mlas-haryana-informs-hc-101636659159866.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested in Sonepat wrestler, brother murder case||A special investigation team (SIT) of the Sonepat police on Thursday arrested a woman coach and her brother from Rohtak in connection with the double murder of a 22 -year-old wrestler and her 18-year-old brother at a wrestling academy in Halalpur village of Haryana’s Sonepat on Wednesday afternoon.The SIT arrested Sujata, wife of the main accused Pawan, of Rohtak’s Baland village, and her brother Amit, of Halalpur village. The duo will be produced in court on Friday.Police have been conducting raids to arrest main accused, coach Pawan and his aide Sachin, who are absconding. Police have announced a reward of ₹1 lakh each on them.The Kharkhauda police had registered an FIR for murder and other charges against Pawan, his wife Sujata, brother-in-law Amit and aide Sachin for killing a wrester and her brother.Doctors extract 7 bullets from victims’ bodiesA team of doctors performed postmortem examination of Nisha Dahiya and her brother Suraj at Sonepat civil hospital on Friday.Principal medical officer at the civil hospital, Dr Jai Bhagwan, said they extracted four bullets from Nisha’s body and three from her brother’s. “We have sent the viscera for testing at Madhuban laboratory in Karnal,” the PMO added.Earlier in the day, the locals had held a panchayat at Halapur village in which BJP’s Rai MLA Mohan Lal Kaushik also participated.The villagers urged police to ensure encounter of the accused coaches. The Sonepat administration has assured the villagers that they will form a committee of five co-villagers who will keep an eye on the police investigation.Accused coach extorted ₹8-10 lakh: Victims’ fatherWrestler Nisha’s father, Dayanand Dahiya, a sub-inspector in the CRPF, has alleged that Pawan had extorted ₹8-10 lakh from them in the name of sending the deceased wrestler for foreign tournaments.“Coach Pawan had brainwashed my daughter and she used to follow his directions. On his advice, Nisha did not appear in her JBT exams and the coach did not pay us ₹50,000 won by Nisha in a tournament in Maharashtra. He had also taken money from my daughter to prepare her another birth certificate with a lower age,” he added.Coach harassed daughter: Victim’s motherIn a statement to the police, victims’ mother Dhanpati alleged that Pawan, who is also the owner of the academy, had opened fire at them after their daughter accused him of harassing her.“My daughter had informed me earlier too that coach Pawan often misbehaved with her. When we talked to the accused about this, he promised not to repeat such acts in future,” she said.“On Wednesday, she went to the academy for training and returned home. At 1 pm, she went to the academy again. We received a call from Pawan saying Nisha was not feeling well, and he asked us to take her home. When I and my son Suraj reached there, we saw Pawan, his wife Sujata and two others rushing towards Nisha near the main gate of the academy. She told me that Pawan had misbehaved with her and threatened to kill her if she narrated the incident to anyone,” she added.“Then, coach Pawan pulled out a gun and fired multiple shots at my daughter. She collapsed after receiving bullet wounds. Pawan then fired shots at me and chased my son Suraj, who was running towards the village. I saw them firing several bullets, which hit him and he too died on the spot,” she added.‘Academy has no connection with Olympian wrestler’Kharkhauda assistant superintendent of police Myank Gupta said the academy was named after wrestler Sushil Kumar, but they have found no links with the Olympics wrestler.Relatives of the deceased said she had started wrestling while in school and had won a silver medal in the All India University Inter-Wrestling Tournament in 2018.According to local residents, Pawan had opened the academy in Halalpur village about five years ago and was training around 45 trainees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-arrested-in-sonepat-wrestler-brother-murder-case-101636659040141.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Kala Jatheri confesses to involvement in bizman murder||Dreaded gangster and purported associate of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri has confessed to his involvement in the murder of an electronic appliances dealer in August last year, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of special task force (STF) Ambala unit, Kulbhushan said on Thursday.The businessman, Raghunath Prajapati, was shot dead by two miscreants at his showroom on Jagadhri workshop road in broad daylight. Later, his wife and former councillor Pushpa Lata alleged that Raghunath had been receiving extortion calls from another gangster Virender Pratap aka Kala Rana, Kulbhashan said.“Rana had told Jatheri to kill Raghu for not giving the extortion money. During his two-day remand that ended on Thursday, Jatheri confessed to the STF that he had sent the shooters. He has been sent back to Faridabad jail from where he was brought on production remand,” the DSP said.At least seven suspects, including the shooters, have been arrested in the murder case by the CIA-1 unit that investigated the case for almost a year. During interrogation, one of the suspects revealed the involvement of Jatheri.The gangster had earlier escaped from police custody near Faridabad, due to which the whole judicial complex in Yamunanagar was almost sealed during his court appearance on Tuesday.Investigators said Jatheri, a native of Sonepat in Haryana, was arrested by the special cell of the Delhi Police on July 31 this year from a dhaba near Sarsawa toll plaza on Saharanpur-Yamunanagar highway.Inspector Nirmal Singh of the STF unit said he has been involved in over 25 cases of murder, attempt to murder and extortion-related charges in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.“Jathedi also confessed to seeking extortion money from mining contractors in Yamunanagar through a video, along with his accomplice Rana. In the murder case, fresh challan will be presented before the court and will make raids to nab Rana, who is absconding,” inspector Singh said.The said video was reported by the cyber cell of the Yamunanagar police in August last year, where a constable-rank police officer found the video on Kala Rana’s profile on Instagram. Rana is said to have been operating from a foreign land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-kala-jatheri-confesses-to-involvement-in-bizman-murder-101636658861066.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal water-sewer connection: Ludhiana MC starts door-to-door survey||The municipal corporation (MC) on Friday started the door-to-door survey in different parts of the city to find residents with illegal water-sewer connections.On the first day of checking in Haibowal and surrounding areas falling under block 34 of MC Zone D, 145 out of 512 properties (28.3%) were found with illegal connections . MC teams in other zones also conducted the survey, but the report has not yet been compiled.As per the officials, 15 teams were formed and 512 properties were checked in Zone D and of the 145 property owners caught with illegal connections, 122 paid the regularisation fee on the spot and the remaining 22 sought a few days to submit the amount. The MC teams collected around ₹38,000 as regularisation fee. The officials stated that there are over 33,000 properties in the block and they will all be checked by November 24. The officials stated that the state government has floated a one-time settlement (OTS) policy to get the connections regularised at nominal fee (less than 10% of regular fee). The OTS policy was notified by the state government on August 25 and will expire on November 24. After that, residents will have to pay the regular fee. MC superintendent Vivek Verma said that the MC teams are also checking property tax returns, submersible bills etc of the properties.With residents giving the OTS policy a cold shoulder, mayor Balkar Sandhu had on November 9, directed the MC to conduct door to door survey in the city to catch the defaulters and regularise their connections. As per the information, only around 4,000 defaulters have applied under the policy and the MC suspects over 1 lakh illegal connections in the city. MC employees caught fleecing residentsThree employees of MC were caught on camera fleecing residents for regularising illegal water-sewer connections in Ram Nagar on Chandigarh Road. A video went viral on Thursday wherein a woman accused the employees of charging ₹800 against the actual fee of ₹200 for regularising a connection. MC executive engineer Ranbir Singh stated that a report against the employees will be submitted with higher authorities for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-water-sewer-connection-ludhiana-mc-starts-door-to-door-survey-101636658859972.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Vehicles biggest contributor to particulate pollution in Delhi: Study||Among the local sources of pollution in Delhi, vehicles have emerged as the biggest contributor to particulate pollution, with their real-time share touching more than 50% during the early phase of winter, between October 24 and November 8, 2021, an analysis released by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Thursday showed.The analysis, based on data generated by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, showed that after traffic, household sources, industries and construction were the other leading sources of pollution in the Capital.Particulate matter is the general term for inhalable particles in the air such as aerosols, smoke, fumes, dust, ash and pollen.During the period from October 24 to November 8, which also saw pre-Diwali rush and snarls, the CSE said traffic speeds fell noticeably and congestion touched the pre-pandemic levels. The CSE said it accessed data for every alternate hour, for the period between October 24 and November 8, to arrive at the conclusion that vehicular emissions contributed over 50% to the particulate pollution, followed by household pollution sources, whose share ranged between 12.5-13.5%.This was followed by industries (9.9-13.7%), construction sources (6.7-7.9%), waste burning (4.6-4.9%) and road dust, which contributed between 3.6-4.1% to the total pollution load during the studied period.“Clearly, after the closure of all coal-based power plants, expansion of natural gas usage in industry and controls on dirty fuels, vehicles have emerged as the biggest real-time contributor among all local sources of winter pollution in Delhi this year. Action on transportation has to gather strong momentum. At the same time, action on waste management, clean energy access to households, and dust control must be expedited,” says Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, CSE.The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) data for this period shows while the hourly average PM2.5 concentration touched nearly 2,000 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Diwali day, stations prior to Diwali were recording peak pollution levels of 500-600µg/m3 during the day — readings that are 10 times the national-safe limit of 60µg/m3. Data from a station such as the one in RK Puram, an area that sees heavy traffic during the day, showed a spike in pollution between 8am and 9am.However, the biggest spike in pollution during the day occurred after 7pm, as the temperatures dropped. Levels at the station ranged between 200-400 µg/m3 through the day, according to the data.CSE said while the analysis only focuses on internal sources of pollution, the contribution from stubble (biomass) burning was low until November 3 and only picked up significantly from November 5. It found that while contribution from sources of pollution in NCR dominated between November 2 and 6, accounting for a total pollution share as high as 70-80%, its share declined after Diwali and Delhi’s own sources of pollution increased, along with stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vehicles-biggest-contributor-to-particulate-pollution-in-delhi-study-101636658799939.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ferozepur division of Railways: Chain pulling, gate dashing incidents on rise post Covid||Since trains started operating normally after relaxation in Covid restrictions, the incidents of chain pulling and gate dashing are on rise in the Ferozpur Division of the Northern Railways.As many as 619 people have been arrested by railway police till October this year for pulling the chain and halting the train without a valid reasons.Due to fewer trains operationing amid the pandemic last year, 60 persons were arrested by the railways for illegally pulling the chains in the trains. However, in 2019, 146 people were arrested.Similarly, the cases of gate dashing have also increased this year as the railways arrested a total 93 persons for the offence till October. A total of 65 people were apprehended for gate dashing last year and in 146 in 2019.Railway security forces in the Ferozpur Division moreover arrested seven people for pelting stones at the trains till October this year.In order to curb such incidents, a special drive has been initiated by the railways through which people residing near the railway lines are being educated about the punishment for these crimes.Joint teams of Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police are conducting patrolling in the sensitive and vulnerable areas near the railway lines and also the security forces have been permanently deployed with the most targeted trains. Scrutiny through the CCTV cameras installed near the railway barriers and at the railway stations is being done to keep an eye on the suspicious people and arrest the accused of gate dashing.According to the officials, mostly rickshaw pullers, cyclists, two-wheel drivers and three wheelers try to cross the railway barriers while they are closed for the trains to pass by. The railway officials in a press statement said that commuters in trains should only resort to chain pulling in emergency or unavoidable situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ferozepur-division-of-railways-chain-pulling-gate-dashing-incidents-on-rise-post-covid-101636658680144.html
12-11-2021||Other||Punjab reports 48 fresh Covid cases||Chandigarh Punjab on Thursday witnessed 48 fresh cases with state registering positivity rate of 0.14%. Three deaths from the virus was reported, one each in Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and SAS Nagar. With these fresh cases, the state’s total tally reached 6,02,696 cases, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases in the state has witnessed a slight decrease to 250. Among the fresh cases, the maximum of 10 were registered in Pathankot, seven in SAS Nagar and six in Hoshiarpur.With 21 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,859, the bulletin added. To date, 16,570 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,57,00,390 samples have been collected for testing in the state, of which 34,775 were tested on Thursday, with 1,07,034 doses of vaccines being administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-reports-48-fresh-covid-cases-101636658443534.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Chhath Puja concludes with devotees offering ‘Usha Arghya’||The four-day long festival of Chhath Puja concluded on Thursday with devotees in large numbers offering “Usha Arghya” (prayers to the rising sun) at over two dozen locations in the district.Thousands of devotees, mainly comprising the migrant population, gathered at different points of Sidhwan Canal at around 4am and performed rituals for around three hours while standing inside the water body. Similar celebrations were also witnessed at Lalton, Jodhan, banks of the Sutlej rives and Doraha among other places.As per the representatives of Navyuvak Sewa Society, who had organised an event at Pakhowal Road canal bridge, around 5 lakh people participated in the celebrations across the industrial hub. The participants mainly comprised migrants from states like Bihar, UP, and Nepal.President of the society, Deepak Kanojia, said that people fast for a specific period everyday during the four-day festival and it ends with “Usha Arghya” which is performed on the last day. Canal wears a filthy lookWith the culmination of festivities, Sidhwan canal wore a filthy look with earthen clay pots, lamps and other material dumped in the water body. Though the organisers of the events stated that special cleanliness drives were organised in the area after the participants offered the prayers, heaps of garbage could be seen in the canal and waste was also seen dumped in the surrounding areas.Kanojia said that a cleanliness drive was organised in the area and nothing concrete was dumped in the canal. Milk, water or fruits might have gone into the canal, but no waste was dumped.MC health officer Vipal Malhotra was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-chhath-puja-concludes-with-devotees-offering-usha-arghya-101636658442302.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||3x3 Punjab Basketball Championship: Guru Nanak Hoopers, Lions win U-18 championships||The Guru Nanak Hoopers girls’ team and Lions boys’ team clinched the titles in the Under-18 category on Day 3 of the Punjab Open 3x3 Basketball Championship for men and women at Guru Nanak Stadium on Thursday. While Guru Nanak Hoopers defeated Khalsa Warriors 15-13, The Lions beat Multi School Cares 17-11. A total of 10 matches were played on Thursday. The boys’ teams played seven matches and girls played three matches. The tournament will conclude on November 14 and the winners will get a cash prize of Rs1 lakh, besides getting a chance to get selected into the state team. In girl’s category, Khalsa Warriors defeated Guru Nanak Ballers 9-7 and Punjab Steelers lost to Guru Nanak Hoopers 5-7 in the semi-finals. In the boys’ category, Rockets defeated Warriors 11-9; Multi Cagers outwitted Goshawks 19-14; Buddha Dal School-1 lost to Royal 7-19 and Lions defeated Punjab Stealers PS 21-11. In the boys’ semi-finals, Rockets lost to Multi Cagers 7-12 and Lions defeated Royals by 14-11. Sandeep Sharma ADCP, Ludhiana and Narinder Pal Singh Dhaliwal, secretary, Regional Transport Authority, Ludhiana, were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3x3-punjab-basketball-championship-guru-nanak-hoopers-lions-win-u-18-championships-101636658079940.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC Class-4 staffers protest over demand for regular jobs||Class-4 employees of the municipal corporation, under the banner of Municipal Karamchari Dal, staged a protest against the state government and MC outside the Zone-A office on Thursday, over their demand for regular jobs.They accused the state government of not including contractual sanitation employees in the list of 36,000 employees to be regularised ahead of assembly elections in the state.The protesting employees demanded that the government regularise contractual sanitary staff employees who have been working in the MC for over a decade. They handed over a memorandum of their demand to zonal commissioner Jasdev Sekhon, which was addressed to mayor Balkar Sandhu. The employees stated that they will be forced to intensify the agitation if their demand is not fulfilled. President of the association and BJP councillor Yashpal Chaudhary stated that the employees have been seeking regularisation for a long time and protests have also been held in the past. “Now, when the government has announced regularisation of 36,000 contractual employees, adopting a pick-and-choose policy is condemnable. There are around 3,000 employees working only in Ludhiana MC and we will protest again on Friday and if our demand is not fulfilled,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-class-4-staffers-protest-over-demand-for-regular-jobs-101636658022078.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||Over 100 notices issued against encroachers in Manesar||The enforcement wing of the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) on Thursday issued notices to over 100 individuals in Manesar and asked them to vacate government land along a 750-metre stretch of a revenue road. MCM officials said that these shop owners have encroached upon government land and the road could not be widened because of this. The department has given the violators a week’s time to remove the encroachments.This 44-foot-wide road connects Manesar village to Gurugram and was developed and maintained by Public Works Department (PWD) but now has been transferred to MCM. The corporation wanted to expand the road but, during a survey, found that the road was heavily encroached upon.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, who also has the charge of Municipal Corporation of Manesar, said that they had received complaints regarding illegal encroachments on the revenue road. “When the team conducted a survey, it found that notices had been issued by another civic agency earlier as well, but residents had not removed the violations. We have to widen the road and need to remove encroachments for this purpose. Either the owners must remove the encroachments themselves or they will be demolished by the department,” he said.MCM officials said that not only this road, but all revenue roads under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation of Manesar will be surveyed and a drive will be launched to remove encroachments. “The Municipal Corporation of Manesar is under the development stage and it is important that revenue roads, village roads and municipal land including ponds and common areas are protected from encroachments. These areas play an important role in the future planning of urban infrastructure, amenities and rainwater harvesting,” said Bhath.MCM officials said that if owners of land and violators don’t remove encroachments from public land then government officials will carry out demolitions and register criminal complaints against repeat offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-100-notices-issued-against-encroachers-in-manesar-101636657841326.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||National Achievement Survey: 7,680 Ludhiana students to take exam today||A total of 7,680 students from Ludhiana district will appear for the National Achievement Survey (NAS) examination, which will be held across the country on Friday. As many as 210 schools from Ludhiana have been selected by representatives of the central government to participate in the examination and students of Classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 from government and private schools will appear for it. A sample of 30 students from each class of the selected schools will appear for the exam. As many as 1,380 students from Class 3, 1,410 from Class 5, 2,250 from Class 8 and 2,640 from Class 10 will appear for the survey from the district. The exam will commence at 10.30am. As many as 337 field invigilators have been appointed for the exam in Ludhiana, including teachers, lecturers, block mentors, district mentors and representatives from the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET). According to the officials, there will be two invigilators for Class 3 students and one each for Classes 8 and 10. District education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra on Wednesday chaired a meeting with the field invigilators and NAS trainers at a DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, where the teachers were briefed about their roles. A special training session was held for field invigilators, school nodal officers and block nodal officers by the district mentors and mock drills for the conduct of the exam were held at the schools on Thursday. Punjab Education minister Pargat Singh lauded the education department along with principals, teachers and students for their untiring efforts in preparing for the examination. He said he hopes that Punjab bags the first position in the country. District education officer, Ludhiana, Lakhvir Singh Samra, said every effort has been made in the past few months to secure the top spot for the state. “Our students, teachers and the school managements worked really hard for the NAS exam. We want to be the best in the country and I am certain that our students will make us proud,” said Samra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-achievement-survey-7-680-ludhiana-students-to-take-exam-today-101636657840073.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||Haryana power utility issues 100 new links to industrial units||The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) issued 100 new power connections to industrial unit owners on Thursday.The move was part of its drive -- At Industry’s Door--which was launched by the additional chief secretary of power department, PK Das, from Chandigarh on Thursday, virtually. The first programme under this drive was held at the Powergrid Auditorium in Gurugram Sector 43, which was presided over by the managing director of DHBVN, PC Meena.The move has been taken with an aim to reach out to all industrial consumers and have a better relationship with them, so that issues related to new connections, increase in load, among others are resolved at the earliest, said Das.As part of this campaign, the DHBVN announced that the power utility will appoint relationship managers to help industrial consumers in managing issues related to power supply, increase in load, new connections, and billing issues among others. It also said that a commercial back office would be set up in the city soon, to resolve similar issues.Das said that Haryana is a power surplus state, and the power utilities will aim to supply quality power to the consumers. He also said that the demand for electricity has increased in Gurugram and Faridabad, and the power department has been working to improve the quality and quantity of power supply in these districts.Addressing the industry owners in Gurugram, Meena said that the programme will continuously run, in phases, in 12 districts in Haryana, and the first-phase programmes will be held in Gurugram, Faridabad and Rewari as the major industrial areas in the state are located there.“DHBVN ranks fifth in India, and we will work harder to take it to the top spot. 25% of our consumers are industrial consumers, and they are very good clients. It is our duty to provide top quality service to them,” Meena said, adding that the DHBVN will also set up a commercial back office in Gurugram to resolve issues pertaining to billing, metering, among others.On this occasion, officials of the DHBVN also listed problems faced by industry owners, and promised to resolve those on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-power-utility-issues-100-new-links-to-industrial-units-101636657660191.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||2 Gurugram doctors held for involvement in theft of ₹4cr by gangsters||The special task force (STF) of the Haryana Police arrested two Gurugram doctors on Wednesday night for their alleged involvement in the theft of ₹4 crore from the maintenance office of a residential society in Sector 82 on August 4. The police had also arrested an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Delhi Police’s special cell in connection with the theft on October 9. The doctors, Sachinder Jain Nawal and GP Singh, were arrested for allegedly providing details of the cash and its location to gangster Vikas Langharpuria, who allegedly hatched a conspiracy and sent eight of his men to execute the theft.According to police, the theft was committed at the maintenance office of the residential society in Sector 82 on August 4. On August 20, when an employee of the maintenance company went to collect the cash, to deposit it in the bank, he realised that it was missing. After scanning the CCTV footage, the company discovered that the money had been stolen. Varun Dahiya, inspector of the STF, Gurugram unit, said during investigation, they found out about the alleged role of the doctors as the gangster’s close aide was in touch with them. “Someone from the maintenance company of the society where the theft took place was in touch with GP Singhwho shared the details of the money with a close aide of Langharpuria, who is currently in hiding and operating his gang to carry out thefts, robbery, loot and extortions,” he said. Dahiya said they are still conducting searches in several areas and have recovered cash and jewellery and a share of the loot that was allegedly given to the doctors. “The doctors revealed crucial information which can help us arrest more people in this case. It is too early to disclose the information but this is one of the biggest heists planned by the gang,” he said. A case under sections 380 (theft), 381 theft by clerk or servant), 454 (house trespass), 457 (housebreaking) and 120 B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the two doctors on Wednesday night, said police. Police said a case was initially registered at Kherki Daula police station on August 21 on the complaint of the company which is managing the residential project in Sector 84. “We collected money from customers for the services rendered to them and kept them at the office of the project. On August 20, we found that money had been stolen from our office,” said an official of the company, asking not to be named. Based on the complaint, a case was registered under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. The case was later handed over to the STF. “We have taken the two doctors in police custody for three days and are trying to get more details about the case and their connection with the gangster,” said Dahiya. In October, ASI Vikash Gulia of Delhi Police’s special cell was arrested in connection with the same theft. The ASI had allegedly been given ₹15 lakh from the loot for helping the gang commit the crime. Langharpuria and the ASI allegedly hail from the same village in Badli area of Haryana and were childhood friends. The ASI was undergoing a course at the police training centre after his recent promotion when he was picked up by the crime unit of the Gurugram police. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said in all, they have arrested six persons in the case, including the two doctors and the ASI. Police had earlier arrested three persons identified as Dhare, Amit alias Mite (both from Najafgarh in Delhi), and Abhinav from Uttar Pradesh. They are members of Langharpuria’s gang and were identified through CCTV footage, police said. There are around 30 cases registered against Dhare, 10 against Amit and two registered against Abhinav, police said.The three allegedly revealed to police that Langharpuria directed them to commit theft and provided them with information about the location of the cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-gurugram-doctors-held-for-involvement-in-theft-of-4cr-by-gangsters-101636657540085.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||SP MLA held in Amethi over ‘shramdaan’ for road construction||LUCKNOW Two days after ending his nine-day-long fast to demand construction of a road, Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA from Gauriganj Rakesh Pratap Singh was “arrested” by the Amethi police on Thursday over his “shramdaan” for the construction of the same road.From his detention at Amethi police lines, Singh said: “This government hadn’t been constructing the road, which it had promised to. And now when people got together to construct the road and invited me for ‘shramdaan’ (voluntary work), the police arrested me.”“Rakesh Pratap Singh was detained with some of his supporters for a few hours as a preventive measure to ensure law and order situation. Later, they were released after they agreed to co-operate with local administration in ensuring peace,” said Vinod Kumar Pandey, ASP (Amethi). Singh said after he ended his nine-day-long fast in Lucknow, on the appeal of SP president Akhilesh Yadav, he returned to his constituency. “On Thursday, a large number of people, including some gram pradhans, contractors engaged in infrastructure works, gathered with road rollers, pavers and began constructing the Khadu Nalla road, which is nine km long and had been in bad shape. The people, with the help of machines, had put ballast on a six-kilometre stretch on the road and paved it also. But the police stopped the work and arrested me. At present, I am at the Amethi police lines,” he said.Singh had tendered his resignation from the UP Assembly on October 31, alleging that the state’s BJP government did not keeps its promises and sat on ‘anshan’ (protest fast) at the Mahatma Gandhi statue at the GPO Park here.Accusing the state government of being insensitive, the SP chief directed party MLA and leader of opposition in the UP Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary to convince Singh to end his agitation.Singh was admitted to the hospital by the police on Saturday on the advice of doctors after being picked up from the GPO Park, but he continued his protest in the hospital. On Tuesday evening, senior SP leaders gave him a glass of juice to end his fast, a party release stated.In his appeal to the MLA, Yadav said it was futile to protest against the government as it was not ready to listen. “It is better to end the fast and get ready to fight the BJP in the upcoming elections,” he said.Uttar Pradesh goes to Assembly polls early next year and SP MLA Rakesh Pratap Singh is looking to re contest the seat on SP ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-mla-held-in-amethi-over-shramdaan-for-road-construction-101636657481360.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks DDA response on plea by street vendors over Master Plan 2021||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought a response from the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on a plea by the National Hawkers Federation, challenging the Master Plan of 2021.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the DDA on the petition which claimed that the Delhi Master Plan 2021 does not take into account the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014.The petitioner, which claimed to be an association of street vendors and 1,188 unions in the country, said the overarching objective of the Street Vendors Act, 2014, is to provide for and promote a supportive environment for the urban street vendors to carry out their vocation while ensuring that vending activities do not lead to overcrowding and unsanitary conditions in public spaces and streets.However, the Master Plan 2021 – which was approved in 2007—“wrongfully retains” provisions that do not reflect the criteria set out for street vendors under the Street Vendors Act, the petitioner said.The plea said street vendors form an integral part of the economy of the state and most of them have been forced to secure their livelihoods by carrying on trade on the streets because the government authorities “miserably failed to secure a decent livelihood for the urban poor”.In the petition, the petitioner has contended that the sections for “informal sector” under the Master Plan are “manifestly arbitrary” and make no mention of the Street Vendors Act which provides for plan for street vending and the formation of town vending committees.The matter would be heard next on January 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-dda-response-on-plea-by-street-vendors-over-master-plan-2021-101636657479982.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||‘Bawania gang’ hitman arrested after shootout||A 24-year-old man, suspected to be a hitman with the Rajesh Bawania criminal gang, was arrested along with his two accomplices after a shoot-out with the police in Bawana on Thursday morning.Police said Manbir Mohit alias Rancho was an important member of the Bawania gang and he was shot in the leg during the shoot-out. He was admitted to a nearby hospital, where his condition is stable, police said.This is the second shoot-out between police and criminal gangs in the last 48 hours. Early Tuesday, a shoot-out took place near AIIMS Delhi campus between three alleged snatchers on a motorcycle and a police team from the Kotla Mubarakpur police station. One of the three men fired at the police when they were asked to stop for checking. Police returned the fire and suspect Abhi Saurav, involved in at least seven cases of robbery and snatching, was injured.In the latest case, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Brijendra Yadav said they received information about members of the Bawania gang, whoa re wanted in cases of murder and robbery, visiting Bawana area in outer Delhi on Thursday morning.“Our team laid a trap and the three men were spotted on a motorcycle. After our informer identified them, they were asked to surrender but they fired at the police team. In retaliation, our police team also fired at them and in the process, Rancho was hit in the leg. The three were then overpowered and arrested,” said Yadav.Police identified the other two men as Naresh,42, and Madan,36. Naresh is a resident of Rohtak, Haryana, while Madan and Rancho are from Pooth Khurd near Sultanpur Dabas in Delhi. Police are probing the criminal history of all three men. The Rajesh Bawania gang is infamous for murders, robberies and extortions. Gang leader Bawania was arrested by police in 2014 and is currently in jail. The gang is at war with another group led by jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana. At least five people from both gangs have died in face-offs between them, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhihitman-of-rajesh-bawania-gang-arrested-after-shoot-out-with-police-101636657361185.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||Cousin stalks woman, throws acid on her in Gurugram||A 21-year-old executive working in an e-commerce company suffered serious burn injuries on Wednesday after her cousin allegedly threw acid on her for refusing to marry him. The incident took place in Farrukhnagar outside the woman’s paying guest (PG) accommodation while she was talking to her mother on her mobile phone. The neighbours caught the suspect while he tried to flee the spot and handed him over to the police, said officers investigating the matter. Devender Singh, station house officer of Farrukhnagar police station, said that they received information around 8.30pm that a man had thrown acid on a woman and locals had caught him. “The woman was admitted to a private hospital. Doctors said that she has lost vision in both eyes. She suffered burn injuries in her eyes, face, neck, hands, and stomach,” he said. Her condition is stable, doctors at the hospital said.Police said the suspect initially claimed to be the woman’s husband, a statement the woman later refuted. She said he was her cousin and already married.The suspect, Ravinder Singh alias Ravi, from Hisar, works at a private company in Farrukhnagar and claimed he had been trying to “meet his wife” for over a month. “We informed her family members of the incident. They reached the hospital late Wednesday night,” he said. The woman, in her statement to the police at the hospital, said that Ravi had smeared her forehead with vermillion at a temple a few months ago and, since then, kept pressuring her to get married to him. She had refused him several times, she said. “He was holding a grudge against me for turning down his marriage proposal. On Wednesday, he came to my PG accommodation, caught hold of my hair and threw acid on my face. I shouted for help, after which my colleagues rushed towards me and caught him,” she said.Singh said that Ravi had been following the woman for the last few days and was keeping a close watch on her activities. “He tried to flee the spot but was caught. The woman raised an alarm and started crying in pain and sought help from people. Her friends then rushed out and saw her,” he said. One of the eyewitnesses, Khushi (who goes by her first name), said that she was walking nearby when she witnessed the incident. “Within minutes, she was vomiting and shouting in pain. She could not even see anything,” she said. The woman is from Jind in Haryana and works at an e-commerce company in Farrukhnagar. The police said that the woman had been trying to avoid him and had asked him not to call or meet her but he had disregarded her requests. A case of voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid against Ravi was registered under Section 326A of the India Penal Code at Farrukhnagar police station. Ravi will be produced before the court on Friday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cousin-stalks-woman-throws-acid-on-her-in-gurugram-101636657360000.html
12-11-2021||Bangalore||Police send 4 laptops of Bitcoin case accused for forensic scan||Bengaluru police on Thursday sought permission from a local court to send hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki’s laptops for forensic examination.Even though Karnataka chief minister had denied any scandal in the cryptocurrency hacking case involving Srikrishna, police have sent four of Ramesh’s laptops to Forensic Sciences Lab (FSL) in Bengaluru. According to police, these laptops were seized following Srikrishna’s arrest on Monday from a five star hotel on charges of consumption of drugs. The development comes as the Congress has been accusing the BJP government of trying to cover up the case and on the day chief minister Basavaraj Bommai met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A day after the Congress levelled allegations on links between hacker Srikrishna Ramesh and BJP leaders in the alleged Bitcoin scandal, senior officers of the Bengaluru police rebutted the claims. Presenting their versions of the investigation, two senior police officers of Bengaluru police said that several claims made by the hacker couldn’t be verified during the investigation, which is being highlighted by the Opposition. The hacker in question, Srikrishna, was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on November 18, 2020, in a drug peddling case. He had bought drugs from international dealers using Bitcoins on the dark web. In the interrogation that followed, CCB found that the software engineer was also involved in a series of online crimes. He confessed to hacking and stealing from three Bitcoin exchanges, 14 company websites, including 10 poker websites, and a government portal. The Opposition had raised several questions about the investigation, especially about police not disclosing information about Srikrishna’s involvement in hacking incidents in the past, one of them being the 2016 hacking of Bitfinex cryptocurrency exchange. During his interrogation, Srikrishna confessed to being part of a group of hackers that broke into a cryptocurrency exchange Bitfinex on August 2, 2016. These hackers collectively stole 120,000 Bitcoins, worth around $72 million. This case has caught the attention of the international enforcement agencies and India was flagged about the development as well, police officials said. The Opposition has alleged that the Karnataka government withheld this information from the central agencies. “The hacker had hacked into three Bitcoin exchanges, 14 websites, including 10 poker websites, and exploited malware. The total of which is speculated to be around ₹2,283 crore but it is not disclosed. Why was this not informed to more competent authorities?” questioned Priyank Kharge, Congress legislator and former information technology minister. He went on to add that even though police claimed they had seized Bitcoins from the hacker, they were not produced before the court. “My questions are simple. Where are the Bitcoins seized from the hacker Sriki? Why was the mention of seized 31 Bitcoins of ₹9 crore left out of the charge sheet? Why was a hacker granted bail by police after claiming to have hacked government websites?” asked Kharge. Responding to the allegation, a senior Bengaluru police officer, who didn’t want to be named, said that although Srikrishna had told police about his involvement, it could not be corroborated. “Yes, in his voluntary statement (copy of which is available with HT), Sriki has claimed a lot of things including being part of the Bitfinex hacking. In his statement, he talks about Runscape.com, Bitcointalk.org etc. Bitfinex was one of those companies he mentioned. We were not able to verify this information, so it was not communicated. We were trying to get more evidence,” said the officer. He added that police could only find evidence of his involvement in the hacking of some poker companies and the government portal. Responding to allegations about the ‘missing Bitcoins’, the officer admitted the police department did announce the seizure of the ₹9 crore worth of Bitcoins from Srikrishna. “He had done an evidence collection in the presence of two experts, where Srikrishna showed a Bitcoin account with 31 Bitcoins in it. With the help of experts, he had changed the login details of the account and considered it as seized. However, several days later we realised the seized account didn’t belong to Sriki. We have submitted all these details before the court also. I don’t understand why there is a controversy over this,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/police-send-4-laptops-of-bitcoin-case-accused-for-forensic-scan-101636657181864.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: In a first, compensation scheme in the works for electrical accidents||Victims of electrical accidents in the city may soon get compensation of up to ₹5 lakh from power utilities, with the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) issuing draft regulations on a reparation scheme for such cases on Thursday. DERC officials said that this is the first time that the city will have a mandatory compensation scheme in place.According to the draft regulations, placed in the public domain for a month for comments, the compensation payable for loss of human life or more than 60% disability as a result of an electrical accident will be ₹5,00,000 per person. The compensation will be ₹1,00,000 per person in case of disability between 40% and 60%. Further, subject to production of a government hospital bill, power utilities will need to pay ₹25,000 if a person requires hospitalisation for over a week, and ₹10,000 if the period less than a week. Officials said the compensation slab will become the norm in a month.The draft regulations come nearly five years after the Delhi high court in December 2016 ruled that power utilities have to compensate the kin of victims in electrocution cases if it was established that there were “lapses” on their part in maintaining prescribed safety measures. The petitioners had then alleged that discoms failed to observe strict compliance of public safety legislations, such as the Electricity Act 2003, which had led to loss of life due to electrocution.Explaining the process, the DERC stated that a person who is affected by the occurrence of an electrical accident can inform the generating companies or the discom and/or the electrical inspector of the area. The junior electrical engineer, assistant electrical engineer, executive engineer or their equivalent engineer will have to file a report on the incident and submit it to the higher ups. Once the case is cleared for compensation, the amount shall be paid to the persons entitled to receive the compensation within 15 days from the date of the final orders of the concerned authority.The draft rules also include compensation for loss of cattle or livestock due to electrocution -- ranging from ₹5,000 (sheep/goat/pig etc.) to ₹50,000 (buffalo/cow/camel/yak etc).For draught animals, such as camel, horse and bullock, the compensation will be ₹25,000, while it is ₹15,000 for donkey, pony or mule.For poultry, it will be ₹50 per bird, subject to a ceiling of assistance of ₹1,000 per beneficiary household.The commission clarified that the compensation scheme, which the generation companies or distribution companies (discoms) will be liable to pay on account of any wrongful act, omission, rashness, neglect or default, is irrespective of the insurance or any other scheme entitled to the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiin-a-first-compensation-scheme-in-the-works-for-electrical-accidents-101636657180533.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Plan for five-star hotel at Delhi's Pragati Maidan delayed||A five-star hotel that is due to be built at the revamped Pragati Maidan complex is likely to be delayed even further after a lukewarm response and “lack of interest” from the hospitality industry, said senior officials on Monday.LC Goyal, the chief managing director of the India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO), which manages Pragati Maidan, said the Covid-19 pandemic has left the industry more cautious.“The proposal request documents are ready, and we will wait for the opportune time to invite bids. It may be done in another six months or a maximum of 12 months. Right now, there is no appetite in the hospitality industry to put in money in the project,” Goyal said.He added that private companies currently prefer to invest in brownfield projects rather than green field projects.The union government approved in December 2019 a project to transfer of 3.7 acres of land at Pragati Maidan on a 99-year lease for ₹611 crore for a five-star hotel.The government also at the time said ITPO will redevelop the land into an international exhibition and convention centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated four such exhibition halls under this project last month. These new halls will be utilized to host the 40th annual trade fair between from November 14-27.Goyal said he was hopeful that the market will improve in six months.“Even the existing capacity of hotels is currently not getting utilised optimally,” he said.“The hotel unit will be a completely private sector enterprise in which we will monetise the land. We have a clear proposal in which the land will be monetized and the cost will be paid by the private company over a period of time. They will be able to run the facility for 99 years. The model of providing land for 30-33 years would have run into many problems being witnessed in such models in last few years,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifivestar-hotel-project-at-revamped-pragati-maidan-to-see-further-delays-101636656939848.html
12-11-2021||Noida||Skill development body to train 1,000 graduates in Gautam Budh Nagar||The Electronics Sector Skills Council of India (ESSCI) -- a skill development body for electronics under the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) -- is training 1,000 graduates from Gautam Budh Nagar at Dixon Technologies in Noida’s Phase 2 under the Skill India mission. Officials said training will be imparted to the graduates under schemes for skill development in Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) of the ministry of electronics & IT (MeitY). “The training started on Wednesday, with 1,000 graduates selected by the firm,” said Piyush Chakraborty, vice president of new initiatives (north & east India), ESSCI. He added that after the candidates are trained, they will get a skill certification from the ESSCI. “The firm had raised the demand to hire 1,000 skilled manpower in order to increase their manufacturing capacity. ESSCI is training the youth to fulfil this demand,” said Chakraborty.According to officials, the Noida-based firm is a beneficiary company under MeitY’s ‘Performance Linked Incentive’ scheme, under which the government provides funds to the firm to increase their production and generate employment. “Through the initiative, the government aims to help the industries scale up their manufacturing capacities by hiring skilled professionals. The schemes for skill development in ESDM sector, under which the candidates are being trained, will be highly beneficial for our industry,” said Barun Dey GM ,HR of Dixon Technologies. “Trainees will be trained under ‘place and train’ model at the firm. This model is very innovative as there is placement assurance along with on-the-job training for candidates,” said Abhilasha Gaur, chief operating officer, ESSCI. The duration of the training program is 300 hours with each session lasting for about six hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/skill-development-body-to-train-1-000-graduates-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101636656881572.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi saw uptick in crimes in 1st 10 months of this year||New Delhi: The number of crimes registered in the Capital in the first 10 months of this year rose nearly 17% compared to the same period last year, according to data released by the Delhi Police.The total number of crimes increased from 206,978 till October 31 last year to 241,550 in the comparative period this year. Almost all heinous crimes, such as robbery, snatching, attempt to murder, dacoity, crimes against women and vehicle thefts, saw a sharp increase.For example, there were 480 cases of attempted murder until October 31 last year, which increased to 640 during the same period this year.Robbery cases too increased from 1,606 to 1,829, and dacoity from 8 to 20 cases, in the comparative period. Robbery and dacoity cases are filed under different sections -- under the Indian Penal Code, a case of dacoity is filed when there are more than five persons involved in a robbery.Among the major robbery incidents reported in the Capital are a robbery at an ATM kiosk in south Delhi’s CR Park on October 29 where a security guard was assaulted and tied up before the thieves fled with the cash tray; and another in which a family was held hostage by four gunmen inside their house in Uttam Nagar on July 7.Snatching cases have also increased from 6,318 in 2020 to 7,504 this year. Snatching is one of the most common street crimes across the city, and is considered a gateway crime for bigger offences. Recently, a 22-year-old woman was injured when she fell off from a moving cycle rickshaw while trying to fight off two bike-borne men who tried to snatch her phone on a busy road in northeast Delhi’s Dilshad Garden on November 2. Less than week before this incident, two women and the driver of an autorickshaw they were travelling were injured when the vehicle overturned after two bikers attempted to snatch one of the passenger’s cellphone. A 22-year-old electrician was also stabbed to death in central Delhi’s west Patel Nagar by eight men during a snatching bid.Kidnapping for ransom cases increased from 10 to 15. Police registered 1,429 till October 31 last year, which increased to 1,725 cases in the same period this year.On August 1, the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl by a priest and his three accomplices had led to many citizens coming out on the streets to highlight how the national capital is still unsafe for women. Last week, a 23-year-old woman was left critically injured and fighting for her life after her 26-year-old neighbour allegedly tied up her up and threw acid on her at his home in outer Delhi’s Bawana on the eve of Diwali (November 3).The number of murder and rioting cases, however, decreased this year. Murder cases dropped from 393 until October 31 last year, to 379 this year. Also, in the same comparative period, rioting cases dropped from 688 last year to 58 this year.To be sure, the number of rioting and murders cases was high last year because of the northeast Delhi riots in February 2020 -- at least 53 people died and 775 rioting cases were registered in just northeast Delhi during the riots.A shocking crime that made national headlines in recent months was the murder of top gangster Jitender Gogi inside the Rohini court complex during a court hearing on September 24. He was shot dead by two gunmen who posed as lawyers to gain entry to the courtroom.Deputy commissioner of police Chinmoy Biswal, who is also the Delhi Police spokesperson, said, “The increase in cases does not necessarily mean that crime has increased. It rather shows that Delhi Police believes in free and fair registration of cases. We have launched a big crackdown on street crime. The large number of criminals police arrest every day is a result of the vision given to the police stations that criminals should be off the streets. Through several operations, police have an upper hand over the criminals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crimes-in-delhi-up-since-last-year-police-data-shows-101636656879945.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Registration on for plot owners in Delhi's 104 villages||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has reopened the registration of land owners in 104 urbanised villages under its land pooling policy till December 24, with officials saying that it is being done due to an amendment in the policy and declaration of nine new villages as development areas by the Delhi government.“This has been done to allow land-owners to participate in the scheme. While these villages were notified in 2018, land owners here couldn’t participate as these were not declared as development areas. We have given time for 45 days (from November 11) to register for land pooling,” said a senior DDA official.Last month, the Delhi government notified nine villages -- Bankner, Holambi Kalan, Bhorgarh, Khera Kalan, Kureni, Mamoorpur, Narela, Mubarakpur Dabas and Barwala -- as development areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhidda-reopens-registration-for-land-pooling-in-104-urban-villages-till-dec-24-101636656821360.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||MSRTC strike: Transport corporation suffers losses worth ₹126 crore||The cash-strapped Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), which is one of the largest transport corporations of India, has suffered losses worth ₹126.49 crore owing to the employees’ strike that has been going on for more than two weeks, officials from the transport body has said.As the transport corporation with strength of 96,000 employees is unable to operate buses in Maharashtra, the organisation is suffering a daily average loss between ₹10 crore and ₹25 crore, officials said. Between October 27 and November 10 – the period the employees have been on strike – MSRTC has suffered a loss of ₹111.49 crore. On Thursday alone, MSRTC suffered loss of ₹15 crore.The strike began on October 27, but was later called off. However, a few employees continued the stir, impacting bus operations in the state.“The losses are increasing daily. We are in constant touch with the employees and have requested them to return back to work,” said a senior MSRTC official. The unions called for a strike after salaries were delayed and the deaths of employees by suicide in the past one year. The unions have demanded an increase in salary, merger of MSRTC with Maharashtra government, increase in dearness and house rent allowances. Employees’ unions have been claiming that more than 30 employees have died by suicide owing to the financial crisis that has been caused due to the delay in receiving salaries. On Thursday, state transport minister Anil Parab met MSRTC officials and employee leaders. Parab said several employees want to return to work and they would be provided protection by the government.“I have met the officials and controllers of every division and will be meeting the director general of police. I ensure that complete protection will be provided to the employees who return back to work,” said Parab. Parab also said efforts are being made in order to resume bus operations soon in the entire state to ease commuters’ hassles.The state government on Monday had permitted private buses, school buses, contract carriage and goods carriage buses to ferry passengers owing to the ongoing strike by MSRTC employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/msrtc-strike-transport-corporation-suffers-losses-worth-126-crore-101636656819952.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||Encroachments cleared from Gurugram’s DLF Phase 3 in two-day drive||The enforcement team of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran on Thursday carried out a demolition drive in DLF Phase 3 in which 2.5 acres of government land was cleared of illegal structures. HSVP officials said that 10 permanent shops, vends and temporary hutments constructed on the land were removed by the enforcement team with the help of Gurugram police personnel. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, said that a demolition exercise was carried out on two plots. The enforcement team reached the first plot around 11.30am. On one 1.25 acre plot, violators had constructed five shops selling retail goods, fruits and vegetables and construction material, he said. “The team demolished these shops with the help of earthmoving machines and cleared the area. This land belongs to HSVP and it was being misused by encroachers,” he said. While five shops were demolished on the second plot too, some other shop owners had obtained a stay order from the court, and officials said that further action will be taken only after the matter is legally resolved. On Wednesday, the enforcement team cleared 1.5 acres of government land from encroachments in the same area. HSVP officials said that 150 tin shed hutments, 40 permanent rooms, 25 rooms for workers and six shops were demolished in the area. The encroachers were also warned that if these structures were constructed again then criminal cases would be registered against them. HSVP officials said that some anti-social elements were taking money from the violators and helping them encroach upon government land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/encroachments-cleared-from-gurugram-s-dlf-phase-3-in-two-day-drive-101636656759838.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Young batter Muskan Malik gives Aligarh reason to smile||Cricketers as well as fans at the Hamza Cricket Academy near Jamalpur in Aligarh were surprised to see a seven-year-old Muskan Malik fielding and catching the ball so quickly in 2009, but today the batter makes her home district proud. Although the girl’s talent was exceptional, many thought it was just “fun”. For young Muskan, though, it was serious business.Twelve years since then, Muskan Malik, now 19, is among the top batters in her category in the country. With 360 runs, including three centuries at an average of 90.00 in just five matches so far, Muskan is among the top run-getters in the ongoing Women’s Senior One-Day Trophy.Captaining Uttar Pradesh for first time after doing well as skipper of the Under-19 side before the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic, Muskan Malik and Co would be playing against Odisha in the pre-quarterfinals in Bangalore on Saturday.“She has always taken cricket seriously. We supported her at every stage of her life,” said her younger brother and mentor Rashid Malik, who took her to the cricket ground for the first time. “Initially, I felt her love for cricket was just a pastime, but he was serious from the very first day and always impressed everyone with her batting and fielding on the ground,” he said.“It wasn’t easy for us to let a girl play cricket in Aligarh, but people soon realised Muskan’s talent. She is now the pride of Aligarh,” he added.In fact, Muskan Malik’s talent started getting attention after she moved to the Abdul Cricket Academy at the Maua Khera Ground under the guidance of one Masood. In her first season with the Under-19 squad at the age of 17, Muskan stroked 350 plus runs and went on scoring 250 plus runs in her first season with the senior side when the season abruptly ended due to Covid-19.The youngest in a family of four brothers and sisters, Muskan Malik always shows her prowess as a batter.“She was quite sure of getting a chance to showcase her talent at the Women’s IPL in Dubai the last time, but couldn’t get a chance to play. But she didn’t lose her confidence and kept reminding herself to make the cut the next time,” her brother said.“Now, I am part of my father’s dairy business. Only because of Muskan’s creditable show in the sport, we are being treated differently in the society. We all wish to see Muskan playing for India in future,” he said.Muskan’s coach Masood, who runs his academy at the Aligarh Cricket School, praised the cricketer’s talent.“From the very first day, she has been performing wonderfully and doesn’t mind facing male bowlers at the nets. She plays matches against male cricketers for our academy and enjoys her game,” said Masood, adding, “Muskan has been a great learner and adapts quite quickly.”“I see a great talent in her. I am sure that if she continues to score runs like this, she will have a chance to make it to the Indian side for the next year’s World Cup,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/young-batter-muskan-malik-gives-aligarh-reason-to-smile-101636656700097.html
12-11-2021||Dehradun||Wary of migrant voters from Delhi, BJP makes plans for 2022 Uttarakhand assembly polls||With only a few months left for the upcoming Uttarakhand assembly elections to be held in early 2022, the ruling BJP has got into election mode with its leaders expressing confidence that they would emerge victorious. But, their confidence seems to waver a bit when it comes to the ‘Delhi’ factor. The BJP on Wednesday, launched its mega voter outreach drive with the slogan ‘Ghar Ghar Bhajpa, Har Ghar Bhajpa’ but if party insiders are to be believed, the leadership fears that the slogan might fail to enter the homes of the migrants living in Delhi. Citing the potential threat for them in the upcoming elections, senior leaders of the BJP said that the migrants living in Delhi may cause a dent in their vote bank, especially in the hilly areas by talking about the free amenities they get in the national capital like water and electricity. This was also evident when a few days ago, party state president Madan Kaushik after attending the national executive committee meeting had said that “BJP is chalking out a special strategy for the migrants of Uttarakhand.” He however, didn’t name any specific state or Union Territory where the migrants probably lived and worked. “The party is very serious about the voters working and living in Delhi and the damage they might do upon returning to their villages during the polls in 2022,” said a senior leader on condition of anonymity. There are over 2.50 lakh migrants from Uttarakhand living in Delhi for their livelihood who come from the hill districts of Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Pithoragarh and Rudraprayag. “The figure is very significant...And the significance increases more with the fact that a majority of them are from the villages in the hilly areas of the state where a margin of a few hundred votes makes the difference between a win and loss,” said the leader. Citing the reason behind the perceived threat from the Delhi-based migrants, he stated that living in Delhi, they get free water and electricity being provided by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. “And in hilly areas, availability of these services is very vital. During the election, when they will return to the villages to vote, they will talk about these facilities to fellow villagers. That will surely impact their thought before exercising their franchise and they will have the same expectations from the BJP government,” said the leader. “The party leadership is not ignorant about this factor...It is taking it seriously and as a result we are chalking out a strategy for the migrants to deal with the threat they will bring during the elections,” he said. The leader however, also expressed confidence that the party will manage various issues by January. “As of now, the political air is such that, it won’t be a cakewalk for the BJP this time. We too will also not contest the elections with overconfidence and are aware that we are in the danger zone. But having said that, we are confident to manage all the odds by mid-January when we will announce our final list of candidates and win the polls,” the leader said. With the BJP taking the Delhi-based migrants as the biggest threat to them in the elections, political analysts say that it is the “issue-based politics of AAP in Delhi which the BJP here is wary of”. Senior political commentator SMA Kazmi who has been following Uttarakhand politics for over two decades, said, “Over the last few years the way AAP has made governance a major issue during polls, it is now posing a threat to the BJP.” “The AAP government had promised free water and electricity along with improved health and education services which they have actually delivered on the ground. The migrants living there are witness to that. Its Uttarakhand unit is also promising the same here which is the main cause of worry for the ruling BJP,” said Kazmi. “The AAP’s politics on governance issues is worrying the BJP as it knows that it has the ability to nullify their communal politics in Uttarakhand. Among the total migrants in a village, even if a single one returns to his village from Delhi, he may influence 20 voters with his experience in Delhi. This is the reason; BJP is making a separate strategy for them,” he added. Another political analyst and professor of political science MM Semwal in Garhwal Central University in Srinagar, Pauri Garhwal, talking about the migrant threat to BJP said, “It is unlikely that a large number of migrants will return to their villages to vote as the elections are slated in the winter months of January or February.” AAP state spokesperson Naveen Pirshali said, “AAP has always focussed their politics on development issues unlike BJP. Those from Uttarakhand living in Delhi are witness to that. At the same time, they also know what the parties ruling in Uttarakhand have been doing. We are confident that the people of Uttarakhand will give us a chance to serve them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/wary-of-migrant-voters-from-delhi-bjp-makes-plans-for-2022-uttarakhand-assembly-polls-101636656639988.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks forest conservator to decide if 60-year-old pipal needs to be cut||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the deputy conservator of forests (DCF) to examine the condition of a 60-year-old pipal tree in Inderpuri area, while remarking that prima facie, the tree did not show any tilt or damage that it should be cut.“The photographs annexed… prima facie shows that there was no danger of the tree falling down as there is no tilt or sagging of the tree in the photograph. Be that as it may, it is an admitted position that the adjoining building has been constructed and the basement has been fixed up. Prima facie there is no danger of the tree falling down,” the court said.On the last date, the court had stayed the felling of the tree on an urgent mentioning by senior advocate N Hari Haran who contended that the 60-year-old tree in his locality was being cut by the authoritiesJustice Sanjeev Sachdeva on Thursday perused the photographs of the tree also pulled up the DCF for giving permission for the transplanting of the pipal tree. It asked the DCF to ascertain whether the tree is dangerous enough that it should be felled or transplanted.“What was the requirement to even transplant the tree?”, he said when the counsel for North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) told the court that the tree was to be removed on account of the adjoining constructions.Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan told the court that the civic body had sought permission to transplant the tree as it had become “dangerous” on account of digging work around it. He said the permission was granted for a limited period only and it expired on November 4.The counsel for the civic body said due to the construction of a nearby building, the entire basement was dug up and hence the tree was to be transplanted.However, the court said the current photographs showed that the building has already been constructed and there was no need, as such, to shift the tree. It also raised questions as to how such a full grown tree could be removed and taken elsewhere without damaging its roots.Sachdeva asked the authorities to file a report after examining the condition of the tree and posted the matter for further hearing to November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-forest-conservator-to-decide-if-60-year-old-pipal-needs-to-be-cut-101636656579914.html
12-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram authority likely to penalise those encroaching on green belts||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is working on a plan to impose penalties on those encroaching on green belts in the city, said officials on Thursday.Under the GMDA norms, no action can be taken against those encroaching on green belts at present.“If someone encroaches on a green belt in any part of the city, we can only remove those through anti-encroachment drives, or if someone destroys a fence or cuts a tree, we can contact the forest department. But the GMDA does not have any provision to take action against anyone... Such a provision is much needed because we cannot keep developing these places again and again. We are preparing a proposal, which will be sent to the senior authorities for approval,” said Subhash Yadav, head of the urban environment division of GMDA.The official, however, did not give any particular timeline about when the proposal is likely to be tabled.Last month, the GMDA had removed encroachments from a 1.5-km-long green belt near Guru Dronacharya Metro Station. Nearly seven restaurants, nurseries, and a few concrete structures were removed from that area.The GMDA has also decided to develop around 300 kilometres of green belts across Gurugram this year, and plant different species of plants there over the next three years, to increase green spaces in the city.The authority is developing these green belts by planting one particular species of trees on a single stretch, so that every road can be identified with that particular tree. It is also installing fences along the green belts in the city, so that the plants are not destroyed, and are protected from encroachment.The authority has prepared an action plan for the project, which will focus on covering 100 kilometres for this financial year. Officials said that initial works like fencing, digging of soil, and putting in fertilisers among others have started at certain stretches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-authority-likely-to-penalise-those-encroaching-on-green-belts-101636656339914.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Stalker held for attacking Delhi woman, had assaulted her earlier this year||A 21-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly stalking his 30-year-old woman neighbour and attacking her with a shaving blade with an intent to kill, in north Delhi’s Timarpur on Tuesday. After attacking her with the blade, he allegedly fled with her cellphone so that she could not inform the police about his crime, senior police officers said on Thursday.The man, who was arrested on Wednesday, was allegedly angry with the woman as for the past few months, she was ignoring his requests to continue their “friendship”. He had allegedly assaulted her in April as well but the woman had not filed any complaint at that time, deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said.Kalsi said the woman was returning home after dropping her two children to a private tuition centre in an area falling under the jurisdiction of Timarpur police station.A man named Sushil alias Ponta, who lives in the woman’s neighbourhood and had cordial relations with her family, met her on the way. He stopped her and forcibly asked her to sit on his motorcycle, said the DCP, quoting the woman’s statement.“The woman told us that since Sushil had been stalking her since long and had also injured her in April, she did not resist this time and accompanied him out of fear. Sushil took her to a secluded place and slashed her neck with the shaving blade. As she screamed for help, some passersby rushed to her aid while Sushil snatched her cellphone and fled,” said Kalsi.The woman was taken to a nearby hospital, where she was administered medical attention. After her condition was deemed stable, the police recorded her statement in which she identified her attacker and alleged that he had been threatening and stalking her for the past few months.Accordingly, a case of attempt to murder, theft, stalking and criminal intimidation was registered under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 307, 379, 354D and 506.Several teams were formed and tasked to nab the suspect. Through local intelligence and technical investigation, investigators located Sushil’s hideout in Timarpur and arrested him on Wednesday. The shaving blade and the bike that he used in the crime were recovered along with the woman’s phone.“Sushil told us that he was angry because the woman had been ignoring him. In April 2021, he had attacked her with a blade but that made no difference to her approach towards him. Her constant refusal for continue their friendship made him desperate and out of frustration, he assaulted her again on Tuesday with an intent to kill her,” said an investigator.This is the second incident to be reported in the capital within a week. On November 3, a 23-year-old was left critically injured and fighting for her life after her 26-year-old neighbour allegedly tied her up and threw acid on her at his house in outer Delhi’s Bawana. Police said the suspect, identified as Montu, was allegedly stalking her and pestering her for marriage, even though she was already married and living with her husband. He fled to his home town in Bihar’s Buxar after assaulting the woman and he was arrested on November 6. Montu disclosed that he had planned to shoot dead the woman, if her husband proved a hurdle between them.Delhi Police statistics show that the city has witnessed a 21% increase in cases of rape and molestation till October 31 this year when compared to last year’s figures during the same period.A total of 1,725 cases of rape and 2,157 molestations were reported between January 1 and October 31 this year, while in 2020, 1,429 rape and 1,791 molestation cases were registered during the same period, the police data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-held-for-stalking-woman-slashing-neck-with-shaving-blade-101636656282321.html
12-11-2021||Noida||Lawyers abstain from work, demand high court bench in West Uttar Pradesh||The lawyers of Surajpur district court and other neighbouring district courts on Thursday abstained from work, demanding the formation of an Allahabad high court (HC) bench in western Uttar Pradesh. This has been a long-standing demand since 1978, they said.Manoj Bhati, president of district bar association, Surajpur, said that the lawyers of Uttar Pradesh West formed a committee -- Kendriya Sangharsh Samiti -- to spearhead a campaign for the formation of a high court bench in western part of the state. “The committee decided on Thursday that the lawyers should abstain from work in protest. Accordingly, we did not work on Thursday and submitted a memorandum to the district administration over the issue,” Bhati said.Mahavir Singh Tyagi, chairman of the committee, said that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Meerut on Thursday where a three-member delegation of lawyers met him and briefed him about their demands. “The chief minister has assured us that the matter will be considered. Lawyers from different districts of western Uttar Pradesh abstained from work on Thursday, and they are planning to visit Noida to put their demands before the chief minister during his visit to Gautam Budh Nagar on November 25 this year for the foundation ceremony of the Jewar airport, yet again,” Tyagi said.At present, the Allahabad high court has a bench in Lucknow, which caters to 12 neighbouring districts. Western Uttar Pradesh comprises of 22 districts -- Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Baghpat, Aligarh, Hathras, Agra, Mathura, Firozabad, Bareilly, Badaun, Pilibhit, Saharanpur, Muzaffarpur, Shamli, Moradabad, Bijnor, Rampur, Amroha and Sambhal.Tyagi also said that, at present, people from these districts need to visit Allahabad for any work at the high court. “Even for an affidavit -- which can be made here for ₹200 -- people have to spend ₹7,000. The expenses incurred in travelling to Allahabad, staying in guest houses, paying lawyer’s fee, among others. In case of fighting a legal case, people’s struggle gets prolonged,” he added.Tyagi said that there is no specific district for the bench in western Uttar Pradesh. “The government can make the bench in any district in West Uttar Pradesh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/lawyers-abstain-from-work-demand-high-court-bench-in-west-uttar-pradesh-101636656281278.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to play major role in making India global supply chain: Minister||Lucknow: Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) minister in the state government Siddharth Nath Singh said on Thursday that Uttar Pradesh would play a prominent role in making India a global supply chain. Inaugurating the one-day ‘Ubharte Sitaare’ conclave –cum expo, Singh said that in the last financial year, Uttar Pradesh exported products worth ₹1.21 lakh crore. “The state government has set the export target of ₹3 lakh crore for the next three years. Uttar Pradesh will play a major role in making India a global supply chain,” he said. “In the last four and half years, around 80 to 85 lakh new MSME units have come up across the state due to promotional policies of the state government. These units are in addition to the already existing 90 lakh MSME units,” said Singh. Also present on the occasion, Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME, said that the export plan of every district was being prepared. Sehgal also informed that 1,000 new units had registered in the Export Promotion Council. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had launched ‘Ubharte Sitaare Fund’ for export-oriented small and mid-sized companies and start-ups, in August this year. The fund has been set up by the Exim Bank along with the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI). Sitharaman, in her budget speech in 2020, had pointed out that micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) were important to keep the “wheels of the economy moving”, adding they created jobs, innovated and were risk-takers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-play-major-role-in-making-india-global-supply-chain-minister-101636656279820.html
12-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man booked for sexually harassing 16-year-old teen for two years||Police booked a 30-year-old man on Wednesday for allegedly sexually harassing a class 11 student, in Sainthali village in Greater Noida’s Jarcha for the past two years, officials said on Thursday.The 16-year-old girl’s family said she has stopped going to school following this. The suspect Rohit lives in the same village and threatened the victim with dire consequences if she spurned his advances, they said. He was also forcing her to withdraw the police complaint against him.The teenager lives with her family in Sainthali village, said police.“Rohit has been harassing me for the past two years. He used to stop me in the middle of the road, and give me his cellphone number to contact him. He also threatened to harm me for refusing his advances,” the student said in her complaint.“My daughter studied at home and completed her Class X over this issue. When my daughter informed us that she was harassed, my wife and my mother visited the suspect’s house and complained about this to his family members. The suspect’s family, however, said that he does not listen to them and they are helpless in this case,” said the father.The victim’s father said that the suspect had sent a 10-year-old child to their house last week and asked his daughter to meet him outside. “My daughter had refused to meet him. However, later he intercepted my daughter in the middle of the road and threatened to shoot her,” he said.The victim’s father also said that as the teenager is preparing for recruitment in the Army, she goes for a run in the morning and evening in the neighbourhood every day. “But because of Rohit she is unable to continue with her running practice,” the father added.A case has been registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 354 (assault of criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Jarcha police station on Wednesday, said the station house officer (SHO), Shripal Singh. “We have launched a search for the suspect who is still on the run,” Singh said.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), said, “There is zero tolerance to such cases... We have formed multiple teams and the suspect will be arrested soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-booked-for-sexually-harassing-16-year-old-teen-for-two-years-101636656159839.html
12-11-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar authorities to hold employment workshop for farmers’ children||The industrial bodies of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway have decided to organise a two-day workshop on November 13 and 14th at Noida’s Shilp Haat in Sector 33 A from 10am to 5pm to employ youths looking for jobs in multinational companies. The move comes after farmers, who have given their land for development, demanded employment opportunities for their children in industry bodies and private companies. Since September 1, farmers from around 80 villages in Noida have been protesting against the government at the community centre in Harola village near Noida authority office in Sector 6 demanding better jobs for their children. Even after many rounds of discussions with the top officials of the Noida authority, farmers refused to end their agitation. They have also been disrupting work at the construction sites of the developers and the government projects stating that they will not let the works progress until the authority addressed their demands. Similarly, farmers in Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway are also protesting against the industrial bodies, demanding better compensation for their land and jobs for their children. As a result, all the three authorities are organising the employment workshop so that farmers’ children get jobs as per their qualification. “The applicants can come and submit their documents at the workshop. The staff at the workshop will process applications and help eligible candidates get jobs,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO of Noida authority. The authority has requested all the farmers to make the most of the workshop and help their children get jobs. “They candidates should come along with relevant qualification documents so that their applications with regard to the job can be processed and the respective company can hire as per vacancies,” said another Noida authority official. There are around 300 villages in Gautam Budh Nagar, in which Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway industrial bodies are located. In 1976, these three authorities took over agricultural land from farmers for development of urban and industrial areas. Farmers have been demanding reservation in private jobs for a long time but the authorities did not accept this demand. “We can employ a person only if he or she is qualified for a job and we have a vacancy. We will support the move of the authority so that we can give back to farmers, who gave their land for the development of these three industrial cities,” said Vipin Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneur Association. Farmers also have welcomed the move. “We hope the workshop helps the youth in village. The authorities should organise such workshops regularly,” said Subash Singh, a farmer leader from Nagli Wazidpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-authorities-to-hold-employment-workshop-for-farmers-children-101636656101397.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Govt reply sought on colour-coding of consumer products||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought the Centre’s response on a plea that products -- not just food items -- should be tagged as vegetarian or non-vegetarian on the basis of their ingredients and on the bases of the items used in their manufacturing processes.The petition, filed by the Ram Gau Raksha Dal trust, contended that it is the Fundamental Right of citizens to know whether or not the food they consume, cosmetics they use, and clothes that they wear, either contain or are manufactured by using components or parts derived from the body of an animal.The plea sought to formulate appropriate guidelines and policies for the strict implementation of the existing rules to mandate manufacturers to label their products.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, while hearing the matter, said: “There can be no denying the fact that every person has the right to know, which springs from the Right to Freedom of Speech under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The issues raised herein have a bearing on Right to Life preserved under Article 21 in as much as a person is entitled to profess and follow his beliefs, which is also protected under Article 25 of the Constitution. We, therefore, direct the respondent authorities to seriously examine the issues and respond to the petition within three weeks.”The court said that the order should be communicated to the ministry of consumer affairs and the health ministry. It has also sought to set up an expert committee to examine the feasibility of labelling all consumer items and products as “vegetarian” and “non-vegetarian”.To be sure, packaged food items are tagged with red (non vegetarian) and green (vegetarian) tags based on ingredients, as per to Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodity) Rules issued in 2011.During the hearing, the additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, supported the petition, and said that the petitioner has raised a very important issue. He sought time to file his response.The Centre’s standing counsel Ajay Digpaul accepted notice on behalf of the ministries.The matter will now be heard on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-centre-reply-on-colour-coding-of-consumer-products-101636656039887.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Now Allahabad University to set up museum to showcase life, contributions of its stalwarts||With the aim of discouraging the migration of meritorious students to other cities of the country for pursuing higher education, Allahabad University (AU) officials have decided to establish a museum which would showcase the stalwarts produced by the university, to future students, so that they are encouraged to pursue their studies here at the fourth oldest university of the country. “It pains me to see that many of the young students of the city and neighbouring districts are not at all aware of the ‘glorious past’ of AU or for that matter who all were the great personalities of the country who have been the students and teachers of this great institution,” said AU vice-chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava. While we are making all efforts to provide the best of the facilities, both in terms of academics and sports to our students, at the same time they should feel ‘self-pride’ while studying at AU and this would come only when they are well-informed about the glorious past that this university has and what great personalities AU has produced, she added. The VC further said, “For making the students, both who are already enrolled on the campus and also those who would become part of AU in coming years, more aware regarding the glorious past of AU and all the world-renowned personalities that AU had produced, this museum has been conceptualized,” said the VC. Stalwarts of AU, ranging from former President of India Shankar Dayal Sharma to former Prime Ministers Chandra Shekhar and VP Singh and the former five-time Prime Minister of Nepal Surya Bahadur Thapa besides noted poets and writers like Firaq Gorakhpuri and Harivansh Rai Bachchan as well as scientists like noted astrophysicist Meghnad Saha among others, would be part of the proposed museum. The museum would be established at one of the halls of the building near the historical Vizayanagram Hall of the science faculty campus of the central varsity. Although the museum would have busts or murals of these stalwarts would be decided in due course of time as AU is yet to rope in funds too for this proposed museum. “We would have to arrange for the needed funds too for establishing the said museum. The funds could come from business houses and companies through corporate social responsibility (CSR),” said Prof Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-allahabad-university-to-set-up-museum-to-showcase-life-contributions-of-its-stalwarts-101636655919930.html
12-11-2021||Pune||PMC works valued at ₹1 crore carried out with no tender: civic chief to file police complaint||PUNE The Pune municipal corporation (PMC), acting on instructions from municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, will file a police case alleging that civic work valued at ₹1 crore was carried out without any tender issued for the same.Vikram Kumar said, “This is an economic offence we have moved to file an application with the police. I have spoken with the police commissioner asked him to file the complaint.”The matter came to light after the PMC’s audit department revealed that during the Covid-19 pandemic, the electrical department carried out wiring-related work at the Vaikunth and Amardham crematoriums, without tenders being issued for the same. Following the audit, the municipal commissioner ordered a probe and asked the municipal administrator to file a first information report (FIR) with the police in this matter. Meanwhile, the electrical department has also issued notices to all parties involved with the work.Last week, it was found that the Singhhad ward office also carried out work without issuing a tender. There is also the allegation that in some instances, while a tender was issued for work at one site, the actual work was carried out elsewhere.The municipal commissioner has also asked the administration to conduct a detail inquiry into the matter and take necessary action against the guilty. This is not the first time this has happened in the PMC.A few years ago, in the Bhavani Peth area, a contractor had dug the holes with no pipelines laid. Despite this, the PMC at the time, paid the contractor for the pipelines. Then in Katraj, two tenders were issued for the same road work and bills were issued twice for same job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-works-valued-at-rs-1-crore-carried-out-with-no-tender-civic-chief-to-file-police-complaint-101636655441542.html
12-11-2021||Noida||Agencies told to curb PM10 level as Ghaziabad air continues to be foul||Ghaziabad continued to hold its record of being the most polluted city across the country on Thursday, with the air quality index (AQI) bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showing that the city recorded an AQI of 461, again in ‘severe’ category. The CPCB index also showed that the air quality of Greater Noida and Noida was also ‘severe’ with an AQI recording of 417 and 434 respectively. An air quality index (AQI) between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. With ‘severe’ air quality for eight consecutive days since Diwali, that was observed on November 4, Ghaziabad equalled its previous record of being in the ‘severe’ zone for eight days from November 9 to 16 in 2017. Noida too has had seven days of ‘severe’ air since Diwali, barring Wednesday (November 10) when its pollution levels marginally improved and the AQI reached the ‘very poor’ category.Ever since measures listed under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) came into effect on October 16, Ghaziabad has been most polluted in the country on seven days-- October 16, 29, November 1, 2, 6, 10 and 11. On the other hand, Noida was polluted for only one day on November 5. As the pollution levels continued to remain in the “severe” category for the eighth consecutive day, the district administration on Thursday asked different agencies to intensify efforts to control PM10 levels. Particulate matter is the general term for inhalable particles in the air such as aerosols, smoke, fumes, dust, ash and pollen. Various studies have found that exposure to fine particulate matter (PM 2.5 and PM10) has been associated with hospital admissions and several serious health effects, including premature death.“Following the spike in pollution levels, the district administration held a meeting with different agencies and asked them to intensify mechanised road sweeping and water sprinkling, especially in the pollution hotspots. Agencies, such as the municipal corporation and the Ghaziabad Development Authority, have been asked to intensify action against construction sites violating norms,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). “The district magistrate has asked agencies to at least control PM10 levels, even though PM2.5 is also high, due to external factors like stubble burning,” said Sharma. In this connection, the state pollution control board on Thursday levied a penalty of ₹25 lakh against Ghaziabad municipal corporation for not taking dust control measures in Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area. The industrial area is one of the hot spots identified under the city’s ‘winter action plan’ and also figures in the list of hot spots identified by the CPCB last year. “A penalty of ₹25 lakh has been levied as the corporation is not taking up water sprinkling and dust mitigation measures in the industrial area. Further, we have also recommended a fine of ₹50 lakh against a ready mix plant of a private company. The plant was found not taking measures to control dust,” said Sharma. Officials of the municipal corporation said they are taking up dust control measures in the industrial area. “We have a facility of water sprinkling and we are also using anti-smog guns. We will take legal recourse against the penalty levied against us by the UPPCB,” said municipal commissioner MS Tanwar. On November 9, the UPPCB levied a cost of ₹25 lakh against the UP Jal Nigam for not taking up dust control measures at the CISF Road in Indirapuram and granted liberty to the agency to recover the cost from contractor. Environmentalists said the pollution has worsened in the past few years, despite agencies making claims of better pollution abatement measures. “The rise in pollution levels is unprecedented as the city continues to reel under the ‘severe’ category for over a week. The PM2.5 levels can be controlled if there is a check on traffic snarls and residents are encouraged to use public transport. However, state run public transport system is still not there in the city,” said Akash Vashishtha, an environmentalist from Ghaziabad. The forecast by the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar) said on Thursday that there was no change in wind direction, which is currently flowing in the north-west direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/agencies-told-to-curb-pm10-level-as-ghaziabad-air-continues-to-be-foul-101636655439907.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Bar employee found dead in Tis Hazari court; police say no foul play||A junior employee of the Delhi Bar Association was found dead inside the Tis Hazari court complex on Thursday morning, with investigators saying that they haven’t found anything pointing towards foul play in the 32-year-old’s death.His colleagues told police that the deceased, a resident of Shahadra, contracted tuberculosis and reportedly told his friends that he was feeling unwell on Wednesday afternoon.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said, “He was unwell and had tuberculosis. His friends said that he drank regularly and heavily... Prima facie, it does not look like there is foul play behind his death. There are no external injuries. We are awaiting the post-mortem report.”Police said the chamber was not ransacked and his belongings, such as cell phone and wallet, were intact. There were some blood stains on the dustbin in the room but police suspect that it may be due to the man vomitting inside the room before his death. The deceased, who also cleaned the lawyers’ chamber at the court complex in the morning, often spent the nights at chambers of different advocates within the court complex.Advocate Sanjeev Nasair, president of the Delhi Bar Association, confirmed that the man was a junior employee of the association for over six years, and said that he had been on sick leave for many months. “Officially, he was still on leave. The information we have is he had come to meet someone at the court yesterday. He requested the staff to allow him to sleep in one of the chambers. This is fairly common. Employees work there and stay the night. They help lawyers with the paper work. He had again fallen ill some days ago. It does not look like a murder.”The incident came to light on Thursday morning, when a court staff reached chamber 192 of the eastern wing inside Tis Hazari and found him lying unconscious inside the chamber.On Thursday, as soon as the police control room received information about a man’s body found in one of the chambers of the Tis Hazari complex, senior Delhi police officers visited the spot as a crime team collected forensic evidence.Police are yet to register a case and are awaiting the post-mortem report before proceeding with the investigation. The body has been kept at the Sabzi Mandi mortuary.The courts in the city have been on high alert since the murder of gangster Jitender Maan, alias Gogi, inside the Rohini court complex nearly two months ago. Gogi was shot dead by gunmen on September 24 during a court hearing. The two gunmen had posed as lawyers to gain entry to the court and fired at least 18 bullets, killing Gogi on the spot.After the incident, Delhi police conducted a security audit and handed the court’s security to its security wing, a specialised unit within the force that deals only with security matters. Before the incident, the security of the seven lower courts in Delhi was handled by the local police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bar-employee-found-dead-in-tis-hazari-court-police-say-no-foul-play-101636655379810.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai coastline crisis: How to save a city: Treat its waste well||Stopping his car a few metres from the Guzdhar Bandh in Santacruz (west), activist Zoru Bathena talks about how the structure was built in the early 1900s to prevent the sea from entering the city. To get to it, we must cross the slum built next to the outlet of the estuary, and piles of garbage. Finally, a large nullah that drains out into the sea comes into view. “This is a storm water drain,” Bathena said, emphasising that a nullah in Mumbai is another term for a storm water drain and not a sewage pipeline. This one is lined with all kinds of garbage, and sewage water flows into it from the houses on its flanks. Bathena pointed to the sluice gates, further down where the nullah drains into the sea, that clap down when the tide is high and when the intensity of rain during the monsoon increases. The sluice gates are supposed to help save the area from flooding. A water treatment plant adjacent to the gates has floating booms that form a barrier and intercept debris and trash preventing them from entering the sea. Of course, when the sluice gates open, the water from the nullah flows out freely. There are no nets here to catch the plastic, because in theory, storm water drains should not be carrying any plastic at all. And this is where the city’s sewage problem lies. Sewage pipes are meant to carry the wastewater from buildings and connect these to a larger network. In Mumbai, all sewage pipes are connected to one of eight sewage treatment plants (STPs). A storm water drain, however, collects run-off water from the streets during rains and drains it into the sea. The storm water drainage system of the city, in fact, comprises a hierarchal network of roadside surface drains, underground drains, and laterals, major and minor nullahs and outfalls which discharge all the surface run-off into the rivers (Mithi, Dahisar, Poisar and Oshiwara and their tributaries) and the Arabian sea.A warren of pipelinesMumbai’s sewage network has had a patchy evolution over the history of the city’s urban development, said historian Shekhar Krishnan, who is an advisor to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) heritage conservation cell. “Up until the start of the 20th century, there was never any adequate sewage disposal system. What existed was skewed towards the rich and elite areas. It was also built to cater to the industrial areas where cotton mills had a good sewage system because the textile industry was water intensive. In fact, Mahatma Gandhi too had commented upon Mumbai’s poor sanitation system during his first visit to the city,” he said. It was in the 1920s, when the flushing technology was added to toilets, increasing water to sewage pipelines that Mumbai had to upgrade its system. This was also improved upon when local self-governance took charge of civic infrastructure in the same decade. Even so, development has only followed population expansion, and our sewage system is constantly playing catch-up. When a storm water drain carries sewage, plastic and other chemical pollutants from human activity, it chokes the life in the water bodies it drains into. “Untreated sewage reduces oxygen in the creeks. It’s a gas chamber for the organisms in the water bodies. The only reason sardines and Bombay duck can still be seen in our waters in because their tolerance to sewage is high. Treating sewage involves aerating it with chemicals and adding natural enzymes to this to breathe life into the sewage,” said Stalin D, the director of Mumbai-based non-profit Vanashakti. As things stand now, the total area under the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) is 454.40 km sq out of which 322.81 km sq falls under what is demarcated as the Development Zone, while the remaining 131.59 km sq comes under what is called the non-development zone, which comprises forests, mangroves, salt pans etc, where no regular development is permitted.Since 2016, the corporation has been expanding the sewerage network. But the problem of raw sewage entering the sea remains.Treating our waste In October 2020, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordered the BMC to pay ₹34 crore as environmental compensation for discharging raw sewage into city drains following Vanashakti’s 2017 public interest litigation (PIL). Following the order, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) drew up a set of compliances that the BMC was required to put into effect from January 1, 2021. The MPCB carried out an audit between December 2020 and June 2021, which revealed that none of the compliances had been adhered to. “The BMC has plans to upgrade their existing STPs [Sewage Treatment Plants], and one new STP will be installed at Dharavi. At present, tendering process for modification and expansion of the existing and new STPs are completed. It will take four to five years for completion of these STPs,” the BMC submitted in a written response to MPCB. Speaking to Hindustan Times at the time, Atul Rao, chief engineer, BMC had attributed the delay to the Covid-19 pandemic. Currently, Mumbai has eight STPs, and the BMC is upgrading them to increase the quantum of sewage that they can treat, but the deadlines are at least five years away. Apart from this, the BMC also plans to build 19 STPs for the four river rejuvenation projects, which includes one that can treat up to 418 Mega Litres (one million) per Day (MLD) in Dharavi. Even so, this isn’t going to be enough.According to data made available by the MCGM to a Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) progress report, the eight treatment plants service 322.81 km sq — which covers the area of the city’s seven sewerage zones — but the accompanying sewerage network is only 269.39 km sq. Simply put, the existing network only covers 83.5% of the area it should service, with most of the shortfall (53.43 km sq) in areas like Malad, Charkop and Ghatkopar. Work on 6.89 km sq of unserviced sewerage area has been ongoing since 2016 (in Colaba and Worli, the existing sewer network of 230mm / 450mm/600 mm diametres is also being upsized to 800mm /1200mm) and it is expected to be completed by 2024.“For the remaining unsewered area (44.06 km sq) (…) and also to prevent discharge of untreated sewage/dry weather flow from storm water drain/nallas directly into water bodies (rivers/creeks/sea) which causes water pollution, MCGM has undertaken major projects which include either diversion of dry weather flow (DWF) to MCGM sewerage system or by providing on-site treatment through decentralized STPs under various package works of Mithi River and other rivers rejuvenation project. MCGM has various proposals of installing various sewerage network/tunnel,” the report stated. A problem of volumeLet’s reassess. A little over 68% of the population in Greater Mumbai has access to a sewerage network. One of the reasons why the rest of the population doesn’t have access could be attributed to a rule that buildings need an occupation certificate before being allowed access to the sewage pipe. This rule immediately excludes the city’s slums. “Buildings that don’t have a connection link their sewage outflow to the storm water drains instead, illegally,” Bathena said. A starting point, said Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator for South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP), would be to conduct surveys at the ward level to understand how much sewage is being generated, what is the capacity of the current system. Treatment plants are advisable not just at the ward level but also within each building complex. In fact, it’s a rule in Mumbai according to an urban development department resolution. “If buildings treat the sewage sufficiently, it would allow for this water to be used locally, for gardening, washing cars or even floor. If treated very well, the water can be used to recharge ground water and local water bodies,” Thakkar said. According to P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, “The long term plan is to have localised mini STP’s in the city with the help of our river rejuvenation plans. By this plan say we aim to have 15-20 mini STPs that will handle the problem in a localised manner. But the eight STPs are in a strategic location, and they should solve the problem.” Velrasu said that another major factor that would ease the city’s sewage problem is to turn informal housing into formal housing. “This will help the city in solving its problem related to sewage in the city.”Anuradha Parmar, executive director of the Urban Design Research Institute, provided a bird’s eye view of the issue. The problem, she said, is that often there is inadequate coordination between waste segregation and collection, transportation, and disposal. “The governing body needs to have an eye on the larger picture and ensure these processes don’t work is silos. If we take the issue of slums, while there might be well intentioned CSR projects that build toilets there, their monitoring and impact is often incomplete. Details of how they fit into the larger sewage network and if the trunk has the capacity to handle this inflow is often overlooked,” she said. P. Velrasu , Additional municipal commissioner (Projects)“The long term plan is to have localised mini Sewage Treatment Plants in the city with the help of our river rejuvenation plans. By this plan say we aim to have 15-20 mini STPs at a localised level that will handle the problem in a more localised manner. But the eight STPs are in a strategic location and they should solve the problem. ” With inputs from Mehul Thakkar and Prayag Arora-Desai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-to-save-a-city-treat-its-waste-well-101636654964231.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||Farm fires may pick up soon, experts say||After a slow start to the stubble burning season, largely due to a late withdrawal of the south-west monsoon and on and off showers till the end of October, farm fires events in states neighbouring Delhi are picking up only post-Diwali and with the next crop season fast approaching, environmentalists and weather experts have warned that the fire count could rise fast in the coming days.Experts also cautioned that a smaller window will not necessarily mean fewer fires; in fact, this year’s cumulative fire count could match or even surpass the figures of the past years, an estimation that does not bode well for Delhi, where air quality is already oscillating between severe and very poor since Diwali (November 4).An analysis of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa)’s NRT VIIRS satellite data by think-tank Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) shows the fire count from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh has touched 64,299 between October 1 and November 10 — the third highest cumulative count after those recorded in 2020 and 2016.In 2020, 71,976 fires were recorded during the same period, while 93,076 fires were recorded during the same period in 2016. Experts say if the present trend continues, this year’s tally could match or even surpass the count of last year.CEEW analysis also showed while Punjab has so far recorded 54,834 fires between October 1 and November 10 — the third highest count after those recorded in 2020 (64,958) and 2016 (77,108) — Haryana, where farm fires have shown a declining trend over the past few years, has shown a spike in fires this year.So far, Haryana has recorded 7,197 farm fires, a spike of nearly 40% from last year’s count of 4,371 fires during the same period. In 2019, Haryana recorded 5,254 fires till November 10, while the figure was 6,252 in 2018. Haryana’s numbers were higher only in 2017 and 2016, when it recorded 8,310 and 10,070 fires, respectively.“Between September 1 and November 10, 55,076 and 7,237 farm fires were spotted in Punjab and Haryana, respectively. While the fires recorded so far are fewer when compared to the corresponding period last year, they were higher than those during the same period in 2018 and 2019. We have observed a considerable rise in the number of farm fires in November this year,” said LS Kurinji, programme associate, CEEW.She said while the number of farm fires collectively in Punjab and Haryana were only 20,723 till October 31, this figure has more than tripled, to 62,308 in the last 10 days, indicative of farmers stepping up the count as the crop season is fast approaching.“The slight shift observed in the farm fires trend this year can be attributed to the delayed harvest on account of a delayed monsoon withdrawal. The daily fire count has increased to a range of 3,000-6,000 fires over the past one week and with winds blowing predominantly from the north-west, the smoke from farm fires will move downwind and drive up the pollution levels in the national capital and surrounding areas. Taking cues from historical trends, we can expect a decrease in farm fires in the coming days as we approach the season’s end,” Kurinji said.Hiren Jethva, an aerosol remote sensing scientist at the Universities Space Research Association (USRA), the United States, said fires are at their steepest rise since October 25.“A backlog of stubble burning from October, due to wet and humid weather is likely to have shifted these cases to November, or there could be a systematic delay in the burning season altogether.”Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), said that based on current trends, farm fires in Punjab could surpass last year’s fire count for the period in the next two or three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farm-fires-to-intensify-in-weeks-as-only-short-window-before-winter-sowing-101636654959860.html
12-11-2021||Delhi||‘Won’t act against pvt vendors for not paying license fee’: Delhi govt to HC||The state government on Thursday verbally assured the Delhi high court that it will not take any coercive action against retail liquor vendors for now for not paying the license fees under the New Excise Policy 2021.The court was hearing a plea seeking to postpone till November 17 the collection of licence fee as the petitioners, 16 retail liquor traders, claimed the government has not yet fixed maximum retail prices (MRPs) for liquor brands.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing the plea challenging the decision of the state government to levy license fees from November 1, 2021, was informed by senior advocate Rahul Mehra that the government and liquor vendors are partners in business, and that the interest of all the stakeholders will be protected by not taking any precipitate action against anyone.Currently, there are 408 liquor vends run by the Delhi government in the city. As per the new excise policy, these will shut down on November 16 as new retail vends will open from November 17 in the Capital.Mehra said that a similar assurance has also been made before another bench of the high court hearing challenges related to excise policy. “...this is not at all adversarial. These are our business partners…and we want success as much as other stakeholders want it to be,” Mehra said.On the last date on Tuesday, the court had asked the government to specify the number of liquor brands for which the MRPs had been fixed.In response, Mehra gave a one-page note to the court on Thursday, mentioning that of the 30 major brands, MRPs of 10 have been fixed and the process for seven more will be complete in two days. He sought more time from the court to file a proper response, after which the court posted the matter for Monday.During the hearing on Thursday, the court expressed unhappiness with the government for filing another 31-page affidavit opposing the pleas by the retail license holders, pointing out that it had only made a limited query on the number of liquor brands for which MRPs have been fixed.In the affidavit, the government said retail vendors were trying to cover up their own delays and avoid payment of the license fee levied in accordance with the provisions of the Delhi Excise Act and rules and also the terms and conditions of the tender. Mehra said that the delay is also due to the fact that the wholesale sellers have not yet approached the government for fixing MRPs.However, senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the petitioners, disputed the government’s stand and said that there was no delay on their part. He contended that brands were being registered till November 8 even as MRPs were not fixed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-coercive-action-against-liquor-vendors-for-licence-fee-delhi-govt-to-hc-101636654540247.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Air quality of most Haryana cities fall under severe to poor categories||Air quality of most Haryana cities, especially those located in the national capital region, stood in severe to very poor category with the air quality index (AQI) of most cities measuring between 300 and 450.There is no major change in air quality in the past one week as it deteriorated on Diwali night.As per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin on Thursday afternoon, three Haryana cities – Ballabgarh (431), Hisar (422) and Faridabad (412) – reported an AQI above 400 which is categorised as severe by the CPCB.The air quality of 12 other cities – Manesar (399), Charkhi Dadri (389), Bahadurgarh (385), Bhiwani (383), Gurgram (378), Jind (366), Panipat (365), Fatehabad (354), Kaithal (350), Rohtak (344), Dharuhera (334), and Kurukshetra (303) – were categorised as very poor with AQI measuring between 301 and 400.Having the AQI below 300, six cities of the state – Palwal (300), Ambala (299), Karnal (298), Sirsa (295), Narnaul (234), and Yamunanagar (220) – have best air quality in comparison to other cities of the state.Panchkula is the only city in Haryana mentioned in the bulletin which has satisfactory air quality with the AQI remaining below 100.Stubble burning cases reach near 5,000The incidents of crop residue burning are increasing with each passing day as the state has so far reported 4,937 incidents from September 15 to November 10, revealed the data of the Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC).Also, 184 incidents of stubble burning were reported on Wednesday. With 1,087 incidents, Kaithal reported most farm fires, followed by 981 in Fatehabad, 860 in Karnal, 520 in Kurukshetra, 528 in Jind, and 277 in Ambala; 86% (4,253 incidents) of total 4,937 were reported in these six districts.On why the authorities have failed to put a check on stubble burning, Karnal deputy director agriculture Aditya Dabas said the officials have been told to take strict action.He said 70 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered against the erring farmers and 443 farmers have been challaned in district. A fine of ₹11.22 lakh was imposed on them for burning the crop waste.Similarly, in Kaithal district, deputy director agriculture Karam Chand said five farmers have been booked and 476 farmers challaned. A fine of ₹8.92 lakh was imposed on farmers so far.However, no FIR was registered against the farmers in Kurukshetra, but the agriculture department has challaned 335 farmers of ₹7.22 lakh, the officials said.Tomar to review crop residue managementMeanwhile, Union agriculture and farmers welfare minister Narendra Tomar is scheduled to review the implementation of the crop residue management scheme in Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh on Friday via video conferencing.According to officials, the agenda of the meeting is to review the updated progress of implementation of the scheme and status of delivery of machines. Also, on agenda is to review the status of implementation of information, education and communication activities.The discussion on proposals of the states for inclusion of some additional machines under the scheme is also on agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-quality-of-most-haryana-cities-fall-under-severe-to-poor-categories-101636643846489.html
12-11-2021||Lucknow||Kasganj custodial death case: Victim’s father accuses cops of intimidation||The father of a 22-year-old man, who died in police custody in Uttar Pradesh’s Kasganj town, denied on Thursday that he had willingly affixed his thumbprint to a document saying his son was depressed and died by suicide. The 22-year-old, identified as Altaf, was called for interrogation at the Kasganj police station in an abduction case and died on Tuesday evening, with his family members alleging that he was killed by police personnel. But the police claimed that Altaf, who was accused of eloping with a minor Hindu girl, had strangulated himself using a string from his jacket hood in the washroom of the police lock-upLate in the evening, police produced a hand-written note that absolved the police of all blame in the case. The note, written in Hindi, said Altaf was depressed and had the thumbprint of his father, Chand Mian. Kasganj superintendent of police Rohan Pramod Botre also referred to the note to say that the family had no complaints with the police.But Mian said he was threatened by officials that his son’s body will not be handed over to him if he spoke against the police. “I did what I was told to do by the police,” he said.He said he was illiterate and couldn’t read what was written before placing his thumbprint. “I was neither in good health nor in a proper frame of mind when I gave the statement and placed my thumb impression without knowing the content on the paper. Being in an unstable condition, I did what I was asked by the police to do,” he said.Taken aback by Mian’s statements, the Kasganj police avoided comment on it. “Better ask father of deceased as to why he is changing his stand from one statement to another. What can police say about this?” stated ASP Kasganj, AK Singh.Altaf, a resident of Ahroli village of Kasganj district, worked as a tile fixer and was accused on November 8 of abduction and eloping with a minor Hindu girl by her family.A case was registered at the Sadar Kotwali police station of Kasganj under Sections 363 and 366 (kidnapping, abduction) of the Indian Penal Code against Altaf. Police said he was taken in for questioning on Tuesday morning while family said it was on Monday evening.“During interrogation, the accused went to the washroom at the police station, where he hanged himself to death from the tap,” said AK Singh, additional superintendent of police.“The accused was wearing a jacket with a hood and used its string which he tied to the tap in the toilet and hanged himself,” he added.Fatima, Altaf’s mother, appealed to the government for a fair probe.“There should be a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the case as the suicide theory narrated by the police is baseless. In any case, how can a man commit suicide by hanging himself from a 3-ft-high tap. We do not trust the post-mortem report, which cites ‘hanging’ as the cause of death,” said Fatima. HT has a copy of the postmortem report which says there were no injury marks on the body and asphyxiation as the cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kasganj-custodial-death-case-deceased-s-father-cries-foul-over-letter-giving-clean-chit-to-cops-101636642587000.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||ED arrests former Punjab MLA Sukhpal Khaira in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday arrested former Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira in connection with a money laundering case being probed against him and others, officials said. He was produced in a PMLA court in Mohali and sent to ED custody for a day. The court asked the ED to produce him again on Friday.They said Khaira, 56, was taken into custody by the central probe agency in Chandigarh under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The agency had raided his premises in March this year. The ED has alleged that Khaira is an “associate” of drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers. The politician has denied any wrongdoing and said he is being targeted by central agencies as he has been vocal against the Centre’s three new farm laws. “It is political vendetta. Nothing else,” said Khaira to media while being taken away by ED from their office in sector 18, Chandigarh. He had recently resigned from the state assembly. Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from the Bholath assembly seat in Kapurthala district on an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. He resigned from the primary membership of the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP in January 2019 and floated his own outfit, the Punjab Ekta Party. He then re-joined the Congress in June this year. After the arrest, Khaira was taken to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, for the medical examination. Later in the evening, he was produced before the duty magistrate in the special PMLA court in Mohali (Punjab). (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-arrests-former-punjab-mla-sukhpal-singh-khaira-in-money-laundering-case-101636633646210.html
12-11-2021||Jaipur||Congress high command to decide on state Cabinet reshuffle: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said he has left the decision on the much awaited Cabinet reshuffle in the state to the Congress’ central leadership, which will decide when will it happen.The statement came a day after Gehlot met Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ajay Maken, who is also the party’s Rajasthan in-charge, and KC Venugopal. Gehlot on Thursday met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.“The high command will decide when the Cabinet expansion will happen. I have briefed (the high command). Ajay Maken... keeps coming to Rajasthan. He had all the information.”He added that Maken will speak to former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and others about the decision.“We are providing good governance in Rajasthan and the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) has been being wiped out… it came third and the fourth in the by-polls to two seats,” Gehlot said.The Cabinet reshuffle has been awaited since Gehlot’s former deputy, Sachin Pilot, revoted against him last year. Congress functionaries aware of the matter said Pilot’s associates are likely to get at least four ministerial berths and those close to Gehlot five. There are nine vacancies in the council of ministers.Gehlot said the situation in the country is serious and that democracy and the Constitution are in danger as the judiciary and central agencies are being misused by the Union government.He asked the Centre to further reduce the excise duty on petrol and diesel.The Union government reduced the excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 a litre on Diwali-eve.Folliwng this, many states ruled by the BJP and a few others followed suit. Rajasthan is among the states that hasn’t done so. Gehlot has pointed out that the state levy is anyway an ad valorem one, and that the reduction by the Central government also means a reduction to some quantum in state levies.On Thursday, he said that the share of states in duties on fuel have reduced (many of the central levies are cesses, which are not shared with the states) over the years and said he wants a “further reduction in excise duty on fuel prices. This will automatically reduce VAT.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/congress-high-command-to-decide-on-state-cabinet-reshuffle-ashok-gehlot-101636625124945.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Bollywood stars targeted to divert attention from Gujarat drug seizures: Malik||In yet another day of accusations and countercharges, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Thursday raised questions over the large haul of drugs seized from Gujarat in the recent weeks and said that Gujarat’s role in the country’s illegal narcotics supply chain should be investigated by central agencies.Later in the day, Malik’s daughter, Nilofer Khan sent a legal notice to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and his wife Amruta, seeking an apology from them for claiming that her husband, Sameer, had possessed drugs. This was soon followed by Amruta Fadnavis sending a legal notice to Malik demanding deletion of tweets pertaining to Fadnavis’ alleged connections with drug dealers, within 48 hours.Since Monday, Fadnavis and Malik have traded accusations of wrongdoing. While Fadnavis accused Malik of buying property from persons linked with the underworld, and an accused in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case, Malik accused Fadnavis of protecting a fake currency racket in the aftermath of the 2016 demonetisation, while the latter was chief minister of Maharashtra. On November 1, Malik had also tweeted a photo of Fadnavis and his wife with an accused in a drug peddling case and claimed that the two knew him; the former CM and Amruta have denied this charge.On Thursday, Malik raised questions over the recent seizure of drugs worth ₹313 crore in Devbhumi Dwarka, and asked if “a drug game (racket)” was “being run from Gujarat”. “The Gujarat drug connection needs to be exposed and those involved need to be brought to justice. With another seizure of drug consignment at Dwarka in Gujarat on Wednesday, it has been established that drug consignments come to Gujarat via sea route and are distributed in the country,” Malik said.On Wednesday, the Gujarat police seized 17 kilogrammes of heroin and methamphetamine, cumulatively worth ₹88.25 crore from Devbhumi Dwarka district of Gujarat. They arrested three persons, including a vegetable vendor from Mumbra in Thane district called Sajjad Ghosi, which led to a recovery of 47 more packets of drugs from a residential premise in Salaya, Gujarat, worth ₹225 crore. In all, the haul totals ₹313.25 crore. In September, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized around 3,000 kg of heroin worth around ₹21,000 crore from Mundra port in Kutch district. The case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Malik drew a connection between independent witnesses in a drug raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a cruise ship in Mumbai and a Gujarat cabinet minister.“All those names such as Manish Bhanushali, Dhaval Bhanushali, KP Gosavi, Sunil Patil that cropped up in the investigation of Aryan Khan case, were operating from Gujarat. They used to stay at five star hotels and appear to be close confidantes of cabinet minister Kiritsinh Rana ji. Two major drug hauls have been seized from Gujarat, which creates a suspicion that a racket is active in the state. The central agencies like National Investigation Agency and NCB should conduct an impartial and thorough probe,” Malik said.Malik has tweeted photos of both Patil and Gosavi with the minister in past weeks.Manish Bhanushali and KP Gosavi are independent witnesses for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug raid conducted on a cruise ship docked off the coast of Mumbai on October 2. The cruise raid led to the arrest of 20 persons, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23). Earlier this week, BJP leader Mohit Kamboj claimed that Patil was an NCP party worker who gave the tip-off about the cruise ship party to Bhanushali. Patil has denied both allegations.Gujarat minister Kiritsinh Rana and the ruling BJP on Thursday refuted Malik’s allegations.“I don’t know any of the people (named by Malik). We are catching people (involved in drugs trade) in Gujarat, too. The law is equal for everyone and those who have done anything wrong will be punished,” Rana said. “Malik ji, you should first investigate how the drug mafia Sajjad managed to run this illegal trade without any fear from Mumbai and who was protecting him till now. I am proud of Gujarat police for seizing the drugs” minister of state for Home Harsh Sanghavi said in a tweet.Malik on Thursday said that Bollywood celebrities possessing few grams of drugs were being penalised by central agencies to create a perception that Mumbai is a hub of drugs. This was being done to divert attention from drug seizures in Gujarat and allow the illegal trade without hurdle.Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in January and was released on bail in September; Malik has alleged that Sameer was wrongly arrested. Fadnavis on November 1 had claimed that drugs were found in Sameer Khan’s possession.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said that the haul of drugs from Gujarat’s Devbhumi Dwarka district is a matter of concern, and said that the NCB officials must study the 350-kg drugs that were seized in September.“It is a matter of concern that drugs have been recovered from Dwarka. The officers and zonal directors [of the NCB] who had got international acclaim by seizing a gram or half a gram [of drug], must study this 300-350 kg drugs. Over 3500kg of drugs was found in Gujarat earlier, now again drugs have been recovered worth about ₹100 crore. They must see if the people from Gujarat film industry or children of the rich were involved in this. The country must know what the team of NCB is doing in Gujarat,” Raut said in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bollywood-stars-targeted-to-divert-attention-from-gujarat-drug-seizures-malik-101636623084821.html
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction: Punjab assembly unanimously passes resolution against Centre’s move||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Thursday passed a resolution against the Centre’s notification that extended the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) up to 50km inside the international border even as the opposition parties questioned the delay by the Congress government in moving the Supreme Court against the order. This was the last assembly session during the tenure of the present Congress government. The resolution was adopted unanimously by the state assembly, “rejecting” the Union home ministry’s October 11 order in the absence of the two members of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is in power at the Centre, from the House. Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who quit the Congress last month and has backed the extension in BSF’s operational remit, also did not attend the proceedings. All other parties, including the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), supported the official resolution on the concluding day of the two-day special session convened after an all-party meeting resolved to oppose and reject the Union government’s notification. However, both AAP and SAD also questioned the delay in challenging the notification in the apex court. The Centre had amended the BSF Act to authorise the border guarding force to carry out “arrest, search and seizure” within 50km, up from the existing 15km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, moved the resolution demanding the withdrawal of the Centre’s directive. Terming the Centre’s move “an attack on the federal structure”, Randhawa said the state government will challenge the notification in the Punjab and Haryana high court. “As per the Constitution of India, maintaining law and order is the responsibility of the state government, and for this purpose, government of Punjab is fully competent. The decision of extending the jurisdiction of the BSF by the Union government is an expression of distrust towards the police and people of Punjab. This is their insult,” the resolution stated, stressing on prior consultation. Citing a letter written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2012 to the then UPA government as the Gujarat chief minister against a similar move that separate state was being created within the state, Randhawa suggested that the House members should meet the PM over the issue. As SAD and AAP members rose to speak on the matter, speaker Rana KP Singh and parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra said there was no need for debate as the matter had already been discussed at length in the all-party meeting. The speaker later allowed the members to give their suggestions. Raising the issue of delay in moving the SC against the notification, SAD member Birkam Singh Majithia said the Congress government in the state should also take a decision that the Punjab police would not give cooperation to the BSF beyond 15km. He then hit out at Randhawa for allowing the BSF into the state by asking for their deployment in jails for security. “What purpose will the resolution serve? There have been 16 resolutions so far, but none has been implemented,” he said. While finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said he (Majithia) was trying to gain political advantage on this issue, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said this was not one person’s fight and they (political parties) were all together in it. Congress member Navjot Singh Sidhu asked why the Akali Dal chief (Sukhbir Singh Badal) did not attend the all-party meeting on such an important issue. Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu suggested that the Punjab government should get in touch with other states such as Rajasthan, Gujarat and J&K and together press for an amendment in the BSF Act to incorporate a clause regarding prior consultation with states before any such changes. SAD (Sanyukt) member Parminder Singh Dhindsa and AAP member Aman Arora asked the CM to share the details of his meeting with the PM and Union home minister Amit Shah after which the Centre issued the BSF notification. “We should have acted promptly after the MHA came out with this directive. It has been one month, but we are still discussing what needs to be done. Why it (directive) has not been challenged in SC,” Arora asked. Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema suggested a resolution against former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the House for repeatedly raising the bogey of security, asking the CM what was his (Channi’s) deal with PM and Amit Shah on the BSF issue. Hitting back, Channi said the SAD always saw everything through the narrow prism of politics, especially the issues of utmost importance to Punjab such as devolution of more powers to states, transfer of Chandigarh to Punjab. “They allowed entry to the BJP and RSS in Punjab. They became the gateway through which the RSS, which has always been inimical to the interests of Punjab, managed to make inroads in the State. When the RSS and its political wing the BJP undermined the federal structure of the country by revoking the Article 370 not only did the Akalis sided with the BJP but SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal spoke in its favour,” he said, On meeting Modi and Shah, Channi said that his meetings with them were a courtesy call. “The Akalis have chosen to forget very conveniently that I wrote letters to the Union Government emphasizing the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor, besides pleading with it repeatedly to roll back the three draconian agricultural farm laws,” he added, categorically stating that he never asked them to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF in the state. However, AAP and SAD members were not satisfied with his reply. They started protesting and entered the well of the House, raising slogans against the state government, before staging symbolic walkouts, separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-jurisdiction-punjab-assembly-unanimously-passes-resolution-against-centre-s-move-101636620264583.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||North to south Mumbai during peak traffic hours is tiring and tedious||In 2016, an Environmental Impact Assessment Report prepared by a consultancy firm at the behest of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) included a section based on traffic surveys that were conducted at 17 locations where major highways met nodal arterial roads. The report was meant to study the feasibility of the coastal road project — an ambitious project that aims to connect south Mumbai to its northern suburb, Kandivli — and found that cars, taxis and jeeps (light fast vehicles) dominated the traffic volume count. At Mumbai Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj international airport — one of the locations selected —nearly 68% of the average daily traffic comprised light fast vehicles. According to Vijay Nighot, chief engineer of the Coastal Road Project, “Travel time will reduce by about 70% due to the Coastal Road. The road will also have a dedicated bus route for plying BEST buses with bus stops.” Opinions on the efficacy of the coastal road to ease the transportation woes is however, divided.We undertook the journey over four different transportation modes to understand the time it takes for the average Mumbaiite to travel between Kandivli and Nariman Point during the peak hours in the morning and the evening. For those travelling by bus, the journey takes up close to 3.30 to 4 hours; it take a quarter of that time to travel by train, though last mile connectivity is still a pain point. For the biker, traffic snarls at most parts of the journey, including a freeway like the Western Express Highway, meant a long uncomfortable ride of close to two hours. And for those who wish to book a cab over an aggregator service, the woes are compounded as the ride, though long, isn’t financially viable according to many cab drivers. Since the publication the EIA, the coastal road project has undergone changes. For one, the BMC is now incharge of constructing only one part of it: a 10.58km-long road that will connect Marine Drive to the Worli end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation is incharge of developing the northern half of the coastal road, from Bandra to Kandivli. According to the BMC, 41% of the work — which includes building under-sea tunnels, elevated roads, roads over stilts, bridges and reclaiming land — is over.Urban planner Rohit Shinkre said, “I recently read statistics that show about 10% of citizens own cars, and about 6% actually use the cars for their daily commute. However, largely the idea of using public transport is associated with discomfort. Now that the Sea Link is in use for so many years, authorities can collate and assess data and actually analyse whether it has helped ease traffic flow, cut fuel cost and cost of commute, and led to decongestion. In my experience, this is not true before you get onto the Sea Link, and once you get off it — those portions are still congested. So the coastal road may ease discomfort of a journey for a partial distance, for a few commuters.”Experts point out that metros should encourage public transport. How will either scenario — encouraging mass transit or building a coastal road — help the average Mumbaiite? Judging by the commutes we undertook, it’s going to take a lot more to ease travel in the city. BUS: NINE HOURS ON THE ROADUrban developers talk about the need to strengthen mass transit modes like buses for a reason: they’re far more effective in transporting a larger number of people for the space they occupy on a road compared to say, a car. But travelling in a bus isn’t the most time-efficient experience for the average Mumbaikar. I undertook two peak-hour journeys across Greater Mumbai — from Nariman Point to Kandivali railway station and vice versa —in buses and found that I spent an average of four hours one way. On the whole, I spent nearly nine hours on the road, hoping across five buses. Let’s start with the return journey. From the bus stop at Nariman Point’s National Centre for Performing Arts (NCPA), I waited 10 minutes to take the 137 to CST railway station. The bus journey took 30 minutes and stopped seven times. I had to cross the road (taking the underpass) toward the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) headquarters, in order to catch the 51-C bus to Santacruz bus depot (the central node for BEST buses in the western suburbs). Most passengers used the bus to make shorter journeys to Nagpada, Byculla, Lalbaug and Dadar. The ride to Santacruz took a little over an hour, making 38 stops. I reached the Santacruz bus depot around 9pm. There, I waited for at least 25 minutes to board route number 202, which goes to Gorai depot over the arterial SV Road and passes through Andheri, Jogeshwari, Goregaon and Malad. This time, I was fortunate to find a seat. The journey took a little over two hours, and I reached Kandivli railway station after 34 stops at 11.10pm — just 20 minutes short of a five-hour journey. By this time, peak hour traffic had dissipated.Travelling from Kandivli to Nariman Point in the morning rush hour traffic took 4 hours and 17 minutes. I took the 202 bus from Kandivli station at 9.30am and we crawled along SV Road. I reached Santacruz bus depot an hour and 40 minutes later. There, I switched to bus number 51-C to CST and encountered traffic jams all the way to Dadar. By 1 pm however, as the bus hit Parel, the rush hour traffic cleared up. The final stretch through Lalbaug, Byculla and Nagpada took a quick 40 minutes, and the 202 bus route from CST to Nariman Point dropped me off at the NCPA bus stop at 1:47 pm exactly.On average nearly 2.4 million passengers travel daily in the 3500 BEST buses in the city. However, for a suburban resident, a long bus ride to the work district in South Mumbai is certainly not the answer to their transportation needs.— Prayag Arora DesaiBIKE: UNDER A BLAZING SUNTwo-wheeler journeys in Mumbai’s humidity and blazing sun are strenuous. In addition to the weather, peak hour traffic snarls and constant honking elevate stress levels of riders. Hindustan Times photographer Satish Bate and I set out for this test drive knowing well that it would be a long ride. It was. We had to travel 39 km but we didn’t have the option to take the Worli Sea-link, as two-wheelers are not allowed on it (the sea link would have cut travel time by several minutes). We left our start point, the Kandivli Station, at 9.30am and hit slow-moving traffic at the very start of the Western Express Highway at Kandivali. At Malad and Jogeshwari, we had to halt for a minute each because of traffic jams. The movement was streamlined as an extra lane was opened from Kandivli onwards on the northbound road for traffic heading south. The journey eased slightly as we crossed Mahim: we were part of a traffic snarl at Tilak Bridge in Dadar and on Pedder Road in south Mumbai. Once we hit the seafront near Wilson College, it was a smooth ride to Nariman Point. The whole ride took an hour and 56 minutes.Narrowed space available on the roads due to construction of the coastal road along Marine Drive made the going slow for four-wheelers en route to Babulnath — not so for Satish and I.. This stretch took us merely 16 minutes as we left Maker Chambers at 6.30 pm, the peak hour of evening traffic. Again, at Jaslok hospital, two-wheelers like ours managed to escape the congestion. The longest halt was in south Mumbai near Worli junction where a lone traffic policeman was trying to manage vehicular movement. Within 45 minutes we had reached Mahim, where once more, pedestrian traffic (towards the Dargah) slowed us.Barring the congestion on joining the Western Express highway at Bandra, the traffic was fairly fast moving towards the western suburbs till we reached Jogeshwari. That’s where the chaos began. Starting at Jogeshwari flyover till we took the turn near the Growel’s Mall in Kandivli, traffic was bumper to bumper. No car had broken down, no barricading justified the jam. The five-km stretch took 35 minutes to negotiate. We reached our end point at 8.40, two hours and 10 minutes later.The share of light vehicles ranged from 88% at Santacruz flyover to 99% at Worli Dairy. In 2015, there were 1.4 million two-wheelers in Greater Mumbai. By 2017-18, the number had crossed 2 million. Even the pandemic hasn’t slowed down sales. The convenience of negotiating traffic snarls is a significant reason to aid the decision to buy a two-wheeler. But the journey certainly doesn’t justify the purchase. — Jyoti Shelar and Satish BateCAB: A COSTLY, UNCOMFORTABLE RIDEWould a Mumbaiite chose a bullock-cart for an over 36-km long commute within Mumbai city to go home at the end of a workday? Sitting in a cab, booked on an aggregator application, felt similar. The ride from Maker Chambers in Nariman Point to Kandivli Station took two hours and 20 minutes, with bumper-to-bumper traffic along most of Western Express highway — a freeway with no traffic signals. The average speed we mustered was 16 km/ hour, travelling after 6.30 pm on a workday evening.Four cab drivers refused the ride which was surprising, because users of cab aggregator services assume that a long ride would be preferable than shorter ones. Turns out, that’s not the case and here’s why. Drivers of aggregate cabs receive a booking via the mobile application, but they can only chose to accept without knowing either destination or fare. For the four who refused to take me to Kandivli, the pre-decided fare was simply not viable for them. Each time, I cancelled the booking on their request, a surcharge was applied and eventually the last booking cost ₹1,500. A black and yellow taxi would have cost ₹611 for the same distance. Since the fare is not calculated in real-time with a meter for an aggregate cab, most cab drivers of aggregator apps prefer not to take long journeys on busy routes. I switched apps, and booked a ride for ₹746. The cab driver who agreed to take me to Kandivli only did so on the condition that I would agree to take the Bandra-Worli sea link, where I paid a toll of ₹85. However, barricades along the Worli promenade all the way up to the Sea Link, slowed down traffic considerably. In fact, the journey between Bandra and Kandivli via the Western Expressway — 60% of the distance — took up 75% of the time.The highway beyond Bandra had bumper to bumper traffic, regardless of traffic signals or bottlenecks. Even flyovers were choked.Commuting on the same route (starting at Kandivli Station) in the morning peak hour — we left Kandivli at 9.30 am — was equally tedious, but less time consuming. In the morning, the Western Express highway up till Bandra was less congested. However, traffic was considerably denser on Marine Drive and around Mantralaya. It took longer to cross the sea face at Haji Ali, and Pedder Road, in comparison to the time it took during the evening peak hour. Luckily, the first cab that I booked agreed to the commute. The journey was completed in one hour and 52 minutes, and cost ₹642. On the whole, the commute is basically unaffordable for any salaried middle class person.— Eeshanpriya MSTRAIN: FASTEST RIDE IN TOWN For the average Mumbaiite, train journeys are the most reliable form of mass transit and are inexpensive — a monthly pass costs a few hundred rupees depending on the destinations — but when it comes to peak hours, it’s always a gamble. Is it better to hop on to a slow train or wait for a fast one? Will the next train have space to accommodate you? In case one lands up in a slow train, does it save time to board a fast train eventually to travel a longer route? And, in the midst of a pandemic, is it safe?The Western Railway transports at least 3.5 million passengers a day — since the pandemic started and the government put restrictions on who can travel by train (only those who are doubly vaccinated, even if they are essential workers), the numbers have fallen.Even so, delays are built in to this mode of transport, as many passengers switch between slow and fast trains at different platforms. In the pandemic, in an effort to prevent crowding at ticket counters, the railway has permitted only monthly passes for double-vaccinated people.For this test drive, I reached Kandivli station at 9.33 am on a Thursday. I had missed a fast train to Churchgate by four minutes and the next train to arrive was a 9.36 slow local for Andheri. I boarded the train that came after that in the hope that it would be less crowded, taking instead the 9.40am Churchgate-bound slow train. Waiting for the next fast train would have meant spending another 13 minutes at the station. Many daily commuters who board trains from slow destinations like Kandivli, Malad or Goregaon prefer switching to a fast train from Andheri to save time. By the time we reached Andheri, it was 10.05 am. Alighting from this train, I walked to another platform to board the 10.12 fast train to Churchgate — it was far more crowded than the slow train I had left. Not everyone had their mask on — many had it pulled under their chin. It took exactly 10 minutes to reach the next station, Bandra, and another seven minutes to reach Dadar. By 10.45 am, I had reached Churchgate.Taxis or buses are the only options for last mile connectivity from the station to Maker Chambers in Nariman Point. Most commuters opt for a shared cab. I did too. The one I sat in left the station at 10.49 am and I reached Maker Chambers at 10.55 am. The six-minute-long ride cost ₹15. The evening journey back to Kandivli was faster because of the fast train available from Churchgate. The train was packed. A slow train would have taken about 20 minutes longer than a fast train but it would likely have been less crowded.— Jyoti Shelar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/north-to-south-mumbai-during-peak-traffic-hours-is-tiring-and-tedious-101636571187040.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai coastline crisis: Urban flooding is a public health issue||In the past decade, 14-year-old Gausuddin Sayyed has visited the local homeopathic practitioner’s clinic at least five times every year. Each time, his complaints were similar: wheezing, choked nasal passage and cough. The healer would give him medicine for allergic bronchitis. Sayyed would complete the course over three to six days depending on the severity of the bout. He would get better. Then it was time for treatment again. The teenager lives in Cheetah Camp near Chembur with his younger brother, Moinuddin (12), mother, Rehmat (32) and father Farid (40). Their two-room house is located on the edge of the Vashi creek and floods often: not just every monsoon, but even during a particularly high tide. After the water recedes, the walls grow a layer of green fungus or mold which gets darker in colour each passing day. Gausuddin and Moinuddin would wait till the mold thickened before scraping it off their walls. Soon after the cleaning exercise, Sayyed’s bout of respiratory discomfort would flare-up. “The fungus and the dampness triggered his allergies according to the doctor,” said Rehmat, who works as a community volunteer for the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). From dampness to airFungi needs nutrients like carbohydrates, proteins and lipids to thrive and they find these nutrients easily on plants, walls, and wood among other surfaces. Fungal growth also requires moisture. Add to that improper or poor ventilation — like where Gausuddin lives —and the perennial nature of his ill-health becomes explicable.Molds are a common type of fungi that spread rapidly on damp surfaces and release tiny spores into the air which can be inhaled easily. Dust mites and several fungi produce allergens associated with asthma and many fungi produce toxins and irritants that may affect respiratory health, a document by the World Health Organization (WHO) pointed out. “The indoor concentrations of some of these organisms and agents are known or suspected to be elevated in damp indoor environments and may affect the health of people living or working there. In particular, it has been suggested that dust mites and fungi, both of which favour damp environments, play a major role,” the document on indoor air quality, dampness and mold, stated.“Molds are common in our environment, but it’s the proximity, exposure and sensitivity to the molds that impact people,” said Rahul Phadtare, Gausuddin’s homoeopathic doctor, who advised the Sayyeds to move out of their home. “But where could we go? This has been our home for the past 14 years,” Rehmat said. Living with wetness For the Sayyeds, the problem of mold is connected to a bigger issue: urban flooding. Every monsoon, a large part of the M East ward — home to over 800,000 residents who comprise over 40% of the city’s slum population — gets flooded. The ward is close to Vashi creek, but several homes of the Cheetah Camp settlement, one of the main localities here (and where the Sayyeds stay), have been built over the creek by filling it up with debris. Environmentalists point out that the natural depth of the creek has reduced on account of this. The creek and a warren of nullahs that run through the ward serve an important function by allowing surface run-off of the water during high tide or in the monsoon. However, an ineffective sewage system and an ineffectual garbage disposal and collection mechanism mean that the nullahs are choked with waste. Nowhere to go, the water often spills into homes. “The water level rises above my waist level during heavy rainfall,” Rehmat said. Such flooding events pose a major risk to public health, medical experts said. “When flooding occurs, all sorts of organisms — bacteria, viruses, fungi — enter people’s homes, putting them at the risk of severe infections,” said Dr Nerges Mistry, director of Mumbai-based Foundation for Medical Research (FMR) which conducts advanced laboratory research in the field of neurology, immunology and microbiology. “Children, senior citizens and people with co-morbid conditions are the most vulnerable,” she added. Flooding events in Mumbai are not new. On July 26, 2005, Mumbai experienced a cloudburst with 944 mm of rain in a span of 24 hours. According to an affidavit filed by the BMC in the Bombay high court, 546 people had died during the flood due to drowning and other related accidents. However, many more are believed to have died days after the flood due to flood-related illnesses and diseases. On 29 August 2017, the city experienced another devastating flooding event with 330 mm of rainfall reported within 12 hours killing nearly 20 people. Low-lying areas suffered the worst impact of the flooding, as water entered people’s homes, damaging property.This is only going to keep happening. Changing climatic conditions, pollution and coastal erosion exacerbate these events. A recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has warned that 12 Indian cities close to the coastline, Mumbai included, could be about three feet underwater by the end of this century, due to rising sea levels.The crisis, as we now understand it, is not the event itself or even its repetitiveness. The often invisible and unseen after-effects — like Gausuddin’s allergic bronchitis — are part of the unfolding catastrophe. An observational studyIn 2005, soon after the city was hit by floods, doctors at the civic-run KEM Hospital noticed an increase in the number of women requiring hospitalisation due to worsened asthma. Curious, the hospital’s health survey unit including resident doctors and volunteers visited the patients’ homes to investigate the possible environmental triggers. The KEM researchers used a steel tube to trap air from the patients’ homes and sent it for testing to the microbiology department. The findings showed severe mold infestations in their houses, which were located in areas that were severely affected during the floods. “We found two common types of fungi, aspergillosis and candida, during the onsite monitoring,” said Dr Amita Athavale, head of the pulmonary medicine department, KEM Hospital. Since the women spent more time in their homes, the KEM doctors believe that they had increased exposure to the molds, and that, in turn, caused their asthma to flare. Dr Rakesh Kumar, the former director of the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) said that floods can be linked to many public health hazards. Mold and other fungi are only one category.“Floods expose people to contaminated sewage water leading to gastrointestinal and diarrheal diseases, cause spurt of vector-borne diseases, and put people at the risk of bacterial infections like leptospirosis that is spread through the urine of rats, dogs and other animals,” he said. Since 2015, leptospirosis has killed 70 people under treatment in the civic-run hospitals in Mumbai. This is the highest death toll among monsoon-related diseases. For instance, in the same time period, malaria had killed 38 people, dengue 55 and Hepatitis A and E, 10. (See chart)Phadtare, the homeopathic practitioner who had treated Gausuddin since his childhood initially referred him to bigger civic hospitals assuming that his respiratory illness was triggered by an underlying condition. However, chest scans and other tests were always inconclusive. “He would feel healthier when he stayed with his grandmother in a nearby building. That’s when I could link his bouts to the mold infestation in his house,” he said. In Gausuddin’s case, as his home was perpetually prone to flooding, his allergies were triggered through the year — which explains why he had to visit the local healer so often. Early this year, the Sayyeds borrowed ₹2.5 lakh to increase the height of the flooring of their house and put tiles on half of the walls so that the floodwater does not dampen them. “So far, we have not had any flooding this year. Hopefully, my son’s allergies will reduce now,” said Rehmat. The BMC has undertaken a series of flooding mitigation measures over the past few years which includes de-silting and upgrading the stormwater drains, widening and deepening drains and water channels, hiring de-watering pumps in low-lying areas among other things. But a public health perspective would force us to rethink our approach to urban planning all together. “We need pre-emptive actions. And as we anticipate more such emergencies, we need to strengthen our public health infrastructure to cope,” Mistry of FMR said.“With the climate crisis, the intensity of rainfall is going up each year,” said urban planner and Mumbai-based architect Rahul Kadri. “Where will the water go if we have blocked all the estuaries and narrowed the mouth of rivers? It is going to fill up the city,” he said. Rivers swell during the monsoon and they need space to flow. “The more we block, the more the rivers will swell and cause flooding,” Kadri said.The three things for us to tackleDr Nerges Mistry,, director, Foundation for Medical Research (FMR) “When flooding occurs, all sorts of organisms — bacteria, viruses, fungi — enter people’s homes, putting them at the risk of severe infections. Children, senior citizens and people with co-morbid conditions are the most vulnerable,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health)“When we look at strengthening existing peripheral hospitals or creating more health care facilities, urban flooding and its threats are discussed vigorously. The development plan of the civic body includes the health department at all stages of planning, mainly when it comes to reserving plots for public use and developing future public health infrastructure,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-coastline-crisis-urban-flooding-is-a-public-health-issue-101636482795368.html
12-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai coastline crisis: Koliwada residents face loss of livelihood||In Mahim Koliwada, a fishing colony metres from the city’s coastline, the day starts at 3 am for 47-year-old Bhushan Nijai. It started just as early for his father Yeshwant (72), and deceased grandfather Pandav, who have been fishing in the sane waters for the past 90 years. Nijai’s children — three girls aged 6 to 22 years — however, don’t wake up at the crack of dawn like their father. Unlike Nijai, who joined his family’s occupation as a fisher immediately after completing his Class 12, they don’t have anything to do with the trade. The Nijais aren’t the only family in the hamlet whose youngest generation has veered away from the century-old work. Their neighbour, Nitin Vaidya, has two young children, a girl aged 10 years and a boy aged six, neither of whom will be taking up the trade. Most of the fishers — all men — from the 5,000-resident strong Mahim village who take their boats out each morning are above 35. For them, catching, selling and eating fishing is their “astitva” (identity), they say.Nijhai’s oldest, Raksha, who is a commerce graduate, aspires for an office job. “I have seen my parents work very hard. My mother (Smita) also wakes up around 3am and goes to buy fish at Sassoon Docks, which she sells at a fish market in Dadar. They work long hours but our family’s debts have only increased. I know how to clean and buy fish, but if our situation has to improve I can’t continue in this line,” she said. Smita Nijai does not sell the fish that her husband catches; her business — and earnings — are separate. Depending on the day’s catch, Nijai sells the fish to wholesalers or small hotels. Fishing communities that have, by most historical accounts, lived along the Mumbai coastline since the 15th century, are increasingly finding their occupation unviable. More than a trade In 2003, Maharashtra’s department of fisheries estimated that 37,695 people in Greater Mumbai are completely reliant on small-scale fishing activities [or as it is called, artisan fishing, marked by small capital, short fishing trips closer to shore, use of small fishing vessels and local consumption]. In 2010, state-run Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute estimated that there were 40,953 small-scale fishers across the Greater Mumbai region, residing in 30 fishing villages. With an average family size of 4.4, that’s about 9,307 families — in a city of over 20 million — who are dependent on fishing and allied activities that includes everything from cold storage to boat repairs, net making and mending to selling fish.“The number of people, at least within Greater Mumbai, who are opting to fish full time, is only a small portion of our larger community,” said Devendra Tandel (40), who heads the state’s largest fisherfolk society, Akhil Maharashtra Machimaar Kruti Samiti. Tandel now has a full time job in a private bank.“Commercial trawling, overfishing, the cost of fuel and other operating capital is increasing, and there is an influx of migrant workers who now dominate the sale and distribution of fish,” Tandel said listing the issues that the fisherfolk community contends are problems that threaten them. “I have friends from the community who are doing jobs in IT and software and finance. Fishing can always be a backup for us, but it is not first choice.”“I am the last generation of my household that will stick to this occupation. In our line of work, we struggle to make ends meet and I don’t want the same fate for them,” Nijai said. Development storyBut the community is currently dealing with another, more pressing concern. The city’s landscape is undergoing changes and the kolis are on the edge.In 2011, a Joint Technical Committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) proposed a radical alteration to the city’s coastline that would connect the city’s southernmost tip to the suburbs of Vasai-Virar 70km away. In its current format, the Mumbai Coastal Road project includes a network of under-sea tunnels, elevated roads and several interchanges, most of which will be created over the sea and partly over reclaimed land. There is also the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link, off the eastern seafront, which promises to be the longest sea-bridge in the country. Add to this a range of beautification projects involving the reclamation of near-shore areas (comprising mangroves and sandy beaches) in Cuffe Parade and Versova. In 2018, the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) was appointed the special planning authority (SPA) for beautifying 966.30 hectares along the city’s 28-km eastern seafront. The plan also proposes public parks, plazas, promenades, walking trails and marinas apart from restaurants and cafés. The Union ministry for environment and climate change recently gave its nod to the Coastal Zone Management Plans (CZMPs) for Mumbai city and suburban districts, thus allowing construction up to 50m from the city’s high-tide line. This follows a 2019 amendment to the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) rules which, up until then, had prevented development up to 500m from the city’s high-tide line. With the easing of this norm, existing coastal properties would be allowed to develop at least two and a half times their existing floor space. Liases Foras, a real estate research firm, estimates that around 10,000 old buildings in Mumbai will benefit from this. And now, the effectWork on the first phase of the Coastal Road project began in 2018 and since then, fishing communities have attempted to direct the attention of the city municipality and the state government to the impact of this project on fishing commons —the shore and intertidal areas that are collectively used by the community without title.At Cleveland Bunder, a fishing port in Worli koliwada (fishing village), two connecting bridges will come up between the coastal road at Worli and the Bandra Worli Sea Link (BWSL) to allow seamless flow of traffic. Fisherfolk said this interchange will severely constrict the only navigational route available to their boats venturing out to the open sea.Since October 30, residents of the village have been staging a protest at sea at the site of this upcoming interchange: fishers in 100 boats have dropped anchors near a construction site in Worli, where an interchange is slated to come up and, which the fisherfolk say, will prevent safe passage to fishing commons. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal has agreed to an independent review of their demands for a re-design of the interchange. Other fishers along the South Mumbai coast from Priyadarshini Park to Worli too, have begun to report declining fish stocks — in this particular stretch, land has been reclaimed and a connecting bridge is coming up at Haji Ali — as space for small-scale fishers on non-motorised boats and fisherwomen to pick oysters and shellfish has reduced. This comes at a time when the state’s fish stocks are showing a drastic decline. In 2019-20, fish landings reported their lowest harvest in 45 years, while reports show a decreasing, year-on-year trend since 2017.Fisher communities who stay on the eastern coastline in places like Sewri, Mazagaon, and Wadala fear that beautification projects like the one being planned by MbPT, would recast indigenous land use to a public space for larger citizenry that would eventually nudge them out.Fisherfolk are also caught in the net of other development projects. For instance, in Bandra’s Chimbai village, the fisheries department is building a jetty and construction material now occupies the grounds used by fisherfolk to sort and dry fish. Although the land is owned by the BMC, its own Development Plan 2034 for Mumbai has classified this area as “a fish and net drying yard.” (The civic body can affect a change in the land use, but there is a process for it to do so.) In September, in response to a petition by the Mariyayi Macchimar Sahakari Sanstha Maryadit, a society of fishers in and around Thane creek, the Bombay high court instituted a committee to create a fisherfolk rehabilitation policy for the state that would devise a standard operating procedure to gauge the impact of development projects undertaken by the government that affect fisher communities. Saving a way of lifeOne of the things that fisherfolk are demanding is freehold possession of their commons (land on which they park their boats, or dry fish, for example) because there is no public document available that delineates what land belongs to them, and what can be rightfully used by the state.“All the koliwadas in Mumbai are supposed to be mapped and demarcated in the coastal zone management plan (CZMP). This is a provision of the CRZ 2019 as well. In Mumbai, the koliwadas have been mapped, but the plans have not been released for public scrutiny, revised and accordingly incorporated in the CZMP. It leaves us completely in the dark about which lands around our villages are going to be opened up for development,” Tandel said.The community has tried to adapt, of course, with some assistance from the fisheries department that has provided critical infrastructure like fish landing centres in Mumbai’s koliwadas and diesel subsidies. Others have tried supplementing their traditional livelihoods with more aspirational jobs. Nijhai estimates that in his own lifetime, the income from fishing has shrunk by three quarters. The pandemic only sped up the process. “It is really the poorest of the poor who are left to fend for themselves on fishing. Our practice won’t die out, but the struggle will get harder,” he said.Sanjay Wategaonkar, Assistant commissioner of fisheries department, Mumbai districtWe are committed to helping small scale fishers... We are pushing for starting a credit scheme similar to the Central government’s Kisan Credit Card. As for impact of infra projects, we provide NOCs only if the project proponent commits to not disrupting fisherfolk livelihoods Bhushan Nijai, Fisher, Mahim Koliwada“I am the last generation of my household that will stick to this occupation. In our line of work, we struggle to make ends meet and I don’t want the same fate for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-coastline-crisis-koliwada-residents-face-loss-of-livelihood-101636399624140.html
