13-11-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar records second dengue death, case tally reaches 566||Gautam Budh Nagar recorded its second fatality from dengue this year after a 44-year-old man succumbed to the disease at a private hospital in Noida’s Sector 62 on November 4. “The patient was a resident of Lodpura village in Greater Noida and was admitted to the private hospital on October 29. He was diagnosed with dengue but had comorbidities. He was suffering from diabetes and also had chest issues,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer. According to official data, the district reported eight new cases of dengue in the last 24 hours ending on Saturday evening, taking the tally of cases to 566, of which 27 are active cases. As per health department’s protocol, any dengue case reported at private or government hospitals across the district are first to be confirmed at the sentinel lab. The District Hospital in Sector 30 has been declared as the district-level sentinel lab by the state health department, informed Sharma.“All the samples that are confirmed positive for dengue by private hospitals and health centres are first verified at the sentinel lab and only then included in the official tally and the same goes for reported fatalities. The district health department has been instructed to verify only those samples which have been declared positive by the ELISA (enzyme-linked immunoassay) test. The positive cases being reported from the district hospital, Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida are already being tested on ELISA and are directly included in the official tally,” said Sharma.Medical experts say that this year, not only has the number of dengue cases increased in the district compared to previous years but the number of serious cases has also increased. “This time, more dengue patients are suffering from high-grade fever. There are also more patients of dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome compared to previous years. The condition of such patient becomes critical as their platelet count deteriorates rapidly and the infection also starts diminishing red blood cells,” said Dr Yatendra Singh, medical superintendent of Bhangel community health centre (CHC), Gautam Budh NagarCurrently, dengue testing is being done at the district hospital, the paediatric hospital and GIMS, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-records-second-dengue-death-case-tally-reaches-566-101636828194174.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Nasa records 57,000 farm fires from November 1 to 13||New Delhi: Between November 1 and November 13 this year, Punjab and Haryana have recorded the most number of stubble fires since 2012, satellite data from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shows. According to the data accessed by HT from SUOMI VIIRS C2, FIRMS-NASA resource, between November 1 and November 13, the cumulative fire count reported from the two states was 57,263, exceeding 52,719 incidents recorded in 2016. Data also showed that during the entire stubble burning season, which begins from October 1, these two agrarian states have together recorded 75,225 fire incidents that is just 440 short of the incidents recorded in 2020. Maximum fire counts in the two states were reported in 2016, when 94,173 such incidents were seen. This was also the year when Delhi recorded one of its worst pollution spells. “Our analysis shows that if you look at the total fire count recorded in Punjab this year, it is still slightly short of the 2020 numbers. But in Haryana, this year 7,963 fires have been reported, which is higher than the count it recorded in 2020, 2019 and 2018,” said Pawan Gupta, senior scientist, earth sciences (USRA), NASA Marshall Space Flight Centre. According to the Punjab government data, the state recorded 3,742 farm fires on Saturday, taking the total number of incidents in the state this season to 62,863, the second highest over the past five years. Almost 80% of total cases this season have been recorded in November. Last year, Punjab recorded 76,590 incidents and 55,210 cases in 2019.According to the union ministry of earth science’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), the contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) was above 30%. The forecast suggested that with transport wind speeds slowing down, the share of stubble smoke in Delhi is likely to reduce in the coming days. “Winds at the transport level (925mb) are slowing down resulting in a lesser intrusion of farm fire-related pollutants into Delhi. However, local winds are becoming calm and temperatures are decreasing further, preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants. The fire count was 3157 and the contribution was 31%,” Safar said. (Data collated by Abhishek Jha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-nasa-records-57-000-farm-fires-from-november-1-to-13-101636828131115.html
13-11-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY receives Arjuna Award||District magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar and Paralympics silver-medallist Suhas L Yathiraj was conferred the Arjuna Award by President Ram Nath Kovind at a special ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhawan in New Delhi on Saturday. The Arjuna award is India’s second highest sporting award bestowed by the ministry of youth affairs and sports to sportspersons for their outstanding performance in international as well as national events.Suhas is one of the 35 athletes in the country, who have been honoured with the award this year. The selection committee of the National Sports Awards had recommended his name for the Arjuna award. The 38-year-old bagged a silver medal in the final of the men’s singles badminton SL-4 event at the Tokyo Paralympics 2020 held on September 5 this year. He also became the first-ever IAS officer to win a medal at the Paralympics. “It is a matter of great pride to receive this award. When I started playing sports professionally and began to represent India at global tournaments, it was my dream to win a medal at the Paralympics and also be bestowed with the Arjuna Award. Destiny has been kind to me as I have achieved both my goals today. I am thankful to the government for honouring me with this award,” said Suhas, who is a 2007 batch IAS officer from Uttar Pradesh cadre.Suhas’s wife and Ghaziabad’s additional district magistrate Ritu Suhas also accompanied him to the event. “We are all very proud of his achievements and will always continue to encourage and support him. Since he got back from Tokyo, he has been discharging his duties efficiently and is handling work and attending felicitation events simultaneously,” she said. Suhas, who took charge as the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar on March 31 last year, was felicitated by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath at an event held in Meerut on Thursday. Yogi announced a promotion for him along with a cash prize of ₹4 crore for his achievements.During the event, Adityanath made a special mention of Suhas. “I posted him in Noida during the pandemic. He did exemplary work in controlling Covid-19 and also worked hard on his sports skills to win a medal at the Tokyo Paralympics.”India won 19 medals at the Tokyo Paralympics, where 54 para-athletes from across nine sports disciplines represented the nation. This was India’s biggest ever contingent to the Paralympic Games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-district-magistrate-suhas-ly-receives-arjuna-award-101636827951395.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow man held for raping, blackmailing his Mumbai based relative||A 36-year-old Lucknow man was arrested for allegedly raping his Mumbai-based relative and blackmailing her after making an objectionable video of the woman, said police officials here on Saturday. They said the woman had lodged an FIR against the accused in Mumbai on September 30 earlier this year and the case was transferred to Lucknow as the crime was committed here.Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) DK Thakur said the accused was identified as Pawan Kumar Tripathi, the resident of A Block, Indira Nagar under Ghazipur police station limits and he was arrested from his hideout near Juggauli crossing in Gomti Nagar on Saturday.Sharing more details, another police officer said Tripathi worked in a private bank while the victim woman earlier used to live in Lucknow along with his family and shifted to Mumbai after marriage. He said the accused raped the woman when she was in Lucknow but she did not complain about the matter due to social stigma and approached police in Mumbai when the former continued harassing her as well as blackmailing by threatening to make her objectionable video viral.He said the accused was booked under the Indian Penal Code sections 376 for rape, 354 for sexual harassment, 504 for insult and 506 for criminal intimidation. He said the accused has been sent to jail in judicial custody after producing him before the competent court and further investigation in the matter is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-man-held-for-raping-blackmailing-his-mumbai-based-relative-101636827950237.html
13-11-2021||Noida||Buyers allege‘scam’ in employees’ housing project in Greater Noida||Homebuyers of the Central government employees’ welfare housing organisation’s (CGEWHO) housing project -- ‘Kendriya Vihar Greater Noida’ in pocket 4 -- on Saturday staged a protest against a delay in delivery of flats and also alleged a scam in altering the original layout of the project reportedly in violation of rules. Around 100 home buyers reached gate number 1 of the project at 11am and raised slogans against the office-bearers of the CGEWHO committee, which is managing the project, before leaving the site at 3pm.This project in Greater Noida was announced in 2011 and touted as the biggest dream project for Central government employees. “However the work at the site could start only in 2016 after a long delay, and it was assured that flats will be delivered by February 2021. But the project is still incomplete even though they have collected the total flat cost from buyers in March last year. The bigger issue is that they are illegally constructing villas costing upto ₹1.6 crore that a Central government employee cannot buy as per the service rules.It means making and selling villas in this project is unlawful by all means,” said former diplomat PC Mishra, who retired from the Indian embassy in Peru, and is leading the protest.“They kept 30 acres for phase 1 and 8 acres for phase 2. But later, they moved 6 acres from phase 1 to phase 2 illegally, and launched the villa project on 14 acres. It cannot be done because they cannot change the land use like this,” added Mishra.The home buyers’ group claimed that the CGEWHO had bought 38 acres land from the Greater Noida authority in 2011 with an aim to provide housing facilities to Central government employees in towers with a maximum of 14 floors. As per the layout plan, the society has on offer 1BHK, 2 BHK, 3 BHK and 4BHK flats, with sizes ranging from 850 sqft to 2,170 sqft. “We demand audit by the comptroller and auditor general appointed by the Ministry of housing and urban affairs; immediate removal of office-bearers of the society; completion of the project as per schedule, and handing over the units to buyers; formation of the apartment owners’ association to stop corruption in this project,” said Brij Mohan Saxena, retired deputy secretary, Ministry of finance.Buyers questioned why the scheme, launched in the name of providing affordable housing facilities to Central government employees, would include villas for ₹1.6 crore.“How can a government employee buy a villa for ₹1.6 crore and why is the society doing it for profit as the scheme is meant as no-profit, no-loss initiative,” added Saxena.They alleged that the society office-bearers have obtained the permission to construct villas wrongly and launched a second phase, which was not there in the original plan.“We got the map for the second phase, in which villas are proposed, approved after consent from homebuyers, as per rules. The project is managed by a project monitoring committee appointed by the members. The project got delayed only because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Following the pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority gave us an extension and allowed completion of units by May 2022. All allegations made by buyers are untrue and we will hand over possession before May,” said Gagan, director, CGEWHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/buyers-allege-scam-in-employees-housing-project-in-greater-noida-101636827470419.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||For office-goers in Delhi, ‘work from home’ an ideal option||New Delhi: With pollution hitting ‘severe’ levels in the city, the Delhi government on Saturday said that it will issue a work from home (WFH) advisory to private offices -- a move which was largely welcomed by working professionals even as a few expressed apprehensions of a break in the regular work momentum.Many office-goers said that while work from home is ideal amid the spiralling pollution levels, they added that such decisions could not be enforced by all companies, especially at a time when work was slowly returning to normalcy amid the pandemic. Riyaz, an HR professional, said that while the repercussions of pollution on health can’t be taken lightly, reverting to work from home would break the work momentum. “Personally, I feel that we should adopt work from home... If the weather is not conducive for employees, people will not feel good. An unhealthy employee coming to office will not be very productive,” said Riyaz, who prefers to use his first name. The South Delhi resident said that while there had been some discussion regarding switching to work from home amid pollution concerns, the company has not issued any work from home advisory so far. “If one looks from the business point of view, there will be a sudden break in the momentum of people returning to the office, and a disruption in the day-to-day work. At a time when the business has already been affected due to Covid, such decisions will need a lot of thinking. Offices have not functioned normally for one-and-a-half years due to Covid and we will need to take a very calculated step,” said Riyaz.Amit Bhatt, executive director (integrated urban transport), WRI India, said that if people who can work from home do so, it would improve the transport situation and people on the roads will breathe easier.“Air quality is worse on roads in comparison to other areas. If traffic congestion is eased, people will take lesser time to reach home and will breathe in less toxic pollutants. There will be fewer emissions since there are fewer vehicles on the streets. However, I don’t think that all activities can take place remotely,” said Bhatt. Bhamini Shenoy, who works with a law firm having offices in Delhi and NCR, said that she will opt for work from home if given the choice. “Due to pollution, I can regularly feel my eyes burning and throat itching. There is visible congestion in the air. At least till the time the situation in the city becomes better, I’d prefer to work from home,” said Shenoy. She, however, added that all employees could not afford to work from home. “ The senior management that engages with clients will need to come to office even if an advisory is issued. Associates have been given the choice to work from home due to pollution,” said Shenoy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/for-office-goers-in-delhi-work-from-home-an-ideal-option-101636827290352.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||UPites will no longer have to migrate for jobs: Rajnath||Lucknow: The state capital took a giant leap in defence manufacturing on Saturday when union defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated the first operationalised private sector manufacturing facility of the defence sector in the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor. Aerolloy Technologies, a wholly owned subsidiary of the PTC industries, Lucknow, will manufacture parts for aircraft engines, helicopter engines, structural parts for aircrafts, drones and UAVs, submarines, ultra-light artillery guns, space launch vehicles and strategy systems among others. Rajnath also laid the foundation stone of an integrated metal manufacturing facility of the PTC industries. This facility will produce key raw materials in titanium and other exotic alloys for aerospace applications. This plant will reduce the country’s dependence on imports for all platforms which require titanium and nickel super alloys. Addressing the gathering, Rajnath Singh said: “Such investments will mean that the people of Uttar Pradesh would no longer have to leave their homes in search of employment.” Singh also expressed confidence that private sector companies would invest in UP and said the state government would provide all possible support to them. Singh also urged the PTC Industries to make the local community a partner in their success by adopting local ITI, apprenticeship programme, schools and hospitals. “This will be a true contribution to society and the country”, he said. Singh was hopeful of increased investment by private companies in Lucknow and Uttar Pradesh at large. The minister also exhorted the private sector to invest in research and development. “In the last seven years, our defence exports have crossed ₹38,000 crore and more than 10,000 SMEs have joined the defence sector. Research and development, start-up, innovation and employment have also increased as a result of these policies,” Singh said. Industrial development minister, UP, Satish Mahana expressed confidence that Uttar Pradesh would become the most preferred destination for investment. Sanjay Jaju, additional secretary, defence production, union government, stated that infrastructure and other facilities offered by the UP Defence Industrial Corridor would attract fresh investment in all six nodes of the defence corridor. Awanish Awasthi, CEO, UPEIDA, assured that the state government would ensure land availability and logistical support for all investors. On February 21, 2018, PM Narendra Modi had announced ₹20,000 crore Defence Industrial Corridor in Bundelkhand region which is considered as one of the most backward regions in the state. The UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) is executing the project. The defence corridor, which is expected to generate more than one lakh jobs, has six nodes, including Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upites-will-no-longer-have-to-migrate-for-jobs-rajnath-101636826990705.html
13-11-2021||Gurugram||Haryana pollution body suggests fewer trips, tells people to stay indoor||Gurugram: For the second consecutive day, pollution levels remained in the severe category in the city, which forced the pollution authorities to recommend a series of measures, including reducing number of private vehicles on the road and limiting outdoor activities. The AQI was recorded at 441 on Saturday, slightly lower than the 448 registered on Friday. The air quality monitoring stations in the city recorded a reading of 451 at Gwal Pahari, 438 at Teri Gram, 445 at Vikas Sadan, and 431 at sector 51. Experts said a combination of low windspeed, temperature drop and farm fires contributed to severe pollution levels. To check the high pollution levels, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board officials on Friday issued directions that recommendations of the sub committee on graded response action plan (Grap) on pollution must be implemented strictly. The sub-committee on Grap, in a written order, advised the government and private offices to reduce vehicle use by at least by 30% by focusing on work from home option, promoting car pooling and optimising field activities. It also advised people to reduce outdoor activities and minimise exposure to pollutants. The board, however, directed all implementation agencies to closely monitor actions being taken by various agencies and submit daily report to respective pollution boards. “Some of the directions under Grap are mandatory and some are advisory in nature, like pushing for more public transport and reducing use of private vehicles. The implementing agencies must monitor action taken and ensure compliance,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board. Gurugram’s air quality plummetted into the “very poor” AQI on Diwali, on November 4. For the next three days, the air quality dipped into “severe” category, which implies that the air quality is hazardous and may cause respiratory effects even to healthy people and serious health impacts to people with lung or heart diseases. Gurugram’s air improved slightly to “very poor” on November 8, and has now deteriorated again into the “severe” category.On Saturday, the IMD recorded wind speed at 12-13kmph, double the 6kmph recorded on Friday. The minimum temperature touched 11.3 degrees Celsius (°C) on Saturday, three degrees lower than normal, and the maximum temperature was 25.5°C. Dr Anurani Sharma, associate professor, Teri School of Advanced Studies, said that the dip in temperature will be a regular feature for the next 15-20 days as a result of which the pollutants in the air will not dissipate and AQI will remain in the ‘severe’ or ‘very poor’ category. “The increase in wind speed can help in moving the pollutants away from Delhi-NCR but the situation is likely to remain grim as the local pollution is quite large and urgent steps are needed to curb it,” she said. In a related development, the department of town and country planning swung into action on Saturday and issued notices to 10 owners in DLF phase one for violating NGT norms and not taking measures to check pollution during construction. “The plot owners have kept the building material in open and have not covered the construction site with proper tin sheds and were causing pollution in the nearby areas. Considering the condition of Air Quality department is keeping vigil on the construction sites and violators are being penalised ,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-pollution-body-suggests-fewer-trips-tells-people-to-stay-indoor-101636826691796.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||After violence in Amravati, political parties in Maharashtra begin blame game||The violent protests in parts of the state have triggered a blame game between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party. While the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have said that it’s a conspiracy to create communal tension, the BJP has said that state government will have to take the responsibility if the situation went out of hand. The NCP has demanded action against former Shia Board chairman Wasim Rizvi. “The protests were against Tripura violence and the books published by former Shia Waqf Board president Wasim Rizvi. It was the responsibility of the outfits that had given the bandh call to ensure that it was observed in a peaceful manner. They cannot shrug off the responsibility. The Central government should also ensure action against Rizvi who has been facing many cases of scams and irregularities,” said NCP leader and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik. Rizvi, who is former head of Shia Central Waqf Board is facing CBI investigation for the alleged irregularities and illegal sale and purchase of Waqf properties. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that the violence is an attempt of the BJP to create communal tension ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. BJP lawmaker Atul Bhatkhalkar demanded a ban on Raza Academy, which had called the bandh. Bhatkhalkar said that Raza Academy was being used to create communal divide by instigating people in the community. “The state government should immediately propose a ban on the outfit and send the proposal to the Centre,” he said. Saeed Noori , general secretary, Raza Academy said that the call given by them for bandh was for a peaceful protest but there were deliberate attempts to give it a communal turn. “We had made it very clear that it should be peaceful and there should be no use of force. The violence is the handiwork of some elements who want to create communal tension,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-violence-in-amravati-political-parties-in-maharashtra-begin-blame-game-101636826690558.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Kasganj custodial death: Case registered against unidentified policemen||Agra A case was registered against unidentified policemen at Sadar Kotwali police station of Kasganj on Saturday on a complaint received through post from Chand Mian, the father of Altaf who died in custody of Kasganj police. Meanwhile, the girl alleged to have been abducted by deceased Altaf was recovered by Kasganj police on Friday evening. “We had earlier in the day received a complaint by speed post from Chand Mian, the father of deceased Altaf. Based on the complaint, a case of murder under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified policemen,” informed Rohan Pramod Botre, superintendent of police (SP), Kasganj. “Beside this, the girl who was allegedly kidnapped by the deceased Altaf and his friend was recovered on Friday evening. Her statement is to be recorded in court on Sunday,” he said. On Saturday, Chandra Shekhar Azad, the president of newly constituted Azad Samaj Party (earlier Bhim Army) met the family members of Altaf, the man killed in police custody on Tuesday last. Azad took along Chand Mian, the father of Altaf and submitted a complaint naming the policemen. SP Kasganj Rohan Pramod Botre informed him that the case was already registered on the basis of complaint earlier received by post and thus two FIRs could not be lodged for the same case. He said anything received after registering of case would be part of the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kasganj-custodial-death-case-registered-against-unidentified-policemen-101636826450517.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Eight from Mumbai arrested in Goa for peddling drugs worth ₹1.2 lakh||Eight people hailing from Mumbai were arrested on Saturday for allegedly peddling drugs in Goa, police said.They were held on a tip-off from Arambol village in North Goa by a Pernem police team led by Inspector Jivba Dalvi, leading to the seizure of drugs, including 88 grams of ganja, 34 grams of charas, 60 cannabis seeds and LSD blots, all cumulatively worth ₹1.2 lakh. "All eight are from Bhandup West in Mumbai. They were staying in a hotel here. Police personnel posed as prospective customers and busted the racket after raiding a room in a local resort," Dalvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eight-from-mumbai-arrested-in-goa-for-peddling-drugs-worth-rs-1-2-lakh-101636826103056.html
13-11-2021||Gurugram||Delivery executive forced into car, robbed at gunpoint in Gurugram||Gurugram: A 26-year-old delivery executive of an e-commerce company was allegedly forced into a car from Bilaspur crossing by assailants who reportedly robbed him of his belongs at gunpoint and later threw him out of the vehicle at an isolated stretch in Rewari, said police.According to the police, the victim, Ashish Kaushik, a resident of Jharsa village in Gurugram, was waiting for a vehicles at the Bilaspur crossing to return home after finishing his shift at an e-commerce company in Pathredi village, when a white coloured Swift car offered him a lift.“I saw there were already six men in the car and so I refused. But two men got down and pushed me inside and threatened to kill me. Within seconds, one of them took me at gunpoint and asked for my belongings. They forced me to share my ATM and digital payment passwords and transferred all my savings to their accounts,” he said. Police said the suspects took out his debit and credit cards and ₹4,000 from his wallet and asked for the password PIN of ATMs. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police(crime), said, “The suspects drove the car towards Tauru and kept threatening him. They pushed him out near Sunari village from where he reached a petrol pump and borrowed a mobile phone from a nearby shop to inform his family.”Kaushik’s uncle later reached the spot and took him home. He later registered the case at the Bilspur police station. The police lodged an FIR against six unidentified people under section 365 (kidnapping), 395(dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of arms act against unidentified persons. Sangwan said such cases increase during the winter when gangs start resurfacing. “We have formed teams and are conducting investigation to identify the vehicle used in the crime and the suspects. There is a possibility that suspects are out on bail,” he said. Police said lift and loot cases are mostly reported from Iffco Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk and Rajiv Chowk areas late at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delivery-executive-forced-into-car-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-gurugram-101636826390127.html
13-11-2021||Gurugram||House help part of gang behind spate of thefts in Gurugram held, 3 on the run||Gurugram: The city police on Friday arrested one member of a gang allegedly behind a spate of robberies in different areas of Delhi-NCR, with investigators saying that they gained entry into the target houses by posing as house helps and carried out the thefts when the families were away.Police said they have recovered jewellery worth ₹50 lakh and added that three more members of the gang, including the husband of the arrested woman, are on the run. According to police, the gang is behind at least three thefts in Gurugram in the last three months.Police said the theft were allegedly carried out in pairs -- a woman would start working as a house help to gain access to the house and scan for valuables, and the second person, who would pose as her cousin, would take away the loot when the family is away from the house. Police said the house help too would later make some excuse and flee the house the same day.Police said that there are over 10 such gangs, mostly from West Bengal, operating across the city.Police said agencies providing domestic helps are also under scanner after their role was highlighted by suspects in the past. The arrest in the present case is related to a complaint filed by a resident of Silver Oak Apartments in DLF Phase 1 who alleged that their domestic help fled with cash and jewellery worth lakhs. A case was registered and the investigation was handed over to the crime team. The complainant told the police that the domestic help, who was hired last month, had avoided sharing her personal details for police verification. However, since he needed a domestic help urgently, his mother employed her without completing the verification, he said. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the initial probe led us to the suspect’s cousin, who was asked to join the probe. He gave us her hometown address and contact numbers of his family members. “The teams traced the suspect’s location and arrested her from Sonpur village in West Bengal. The suspect had boarded train and had fled along with her husband and two others after committing the theft,” he said. The suspect, identified as Luxmi, a resident of Behrampur in Murshidabad of West Bengal, was taken on three-day police remand and, after recovery, was sent to judicial remand on Saturday, said police. Police said the team recovered eight gold bangles, four gold chains, eight pairs of gold earrings, eight gold rings, two small gold chains, four gold pendants, 11 silver coins, and three locker keys from her possession. Sangwan said in all such cases, the households had hired a woman who, after working for a few days or a month, would decamp with cash and jewellery with the help of an associate. “The gang members would conduct recce in different parts of the city and spoke to security guards and other staff members of maintenance agency to find out the requirement for a house help,” he said.Similar cases were reported from Nirvana Country, Sector 56, 57, Sohna Road, Palam Vihar and Sector 47 this year. Sangwan said last year 11 women and six men were arrested for stealing cash and jewellery from residential areas after taking up jobs as domestic help. “The gang operates in pairs and enters the society after narrating stories of poverty and hunger to security guards and gaining their trust. They then take up jobs and later flee after stealing valuables,” he said. Police said the victims are families which do not conduct verification of house helps. “The residents should get the verification done before hiring them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/house-help-part-of-gang-behind-spate-of-thefts-in-gurugram-held-3-on-the-run-101636826090198.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Uneasy calm in Agra locality after communal tension, force deployed||Agra Uneasy calm prevailed in Shahganj area here on Saturday, with heavy force deployment, after Friday night’s communal tension. The flare-up was a sequel to a woman’s body found hanging in her in-laws’ house. The woman and her husband belonged to different religions. A case was registered against five named accused and three of them, including husband of the deceased, were arrested. The body was cremated after post mortem examination. As per reports, the woman had married a man from the minority community about a year ago. Her body was found hanging in her in-laws’ house who said it was a suicide. But the parents of the deceased, also from Agra, alleged a dowry death. The matter took a communal turn and rival groups came face to face after BJP Yuva Morcha leaders led by Gaurav Rajawat reached the area. They were reportedly called by the brother of the deceased woman. The markets were closed on Friday night after some of the shops were targeted. Heavy police force led by SSP Agra Sudhir Kumar Singh reached the spot and the situation was brought under control. Police denied any firing. “A case was registered against the in-laws of the deceased under section 304(B) (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of her brother. Five of the in-laws’ family were named and three, including husband of the deceased, arrested,” informed the SSP on Saturday. “The deceased woman, aged about 25, had a court marriage with the man from another religion about a year ago. They had moved away from Agra but returned a couple of months back The husband worked as a two-wheeler mechanic. The family of the woman was not in contact with her but her mother got information on Friday evening on phone that her daughter had died,” informed the SSP. “Police became active on getting information and found the body in the house. There was some tension as a group supporting her in-laws and another in favour of her parents gathered but he situation was brought under control,” he said.. “Sufficient force, besides PAC, has been deployed. Markets in Shahganj area opened on Saturday and the situation is well under control. No one will be allowed to disturb peace. There are complaints of hooligans creating ruckus in the market area on Friday night. These complaints will be fully investigated and no injustice would be allowed to be done,” he said. BJP MLA Yogendra Upadhyaya and Ram Pratap Singh Chauhan reached the Shahganj police station and demanded action against those guilty of the woman’s death. Activists of BJP youth wing and some right wing bodies gheraoed Shahganj police station on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uneasy-calm-in-agra-locality-after-communal-tension-force-deployed-101636825850726.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai hits 100% first dose mark; many still not inoculated||Three hundred and one days after the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme was rolled out on January 16, Mumbai achieved 100% first dose coverage on Saturday, November 13. The city’s eligible adult population is 9,236,546, and by 10pm last night, 9,253,647 were vaccinated with at least one dose, 0.18% higher than the target. At the same time, 6,033,148 people were given the second dose according to the Central government’s CoWin dashboard, taking the city’s full vaccination coverage to 65%. To be sure, Mumbai may have statistically achieved the milestone of 100% first dose coverage, but the city will have to administer many more doses to truly cover its entire adult population. The reason: An estimated 10-20% people who have got the Covid-19 vaccine in Mumbai are likely to be from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) or the rest of Maharashtra. “We are definitely accounting for this slight mismatch. Therefore, our vaccination drive will continue aggressively,” said Mumbai’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. “We will have to reach much beyond 100%,” she said. The last mile coverage may therefore be a few more days away, experts said, and a small percentage of the population could still choose to remain unvaccinated due to personal choice, hesitancy or other reasons. “No other district in the country has managed to reach the 100% target in such a short time,” said Mumbai’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “It has been a collective effort. We achieved it because of the sincere contribution of all municipal workers, private hospitals, NGOs and people on the ground.” Mumbai reached the 1 million doses (both doses included) mark on March 25. The 9 million doses landmark was attained on August 24. On September 4, Mumbai became the first district in India to administer 10 million doses, and on November 10, it crossed the 15 million mark. As of Saturday, Mumbai had administered 15,286,627 combined doses. According to Kakani, decentralising vaccination centres played a crucial role in achieving the target. As the city moves to increase its first dose coverage beyond 100% and achieve the second dose target, new, micro strategies are being designed. Infectious disease expert and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force Dr Om Srivastava said that 100% first dose coverage is “great news.” “It means the city is better protected than earlier. But we cannot let our guard down. The virus is unpredictable, and there are countries that are seeing large number of cases even now. France has announced it is experiencing a fifth wave,” he said. On Friday, World Health Organisation chief Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Covid-19 cases were not only surging in eastern European countries with lower vaccination rates, but also in western Europe, which is among the world’s highest vaccinated geographies. Vaccination in Mumbai first began on January 16 along with the rest of the country for healthcare workers; on February 5 for frontline workers; on March 1 for citizens above 60 years of age; on April 1 for citizens in 45-59 years age group; and on May 1 for all adult citizens. Vaccination for lactating mothers began on May 26, and for pregnant women from July 14. On Day One, Mumbai had just 10 vaccinations centres, but that number has grown to 462 public and private vaccination centres with a capacity of over 123,000 inoculations per day. Dr Naveen Thacker, vaccination expert and a former civil society organisation representative to GAVI, the vaccine alliance, said, “Mumbai has shown 100% vaccination is achievable. Other districts in the country should follow suit. This should be a barrier between the city and the anticipated third wave,” he said. So far this month, in Maharashtra, Covid numbers seem to be declining gradually. The first 13 days of November saw a 61.14% drop in cases compared to the first 13 days of October. Similarly, on October 13, active cases in the state totalled 29,555. On November 13, they had dropped 58.65% to 12,219. The corresponding active cases for Mumbai were 5997 and 3577, a drop of 40.65%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hits-100-first-dose-mark-many-still-not-inoculated-101636825490361.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Almost 100% workforce has received Covid-19 vaccine: DMRC||Almost 100 per cent of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) workforce has received the Covid-19 vaccine, as per the DMRC.Many people in the workforce have received both doses of the vaccine while some of them are in the process of getting their second dose, said DMRC. About 0.5 per cent of employees are yet to be vaccinated, primarily because of health reasons."This is a major achievement since many DMRC employees are engaged in public dealing and their vaccination process was accorded top priority by the management," added the company.Since May 2021, a number of vaccination camps were organised for DMRC employees and their families by the company at the metro stations, depots and construction sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/almost-100-workforce-has-received-covid-19-vaccine-dmrc-101636821600207.html
13-11-2021||Bangalore||No Bitcoin scam, says BJP; No foul play in investigation: Bengaluru police||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday dismissed the Congress party's allegations on the Bitcoin issue cover-up, saying there was no scam. The Bengaluru police too refuted the charges of foul play in the investigation and cover-up exercises. "There has been absolutely no scam of whatsoever nature or dimension it could be. Therefore any questions of having any actors in this scam is a perverted imagination. However, new actors have emerged making mountain out of a mole, and making baseless allegations, based on distorted facts of the case," BJP's Karnataka unit spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said in a statement. He was reacting to Congress allegations that 'influential politicians' are involved in the scam after officials seized bitcoins worth ₹nine crore from a city based hacker, Srikrishna alias Sriki, who is also accused of hacking into government portals, sourcing drugs through the dark net and paying for it through cryptocurrency. Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala alleged in a press conference in Delhi on Saturday that the size of the scam could be much bigger because just on two days on December 1, 2020 and April 14, 2021 illegal transactions worth ₹5,240 crore took place. He posed a series of questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and asked what was the role of Karnataka Chief Minister Basaravaj Bommai, who was the state's home minister when the scam took place. Surjewala also demanded to know why international investigative agencies, including the Interpol, were not informed about the stolen Bitcoins. Apparently referring to the Congress leaders as 'new actors', Karnik said they were continuously carrying out a slanderous campaign by releasing distorted and partial facts for cheap popularity, "in utter disregard to the fact that the case is sub judice and pending before the Trial Court". He claimed that neither had any Bitcoins been transferred from the account of hacker Srikrishna nor any bitcoin been lost. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru police issued a statement to clear the air and said that the investigation was conducted by the Central Crime Branch "in a fair and professional manner." "It is emphatically stated that such misleading versions are being floated based on incomplete/distorted facts. All such versions are vehemently denied," the police said. Based on the credible information on November 4, 2020 on a drug consignment procured through the darknet, CCB Police secured one accused and seized 500 grams of Hydro Ganja. During further investigation, 10 other accused persons, including Srikrishna, alias Sriki were secured and arrested. During interrogation, Srikrishna confessed before the Investigating Officer about his involvement in alleged hacking of many Crypto Currency websites. "It is stated that neither were any Bitcoins transferred from the account of hacker Srikrishna nor was any Bitcoin lost. It is a fact that for the purpose of investigation of Crypto Currency, it was felt necessary to open a Bitcoin account," the police said. It added that on December 8, 2020, government permission was obtained to open a Bitcoin account. "During the process of identifying and seizure of bitcoins, accused Srikrishna showed a BTC wallet, which contained 31.8 BTC. The wallet password was changed in the presence of cyber experts, Government panchas and the entire procedure was recorded under mahazer and submitted to the court," the police said. Further, the Court's permission was obtained to use password to transfer the said Bitcoins to the police wallet account. Upon reaching the said wallet shown by Srikrishna, it showed 186.811 Bitcoins, police said, adding that the Cyber experts opined that the said account claimed by the accused as his personal account was in fact a live wallet of an exchange and the accused did not have private key for this. "Hence, the said account was left untouched and as a result, no BITCOINS were transferred to Police wallet. The case has been chargesheeted along with the above facts and related documents and is now subjudice," police said. They said that at no stage was anything done which could jeopardise a fair investigation and the process of law. They claimed that investigation was done by a team of professional officers under close supervision and in continuous consultation and in the presence of reputed and external experts, without any external influence or interference. On the claim made on Whale Alert's Twitter handle that 14,682 stolen bitfinex bitcoins were transferred, police said they were completely unsubstantiated. "There is nothing to suggest that it had originated from Bengaluru. The law enforcement system and investigating agencies work on certain procedures laid down by law of the land," the statement read. It further said that till date no foreign law enforcement agencies or any foreign companies have approached Bengaluru police about any hacking. "Even representatives of Bitfinex company have neither shared any details of the alleged hack nor sought any information so far," police said. On the claims of Srikrishna about high volume hacking of websites, police said the careful examination of digital evidence by the cyber experts revealed that majority of his claims were unsubstantiated. It also said that Bengaluru police have informed CBI, Enforcement Directorate and Interpol through proper channels this year. Regarding the charge that Srikrishna was allegedly forced to consume Alprazolam during police custody, police said that on the direction of the court, his blood and urine samples were collected at Bowring Hospital and submitted to the Forensic Science Laboratory for scientific examination. After examination, the FSL gave a negative report, stating that there was no presence of drugs, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-bitcoin-scam-says-bjp-no-foul-play-in-investigation-bengaluru-police-101636824566600.html
13-11-2021||Pune||Cantonment police arrest female accomplice of Kiran Gosavi||PUNE The Cantonment police have arrested Kusum Gaikwad, a female accomplice of key Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) witness Kiran Gosavi in connection with a cheating case lodged in 2020.According to the Cantonment police, the accused has been charged for cheating a number of people on the pretext of offering jobs abroad and receiving the proceeds of the crime.Police station incharge Ashok Kadam, said, “We have arrested her upon arrival from abroad in relation to a cheating case. She was produced before the court which remanded her in police custody till November 15. The case was lodged against her in 2020 and the total fraud amount is worth ₹4.05 lakh wherein ₹1.30 lakh went to Gosavi’s account.”Gosavi has been booked in four cheating related cases lodged at Faraskhana, Wanowrie, Cantonment and Bhosari police station.Vijay Kumar Siddhaling Kanade (33), a resident of Chakrapani Vasahat, Bhosari, and a native of Latur lodged the fourth FIR against Gosavi at the Bhosari police station on Thursday evening, alleging that Gosavi defrauded him of ₹2.25 lakh after he was promised a job in Brunei.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cantonment-police-arrest-female-accomplice-of-kiran-gosavi-101636824772081.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||UP to get DAP fertiliser as per its requirement for Nov, Dec, assures Centre||The Centre has assured the Uttar Pradesh government that shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) will not be allowed to take place in the state as all coordinated efforts are being made to ensure farmers get adequate supply of the fertiliser in November and December to meet their sowing requirements.State chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari and other officials of the agriculture department on Friday held a meeting with Union secretary, fertilisers, RK Chaturvedi here to discuss the prevailing shortage of the DAP, the second most consumed fertiliser after urea in the state. “The secretary, fertilisers, assured us that the DAP would be made available to the state as per its requirement and no shortage would be allowed to hit the sowing in the state,” the chief secretary said.“We on our part have made necessary arrangements to ensure smooth distribution of the fertiliser to farmers by acting against those indulging into black marketing,” he added. The Centre’s assurance comes amid news of farmers waiting in long queues outside cooperative societies to procure the fertiliser and even staging protests and blocking roads in various districts to draw authorities’ attention to the crisis.The DAP shortage has occurred in the state at a time when the assembly polls are only three months away and the Opposition parties are already making this a big issue by turning heat on the government for its alleged failure to make the DAP available to farmers.The DAP as a fertiliser is used as a basal dose before sowing of crops like potato and wheat in the state and Agra and Aligarh regions that are termed as potato belts are said to be the worst affected by the shortage. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi who was privy to the Friday’s meeting, said the countrywide shortage of the DAP occurred due to sharp increase in the global import prices. The DAP, he pointed out, was not produced in the country and had to be sourced from other countries, largely the Gulf countries.“Despite the shortage, we tried out best to make the fertiliser available to farmers to avoid the sowing getting delayed and the Centre has told us that adequate amount of DAP will be provided to UP in November and December,” he said.According to Chaturvedi, UP’s requirement of DAP for the current month was estimated to be 6 lakh tons of which 2.25 lakh tons was already made available to the state by November 11 even as 3 lakh tons was also available in the stock. The December requirement, he said, was only 3 lakh tons.“The supply continues to come with the rakes being in transit and we are sending the fertiliser to the districts as per their requirement,” he said adding “We have also coordinated with the Railways for early and seamless arrival of rakes of fertiliser.The shortage, he said, was also due to the delayed arrival of rakes that came from very far-off places. “The Railways has set up a special cell to monitor and ensure that rakes take as less time as possible to reach their destination and return,” Chaturvedi said. He said there was no shortage of urea in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-get-dap-fertiliser-as-per-its-requirement-for-nov-dec-assures-centre-101636824770220.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir records 181 new Covid cases, highest in over 2 months||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded the highest daily Covid count in 52 days after 181 fresh cases were reported. The infection count six of the total 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir went into double digits after months, an official health bulletin revealed. Except for 204 Covid cases on September 22, the union territory had recorded fewer daily cases than Saturday’s in August, September, October and November 1-12. Of the total cases, 155 Covid cases were reported in Kashmir valley while Jammu division saw 26 infections. Kashmir reported 44 Covid cases in summer capital Srinagar, 43 in northern district of Baramulla, 23 in central Budgam district, 17 in northern border district of Kupwara and 11 in north-eastern Ganderbal. Jammu district recorded 16 cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active Covid cases at 626 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 240 and 136 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in Jammu and Kashmir was 95 with active positive cases reaching 1,450.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 77,138 vaccine doses were administered, taking overall doses administered in the Jammu and Kashmir to 1.574 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-records-181-new-covid-cases-highest-in-over-2-months-101636824351758.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||For them, Children’s Day also means raising awareness about child trafficking||For 13-year-old Amit Chauhan, who hails from Bharwaliya—a small village on porous Indo-Nepal border in Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh—celebrating Children’s Day is not just about remembering Chacha Nehru, cultural programmes and gorging upon ‘boondi ke laddoo’ (a traditional sweet) but also about creating awareness about child trafficking and the ways to identify child traffickers to which his village and others on the Nepal border are vulnerable too. “Children’s Day is celebrated here with great fervour. But, other than celebrating the day and the birth anniversary of our first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, we also take this occasion as an opportunity to spread awareness about child-trafficking that is a heinous crime,” said Chauhan, an active member of anti-child-trafficking-unit (ACTU), an initiative of a local NGO Manav Sewa Sansthan that works to keep a check on human trafficking in bordering villages. The 13-year-old added that this exercise became all the more important in present Covid-19 crisis times when hundreds of children were rendered orphans and homeless. “I am not alone. We are a team of children, all belonging to the same village, and our job is to keep a watch on any unfamiliar faces and also the children arriving in the village and to alert the senior people with the NGO,” said Chauhan who studies in class 5 at primary school Bharwaliya. Another member of ACTU operating in Bharwaliya village, Sangam Kumari (14), said they have got training for the same. “On spotting any suspicious or unfamiliar person accompanied with a child, we first try to interact with the kid and try to extract details from them like their house address, parents, native place, Aadhaar card number and so on. On getting unconvincing response, we at once inform our seniors,” she said. NGO director Rajesh Mani said “Children’s Day is a good occasion to make kids aware about their rights, especially human trafficking. The issue is even more important given the present pandemic time when such disasters are seen as an opportunity by the traffickers.” Mani, who has been working in this field for the last 32 years, said the bordering villages of Maharajganj witnessed a similar situation during 2015 Nepal earthquake. “Back then, locals had played a crucial role when they helped in freeing many kids from the clutches of a trafficking gang with the help of police and Seema Suraksha Bal (SSB) forces. Alone from Sonauli border around 120 cases of human trafficking were reported,” he said. Other than Bharwaliya, the NGO has activated the ACTUs in some 80 villages spread across districts like Pilibhit, Lakhimpur, Siddharthnagar and Bahraich that fall on the 470-km long Indo-Nepal border which passes through UP. There are broadly 8 main transit points that includes Sonauli and Toothibari in Maharajganj district; Khanua, Bandhni and Kakrawa in Siddharthnagar district; Rupaidhia in Bahraich district and Gauriphanta and Tikonia in Lakhimpur Kheri district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/for-them-children-s-day-also-means-raising-awareness-about-child-trafficking-101636823870256.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP, RSS hit back on Mehbooba’s ISIS remark, call her spent force||The Jammu and Kashmir Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) hit back strongly to PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s remarks against the BJP and RSS, wherein she compared them with the Islamic State (ISIS) on Saturday. “Mehbooba Mufti has always supported terror outfits like Hizbul Mujahideen, Lashkar, Jaish, Taliban and separatists Hurriyat Conference. She has always encouraged anti-India agenda. She has all the sympathy with separatists and terrorists,” said J&K BJP Ravinder Raina. “Those who talk in Talibani language and toe the agenda of Pakistan are preaching us Hindutva and Hinduism. She should first look deep into her own conscience,” he asked. Raina said that she was the same Mehbooba Mufti who at the time of Amarnath land row in 2008 had run anti-Hindu campaign. “Entire world knows her. She is trying to do politics of hatred but we won’t allow her to succeed in her designs,” he added. Former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta said, “The unfounded remarks made by Mehbooba Mufti against the Bharatiya Janata Party have no takers in the country as her divisive agenda has already been exposed,” he said. Gupta said, the PDP is a spent force now and its chief is trying her best to revive the party. RSS North Zone Vyavastha Pramukh and president of Shri Sanatan Dharam Sabha in J&K, Parshottam Dadhichi said, “Sanatan is Sanatan. It is a way of life. It can’t be compared and it can’t be hijacked.”“As far as RSS is concerned, we work for nation-building and we believe in the adage ‘Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinah’. I can only express regrets over the low thinking of Mehbooba Mufti. She has not understood the ethics of the RSS. Many courts of the nation, including Supreme Court and Delhi High Court, have said that RSS is not a communal organisation. It is really unfortunate on the part of PDP president to drag and malign apolitical organisation like RSS, which firmly believes in oneness of the people of India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-rss-hit-back-on-mehbooba-s-isis-remark-call-her-spent-force-101636823690248.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Annapurna Devi idol receives warm welcome as it passes through Lucknow||The Annapurna Devi idol, which was brought back from Canada recently, received a warm welcome with priests chanting hymns and showering petals in Lucknow on Saturday.The Annapurna Devi idol is to be installed at the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi on November 15.On Thursday (November 11), the Union ministry of culture had handed over the idol of the goddess to Uttar Pradesh (UP) minister Suresh Rana at a ceremony held at New Delhi’s National Gallery of Modern Art. Several ministers of the Yogi Adityanath government became part of the yatra. Law minister Brajesh Pathak travelled with the Annapurna Devi idol from Kanpur till Lucknow. At Sarojininagar in Lucknow, local BJP MLA and UP minister Swati Singh became part of the procession after the idol received a warm welcome. Another senior minister Ashutosh Tandon became part of the yatra at Hazratganj. “Law minister Brajesh Pathak accompanied the yatra’s Lucknow leg and was also seen distributing prasad,” said Lucknow BJP leader Praveen Garg. “Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia was seen with the procession and the flower bedecked vehicle on which the 18th century beautifully carved idol of the goddess, measuring 17x9x4 cm, was placed,” Garg said. Near the BJP headquarters in Lucknow, UP BJP general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal, along with general secretary Govind Narayan Shukla, lawmaker Neeraj Bora and several others welcomed the yatra. The procession passed through 1090 crossing, Samta Mulak Chauraha and Lohia crossing before reaching the polytechnic crossing. The BJP leaders said that the Annapurna Devi idol will now be placed in Varanasi, the spot from where it had been stolen about 100 years ago. “Ever since Modiji has become Prime Minister, the country’s treasure that was stolen away, is now coming back. Like the idol of the goddess, the antiquities of other states would be similarly handed over to the respective state governments,” the BJP leaders said.From Delhi, the yatra headed to Aligarh on November 11, from where it travelled to Kannauj on November 12. After Lucknow, it would move to Ayodhya. It will finally reach Varanasi on November 15 and would be placed at the Kashi Vishwanath temple after elaborate rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/annapurna-devi-idol-receives-warm-welcome-as-it-passes-through-lucknow-101636823330229.html
13-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 240 new Covid cases, one death||PUNE On Saturday, Pune district reported 240 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection, as the state health department officials. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,993 deaths reported and 2,967 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 116 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 366,559 and the death toll went up to 6,934 as one more death was reported.Pune city reported 92 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 521,766 and the death toll stood at 9,205.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 32 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,147 and the toll stood at 3,505.Pune district also saw 48,449 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWIN dashboard and in total 1,23,91,168. Out of which 7,915,379 are first doses and 4,475,789 are second doses. A total of 600 sites saw vaccination out of which 406 were government centres and 194 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-240-new-covid-cases-one-death-101636823210044.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Ganga Mashal Yatra welcomed at Sangam in UP’s Prayagraj||The “Ganga Mashal Yatra”, which commenced on November 1 at Rishikesh, was welcomed at Sangam here, on Saturday. Like every year, this year too, the yatra is part of the Ganga Mahotsav which is being celebrated by the Indian Army from November 1 to November 30.The yatra was taken out by the Territorial Army (TA) in Delhi for spreading the message of cleaning the Ganga. This is being done under the “Clean Ganga” campaign by the Ganga Task Force. The yatra started from Rishikesh and will reach the Bay of Bengal on November 26 after passing through five states. Then from there, the journey will come back to Delhi where it will be accorded a ceremonial welcome.Describing the purpose of the yatra, Col Ved Vrat Vaidh of Territorial Army said, “The purpose of the yatra is to connect the general public and common man with the river Ganga and motivate them to contribute towards ‘Nirmal Ganga’ campaign under the Namami Gange project. This work is being done by the Territorial Army.” The team carrying the torch of the yatra from Rishikesh to the Bay of Bengal is being led by Major LN Joshi of the Territorial Army. During the yatra, this team will stop at many places. During their stay there, the team would give information to local people about the purpose of Namami Gange campaign and benefits of a clean Ganga.In Prayagraj, divisional forest officer Ramesh Chandra welcomed the yatra. He said the campaign of planting trees on the banks of river Ganga had been started by the Uttar Pradesh forest department and the Ganga Task Force. With the help of the force, people are also being encouraged to plant trees and protect them. He added that in future also, forest department would be contributing towards conservation of the Ganga by participating in various programmes and every effort would be made to make them successful.A number of NCC cadets and students of various schools too participated in the event held at Sangam. The sand artists made a huge sand sculpture of Lord Shiva to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ganga-mashal-yatra-welcomed-at-sangam-in-up-s-prayagraj-101636823090715.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Massive’ support on UP CM’s turf indication of BJP govt’s exit: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday attacked the BJP government on a number of issues ranging from rising fuel prices, farm laws, unemployment, privatisation and Covid pandemic while reiterating his claim that his party will come to power in the state with a thumping majority. Assembly polls are slated to be held in Uttar Pradesh early next year. Addressing a well-attended rally in Madapur area on the outskirts of Gorakhpur city after launching the third phase of his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra with a massive roadshow, he claimed, “This great excitement, enthusiasm and support that too in Babaji’s (a reference to CM Yogi Adityanath) region shows that this government (BJP) is on its way out as it has insulted and cheated people. No one has ever made such large numbers of fake promises as this government has done.” He further claimed that the SP was coming to power with a huge mandate and that the change will start from Gorakhpur. Taking a jibe at the CM, Akhilesh said, “Do you know why laptops are not being distributed? Because our Babaji doesn’t know how to use it.”As the yatra sees the SP chief travel on a bus, which has been converted into a “rath”, Akhilesh addressed people from atop this “rath” as he also waved a mace to people as a victory gesture. Attacking the BJP government over its “failure” in handling the pandemic, the former CM alleged, “Do you remember how our labourers walked on foot to home in huge numbers from various parts of the country, including Gujarat and Maharashtra? However, this government did nothing for them.”“Back then, the poor desperately needed hospitals, medicines and oxygen but the government failed to supply them, leading to uncountable deaths. Even today, this government is not able to provide proper treatment to the poor,” he further alleged.On rising fuel prices, the SP leader alleged, “In the last three months, the profit earned by oil companies has gone up to six hundred times. Can BJP tell where all this money is going? This is the BJP which is filling the pockets of the rich by cutting the pockets of the poor. They have sold off public properties from airport to railways. It was already a ‘Pheku Sarkar’ (a government which boasts of its achievements) which has now become a ‘Bechu Sarkar’ (a government which is selling off public properties).” “The (BJP) government had promised that it will make air travel so cheaper that even those who wear slippers only will be able to travel in planes . Leave alone the affordable plane travel, the common man is finding it difficult to use even a motorcycle as petrol prices have made a century (have crossed ₹100-mark),” Akhilesh said.Supporting the farmers’ ongoing stir against the Centre’s three farm laws, the former CM said, “This government is not listening to the demands of the farmers who have been staging a demonstration since long as the government doesn’t worry about them but about its rich friends. If this government comes to power again, it will crush the farmers’ movement.”Seeking people’s support for his party, he also said the forthcoming UP election would be a battle to save all four pillars of democracy and the Indian Constitution. The former chief minister began his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra on October 12 in Kanpur which ended on October 13, covering Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun and Hamirpur. The second phase, meanwhile, was held in Hardoi on October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/massive-support-on-up-cm-s-turf-indication-of-bjp-govt-s-exit-akhilesh-101636822491587.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh free of riots under Yogi, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday lavished praise on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for making the state free of riots and mafias, and pushing it on the development path. Amit Shah, who inaugurated Sansad Khel Mahakumbh in Basti district of eastern Uttar Pradesh, also lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the Varanasi MP, for giving funds to ensure that the state gets the maximum benefit of government schemes and development projects, helping it emerge as the country’s second largest economy. “Development of a state is not possible if riots occur. Earlier, riots and curfew were frequent in Uttar Pradesh. Since the Yogi Adityanath government has come to power, no riots have taken place,” Amit Shah said. The home minister also said, “Now, no mafias can be seen in Purvanchal (eastern UP). Those who came here to make people migrate, have now migrated themselves. Earlier, the police force had the fear of musclemen, but now these musclemen come to the police begging not to shoot them and pleading for surrender.” “PM Modi himself is the MP from UP’s Varanasi and for this reason he has loosened the government purse strings for development,” he said. “UP was adjudged the best state under the smart cities mission, got second rank in MSME, holds the record for maximum distribution of LPG, construction of toilets and maximum power connections. UP has become the second largest economy of the country,” he said.“PM Modi and CM Yogi have done a lot of work and a lot of work is still to be done. For this, we need your support, love and blessings. Give us a record victory in the upcoming election, “ he said.Amit Shah asked the crowd to pledge for BJP’s record victory by raising their hands and chanting Bharat Mata ki Jai. He recalled his 2016 visit to Basti and thanked people for giving a mandate to the BJP in the 2017 UP assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-free-of-riots-under-yogi-says-amit-shah-101636821711759.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Exams to recruit principals in govt-aided UP secondary schools soon||Preparations have begun in earnest to now undertake recruitment of principals and headmasters in more than 4,500 government-aided secondary schools spread across the state through a written examination, say officials in the know of the development. “At present, there is a system of recruiting principals directly through interviews after short-listing the candidates vying for the posts on offer. But on the orders of the state government, the officials of Directorate of Education, Prayagraj, have prepared a proposal in this regard which will soon be sent to the government for approval,” said a senior education department official requesting anonymity. Under the changes being made, assistant teachers will also now be able to apply for the post of principals of government-aided intermediate colleges. “Till now, assistant teachers or trained graduate teachers (TGTs) teaching in high schools could only apply for the post of headmaster in government-aided high schools while post graduate teachers (PGTs) could apply for the post of principals of government-aided intermediate colleges. But now the new proposal aims at removing this barrier against assistant teachers applying for the post of principals in government-aided intermediate colleges if they possess the requisite eligibility as specified,” he added.The development comes close on the heels of a meeting chaired by special secretary, UP government, Jai Shankar Dubey on October 11 in Lucknow with representatives of the UP Secondary Teachers’ Association (Thakurai Group) in which the latter demanded recruitment of principals through a written examination and an opportunity to assistant teachers also to apply for the posts of principals in government-aided intermediate colleges—a fact duly noted in the confirmed minutes of the meeting dated November 2, 2021, a copy of which is with HT .State general secretary, UP Secondary Teachers’ Association (Thakurai Group), Lalmani Dwivedi said after this meeting, the process of duly amending the UP Secondary Education Services Selection Board Rules-1998 to make the changes possible had been started by the state education directorate.“As per the proposal, henceforth for the selection of principal and headmaster, a written examination of 300 marks (60 percent marks) out of the total 500 marks will be conducted. The remaining 200 marks will be earmarked for experience and interview,” another senior state education department official said.“The written exam will witness aspirants being tested through objective type questions regarding their general knowledge, educational aptitude, educational administration, school environment and health etc,” he added. Principals will be selected on the basis of a merit prepared at the state level instead of the divisional level as done presently, he said.Written examinations have started for the recruitment of principals in government-aided degree colleges of the state, but in government-aided secondary schools, selections are still being done through interviews.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/exams-to-recruit-principals-in-govt-aided-up-secondary-schools-soon-101636821710280.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||State university will turn Azamgarh into Aryamgarh: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said laying of the foundation stone of a state university will really turn Azamgarh into Aryamgarh, emphasising that there should be no doubt about it now.He was speaking at a function in Azamgarh before Union home minister Amit Shah addressed the gathering. Shah laid the foundation stone of the state university in Azamgarh. Yogi Adityanath welcomed Amit Shah by chanting Bharat Mata Ki Jai and Jai Shri Ram.“There should be no doubt that this university will truly turn Azamgarh into Aryamgarh,” the chief minister said. Speaking about a ration scheme, he also said, “The government under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi has decided to provide free food grains, including wheat and rice, to all the 15 crore Antyodaya cardholders until Holi. The government has taken the responsibility of taking care of the poor and marginalised people.”“In the states where BJP is in power, schemes have been implemented on the ground. The government at the Centre has launched several welfare and developmental schemes in the country,” he said.Besides Shah and CM Yogi Adityanath, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and other BJP leaders were present during the foundation stone laying function of the university in Azamgarh.Azamgarh is Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav’s Lok Sabha constituency.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/state-university-will-turn-azamgarh-into-aryamgarh-yogi-adityanath-101636821530167.html
13-11-2021||Pune||Narendra Dabholkar murder case: Next court hearing on November 19||PUNE A local court in Pune has deferred the hearing in the Narendra Dabholkar murder case till November 19. During the earlier hearing, the examination of witnesses in the murder case started before a special court of additional sessions judge SR Navandar. Avinash Davalbhakta, the witness who deposed before the court Davalbhakta was cross-examined by defence lawyers Prakash Salsingikar, Virendra Ichalkaranjikar and Suvarna Avhad. Salsingikar asked him about his activities between August 19 and August 21. The complainant in the case, Narayan Rangat, the then police sub-inspector at Vishrambag police station was scheduled to depose as a witness during the next hearing on Saturday.Dabholkar, a rationalist who was against superstition, was on a walk on the morning of August 20, 2013, near Omkareshwar bridge in Pune when two bike-borne men shot him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/narendra-dabholkar-murder-case-next-court-hearing-on-november-19-101636820450012.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Security beefed up in Mumbai after police get info on possible bomb attack||The security has been beefed up in Mumbai after police received information about a possible bomb attack in the city, reported news agency ANI quoting Mumbai railway police commissioner Quaiser Khalid. The officer said that the information regarding the possible bomb attack was received on the telephone by Bandra Railway Police Station.The caller was contacted by the police and all related security agencies were subsequently informed about the warning, Khalid said.“Information about possible bomb attack in Mumbai has been received today telephonically by Bandra RPS. Caller contacted, security beefed up. All sister agencies have been informed, we are enquiring into the matter,” ANI quoted Mumbai Railway Police Commissioner Quaiser Khalid as saying.Earlier this week, the police issued a mild alert across south Mumbai after a taxi driver informed that suspicious men travelling in a Wagon R car had asked him the address of industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house Antilia. The police were able to trace the vehicle which turned out to be a tourist car.“The Wagon R driver narrated everything to us and also shared details of the three businessmen. We verified his claims and also spoke to them over the phone and prima-facie nothing suspicious was found,” said Bhushan Belnekar, senior inspector of Azad Maidan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/security-beefed-up-in-mumbai-after-police-gets-info-on-possible-bomb-attack-101636818928144.html
13-11-2021||Other||Mathura: FIR registered for violating sanctity of ‘Nidhivan’||Agra A case has been registered against unidentified people at Vrindavan police station of Mathura district for allegedly trespassing ‘Nidhivan’ where no one is allowed to enter during the night hours. The unidentified persons allegedly entered the Nidhivan and prepared a video which was uploaded on social media platforms, said police. A court in Mathura has also directed the police to get the video deleted from social media.According to police, an FIR was registered in this connection on Friday. In the FIR, strict action has been sought against those violating the sanctity of ‘Nidhivan’ where the devotees believe that Lord Krishna reaches along with Radha for ‘raas-leela’ in night hours. “The incident seems to have taken place on the night of November 9 when unidentified accused entered the prohibited area of ‘Nidhivan’. Rohit Krishna, the son of caretaker lodged an FIR on Friday, following which a case was registered against unidentified persons under section 295 (Injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion) of Indian Penal Code and Section 66 (Cyber related Offence) of Information Technology (Amended) Act 2000,” stated Vinay Mishra, in-charge of Vrindavan Kotwali police station, Mathura. The complainant has alleged that some anti-social elements with mala fide intention climbed the wall in night hours and secretly entered ‘Nidhivan’ while wearing shoes. They prepared video while inside and uploaded it on social media platforms, the FIR states seeking stringent action against those involved in act which has hurt religious sentiments. “The matter has been referred to Cyber Cell of Mathura police and efforts initiated to get the video deleted from social media platform in compliance of directions from Civil Judge (Junior Division) Mathura. The offenders will be arrested and brought to books at earliest,” stated Mishra. “There is anger over the way, the sanctity of much revered religious spot has been violated,” stated Mahendra Pratap Singh, an activist lawyer in Mathura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mathura-fir-registered-for-violating-sanctity-of-nidhivan-101636819490337.html
13-11-2021||Pune||October saw highest ever revenue collection of Rs3,200cr from stamp duty: Balasaheb Thorat||Maharashtra revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat hinted that the state economy is gradually returning to normalcy. He said that in October 2021, the state received Rs3,200 crore in revenue through stamp duty which is the highest ever in a month. He clarified that the state does not plan to give concession on stamp duty. Thorat was addressing a press conference in Pune after attending the ‘revenue conference’ at the Yashwantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration (YASHADA).“During the pandemic of course, there was a lot of impact on the state revenue. Revenue received from stamp duty is a major source of income for us. In the beginning, offices were closed and it had a lot of impact. Then we took the decision of waiving stamp duty for five months and it yielded a lot of good results. Now things are gradually getting back to normal. In October 2021, we received the highest revenue so far from stamp duty of Rs3,200 crore. This is the highest so far,” Thorat said.The Maharashtra government on August 26, 2020 decided to temporarily reduce stamp duty on housing from 5% to 2% till December 31, 2020. From January 1, 2021 to March 31, 2021, stamp duty was increased from 2% to 3%. During FY2021-22, stamp duty was reinstated to 5%. Asked whether the state government is considering slashing stamp duty again, Thorat said there are no such plans as of now.“This decision (on stamp duty) proved to be a crucial one. On a national level too, it was appreciated that the decision helped restart the economic wheel. People completed their pending transactions. So even after giving concession, we received more revenue,” Thorat said. He claimed that the revenue department has been trying to promote online transactions and procedures. He also said that in the next six months, major reforms in land measurement procedures will be visible.“We are trying to bring in a lot of transparency in property registration procedures. We are now insisting that developers who have RERA registration should do it online from their offices. You will see a lot of changes in coming months in the land measurement procedures as well,” Thorat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/october-saw-highest-ever-revenue-collection-of-rs3-200cr-from-stamp-duty-balasaheb-thorat-101636819430276.html
13-11-2021||Other||History sheeter shot dead in Rohtas||A notorious history sheeter, who had more than 30 cases of kidnapping, murder, loot and extortion lodged against him across Bihar and Jharkhand, was shot dead on Saturday by unidentified assailants in Bihar’s Rohtas district, police said.The incident took place at Kaithi village under Shivsagar police station limits when six bike-borne assailants sprayed bullets at Kallu Khan, who died on the spot, police said, quoting eyewitnesses.According to police, Khan had come out of jail on bail around two months back. His wife is fighting election for mukhiya (panchayat head) post from Nonar panchayat of Shivsagar block, where she is pitted against his rival gang leader Ijahar Khan’s wife.Around 5.30 am, when Kallu was requesting villagers to come out for the rally he had organised, assailants shot him dead and escaped.Superintendent of police Ashish Bharti said police were conducting raids to apprehend the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/history-sheeter-shot-dead-in-rohtas-101636818784177.html
13-11-2021||Other||Local leader’s killing in Purnia stirs protests, SHO suspended||Angry over the killing of a former district board member in a Purnia village on Friday evening, locals staged protests outside the local police station and blocked the main road for several hours on Saturday afternoon, lifting the blockade only after the superintendent of police suspended the station house officer for negligence. Vishwajeet Singh, 30, a former district board member from Dhamdaha, was shot dead at Sarsi village under Sarsi police station limits, about 40 km from Purnia town.While no FIR (first information report) had been lodged by family members of the deceased till Saturday afternoon, leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), put the police in the dock. In a Twitter post, he wrote, “Singh had earlier complained to the police that he feared being killed by the nephew of minister Leshi Singh. But the police, acting as an agent of the ruling Janata Dal (United), failed to act and he was killed.” Police sources confirmed that Singh, in a police complaint on November 3, had apprehended threat to his life from one Ashish Singh, who is nephew of food and consumer protection minister Leshi Singh. He had lodged the complaint at Sarsi police station on November 3 after some criminals fired at him. The deceased’s wife, Anulika Singh, has been just elected as district board member from Dhamdaha in the ongoing panchayat polls.Purnia superintendent of police Daya Shankar said family members of the deceased had not yet lodged an FIR pertaining to the killing of Singh. Asked about the victim’s earlier complaint, the SP said, “SHO of Sarsi police station, Naresh Kumar, had been put under suspension. We are conducting raids to nab the accused.” In 2020 assembly polls, brother of one Bittu Singh, a notorious criminal who was then in jail, was shot dead in the same area. The family had then accused Leshi Singh of patronizing criminals who committed the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/local-leader-s-killing-in-purnia-stirs-protests-sho-suspended-101636818590042.html
13-11-2021||Other||Amravati violence: ‘Situation tense but under control,’ says senior police official||A curfew was imposed in Amravati after incidents of violence over the bandh called by the Bharatiya Janata Party continued in the city. Fifteen people, including three policemen, were injured when police resorted to lathi charge on Saturday.Shashikant Satav, a senior police officer, said that the police had to lathi-charge to control the violent mob. “The situation is tense but under control,” he further said.City commissioner of police Arti Singh said internet services in Amravati will remain suspended for three days to prevent the spread of rumours that could fuel violence.The bandh was called by the BJP in protest of the violent incidents during another bandh which was called by a section of people in the city on Friday against the vandalisation of a mosque in Tripura last month.Tension prevailed in many parts of the area since Saturday morning after some unidentified persons pelted stones at shops during protests. The violence broke out at Cotton Market, Rajkamal Chowk, Namuna, Jawahar Gate areas when a massive morcha was taken out by the BJP workers. Some people pelted stones on the shops and damaged them.Sandip Patil, the acting commissioner of police, stated that a curfew has been imposed in the city that excluded essential services, like medicines. Patil announced the indefinite curfew after fresh violence in the city this afternoon when several shops were set afire in Rajapeth and Namuna areas and crowds damaged the public and private properties.At least four battalions of state reserve police forces were deployed to maintain the law and order situation in the trouble-torn city.In protest against the communal riots in Tripura, some Muslim organisations declared a bandh in Amravati on Friday that witnessed violence in some areas in the city. The violent mob vandalised several shops and pelted stones.The BJP sponsored a protest against the Friday violence which led to massive crowds surging onto the roads, shouting slogans, carrying banners and saffron flags. Shortly, some sections resorted to pelting stones at private and government vehicles, shops and establishments, forcing the police to resort to mild caning to control the miscreants.Former Maharashtra minister and senior BJP leader Dr Anil Bonde, who was leading the march, claimed that the BJP workers were just protesting against the incident yesterday.“It was a totally peaceful march and the police deliberately resorted to lathi charge on them. At least 20 party workers were injured following the police lathi charge,” he added.Yashomati Thakur, the Guardian minister for Amravati district, said that the incident that has happened is unfortunate. Police will investigate it. Action will be taken against whoever is guilty. “Everyone has the right to protest but violence in the name of protest is not right. We appeal to the people to maintain peace. Some chaotic elements are working to spread violence in the city and police are working hard to maintain law and order,” she further said. The city police have detained around 50 people and are looking for others who are involved in the violence.Meanwhile, the leader of the Opposition and senior BJP leader, Devendra Fadnavis urged the state government to ensure law and order and condemned the violence that erupted on Friday in three towns, particularly, Amravati and Nanded.On the other hand, the chairman of the state Agriculture Mission and Shiv Sena leader Kishore Tiwari slammed the BJP for organising the counter-march in Amravati on Saturday that took a violent turn. The BJP is resorting to such “communal tactics” to polarise voters, eyeing the next year’s civic elections in Maharashtra as well as the 2022 elections in some states, including Uttar Pradesh, Tiwari alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amravati-violence-situation-tense-but-under-control-says-senior-police-official-101636818470111.html
13-11-2021||Other||Bihar: Man challenges liquor ban in online video, held||The police on Saturday arrested a man who challenged the liquor ban in Bihar in a video posted on social media. In the video, which has since gone viral, the man introduces himself as Santosh Yadav. He seems to be inebriated while holding a bottle of liquor and even tells his name and address, the police said.“Santosh was arrested on Saturday. The legal process was on to forward him to jail,” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babu Ram said.The SSP said that FIRs (first information reports) would be lodged against village chowkidars in case of recovery of liquor under their respective jurisdictions or a hooch incident.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has called a meeting of top officials on November 16 to review prohibition in the wake of the recent hooch tragedies in Gopalganj, Motihari, Bettiah, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur, which have together claimed at least 36 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/biharman-challenges-liquor-ban-in-online-video-held-101636818411328.html
13-11-2021||Other||Prohibition: Ahead of CM’s review meet, his party concedes police problem||PATNAAhead of the November 16 meeting Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has called to review Prohibition, his party Janata Dal (United)’s senior leader Upendra Kushwaha has acknowledged that liquor availability is not possible without the involvement of the local police, a charge leaders of the ruling coalition and opposition have been making as well.“There is no doubt that liquor availability is not possible without the involvement of the local police. The government can make good policies, but its success depends on effective implementation. If some people in the police and administration try to derail it for petty gains, there is a problem,” he said.Kushwaha, a former union minister, also chided his party’s ally Bhartiya Janata Party for its comments. “BJP leaders issue statements just to appear different, which is not good. If there is any problem, they should discuss it at the proper forum,” he said.In the wake of several deaths in hooch incidents in different parts of the state this month, questions over poor implementation of prohibition in the state are being raised both from within the government as well as outside. BJP’s Bihar unit chief Dr Sanjay Jaiswal was also vocal in criticising the faulty implementation. “The situation is alarming in East Champaran, which is part of my constituency. Illicit liquor trade is going on with the collusion of the police. It has become part of the racket at many places to derail a law which was brought by Nitish Kumar with good intention. It calls for a serious review,” he said.While liquor flow has continued in the state despite Prohibition, it seems to have gone up sharply since the start of the ongoing panchayat polls. As per statistics of the police headquarters, 115,144 litres of liquor were recovered from the 10 districts which went to polls in the first phase, while the total recovery in the state stood at 4,43,785 litres during the period from August 24, when the panchayat polls were announced, to September 21, when campaigning for the first phase ended.Mounting case loadIn dry Bihar, pendency of liquor related cases in the already overburdened courts has been on the rise due to continued availability of liquor and frequent recoveries and arrests, including for alleged hooch tragedies. Since 2018, the share of such cases out of total institution of civil and criminal cases before the high court comes to around 19%, as per figures of the Patna High Court. During the pandemic year 2020, when the courts also had restricted functioning and fewer number of cases, the share of excise cases rose to 21.75%. Overall pendency has also risen due to pandemic disruptions. The impact on the subordinate courts is more, with the share of excise cases out of the total number of cases instituted being around 25.5%, say the official court figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prohibition-ahead-of-cm-s-review-meet-his-party-concedes-police-problem-101636818409877.html
13-11-2021||Other||Punjab grants exemption from CLU for setting up stand-alone industries||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Saturday exempted the provision of getting Change of Land Use (CLU) permission for setting up stand-alone green, orange and red category industries in permissible zones. State housing and urban development minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said previously, the industrialists were required to obtain a CLU from the department and then required to get the building plans approved. “The process was quite cumbersome and time-consuming for the industrialists to start their projects. Exemption from obtaining CLU would encourage setting up of industries, due to the simplicity of the process,” the minister said, adding, “Now, industrialists can directly get their building plans approved from the department.” The approval of building plans, however, would be subject to the fulfilment of relevant guidelines for industries and building bye-laws of the department. The minister added that industrial associations, since long, were demanding that the process of setting up of industries be simplified and had been seeking single-step clearance. These associations had maintained there are many entrepreneurs, who wanted to establish industries in the state, but lengthy procedures for getting approvals, including CLUs, was discouraging them. “Considering the demand of industrial associations and in view of the changing scenario, where the state has to reduce its dependence on agriculture, and has to look for other avenues to boost economic growth, this decision has been made,” Sarkaria added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-grants-exemption-from-clu-for-setting-up-stand-alone-industries-101636817930063.html
13-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Poor air quality in Sangam city poses health threat to residents||PRAYAGRAJ: With the onset of winter, the side effects of air pollution have increased in Sangam city. Air pollution can cause various ailments including breathing related problems, and can even harm vital organs like heart, lungs, eyes, skin and cause acute respiratory infections. To check air quality, UP Pollution Control Board has installed automated electronic devices at three places which include Jhunsi, Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT) and Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC). The air quality index (AQI) at Jhunsi on Friday was at 324g/m3, at MNNIT 279g/m3 and at PMC 111g/m3, which were above the prescribed AQI standard of 50-100g/m3. As the air quality in the city is deteriorating, a number of medicos, officials of transport department and weather experts have recommended caution to the people. Former president of Allahabad Medical Association (AMA), Dr MK Madnani says, “Asthma is a respiratory disease caused by environmental pollution wherein the person feels difficulty in breathing, a feeling of pressure in the chest and cough, causing phlegm. These are caused from allergies.” Air pollution could also be dangerous for the eyes. Ophthalmologist Dr Kamaljeet Singh says, “Pollution affects the cells of the eyes, due to which the problem of dryness, redness and pain increases in the eyes. Due to the presence of elements like nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide and Sulphur dioxide in the polluted air, there is more damage to the eyes.” According to kidney specialist Dr Anurag Singh, Environmental pollution is extremely dangerous for the kidney. Heavy metals floating in the air and reaching the body through food get trapped in the kidneys. In recent times, the prevalence of kidney diseases has increased due to pollution. “If we start getting clean air and water, then not only the kidney gets benefitted but also the spread of diseases will get reduced,” he adds.Senior dermatologist of the city, Dr KG Singh says, “Pollution in the air is dangerous for the skin as this makes it lose its moisture and leads to various problems, including redness, rosacea and eczema. Due to this, fine lines, wrinkles and spots start appearing before time.” To cut air pollution from vehicles, transport office has also taken several initiatives. “Vehicles are being checked regularly but still lot of awareness has to be spread. People should participate in the workshops conducted by us and understand how they can save the environment. The department is continuously taking action in collaboration with the Pollution Control Board,” says regional transport officer (RTO), Prayagraj, RK Maurya. Regional environment officer RK Singh says, “Weather is also deteriorating air quality index in the city as lack of a bit strong winds (blowing at a speed of 10 to 15 kmph) has affected the AQI.” “However, the situation is now improving gradually as the incidents of stubble burning have come down in the district. We are also monitoring the constructions sites to check air pollution,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-poor-air-quality-in-sangam-city-poses-health-threat-to-residents-101636817869907.html
13-11-2021||Other||Will ensure time-bound payment to sugarcane farmers: Sukhbir||Mukerian (Hoshiarpur) Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Saturday that the SAD-BSP alliance government, if it came to power after the 2002 Punjab assembly polls, would pass a law making it mandatory for sugar mills to pay sugarcane growers their dues within the stipulated time frame. He addressed public meetings at Khichian, Chanaur, Pankoo, Hajipur and Mehatpur.Addressing one such meeting, he said he had received several complaints about non-payment of arrears by the sugar mills which was “not acceptable”, adding that the new law would have a provision of registration of a case of cognizable offence against mill owners not paying dues to farmers within three months of crushing their cane.He urged chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to ensure sugarcane growers received the State Assured Price (SAP) of ₹360 per quintal that the Punjab government had notified. Sukhbir slammed the Congress government for closing down mandis when paddy crop was still lying for purchase. He alleged that the Channi government was following the agenda of the Centre, which wanted to curtail paddy purchase. He also criticised the government for failing to ensure smooth supply of fertilisers to farmers.The SAD president assured that if the SAD-BSP government was voted to power, the scourge of illegal mining would be wiped out within a month. He promised a monthly grant of ₹2,000 to all women heads of families and student loan, which would be paid by the state government. “We will also ensure that industrial units reserve 75% of jobs for Punjabis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-ensure-time-bound-payment-to-sugarcane-farmers-sukhbir-101636817210071.html
13-11-2021||Other||Employees, pensioners union block Bathinda-Chandigarh NH||Bathinda Hundreds of protesting activists of Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front blocked the main intersection on the National Highway in Bathinda for nearly two hours. Protesters demanded the Punjab government accept their long-pending demands, including regularisation of casual employees, in different government departments and payment of dearness allowance to pensioners.Earlier, the Front leadership had announced that they would sit ona dharna near the Bathinda office of Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Police were waiting at the venue, with the protesters changing their plan at the last moment. Instead, while holding the protest march, they reached the Bhai Ghaniyya Chowk and blocked traffic on the NH.The dharna caused inconvenience to commuters on the NH leading from Bathinda to Chandigarh, Fazilka and Jalandhar-Amritsar. Protesters lifted the dharna only after two hours, about 5.30pm. The agitation led to long queues of private vehicles, trucks and public transport.Leader of the protesting group Prem Chawla gave a call to oppose the Congress in the forthcoming assembly polls as chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had failed miserably to protests the interests of the government employees. He charged state finance minister Manpreet with creating hurdles in the implementation of financial welfare policies in true spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/employees-pensioners-union-block-bathinda-chandigarh-nh-101636816669945.html
13-11-2021||Other||Punjabi University wants speedier probe into May fake billing scam||Patiala Punjabi University has written to the district police, seeking speedier investigation into a ₹6 lakh fake billing scam that had come to light in May this year. The cash-strapped university’s internal audit department and finance wing had red-flagged five bills. On checking, the stamp and signatures of the department head were found to be forged and the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised, turned out to be bogus. The university suspects that eight persons, including two varsity employees, were involved.Police have already arrested the main accused Nishu Chaudhary, a senior assistant with the university, on September 20 for siphoning money on the names of fake and dummy research scholars since 2016. According to preliminary police inquiry, Nishu had fraudulently and illegally distributed ₹60 lakh.Varsity vice-chancellor Arvind said, “I have spoken to the senior superintendent of police (SSP) for expediting investigation. The varsity’s internal committee report has already been submitted with the police. We want the case to be taken to its logical conclusion.”He added that it was important to go into the background of the case and identify as to how the nexus flourished for years altogether. “A team of district police met me recently and assured all help in cracking the case,” he added.Patiala SSP Harcharan Singh Bhullar said a special investigation team (SIT) under an SP-level officer has been formed for investigation into the case. “During investigation, we have zeroed in on the involvement of more individuals. The case has progressed well over the past few days. More arrests will follow soon,” he added.In August, a case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 465 (for making forged documents), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 201 (tampering of evidence) and 381 (theft) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-wants-speedier-probe-into-may-fake-billing-scam-101636815889626.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Iron rods of Metro work in Thane collapse, 5 workers injured||Five workers suffered injuries after a few iron rods of a pillar of the ongoing Metro Line 5 work between Thane, Bhiwandi and Kalyan fell on them on Saturday afternoon.The incident occurred near Anjur Phata. The five are admitted to a nearby hospital.Due to the incident, the Thane-Nashik Highway was congested with vehicles for more than five hours and it spilled over to Ghodbunder Road.The incident occurred at around 3pm, when the workers were completing the part of the pillar and suddenly the 30-40 feet big structure of iron bars collapsed on a few workers. While others escaped from the collapse, five of the workers were trapped under it. Two of them suffered serious injuries. The injured were identified as Mohammed Shahrukh, Mohammed Mahebud, Mohammed Ahmad, Mohammed Shakil and Mohammed Javed.Bhiwandi traffic police officer, said, “The five stuck inside suffered injuries and we have immediately taken them to nearby hospital. They are undergoing treatment. The Narpoli police are conducting further inquiry with the contractor responsible for the work.” Narpoli police station senior police inspector, M Ballal, said, “We are soon to take statements of the injured and will be communicating with MMRDA officials also. After the incident, one side of the Anjurphata Road near Rahnal village was completely blocked as the pillar structure could not be removed immediately. Therefore, the traffic was diverted and it created a heavy jam. Traffic police along with all our local police are manning the jams.”MMRDA officials did not respond to calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iron-rods-of-metro-work-in-thane-collapse-5-workers-injured-101636815409638.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||CIDCO plans comprehensive development of Khopta New Town Notified area for 32 villages||CIDCO has announced its intention to prepare a development plan for the ‘comprehensive development’ of Khopta New Town Notified area for 32 villages.The Government of Maharashtra has appointed CIDCO as the Special Planning Authority for the Khopta New Town Notified area. This area includes 32 villages (7 from the Panvel Tehsil of the Raigad district and 25 from the Uran tehsil).Sanjay Mukherjee, VC-MD, CIDCO, said, “After development plan is in place for Khopta New Town Notified area, it will have an excellent opportunity for growth and the area will be developed with state-of-the-art infrastructure and social facilities.”As the Special Planning Authority for the Khopta New Town Notified area, CIDCO had published the development plan for six villages (Barpada, Karnala-Tara, Dolghar, Kasarbhat, Dighati) on April 3, 2008. The Government of Maharashtra approved these development plans according to the Development Control Regulations on April 4, 2012 for the six villages. Further, the Government of Maharashtra instructed CIDCO to publish the development plan of the remaining 26 villages in the area on June 2, 2021. The already sanctioned development plan for the six villages needs to be revised to make sure they comply with the necessary standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cidco-plans-comprehensive-development-of-khopta-new-town-notified-area-for-32-villages-101636815049704.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Cruise ship drugs bust case: Court observes seizure was illegal||While granting bail to 29-year-old Gurgaon resident Nupur Satija, an accused in the Cordelia cruise drugs bust case, a special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) court has observed that the seizure of contraband from her was illegal and under violation of section 42 of NDPS Act (Power of entry, search, seizure and arrest without warrant or authorisation). Special NDPS judge V V Patil had granted bail to Satija on October 30. However, the detailed order was made available recently. Satija’s counsel Ayaz Khan had argued that the search of Satija and her room at the cruise was carried out by a panch witness, who is not an empowered officer and therefore it is in breach of provisions of NDPS Act. There was no female officer present either. The NCB on October 2 checked room number 3603 at the cruise ship and found four green tablets purported to be Ecstasy kept in four sanitary pads, after which Satija was arrested. Special judge Patil also observed in the order that there is prima facie no conspiracy and abetment as alleged by the prosecution and hence section 29 of NDPS (criminal conspiracy and abetment) is not applicable. Hence section 37 of NDPS (offence to be cognisable and non bailable) would not apply. While giving bail to Satija, a resident of Gurgaon, and Gomit Chopra, a resident of New Delhi, the court said that the WhatsApp chats of both of them are regarding consumption of contraband and not regarding sale, purchase or any other use. While arguing for 29-year-old Satija’s bail, Khan had told the court she was found with four pills of Ecstasy weighing 1.59 grams in total, which was a non-commercial quantity and so Section 37 of NDPS Act would not be applicable. He had also argued that the panchnama was not carried out by an authorised officer prescribed under the act, hence the search and seizure was illegal. Moreover, she was arrested by a male officer, which is against the mandatory provisions of NDPS Act. The timing of the panchnama, which started at 19.40 hours and was completed at 21.50 hours i.e after sunset and before sunrise, which is also against the provisions of the Act. Satija and Chopra were arrested by the NCB on October 3 along with Aryan Khan while they were all headed to Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-ship-drugs-bust-case-court-observes-seizure-was-illegal-101636814629688.html
13-11-2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt to fund development of garden at Kharadi||In a first, the Maharashtra government is providing funds to the tune of Rs2.5 crore to develop a garden at Kharadi which will span more than 7.5 acre. While the area falls under the jurisdiction of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the state tourism ministry is funding the development of the garden and Vadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre is bringing this funding under the tourism development project with the help of minister of state for tourism, Aditi Tatkare.Tingre said, “Although this part falls under the PMC, we are getting the funds from the state government instead of using the civic body’s funds. This will be the first garden in the city being developed by the ministry of tourism. It is located on survey number 30/1 at Kharadi.”The plot is in the PMC’s possession and the work order is expected to be issued within a month after which actual work on the ground will begin, Tingre said. The garden’s layout and design have been finalised. It will house various attractions including an amphitheatre, meditation centre, play area, rose beds, a toilet and vertical gardens. To be named ‘Oxygen Park’, it will be one of the best gardens in the city, according to Tingre.The district administration on November 8 submitted a letter to the state government, asking the latter to transfer funds to begin work on the garden. Another proposal had also been submitted to the tourism ministry to develop a garden around the water body at Yerawada, with Tatkare giving in-principle approval and instructing that a detailed plan be prepared for the same.There are more than 200 PMC gardens in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-govt-to-fund-development-of-garden-at-kharadi-101636814030040.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||No lockdown, WFH, schools shut: What Delhi govt announced to tackle pollution||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced new measures as the national capital’s air quality index (AQI) remained in the severe category for the third consecutive day on Saturday. Delhi recorded an AQI of 437, a slight improvement from the 471 recorded on Friday, the worst so far.The ministry of earth sciences' air quality forecasting agency SAFAR predicted that the AQI will improve in the next two days as winds slow down and reduce the intrusion of pollutants released from farm fires.Listed below are the measures announced by Kejriwal on Saturday.1. All government office employees will work from home (WFH) for a week. Private offices have been advised to allow employees to work from home as much as possible.2. All construction activities will cease from November 14 to 17.3. Delhi government is yet to take a call on issues of a complete ban on vehicles, public transport, industries and construction activities.4. Schools in the national capital have been shut for a week starting from November 15. Students will be attending online classes as physical classes will remain suspended.5. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the need for a “lockdown” will also be discussed thoroughly. “ No lockdown in Delhi as of now. Will consult stakeholders, including the Centre and CPCB, to prepare a proposal (for a lockdown) and submit it to the Supreme Court,” Kejriwal told reporters on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-lockdown-wfh-schools-shut-what-delhi-govt-announces-to-tackle-pollution-101636812976724.html
13-11-2021||Other||Mystery deepens in ex-Miss Kerala car crash death case||Mystery over the accidental deaths of former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer, runner up Anjana Shajan and their friend Mohammad Ashiq in Kochi two weeks back deepened after police found many loose ends. During the investigation, police found that an Audi car chased the ill-fated car but later occupants of the car told police that they escorted the car since some of the occupants were heavily drunk.Besides this, the CCTV visuals at the hotel in Kochi where they participated in a late-night party were also found to be missing. A senior police officer who is supervising the investigation said there are many loose ends and the explanations given by some of the participants at the party and the hotel owner were not convincing. Police have sealed the hotel but CCTV visuals of the party were found missing later. Police said they have given an ultimatum to the hotel management to produce visuals of the party area.Meanwhile, the driver of the car, A Rehman, who escaped with minor injuries, was arrested by the police for rash and negligent divining. Police also found that his versions were also contradictory and he was trying to hide something.“We have started questioning all those who participated in the late-night event and we will get a clear picture in a couple of days. It is true, there are many loose ends,” said the senior officer who did not want to be named. He said the driver is in judicial custody now and police will seek his custody later. Ansi Kabeer, a resident of Attingal in Thiruvananthapuram, was crowned Miss Kerala in 2019. Shajan, a runner up the same year was her close friend. After the accident, Kabeer’s mother, unable to withstand her daughter’s tragic end, tried to die by suicide but was saved by her relatives. The incident took place on November 1 at around 1.30 am when the driver was trying to save a motorbike and after hitting it slightly it turned turtle and hit a tree on the roadside. The car was mangled in the impact and it took some time to retrieve the trapped. Police said they have got some CCTV visuals from the area but those were not clear to tell what exactly triggered the accident. Both Kabeer and Shajan died on the spot while their friend Mohammad Ashiq, an advertising professional, died after a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mystery-deepens-in-ex-miss-kerala-car-crash-death-case-101636813250073.html
13-11-2021||Pune||Pune businessman sent to Yerawada Central Jail||PUNE A city-based businessman Alnesh Somji of MG Enterprises, accused of swindling crores of rupees from many investors of Pune by promising them 24 per cent annual return and arrested by the Pune crime branch’s anti-extortion cell has been sent h to Yerawada Central Jail after the expiry of his police custody remand.The court remanded Somji to magisterial custody and sent him to Yerawada Central Jail after the expiry of his police custody remand on Friday. His wife Dimple is already lodged in jail and her bail application is scheduled for hearing on November 15.A first information report (FIR) was lodged against them at Koregaon Park police station. The Somji couple had been absconding after the case was registered.The Pune police had on October 29 issued a lookout notice against the Somji’s to prevent them from fleeing the country. After being brought to Pune from Delhi airport, Somji and his wife were produced in Shivajinagar court and were remanded to police custody.Police Inspector Balaji Pandhare is investigating officer in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-businessman-sent-to-yerawada-central-jail-101636813069560.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah says Hindi a friend of all indigenous languages||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said Hindi is a friend of all indigenous languages and the country’s prosperity lies in the prosperity of all its languages.He was addressing the Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan in Varanasi. This is the first time that the convention is taking place outside New Delhi. Shah appealed to the people to work for enriching the glorious heritage of country’s official language Hindi and other local languages.He said, “This is a year for the Hindi lovers to take a pledge that by the time we complete 100 years of Independence, indigenous languages and Rajbhasha (the official language Hindi) should become so strong that we do not need to take the help of a foreign language.”“Hindi is the friend (sakhee) of all indigenous languages (swabhasha). India’s prosperity lies in the prosperity of our Indian languages,” he said. He emphasised that there cannot be any ‘antarvirodh’ (differences) among friends.The home minister also said a sense of inferiority complex was instilled in the minds of some children who couldn’t speak English.Shah said it is his firm belief that the time is not far when those who cannot speak their mother tongue will have an inferiority complex.Asserting that there is a need to rid youths of the inferiority complex instilled during British rule, he said once the people of the country decide and its languages become the language of the governance, India will automatically get back the knowledge trove of Maharishi Patanjali and Panini. He appealed to people to speak to their children in “swabhasha”.“We need to create an environment wherein people take pride in speaking their mother tongue,” he said. The home minister also said efforts were made to create a lot of controversies around the Hindi language but that time is over now.“There is no contradiction between Hindi and all our local languages. My mother tongue is Gujarati. I love Hindi as much as I love Gujarati, l love Hindi a bit more than Gujarati,” Shah said. He also said the development of Indian languages is a central pillar of the National Education Policy and the syllabi of engineering and medical courses have been translated into eight Indian languages so far.Research can be done best in one’s own language, he said, adding that the root cause of our country’s backwardness is that the subjects of our studies and research were not in our languages. But the change made by PM Modi will change the future of India in the coming days, he said. Democracy can be successful only when the language of administration is “swabhasha” (own language), he stated.“Today, 100% work in the Ministry of Home Affairs is done in the official language (Hindi) and many departments are also moving in this direction,” he said.Shah lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for promoting Hindi across the world.“No Prime Minister has got so much of global accolades as much as Narendra Modi ji. He has put forth India’s point of view in the world in Rajbhasha (Hindi) and has enhanced the pride of the Rajbhasha,” he said.The official language (Hindi) should have been promoted soon after independence, because Swaraj, Swadeshi and Swabhasha were three main pillars of the freedom struggle, but this was not done, he said.“We got swaraj (Independence), but Swadeshi and Swabhasha were left behind,” he said. The country which loses its language country also loses its civilization, culture and its original thinking, he said. Countries that lose their original thinking cannot contribute to the progress of the world, he added.It is very important for everyone to preserve and nurture all the languages of India, he said.“India has the largest number of spoken script languages in the world. We have to take them forward,” he said. The stronger and richer the language, the more extensive and powerful the culture and civilization will be, he said. Shah said, “It is matter of joy for me that we have succeeded in taking the Rajbhasha Sammelan out of the lanes of Delhi. We had taken the decision to organise it outside Delhi in 2019 but it could not be done due to the global pandemic corona. Today, it is taking place in Kashi under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav.” Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav is being celebrated to mark 75 years of Independence.Shah, prior to his address, released a Hindi magazine at Akhil Bhartiya Rajbhasha Sammelan at Deendayal Hastkala Sankul in Varanasi. Ahead of the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the Union home minister also held a review meeting with Vidhan Sabha in charges and district presidents of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Varanasi on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-says-hindi-a-friend-of-all-indigenous-languages-101636811269434.html
13-11-2021||Pune||Pune airport authority hopeful of operating additional flights during winter schedule||PUNE Additional flights to new destinations are expected to add up in the winter schedule from December 1 as the Pune airport will be ready to restart 24 hours operation.Currently, 60-64 flights are daily scheduled from Pune’s Lohegaon airport.“From December 1, winter schedule will be applicable for Pune airport as 24 hours operation will be restarting. It has been already applied to other cities. Since the re-carpeting work of the runway is going on, we continued with the old schedule. There might be a possibility that we may get flights to a new destination. The schedule is not decided yet, tentatively it is expected to be decided on November 25,” said Santosh Dhoke, Pune airport director.Pune airport has already made new slots available and now it depends on airlines to increase connectivity to new destinations. Right now, Pune airport connects to 21 cities.“With a majority of people vaccinated against Covid, we are already witnessing heavy rush and the majority of pre-booking slots are booked. So, looking at the scenario, airlines may increase flights to destinations like Delhi, Jaipur and Chennai,” said another official from the Pune airport on the request of anonymity.IndiGo will be starting flights from Pune to Mumbai, Coimbatore, Bhubaneshwar and Guwahati from December 1.AirAsia India spokesperson said, “As Pune airport gears up for full-fledged operations from December 1, we plan to gradually increase our flights to and from Pune. Pune is an important node in our network and we are continuously looking to connect it with more and more destinations as and when the opportunities are available. Currently, we operate flights from Pune to Bhubaneswar, New Delhi, Jaipur, Kolkata and Bengaluru.”The passenger footfall, meanwhile, has increased since the airport restarted from October 30 after the shutdown of 14 days during October 14-29. During the month of September, per day footfall has touched the 10,000-mark. It went up to 15,000 in October and in the first 14 days of November, it crossed the 19,000-mark, as per the data provided by the Pune airport authority.“Generally, in the month of November, the flyer footfall increases. Diwali season is followed by Christmas and many opt for a winter vacation as well. Footfall will rise after the airport starts 24 hours operation,” said the official from the Pune airport quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-airport-authority-hopeful-of-operating-additional-flights-during-winter-schedule-101636811090182.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation increases testing for Covid post Diwali||Post-Diwali, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has increased Covid testing within the city. During the festive week, hardly 1,000 got tested but now the number of tests has increased to 3,000 and more on a daily basis.Ahead of Diwali as well, the number of tests was increased to 3,000 daily. “Although everything has opened up, there are fewer people coming forward for testing. We are approaching commuters and shopkeepers in market areas to get tested. During the festivities, there were hardly around 1,000 tests being conducted. This has increased now,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.During the peak of the second wave, the overall positivity rate was 7.3%, until February, the positivity rate had gone below 2%. However, in the first week of October, the positivity rate continued to be stagnant at 2% to 2.5%. Now, it has gone lower than 2%. The low positivity rate is also a reason that the civic body is not focusing on increasing the number of tests within the city.“The positive cases continue to remain in control and so is the positivity rate. Our main focus is to vaccinate as many as possible before the onset of the probable third wave. As the situation is in control regarding the positive cases, we are not conducting any special drive for testing,” added Malvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-corporation-increases-testing-for-covid-post-diwali-101636810911551.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body jabs 56K in 4 days of door-to-door vaccination drive against Covid||More than 20,000 people who had not even taken their single dose of Covid-19 vaccine were found and vaccinated in a door-to-door survey conducted in the last four days by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).Around 56,000 people were vaccinated in merely four days of the survey out of which 35% were those who had not taken a single dose.Post-Diwali, there were around 5.35 lakh residents in the city who had not taken a single dose of vaccination, as per the TMC.The vaccination centres continued to remain deserted with poor response across the city. Thus, the TMC initiated a door-to-door campaign to vaccinate as many as possible at the earliest. The door-to-door vaccination started on November 9 in every ward.Dr Prasad Patil, immunisation officer, TMC, said, “On a daily basis, there are around 14,000 getting vaccinated over the last four days. From among these, around 5,000 on a daily basis have been given the first shot. Through this door-to-door campaign, we are preparing a pendency list of those who have not taken the first jab yet.”A team of four in every ward is visiting homes in slums as well as high rises in order to get a figure as to how many have not been vaccinated at all.“In every ward, we have set up a team that visits each society or cluster of buildings to collect vaccination data. They also vaccinate those who are due to get their second dose,” added a senior civic officer.From among the 5.35 lakh residents who have not received a single jab of vaccination, TMC has managed to vaccinate 20,000 through door-to-door vaccination. The reluctance among the residents continues.“Mostly, people have been saying that they did not want to get vaccinated during the festive period. It is easier for those who have taken the first dose to get vaccinated but it takes some convincing for those who have not taken a single jab,” added a doctor who is a part of the team that conducts door-to-door vaccination.Areas like Mumbra and Rabodi, Lokmanya Nagar and Savarkar Nagar are some of the wards that have more number of people who have not taken the jab at all. Till now, TMC has vaccinated 19.30 lakh beneficiaries with at least the first dose. The city has a target of 18 lakh population. In order to reach out to more people who have not taken the first dose, various initiatives like withholding salaries of TMC employees who have not taken the jab and not permitting those who have not been vaccinated in TMT buses have been announced by the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-jabs-56k-in-4-days-of-door-to-door-vaccination-drive-against-covid-101636810069442.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case: Police ask court to declare Param Bir Singh ‘proclaimed absconder’||Mumbai crime branch officers moved an application to declare former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh as a ‘proclaimed absconder’ so that his properties could be seized. Singh, along with dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Vaze and others, is accused of extorting money from Goregaon businessman Bimal Agarwal. “On Saturday, we moved an application before a holiday court, seeking the initiation of procedure to get Singh and other wanted men, Riyaz Bhati and Vinay Singh alias Bablu, declared as a proclaimed accused under section 82 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Once the court declares them proclaimed absconder, they would get a 30-days period to appear before the court. If they fail to appear, then their properties can be attached under sections 83 of CrPC. The holiday court has referred the plea to the regular court, which is likely to hear the matter on Monday,” said special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap. There are already three non-bailable warrants issued against Singh by different courts in Mumbai and Thane and five FIRs registered for various cases. A look-out circular (LoC) has been issued against Singh. Apart from this, two open inquiries have been initiated against the police officer by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) over the corruption allegations. Meanwhile, the holiday court also remanded Vaze in police custody for two days in the same extortion case. “We informed the court that we wish to question Vaze about the trail of money that was extorted from the complainant businessman. Hence, his further custody was required. The court was convinced and granted his two-day custody to crime branch officers,” said Jagtap. Vaze’s lawyer did not oppose to police’s plea to seek the extension of Vaze’s custody. His lawyer also informed the court that as there is too much pressure on Vaze from the Central and state governments, he is contemplating to give his statement before the magistrate under section 164 CrPC. The court asked the defence lawyer to make a decision about recording the statement and make the application before the regular court. Vaze was arrested in this case on November 1. The dismissed officer was previously arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-against-param-bir-singh-sachin-vaze-remanded-in-2-day-police-custody-101636808749362.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||PPP synergies can accelerate growth of India’s maritime sector, says Minister Sonowal during visit to Navi Mumbai’s JNPT||Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, and AYUSH, Sarbananda Sonowal, has pushed for public-private partnership (PPP) synergies that he believes can accelerate the growth of India’s maritime sector.Sonowal visited the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) on Saturday to get a comprehensive understanding of the port’s operations, infrastructural and technological advancements. He reviewed the progress made by the port through its PPP initiatives and engaged with JNPT’s key stakeholders.JNPT officials briefed the minister about multiple initiatives undertaken by the Port to enhance Ease of Doing Business, including the recently-launched ‘Dwarf Container Train’ service and the status of Vadhavan Port and other JNPT-led infrastructure projects.During his visit, Sonowal said, “PPP-led synergies can transform and accelerate the country’s progress. With the majority of global trade carried by sea, ports are the gateway infrastructure that connects an entire region and its inland transportation network to the international market. Therefore, PPP at JNPT will help develop a strong, well-functioning maritime transport infrastructure, which is a key element of economic growth for the country. This initiative will become a means to manage port operations more effectively as well as to develop new port infrastructure, traditionally both exclusively government functions.“I am confident that through consistent tech advances and multimodal infrastructure development, JNPT will continue to navigate India’s port-led prosperity and anchor itself as a mega port by 2030.”Sanjay Sethi, chairman, JNPT, added that the minister’s visit provided an opportunity for the port stakeholders to share their perspectives on India’s growing maritime sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ppp-synergies-can-accelerate-growth-of-india-s-maritime-sector-says-minister-sonowal-during-visit-to-navi-mumbai-s-jnpt-101636807132546.html
13-11-2021||Kolkata||‘Mere rhetoric won’t do’: Congress’ Adhir Chowdhury asks Bengal CM Mamata to cut state taxes on fuel||Senior Congress leader and president of the West Bengal Congress Committee (WBCC) Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday, asking her to reduce taxes levied by the state on petroleum products. Chowdhury urged Mamata Banerjee to take “real and tangible actions” to help reduce fuel prices and said that “mere rhetoric and hollow sloganeering will not do.”The letter came amidst the already widening rift between the Congress and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state even though both parties have supported a national front against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Centre. Notably, the Congress and the TMC would also face off in the Goa state assembly elections, scheduled for early next year.In his letter, Chowdhury stated that all Congress-ruled states have slashed taxes on petroleum products as a respite to the “common man who is reeling under serious inflation and price rise.”Also read | 'Will also reduce VAT charged on fuel', Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot announcesAccording to a copy of the letter shared by news agency ANI, he said, “In view of the skyrocketing petroleum products, it has become very difficult for the common man to make both ends meet. Life has become a real struggle for them and because of this high price rise, it has become difficult to lead a decent and dignified life.”The Congress leader also claimed that while Banerjee raised the issue of high fuel prices several times, no “concrete” steps have been taken by the state government in reducing the costs. He also wondered why the prices have not been reduced in Bengal if it was done so in other states, where his party is in power. “The residents of West Bengal have been left high and dry,” he said.Urging the Bengal government to cut state taxes on petroleum products, Chowdhury said, “I appeal to you that you may please take concrete action on this issue and cut the State taxes so that the price of petroleum products in West Bengal comes down. This will have a multiplier effect and it will result in the overall reduction in price rise. Mere rhetoric and hollow sloganeering will not do. Please take real and tangible actions on the above matter.”Meanwhile, the BJP too has been protesting against the fuel prices in the state. On November 8, the party’s state unit warned of intensifying its protests if the Mamata Banerjee-led government does not reduce taxes in a week.“We are giving the state government an ultimatum of seven days... If it doesn't accept our demand, we will take out march to Nabanna to press for the same,” Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar said, news agency PTI reported.The Centre on November 3 cut excise duty on petrol by ₹5/litre and on diesel by ₹10/litre, following which several BJP-ruled states also reduced their VAT rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mere-rhetoric-won-t-do-congress-adhir-chowdhury-asks-bengal-cm-mamata-to-cut-state-taxes-on-fuel-101636805269674.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Panvel City Municipal Corporation body plans mother-and-child, civic hospitals in New Panvel||The residents of Panvel and its peripheries won’t have to shell out money in private hospitals as the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is planning to develop a mother-and-child hospital (MCH) and a civic hospital in New Panvel.The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) is in the process of transferring a plot of land measuring two acres at Sector 17 for these hospitals. The PCMC officials are conducting surveys in that area and a detailed project report (DPR) of the mother-and-child hospital will be presented before the general body next month.Sanjay Jagtap, city engineer of PCMC, said, “We will divide the said plot into two parts for developing the two hospitals. In the first phase, we will develop the mother-and-child hospital as there is no such dedicated hospital in this area. As per our plan, an eight-storied building will be developed for it and it will have around 150 beds. Besides, there will be operation theatres, OPD, vaccination centres, IVF centres and delivery rooms among others.Around 10% of the beds will be reserved for an ICU.Jagtap, however, did not say anything about the budget as the project has not been approved yet.“When this project will see some developments, we will start conducting surveys on the other half of the plot for developing a civic hospital. We have plans to develop a hospital similar to the one NMMC has in Vashi. However, it will be too early to say much about that at this moment,” he added.At present, PCMC has six health centres in Panvel town, New Panvel, Kamothe, Kalamboli and Kharghar. Those centres are, however, not enough to cater to the 8.50 lakh population of the city.Vinayaka Mane, 47, an activist from Panvel, said, “Due to the lack of health infrastructures, the residents of these areas are heavily dependent on the private hospitals. The economically weaker section is the one that is suffering the most.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/panvel-city-municipal-corporation-body-plans-mother-and-child-civic-hospitals-in-new-panvel-101636805631356.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Rare case of post-dengue mucormycosis reported at Delhi hospital||A "rare" case of mucormycosis has been reported in a 49-year-old male patient at a leading private hospital here post his recovery from dengue, doctors said on Saturday.The case reported at the Apollo hospital in south Delhi comes amid a huge spike in the number of dengue cases in the national capital.According to a civic report on vector-borne diseases released on Monday, nine deaths and a total of 2,708 dengue cases have been recorded this season till November 6, which is the highest count since 2017 for the same period.Over 1,170 cases were logged in the first week of November.In a statement issued on Saturday, the Apollo hospital said, "A 49-year-old male has been reported to be one the rare cases of post-dengue mucormycosis by a team of doctors at the hospital."The patient had come to the hospital, complaining about a sudden loss of vision in one eye, 15 days after his recovery from the vector-borne disease.During the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic earlier this year, a large number of cases of the "black fungus" were reported throughout the country after the coronavirus infection was detected in patients suffering with chronic diabetes.Mucormycosis or the "black fungus" is more common among people whose immunity has got lowered due to Covid-19, diabetes, kidney disease, liver or cardiac disorders, age-related issues or those on medication for auto-immune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis.Mucormycosis post dengue is a new observation and hence, patients with a recent history of dengue should remain actively updated about their health and consult a healthcare expert immediately after noticing any new symptoms, doctors at the Apollo hospital said.Dr Suresh Singh Naruka, senior consultant (ENT), Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, who is leading the treatment of the patient, said, "A rare case of black fungus (mucormycosis) came into our view when the patient came to the hospital, reporting a sudden loss of vision in one eye post dengue fever. It is rarest of the rare to see mucormycosis as a post-recovery complication in a dengue patient as this condition is generally seen in people who have a history of diabetes, compromised immunity and various other infections.""It is a deadly infection caused by a group of fungus called mucor. This fungus invades into the healthy tissues of the nose, sinuses, eyes and brain so rapidly that any delay in diagnosis and management can lead to adverse long-term complications," he added.Dengue is accompanied with high fever and therefore, doctors feel that people might suspect that they have contracted Covid-19.The dengue mosquito larvae breed in clear, standing water, while those of malaria thrive even in dirty water.Dr Atul Ahuja, senior consultant (ENT and head and neck surgery) at the hospital, said, "Diagnosing and managing a case of rhino-orbital (involving nose and eye) mucormycosis in a patient who has just recovered from dengue fever is very important, as even after best treatment, patients of mucormycosis can lose their eyesight permanently and in a state of an aggressive infection, removal of eye becomes necessary for preventing any further spread of infection."Dr Nishant Rana, registrar at the facility, said, "Before coming to the hospital, the patient had an episode of nasal bleeding as a complication owing to dengue 15 days prior to his recovery, wherein he noted a low count of platelets with no transfusion history. Mucormycosis in his case is a resultant factor of compromised immunity owing to dengue."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rare-case-of-post-dengue-mucormycosis-reported-at-delhi-hospital-101636804804245.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body organises special drive for voter registration for upcoming civic elections||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has organised a special voter registration drive during weekends on the backdrop of the upcoming civic polls.With elections to local bodies due, Maharashtra State Election Commissioner (SEC) has announced a special drive for updating of voters list. The SEC has asked for the revision of assembly voters list along with photographs from November 1 to 30. All those who are of above 18 years of age are eligible.To ensure that no one is denied the opportunity to get registered, NMMC will conduct special drive on November 13 and 14, and on November 27 and 28. The drive will be held from 10am to 6pm at NMMC schools where central officials of voter registration will be present. Applications in specified format will be available here and accepted.Application Form 6 will be for adding name in voters list, Form 7 for taking objection or removing a name, Form 8 for correcting details in the voter list and Form 8A for shifting of name from the list.NMMC civic chief, Abhijit Bangar, said, “This is an excellent opportunity for those wanting to vote in the upcoming NMMC elections. Those who will complete 18 years of age by January 1, 2022 should register their names. Those who had their names in the list earlier should also reconfirm the presence of their names and details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-organises-special-drive-for-voter-registration-for-upcoming-civic-elections-101636804429335.html
13-11-2021||Other||Minor dies by suicide after being raped in Tripura, case lodged||A minor girl died by suicide almost 24 hours after she was allegedly raped by a neighbour of her maternal uncle at a village of Tripura, police said on Saturday. The accused is known to be absconding. Though the incident happened in the first week of November, the case was lodged on Friday late evening by the minor’s mother. According to the complainant, the deceased, 16, was raped by one Sourav Shil, 21, at a village in Dhalai district on November 4 night at his home while the former came to her maternal uncle’s home in the same locality. The minor consumed poison on November 6 and was rushed to the local hospital and later referred to Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital where she breathed her last. “We registered a case based on the complaint. The delay happened due to post-crematorium rituals of the deceased. We have started our investigation,” said a police official of Kamalpur Police Station. A member of the district’s Child Line said that they met the parents after the death of the minor. “We are waiting for a reply from Child Welfare Committee on the issue. After that, we will decide our next step,” said the member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-dies-by-suicide-after-being-raped-in-tripura-case-lodged-101636803951873.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt starts process to suspend Param Bir Singh over extortion cases||The Maharashtra government has initiated the process to suspend former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and another police officer after they were named as accused in extortion cases, an official said on Saturday. The process began after a proposal was sent by the Director General of Police (DGP) to the state home department a few days ago, he said. In September, DGP Sanjay Pandey had sent a proposal to suspend Singh and other police officials named in alleged extortion cases, but the home department sought specific information about the role of each accused officer. The DGP's office sent a fresh proposal this week, the home department official said. The department is considering the suspension of Param Bir Singh and a Deputy Commissioner of Police-rank officer who is named in these cases, but not others, he added. On Wednesday, a magistrate's court issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Singh in an extortion case registered at Marine Drive police station here by real estate developer Shyamsunder Agrawal. It was the third NBW issued against Singh. Earlier courts had issued warrants in cases of extortion registered at Goregaon in Mumbai and in neighbouring Thane against him. The IPS officer was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March this year after assistant police inspector Sachin Waze (now dismissed) was arrested in the case of the SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai house, and subsequent death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. Singh subsequently accused then state home minister Anil Deshmukh of asking police officials to collect ₹100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who denied the allegation, stepped down as minister and is facing CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-starts-process-to-suspend-param-bir-singh-over-extortion-cases-101636802045456.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||21-year-old robber arrested by Vashi GRP in Mankhurd||A 21-year-old robber, who’d snatch wallets and mobile phones from railway commuters, was arrested by the Vashi GRP on Friday.According to the police, the accused, Irfan Akram Ryan, a resident of Koparkhairane, would roam around on the platforms and snatch wallets and mobile phones among others from commuters who stood near the doors.Vishnu Kesarkar, senior inspector from the Vashi GRP said, “The CCTV cameras installed on the platforms caught the accused committing such crimes multiple times. We had been looking for him for the past few months and acting on a tip off, we arrested him from Mankhurd on Friday. The accused has criminal records and was arrested by the police earlier too. He was also externed by the city police a few months ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/21yearold-robber-arrested-by-vashi-grp-in-mankhurd-101636803228962.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||‘Dengue cases in Delhi will decrease in next 2 to 3 days’, says expert; cites falling temperature in city||The number of dengue cases in Delhi have stabilised and will come down in the next two or three days, the medical director at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital said on Saturday.“Dengue cases in Delhi have stabilised and will decrease in two to three days as the temperature is dipping and mosquito breeding reduces in this season,” Suresh Kumar said, according to news agency ANI.The remarks came as more than 2,700 cases of the viral disease have been confirmed and the related death toll reached nine in the Capital as of November 6, according to a report by news agency PTI on Monday. The report also showed that the city witnessed the highest count since 2017 for the corresponding time period.Also read | HC seeks responses from Delhi govt, North MCD over steps to control dengueAfter suffering a disastrous outbreak of dengue in 2015 with 10,600 cases till October that year, Delhi in 2016 reported 4,431 cases. In the subsequent years, the city saw 4,726 cases in 2017, 2,798 cases in 2018, 2,036 cases in 2019 and 1,072 cases in 2020.Meanwhile, several other experts have also said that the dengue cases in Delhi would reduce after mid-November.“There is an epidemic like situation in Delhi and the situation has worsened in the last 4-5 weeks,” ANI quoted Pooja Khosla, senior consultant at the department of medicine in Sir Ganga Ram Hospital as saying.Rajni Kherwal, medical superintendent at Swami Dayanand Hospital, told ANI, “There were many dengue patients who were admitted to ICU wards with signs of bleeding, platelets going down, DHF among others. We believe that the cases will be reduced by mid-November.”Suresh Kumar also warned that all viruses, including the coronavirus, tend to stay in the environment for a longer period if the air is polluted. “When air is polluted, all viruses including the coronavirus, stay in the environment for a longer period. As per a study, the simple 3-layer masks reduce 65-95% of particles in the polluted air,” he said.He also said that at least four children were being admitted to the hospital every day because of their pre-existing lung conditions. “After Diwali, around 10% to 15% more patients were admitted here. Every day four to five children are admitted with allergies, asthma, and breathing problems, as their pre-existing lung conditions deteriorate,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dengue-cases-in-delhi-will-decrease-in-next-2-to-3-days-says-expert-cites-falling-temperature-in-city-101636802754114.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar corporator among 2 killed in road mishap on Kalyan Murbad Road||Ulhasnagar corporator, Ajit Gupta, 35, was among the two victims killed in a road accident in Kalyan in the early hours of Saturday.According to the Kalyan Taluka police, the accident occurred at around 3.57am on the Kamba village stretch of the Kalyan Murbad Road.“A Mahindra Pickup truck and a Maruti Ertiga were involved in a collision in which both their occupants sustained serious injuries. Both were rushed to the Central Hospital in Ulhasnagar, where both of them died during treatment,” police inspector Raju Vanjari, Kalyan Taluka police station, said.Gupta, also known as Pappu, was a corporator with the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation and a member of the Sai Party. His father, Prabhunath Gupta, is also a three-time former corporator from Ulhasnagar. The second deceased is identified as Shivkumar Dutta (30).“The spot where the mishap occurred is an accident-prone one as there is a very sharp turn at the spot. From the position of the vehicles, it seems that both vehicles were at high speed and collided head on with each other. It is possible that neither vehicle saw the other coming,” police sub-inspector Kamalakar Munde, Kalyan Taluka police station, said.Vanjari added that the exact sequence of events is still being ascertained.“We have registered a case of causing death due to rash and negligent driving under the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act for the moment. However, we have not named anyone as the accused as yet. This will be done after all inquiries are completed and we are in a position to pinpoint the responsibility behind the accident based on all the facts,” Vanjari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-corporator-among-2-killed-in-road-mishap-on-kalyan-murbad-road-101636802509008.html
13-11-2021||Other||Amravati tense, police resort to lathi-charge during BJP-sponsored bandh||As many as ten people were injured when police resorted to lathi charge in another bandh called by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Amravati on Saturday, officials said. The bandh was called by the BJP in protest of the violent incidents during another bandh called by a section of people in the city on Friday against the vandalisation of a mosque in Tripura.Tension prevailed in many parts of the area since Saturday morning after some unidentified persons pelted stones at shops during protests. Violence broke out at Cotton Market, Rajkamal Chowk, Namuna, Jawahar Gate areas when a massive morcha was taken out by the BJP workers. Some people pelted stones on the shops and damaged them.In protest against the communal riots in Tripura, Muslim organisations declared a bandh in Amravati on Friday that witnessed violence in some areas in the city. The violent mob vandalised several shops and pelted stones.Former Maharashtra minister Dr Anil Bonde claimed that the BJP workers were just protesting against the incident yesterday. “It was a totally peaceful march and the police deliberately resorted to lathi charge on them. At least 20 party workers were injured following the police lathi charge,” he added.Shashikant Satav, a senior police officer, however, said that the police resorted to lathi-charge to control the violent mob. “The situation is tense but under control,” he further said.Yashomati Thakur, the Guardian minister for Amravati district who is now camping there, said that the incident was unfortunate. Police will investigate it. Action will be taken against whoever is guilty. “Everyone has the right to protest but doing violence in the name of a movement is not right. We appeal to the people to maintain peace. Some chaotic elements are working to spread violence in the city and police are working hard to maintain law and order,” she further said.Section 144 has been imposed in Amravati in view of protests against Tripura violence, Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amravati-tense-police-resort-to-lathi-charge-during-bjp-sponsored-bandh-101636802330359.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Only extent of jurisdiction has changed, not laws: BSF Punjab frontier IG||Two days after the Punjab Vidhan Sabha passed a resolution against the Centre’s move to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km inside the border, BSF Punjab frontier inspector general of police Sonali Mishra said that the paramilitary force is only to complement, assist and strengthen the police and other law-enforcement agencies. Also read: India strongly takes up ‘Khalistan’ referendum with UKIn her first press conference since joining as the Punjab frontier IG in July, Mishra said that the BSF’s jurisdiction was mandated after its formation in 1966 and under certain Acts, including passport, NDPS, customs, arms and provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code. BSF not a policing organisation “There is only change in the schedule, not in the laws over the jurisdiction, which has been extended. We always coordinate with police and other agencies for national security and in the interest of the country. The BSF is not a policing organisation. As a result, the BSF does not have the mandate to register first information reports (FIRs). After the search or seizure, we hand over the accused to the police or other law-enforcement agencies to take the investigation to its logical conclusion,” Mishra said. So the power of the police remains the same. The BSF is only to complement, assist and strengthen the police and other agencies by working with them jointly,” she said. Drone intrusions biggest challenge The IG termed the drone intrusions the biggest challenge on the border and said that the BSF has developed new technologies to overcome the challenge. “We have been encountering drones since 2017. Earlier, the drones entered up to 1.5km at a low height but now drones intrude deeper due to better technology. 370-kg drugs, 55 weapons seized this year Mishra said that the BSF has seized about 370kg of drugs, mainly heroin, 55 weapons and killed six Pakistani infiltrators so far this year. She said the Union government has given ₹35 crore as compensation to farmers of the border belt for 2015-17 and sanctioned ₹35 crore as relief from 2018-21 that will be distributed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-extent-of-jurisdiction-has-changed-not-laws-bsf-punjab-frontier-ig-101636801369561.html
13-11-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||Vayana Network raises ₹283 crore in Series C Trade finance platform Vayana Network announced raising of ₹283 crore in Series C funding round. Vayana saw participation from existing and new investors, including Chiratae Ventures, CDC group, Jungle Ventures, March Capital, Marshall Wace and some of the large family offices from India and abroad. Vayana recently received in-principle approval to set up an ITFS platform at the GIFT City (Gujarat).Ram Iyer, founder and CEO, Vayana Network said, “Over the last four years, we have grown 20x on quarterly financing volumes and have reached $8 billion in total financing to date. Given our strong presence in credit enabling infrastructure such as GST and e-invoicing coupled with the launch of our Good Business Score (GBS), we have managed to reach the smallest of businesses, connecting them to the largest lenders.”Iyer added, “Our vision is to create an ecosystem where financing is embedded in a transaction and becomes an almost invisible part of any B2B trade – as simple as swiping a credit card. With our existing and upcoming suite of products, we will solve related challenges such as market discovery, effortless compliance and monitoring, helping every business in a supply chain operate at its best.”OncoCoinAG launches AMRIT crypto-token for patients in IndiaArtificial Intelligence (AI) and Blockchain-based Drug Discovery and Development company OncoCoin AG, a fully-owned subsidiary of Innoplexus AG, with 43 patents and 116+ patent applications, has launched ‘AMRIT’ crypto-token for patients in India. AMRIT is decentralized and GDPR compliant Real-World Data (RWD) exchange to fuel AI for patient’s health and longevity. AMRIT leverages the patented AI and Blockchain technology to help stakeholders such as Medical Researchers, Physicians, Hospitals, Pharma companies, CROs and more, to speed up Drug Discovery and Development through a decentralised ecosystem kind of approach.Dr Gunjan Bhardwaj, CEO, Innoplexus AG and founder/chairman of the board, OncoCoin AG, said, “The AMRIT ecosystem is democratising the process of cancer research by offering a base of 350,000 users globally registered on the mobileapp CURIATM. Through the app, the pharma companies seeking to conduct clinical trials can connect with the patients for their participation and incentivise them for sharing their Real-World-Data with the utility token ‘AMRIT.’ Subsequently, users can use it for availing second opinions and other cancer related in-app services. Estimated value of the medical records per user can go as high as $20,000 per record.”Kedaara acquires majority stake in GS LabCity-based digital product engineering services company Great Software Laboratory (GS Lab) announced the acquisition of a significant majority stake in the company by Kedaara, a private equity firm. “Over the past 18 years, we have scaled GS Lab into a 1600+ person innovation-led organisation,” said Shridhar Shukla and Sunil Gaitonde, co-founders of GS Lab. “The investment by Kedaara will enable us to further build on our strengths and take advantage of the growing need for innovative software and digital solutions across industries globally and in India, by leveraging Kedaara and CD&R’s extensive network and relationships.”Sunish Sharma, co-CEO & managing partner of Kedaara, and Parin Mehta, managing director of Kedaara, said, “Digital transformation is one of the key investment themes for us. We are excited to partner with GS Lab team to support their continued development of outstanding digital software products for their clients worldwide. Shridhar, Sunil, Atul and the senior leadership team have built a strong platform at GS Lab with exceptional product engineering capabilities, focus on innovation and partnerships with world-class clients.”GS Lab works through the entire software development cycle, from ideation through design, development, execution, deployment, and support. Its team of engineers and product architects offer cutting-edge capabilities in cloud, identity management, security, IoT, AI/ML and data sciences to its clients across sectors.ZS to hire 4,000 people in 2022Global professional services firm ZS is keen on hiring 4000+ in 2022 across key areas that are expediting firm’s business growth. ZS, in a statement, has claimed that it has surpassed its annual hiring projection within three quarters, rolling out almost 40 per cent of the offers for tech roles that require proficiency in skills like artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, big data, Python, cloud technologies and data science, among others.This year alone, Campus Beats—ZS’s campus engagement program—saw participation from 100+ tier 1 and tier 2 engineering colleges, tapping into a large talent pool. So far, ZS has hired more than1,200 graduates from campuses for various technical and non-technical roles and has extended offers to another 1,500 who will join in 2022.Esha Gulati, HR lead, Asia, ZS says, “With the accelerated pace of digital adoption, we are looking at strengthening capabilities in emerging tech roles including the cloud, AI, and big data, and intensifying our hiring efforts in the coming year to meet our goal of getting 4000 new recruits. The challenges of remote work have taught us that weaving together human touchpoints with the benefits of innovative technology is imperative to reimagining how we work and how we see our workplaces.”Satellite Cowork sets foot in PuneCo-working space provider, Satellite Cowork is foraying into the Indian co-working space with expansion plans of over one million square feet. There is a surge in demand for such spaces post-pandemic, and to provide the supply for the same Satellite Cowork is expanding its network starting from Noida in North, Bengaluru in South, and Pune in the West. For expanding the business across pan-India, Satellite Cowork has partnered with Investopedia Consultant to broaden the horizon. The company has experience and expertise in the target market globally. The corporation plans to provide sector-inspired co-working spaces like the Designer’s Den for interior designers to creative designers that create a community empowering one another under the same umbrella. Realty Assistant is the brand’s strategic business partner in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101636801009367.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body proposes to shut 2 Covid facilities for paucity of patients||While the state government is preparing for an active Covid-19 caseload of 1.2 million cases in the third wave, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has proposed to shut its Thane Global Covid Hospital and the Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad Stadium due to scarcity of patients at present. The civic officials have claimed that the jumbo facility at Avalon Parking Plaza and the Covid Care Centre, however, will be operational.The city, at present, has around 380 active cases with a caseload of 35 to 50 cases on a daily basis. The recovery rate is 98.25% while the growth rate of the last one week is 0.03%. The corporation has claimed that there are hardly any patients admitted to these two Covid hospitals and if and when the third wave demands additional facilities, these can be easily set up as the entire mechanism is in place.Manish Joshi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “There are merely 20 patients in the 1,076-bed Thane Global Hospital while four are admitted at the Kausa Hospital, which has a capacity of 450 beds. At present, the operational cost of these hospitals is ₹5.5Cr per month. We are closing these facilities. However, the 1,000-bed facility at Parking Plaza will be operational along with the one at Bhayander Pada.”Thane Global Hospital was set up during the first wave in June 2020. More than 15,000 people have been treated at this hospital while more than 94,000 vaccinations were administered from this hospital.The corporation has also added a paediatric ward at the Parking facility. Joshi claimed that they are ready for the third wave with all the machinery in place. He added, “In the second wave, we had 53 metric tons of oxygen availability per day, which is three times at present for the third wave. The beds are also in abundance compared to the present requirement and more can be added when there is a demand.”The proposal will be tabled in the general body meeting to be held on November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-proposes-to-shut-2-covid-facilities-for-paucity-of-patients-101636800829408.html
13-11-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Electrifying the mobility market to keep business in the green||Fuelled by a passion to do something different, Sanchek Pilane, a mechanical engineering student in his 20s, founded his startup Exa Mobility in 2018 with the long-term vision of “Mobility-as-a-Service” (MaaS). Little did he know that two years of hard work in research and development was not enough to “convince” investors in the electric vehicle (EV) space. Then, the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdowns came. An undeterred Pilane followed his dreams, pivoted his business model and is now cash-flow positive.In the beginning… A student of Jnana Prabodhini, Pilane did his mechanical engineering from the Pune Vidhyarthi Griha’s College of Engineering and Technology. Says Pilane, “I wanted to do something different. In my school days, I dreamt of becoming a scientist, but while pursuing my engineering degree I thought of entrepreneurship and decided to enter this exciting space.”“I had developed a keen interest in sustainable energy. While we were in the third year of engineering, our college team participated in an electric vehicle competition. We had then made a running prototype of an electric bike. I was the vice-captain of the team and we had won that competition. Since ours was the first team to participate in such an event, there was no team to guide us. In another national-level competition by Mahindra, we came in the top 10. I realised that that EV is the future. That’s when I decided to do venture into the EV Space,” recalls Pilane. Starting upAfter finishing his engineering education in 2017, Pilane’s family wanted him to go abroad for higher education, gain experience and then start a business. However, Pilane felt that would be a waste of time. “Instead of investing a couple of years and spending lakhs of rupees for higher education abroad, I thought I will gain more experience with my startup in India. My expertise was in product development and I wanted to utilise it since my college competition days. My family too trusted me and supported me. Today I can say my decision has been proved right,” Pilane says.A rough rideSays Pilane, “Exa Mobility was started in June 2018. The first electric scooter prototype was prepared in March 2019. We wanted to develop a product which is useful for our business. Hence, we were designing our product for logistical commercial fleets and not for regular consumers.” Building the team was the first challenge that Pilane faced. He says, “My college friend was my first employee, but after a few months he left to pursue his higher education. We faced a lot of problems during recruitment. Neither did we have a strong business background nor had we any IIT-tag. Convincing candidates and hiring them was tough. We hired our second employee in August 2019. During the first prototype phase, we were a team of four.”Covid hitsExa Mobility participated in the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) Startup Fest in February 2020. “The response from investors was good and the team was in the top 10. We expected to raise a funding of ₹30 lakh to ₹1 crore. However, investors felt that we needed to generate more traction and also develop the prototype further. They asked us to have at least 50 vehicles running on the road. We were disappointed, but determined to make it happen. However, after that, the Covid-19 outbreak happened and whatever investor interest we had generated was lost,” Pilane said. “We were clueless about the pandemic and its after-effects. We didn’t anticipate the lockdown to go on for months. From April to August 2020, we kept on hiring candidates. Our second prototype with increased range and a more aerodynamic design was ready. However, by then, we had started to face a financial crunch. So, we started laying off employees till December 2020, after which, the team stabilised,” Pilane claims. The pivotRelying heavily on research and development of product and losing focus on the business part made Pilane learned his lessons the hard way. Trying to figure out a way to gather revenues, Pilane and his team started a rental service for EV bikes. “We made an app called Exa Ride for shared mobility services to generate revenues for the company. We had the IT crowd as our target audience, but during the second wave we took another hit on this side. I was so disappointed that I was thinking of closing down the company at that time. Luckily through a vendor contact, Pilane got an order from an e-commerce company for seven EV vehicles for their logistics and delivery services. In this turn of fortune, Exa Mobility started receiving other orders and we had about 80 vehicles running on road on a rental basis in the month of May this year,” Pilane stated. Mobility as a ServiceSays Pilane: “We created the ‘Mobility as a Service’ platform to radically change the way people and goods move from one point to another. We aim to provide a next-gen urban commute system and our shared electric vehicles will become an integral part of your world. Our vision is system-level integration of sustainable mobility into the transportation system.”“We are also filing multiple patents for the vehicle. We are building an entirely new product. We were recently selected by Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to be incubated at the ‘MOTION’ – a Centre of Entrepreneurship (CoE) in Autonomous, Connected, Electric, Shared (ACES) Mobility. MOTION is a specialised state-of-the-art incubation facility and domain specific physical laboratories for start-ups working in the area of Autonomous Connected Electric Shared Mobility where the highest-standards and best-practices in terms of infrastructure, technology, leadership, mentoring, training, research and development, funding, networking for the given focus area is made available.Business USPPilane and his team came up with an interesting business model. Exa Mobility rents out electric vehicles to its B2B customers but they own only 20 vehicles of the total fleet of 90. The rest are financed by “investors”. These investors can be any individual who is willing to fund the purchase of EVs and get a good return on investment. “We do digital marketing to approach ‘investors’ for financing. We got our first investor in May 2021 who owns a mobile shop and got in touch with us through our advertisement. For example, for a vehicle worth ₹70,000, the investor is paid ₹2,700 per month for the first three years. Ownership of the vehicle is with the investor as collateral against his funds. With about 21 per cent compounding return on investment, the individual gets ₹1.24 lakh in three years and thereafter, ownership is transferred to Exa Mobility,” Pilane explains.“We have managed to get 55 vehicles financed through this business model and it is working quite well for us. At present the vehicles purchased for the rental model are from different companies like Hero Electric, BATTRE (Delhi) and PureEV (Hyderabad), depending on their offerings for different customer segments. With this unique business proposition, we get Rs4,000 per month on rental models, which also includes maintenance and other charges of the financed vehicle. We are profitable from day 1,” Pilane claims.“We were in talks with some colleges, but haven’t deployed any vehicles on those campuses yet. According to this proposal, colleges would give us parking space, charging infrastructure in their campus and their students or staff can use our vehicles for internal or external use. Bharati Vidyapeeth college students used our vehicles on an hourly basis for a charge of ₹250 per hour. In a way they were our first customers which we got through the Exa Ride app. But now, we are only catering to B2B customers on the basis of a monthly charge of ₹4,000 to Rs5,000. Strong KYC is a mustSays Pilane, “In order to mitigate risks involved in the rental model of EVs, we have put in place a very strong Know Your Customer (KYC) process. In case of individuals, we charge ₹400 per day. We take the Aadhar number of the user which is then verified from a database. A selfie and photo of the user with vehicle is also taken. Recently we have started securing a deposit of ₹4,000 per vehicle. All our vehicles are insured and in case of accident, the insurance claim can be made. If any expenses over and above the approved insurance amount are incurred, it is recovered from the user.”Expansion and future plansWhen asked about his expansion and future plans, Pilane says he aims to have 1,000 vehicles on the road on a rental basis by March 2022. “In the logistics segment alone, we are targeting 1,000 vehicles. Pune itself has an immediate demand of 500 EVs for B2B segment. We want to explore the $220 billion industry in logistics by providing end-to-end logistics service. Recently, we started operations in Navi Mumbai and plan to expand in Mumbai, Thane, Nashik and Goa in the next one year. We haven’t yet tapped the IT industry and student customer segment.”“We would like to associate with the Pune Metro for exploring the first mile and last mile connectivity. This would be after six more months as it would be an operations heavy model with requirement of sizeable human resources. About two years later, we will launch our own product and we would need around ₹50 to ₹100 crore to setup a factory for production of our vehicles. In the long term we wish to enter the autonomous vehicles space in 2030. There is lot of scope in the trucking industry in this particular space,” states Pilane. What to do when... In April 2021, when the second lockdown happened, an electric scooter was “almost” stolen. Just before the lockdown, a customer exhausted the battery. So he decided to park it at his relative’s shop. “We told him that we will take it from there as soon as possible and asked him to make sure that vehicle is put to charge. But he forgot to charge it and the lockdown was announced next day so even we couldn’t go near the vehicle for a few days. Just to make sure vehicle is safe, we monitored it via GPS. Once our team went there, the vehicle was not there,” says PIlane.“We enquired and people said that they never saw any electric scooter there. We were clear that something was fishy. We coordinated with the local police station. We informed everyone that police are coming and if anyone knows about our vehicle, now is the time to talk. So, within 15 minutes , one person said that he hid the vehicle so that it won’t be stolen by anyone and showed us where the bike was. We recovered our bike. Thereafter, we mostly prefer monthly subscription plans with strict KYC of the customer. Also, we are doing regular visits and GPS tracking of the vehicles,” Pilane claims.Money talks“I run a food joint business and also work as a Facility Manager in an IT company based in Pune. The biggest reason for me to invest here was a massive 24 per cent return. The fact that they provide a fixed monthly payment made me curious about the programme. So far I have financed 5 e-scooters and that makes my fixed income per month ₹13,500 which is quite exceptional. I am going to be the owner of the e-scooters that I have financed. So, this makes my investment backed back a strong asset,” says Vernon Cardozo, an investor,“Being a retired person, my first choice was always a fixed deposits in the Bank. They are safe and most trustworthy. I wanted few of my savings to be invested somewhere else for higher returns as FD is nowadays giving only 6% returns. I invested in Exa Mobility’s Vehicle Financing Programme as the returns were guaranteed with monthly instalments and I always admire youngsters doing something futuristic and innovative,” said Anil Bibikar, a retired professor“I have been a regular customer of Exa Ride’s daily rental plan. I think it is a good alternative to the round trip of Ola or Uber Cab and especially when you want to visit multiple places in the city,” says Deepa Bargi, a working professional.The competition: eleRide renting EVs in PuneeleRide has launched monthly subscription plans for electric two-wheelers in Pune. Users can access the smart charging centers facility along with free insurance and maintenance and a detachable battery chargeable at home. Using these electric two-wheelers, any user can travel up to 100 km on a single charge. This service is available for both B2C and B2B customers.The company has introduced two new subscription plans ranging between ₹3,499 to ₹4,499 under eleLite and elePrime with the introduction of five charging stations and three eleRide EV service centres across Pune at locations like Shivajinagar, Viman nagar, Vishrantwadi, Wakad and Pashan (Bengaluru-Mumbai Highway). Punekars can choose their preferred two-wheelers along with the subscription term through the eleRide website and get it delivered to their doorstep in two hours.“We believe that two-wheelers will lead India’s transition to e-mobility. We will accelerate this shift by providing smarter ownership options to customers. We aim to expand the eco-friendly two-wheeler subscription services across the country starting with cities like Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru,” said Niraj Kumar Mishra, Founder and CEO eleRide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-electrifying-the-mobility-market-to-keep-business-in-the-green-101636800713258.html
13-11-2021||Other||5 Maoists killed in police encounter in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli||At least five suspected Maoists, including a couple of women activists, were killed in a major anti-rebel operation in Mardintola jungle under Garapatti police station in Gadchiroli district, some 250 kilometres from Nagpur, bordering Chhattisgarh, on Saturday, officials said. According to preliminary reports, the incident occurred when jawans of the C-60 force, an elite anti-Maoist squad of the district, were patrolling in the area. The left-wing extremists who were hiding in the jungle fired on the jawans which was retaliated immediately.The Gadchiroli police control room informed that the gun battle took place in the area under Garapatti police station this morning and the encounter is still on between the police and the red rebels.Additional police forces were already sent to the spot after the incident, Ankit Goyal, the superintendent of police, Gadchiroli district, said.Goyal said that more than five ultras were killed in the encounter. “The figure may increase as search operation has been intensified in the area after the incident,” he added. After the operation, bodies will be brought to Gadchiroli for post mortem, he added.The police have also recovered huge arms and ammunition from the site. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-maoists-killed-in-police-encounter-in-maharashtra-s-gadchiroli-101636800109882.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||‘Don’t know why Centre is silent’: Gopal Rai says Delhi govt sent letter ‘again’ for joint meeting on air pollution||Delhi government has sent a letter to the Centre again demanding an emergency joint meeting between the two parties as the national Capital’s air quality continues to remain in the “severe” category, environment minister Gopal Rai told news agency ANI on Saturday. “[I] don’t know why [the] Centre is silent,” he added.Rai said that the Delhi government has directed Delhi Metro and the transport department to increase the frequency of the metros and buses. “Implementing the odd-even scheme is the last measure,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.The Delhi environment minister further said that the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government has inspected as many as 2,500 sites and even ran an anti-dust campaign across the city. “We have begun the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign for vehicle pollution; 550 people deployed to restrict biomass burning. Bio-decomposer is given to stop stubble burning,” Rai added.
13-11-2021||Patna||Minister says Bihar environment programme in line with COP26 agenda||Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Friday said that the Nitish Kumar government’s ambitious ‘Jal Jeevan Hariyali Abhiyaan’, which makes water and greenery essential components for sustaining life, is in line with COP26 agenda and Bihar has been working on it with all seriousness.He was speaking at the 19th meeting of the special committee for interlinking of rivers chaired by Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi.Jha said that anticipating that climate change would be the biggest challenge across the globe, Bihar government was working on various environmental aspects, such as increasing green cover, growing use of solar energy, rainwater harvesting, revival of dead water bodies, water to every farm, climate-smart agriculture etc., with people’s participation in a coordinated way through the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali programme.The programme had also earned Bihar CM recognition as ‘Global Climate Leader’ from the United Nations and praise from co-founder of Microsoft Corporation, Bill Gates, the minister said. The environmental programme was launched in 2019 with the state cabinet approving ₹24,524 crore for its implementation over the next three years.Jha said that intra-linking of small rivers within Bihar would help mitigate flood and drought. “Bihar is happy with the progress being made by the National Water Development Agency (NWDA) in drafting of a detailed project report (DPR) for interlinking of state’s rivers. This will contribute significantly in mitigating the double whammy of flood and drought, which the state faces every year,” he added.He urged the Centre to provide financial aid on the formula of 90:10, for the Koshi Mechi Intra State River Linking Project as the scheme would be of immense benefit to four districts of eastern Bihar.Also Read | Bihar panchayat election 2021 results: Know who is winning from whereHe thanked the national agency for agreeing to reconsider the feasibility of Bagmati-Ganga link, Budhi Gandak -Noon-Baya-Ganga link and Bagmati Budhi Gandak link projects under intra-state river linking schemes.He said the mathematical modelling centre of Bihar was undertaking model study for intra-linking of various rivers in Bihar. “Recent model study done for interlinking of Bagmati-Ganga link has shown positive results. If the scheme is implemented, it will help free Kusheshwarsthan of flood menace caused by Bagmati, Kamala and Kosi rivers,” he said, adding interlink Bagmati, Koshi & Kamala river basin of north Bihar and Punpun, Harohar basins of south Bihar would go a long way in mitigating flood and drought situationsJha said that CM Nitish Kumar had been keen on interlinking of small rivers for water conservation and irrigation facilities benefitting farmers, besides working on mission mode to face the climate challenge. He requested NWDA to appoint more officials for its regional office in Patna for better coordination between the department and the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/minister-says-bihar-environment-programme-in-line-with-cop26-agenda-101636798908735.html
13-11-2021||Patna||Bihar’s air quality improves to ‘moderate’, winter delayed||Air quality in Bihar improved to ‘moderate’ level on Friday, after remaining in the ‘poor’ category for a week after Diwali, said officials of the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB). According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Patna’s 24-hour overall air quality index (AQI) based on five monitoring stations stood at 172 which was classified as ‘moderate’.Of the monitoring stations, Rajbansi Nagar and Samanpura recorded a maximum value of 205 and 255 respectively while Muradpur, Danapur and Shikarpur recorded maximum value ranging between 130 to 140. All these stations recorded PM2.5 and PM10 as major pollutants.The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as ‘good’, 51-100 as ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 as ‘moderate’, 201-300 as ‘poor’, 301-400 as ‘very poor’ and above 401 as ‘severe’. Apart from the state capital, other three prominent cities also recorded ‘moderate’ air quality with the AQI at Muzaffarpur at 196, Hajipur at 135 and Gaya at 117.BSPCB’s chairman Ashok Ghosh attributed favourable meteorological condition for improvement in the air quality.“Weather transition is slow in the state in comparison to the north region. Air quality tends to deteriorate in winter season with fall in temperature and low wind speed which obstructs dispersal of pollutants”, he added.Meanwhile, Patna Meteorological Centre has forecasted delay in winter onset this year. Usually, winter season begins in the state on November 10.Also Read | Bihar panchayat election 2021 results: Know who is winning from whereWeathermen said a dip in maximum and minimum temperature has been seen but no major change in temperature is likely in a couple of weeks.As per MeT centre, Patna recorded a maximum temperature of 30°C while a minimum temperature of 17.6°C, a dip of 2 degrees than the season’s normal. Muzaffarpur, Motihari, Gaya and Bhagalpur recorded a minimum temperature between 18°C to 16°C.Weatherman Zeeshan Ansari, said, “Light to moderate fog was recorded at several places in the state this week. Dry westerly and north-westerlies are blowing in the state resulting in sunny days, however, a marginal plunge in day and night temperature is likely.”Elaborating meteorological mechanism, he said, “Currently, no westerly disturbance is active over north India. Usually, two or three westerly disturbances remain active during this month which triggers snowfall in hilly region and dip in mercury in plains. Gradual decline in temperature is likely in the state but no severe fall in temperature is expected in the absence of active disturbance in the next 10 to 15 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-air-quality-improves-to-moderate-winter-delayed-101636797708657.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||What are markets without street vendors, ask Delhiites||New DelhiImagine entering Sarojini or any other popular market in Delhi, and not finding vendors and hawkers selling affordable clothes, trinkets and lip-smacking street food. With the Delhi High Court stressing on the need to have organised vending activities in markets in the Capital, shoppers hope street vendors will not be asked to leave altogether. Suggesting registration of street vendors and designated zones for them, shoppers in Delhi iterate that markets would lose their charm sans vendors.“Not everybody can afford showrooms; half of the city dwellers are dependant on cheap buys. It’s about their livelihood. There should be better cleanliness, though,” opines Mayank Negi, a graphic designer residing in Laxmi Nagar. Echoing a similar sentiment is Yogesh Verma, a real estate agent from Pitampura. He says, “Street vendors are really the heart and soul of any market. My wife and I love shopping from them. In fact, at times, I have shopped more from them than big showrooms. But yes, it won’t be such a bad thing to have a separate space for them. I hope small sellers are not completely evicted.”At a time when street hawkers are struggling to make ends meet, many urge for better communication between vendors and town vending committees (TVCs). Patel Nagar-based Mayanka Plaha, who works in a bank, says: “Vendors are afraid of committees and start running when they come. Last year was hard for them, they have just resumed business. At this point, I hope a system is put in place.”When purchasing items sold by street vendors, bargaining is an option, thereby making shopping a little less heavy on the pocket. Gaurav Kumar, a resident of Rani Bagh, opines: “Street vendors have good products available at reasonable prices. I will be disappointed if I don’t see them (in markets). Street vendors are the beauty of Delhi’s markets. My friends and I always shop for belts, caps, glasses, socks etc. from these small sellers, as I don’t like to buy these items from a big shop.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/what-are-markets-without-street-vendors-ask-delhiites-101636797116572.html
13-11-2021||Other||‘Judicial commission report on Jhiram Valley attack won’t be made public as it’s incomplete’: Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said his government will not make public the report of the judicial commission, headed by former judge of Chhattisgarh High Court Justice Prashant Mishra, on the May 2013 Jhiram valley Maoist attack, because it is “incomplete”. “We came to know through the media that the commission has handed over its report to the Raj Bhavan (governor). Today (on Friday), officials informed me that the governor’s office has handed over the report to the state government... in the meantime, the state government has appointed two new members to the commission to complete the probe,” Baghel said. The chief minister was responding to media questions at Raipur airport on Friday evening, after returning from Delhi. Asked whether the report submitted by the panel headed by Mishra will be made public, Baghel said, “Absolutely not, since the report is incomplete... The commission’s secretary had written to the General Administration Department that the probe was incomplete.” On Thursday, the Chhattisgarh government appointed a new chairman, added another member to the enquiry commission and added new terms of reference. The commission, which was earlier headed by former Chhattisgarh High Court judge Prashant Kumar Mishra, was constituted on May 28, 2013, by the then BJP government, submitted its findings to the Chhattisgarh Governor Anusiya Uike on November 6, after which Congress raised objections that it should be submitted to the state government and not to the governor. “The commission was constituted during the Raman Singh government in 2013 and its term was extended for 20 times. In June this year, the panel’s tenure was extended for the last time and in September, the commission’s secretary had sought a further extension, saying the probe was yet to be completed. Meanwhile, Justice Prashant Mishra was transferred as Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court. In such a situation, I sought the opinion of the law department, “ Baghel said. On May 25, 2013, Maoists attacked a convoy of Congress leaders during the party’s`Parivartan Rally’ in the Jhiram valley in Bastar district of Chhattisgarh killing 29 people including then state Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel, former leader of opposition Mahendra Karma and former Union minister VC Shukla. The new order appoints Justice (retired) Satish K Agnihotri, former Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court, as the new chairman of the commission and Justice (retired) G Minhajuddin as a member. Both of them have served tenures as judges in Chhattisgarh High Court. Earlier this week, the Chhattisgarh Congress, including Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, raised objections over the submission of the report to the Governor and pointed out that in September, the commission had sought extension of the term, asking why then it was submitted in a hurry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/judicial-commission-report-on-jhiram-valley-attack-won-t-be-made-public-as-it-s-incomplete-bhupesh-baghel-101636794710644.html
13-11-2021||Kolkata||Journalist allegedly molested, her friend assaulted in south Kolkata's Behala||A woman journalist was allegedly molested and her friend assaulted by the driver of an app-based cab in south Kolkata's Behala, police said on Saturday. The woman, who works at a TV news channel, was returning home from her office in Salt Lake Sector 5 with the friend on a scooter when the incident happened at Satyen Roy Road-James Long Road crossing, they said.The cab driver was arrested after she lodged a complaint at the Behala police station, they added.The woman alleged that the cab driver was driving recklessly and tried to hit her scooter several times to push her off the road on Thursday night, besides trying to block her way, a police officer said.“At the Satyen Roy Road-James Long Road crossing, the woman journalist stopped her scooter and protested,” he said.It was at that point of time, the cab driver allegedly assaulted and molested the woman, besides manhandling her friend, the officer added.“We arrested the cab driver after the woman provided a photograph of the vehicle. She managed to take the photo when the driver tried to escape,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/journalist-allegedly-molested-her-friend-assaulted-in-south-kolkata-s-behala-101636791798081.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Time has come to take pride…’: Amit Shah urges people to speak in Hindi||Union home minister Amit Shah remarked on Saturday that people should take pride in speaking in Hindi, as he addressed the Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan on the second and final day of his visit to Varanasi in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Shah, who will leave for Azamgarh from Varanasi, also praised right wing ideologue Vinayak Damodar Savarkar for what he described as the latter's efforts towards promotion of the language.“Time has come to take pride in speaking Hindi,” the Union home minister said, adding that parents should talk to children in their native tongue as ‘original thoughts come from our own language.’ The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader further said that the ‘inferiority complex’ regarding Hindi, which came up during the British rule, should be brought to an end.He also said that the country ‘lagged behind’ because researches are conducted in foreign language. “However, the new National Education Policy lays emphasis on official language and regional language. Also, history of every state should be translated into official language,” Shah said.Vinayak Damodar ‘Veer’ Savarkar, Shah said, is known in the country for his works, and respected for the promotion of the Hindi language. The home minister's visit to the politically significant Uttar Pradesh comes as the ruling BJP prepares for next year's assembly elections in the state, likely to be held in February-March. In 2017, the party returned to power after several years, winning 312 of the state's 403 assembly constituencies. It unseated the then ruling Samajwadi Party (SP), which bagged only 47 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/time-has-come-to-take-pride-amit-shah-urges-people-to-speak-in-hindi-101636786433525.html
13-11-2021||Jaipur||On Children’s Day, Rajasthan assembly to hold session for kids||On Children’s Day on November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, the Rajasthan assembly will hold a special session for schoolchildren to help them experience how the House functions.According to a government statement, the Rajasthan legislative assembly will be the first such assembly in the country to organise a session for children.Reports have said that the state government has selected more than 200 schoolchildren, who will get the opportunity to run the house. They added that the children-run assembly will also be broadcast live on the official YouTube channel of the Rajasthan assembly.They will be seen in the role of the chief minister, speaker, leader of opposition and MLAs during the session on Children's Day. The students will raise issues to seek answers during Question Hour and Zero Hour.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Rajasthan Speaker CP Joshi, chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the Leader of Opposition in the House Gulab Chand Kataria will be present on the occasion.According to news agency PTI, Joshi said future generations have been given an opportunity to run the House, ask questions and express their views with discipline.The session will be conducted under the aegis of the Rajasthan branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/on-children-s-day-rajasthan-assembly-to-hold-session-for-kids-101636784982027.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Shiromani Akali Dal announces three more candidates||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday announced three more party candidates for Balachaur, Patiala Rural and Shahkot assembly segments. With this, the party has announced candidates for 83 segments. Also read: Sacrilege conspiracy hatched at sect’s Sirsa headquarters: SIT in status report to high courtSAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that Sunita Chaudhary will be the candidate from Balachaur, Bitu Chatha from Patiala Rural and Bachittar Singh Kohar from Shahkot. While Sunita is the daughter-in-law of former chief parliamentary secretary late Chaudhary Nand Lal, Bachittar is the grandson of the Akali stalwart from Doaba and former minister, the late Ajit Singh Kohar. Bitu Chatha has remained councillor from Patiala Municipal Corporation. Chatha is the right hand man of former minister Surjit Singh Rakhra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-shiromani-akali-dal-announces-three-more-candidates-101636784327830.html
13-11-2021||Patna||Bihar: Over 3.87 mn litres of illicit liquor confiscated in 9 months, say police||A total of 49,900 cases were registered in different districts of Bihar after conducting special raids under the State Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Act-2018 from January 2021 to October 2021 and a total of 3,872,645 litres of illicit liquor were recovered and confiscated in the state, informed the State Police on Friday.The Bihar Police in an official statement issued on Friday said that a total of 1,293,229 litres of country liquor and 2,579,415 litres of foreign liquor was recovered and confiscated in the state.During the operation, 62,140 accused were arrested and 12,200 vehicles were confiscated in the state, said the Bihar Police, adding that out of the total accused, 1,590 people were arrested, who did not belong to the state.The five districts, which were on top in terms of liquor seizure are Vaishali with 4,563,59 litres of liquor, Patna with 3,500,85 litres, Muzaffarpur with 2,564,80 litres, Aurangabad with 2,325,42 litres and Madhubani with 223767 litres, said the Bihar Police.The five districts, which were on top in terms of arrests are Patna with 6855 arrests, followed by Saran with 3872 arrests, Motihari with 2832 arrests, Nawada with 2814 arrests and Muzaffarpur with 2660 arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-over-3-87-mn-litres-of-illicit-liquor-confiscated-in-9-months-say-police-101636781895331.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Curb on calls after work: not possible in india, say denizens||Picture this. You’ve logged off for the day, plan to step out for a meal and just then, your boss asks you to attend an urgent meeting. Seems familiar? To make up for this loss of work-life balance, Portugal has reportedly introduced a new law that makes it illegal for bosses to contact their employees after work hours. And professionals back home are in total support of such measures, but feel it cannot be put into action here. “I don’t think the work environment in India supports this culture at all. I am always getting calls from work after I log off, and I end up working all the time. Our legal contract says 8.5 hours a day, but that is not the case,” says Siddharth Roy, an advertising professional from Rohini.Ireland also has a similar policy which speaks about the “right to disconnect” wherein employers are asked to use pop up messages to remind people that they don’t have to reply to work emails after working hours. There are similar rules in the UK, Germany and France as well. Work from home has made it worse, agrees Esha Gill, a Product Manager from Patparganj, adding,”The working hour concept is gone from my dictionary ever since I have started working from home. How I miss saying that I have left office to those after hours work calls. Now every call I get after 7 is super urgent and to be closed then only. After work kahin jaane ka option hi nahi raha.”Going out after work is seldom possible in such a situation. And on days one manages to chalk out time to step out, they’re often found attending calls from wherever they are. “In my previous firm, when I’d finish work and go out to a lounge or restaurant, I would perpetually be running to the washroom to answer calls. Especially during WFH, work never ends,” rues Yuvraaj Singh, an operations executive from Surajmal Vihar..For companies that deal with clients based out of countries across the world, time zone is a challenge when considering implementing such measures, feels Kunal Mathur, director of an MNC in Gurugram. “We are catering to clients from all over the world, issues can happen anytime. We need to answer to the client in case we miss something, so things need to be in place. But as a policy, if all goes well, I do not disturb my team once they log off for the day,” he adds. Dr Imran Noorani, consultant chief psychologist at a Delhi hospital, asserts one must divide time for personal, professional commitments. “We need to segregate time for work and personal life, else anxiety and stress creeps in, and performance dips. In the long term, this will be a loss for an organisation,” he adds. Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/curb-on-calls-after-work-not-possible-in-india-say-denizens-101636781927915.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Tension in Agra over death of woman in inter-faith marriage||A woman from Agra in Uttar Pradesh who had married a man from another faith about a year ago was found dead on Friday night in suspicious circumstances, triggering communal tension between two local groups.The woman, who had moved out of Agra after her marriage, returned to the city recently and was found dead at her in-law’s house on Friday night. Her in laws claimed it to be a case of death by suicide but her parents and those in their support alleged she was murdered by the in-laws and demanded arrest of the guilty.Activists from Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Yuva Morcha reached the spot and later also gathered at Shahganj police station in Agra demanding action against the woman’s in-laws. The situation at Shahganj was brought under control by police who reached the spot after first reports of tensions were reported.Yogendra Upadhyay and Ram Pratap Singh Chauhan, BJP MLAs from Agra South and Etmadpur respectively, too reached Shahganj police station in the night demanding action alleging the woman was murdered.“The matter relates to the death of a woman from one religion who had married a man from another religion. ...it was claimed by her in laws that it was a case of suicide by hanging. The body was brought down and police reached the spot,” stated Agra’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sudhir Kumar Singh.Also Read | UP polls: BJP favourite, SP gains momentum, shows ABP-CVoter surveySingh added that additional force was called from another police station to ensure the situation doesn’t go out of hand. “Clashes were averted and fair investigation will be undertaken in the matter. We will hear the complainant and necessary action will be taken,” he said.“We got information through the phone about the death of our daughter and we demand action against those involved in her killing,” stated the woman’s mother.Heavy police force beside PAC was deployed at Shahganj area in Agra on Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tension-in-agra-over-death-of-woman-in-inter-faith-marriage-101636781687914.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farm stir: Punjab to give compensation to 83 people held for R-day tractor rally||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday announced to provide ₹2 lakh as compensation to 83 people arrested by Delhi Police for carrying out a tractor rally in the national capital on January 26."Reiterating my government's stand to support the ongoing Farmers' Protest against three black farm laws, we have decided to give ₹2 lakh compensation to 83 people arrested by Delhi Police for carrying out a tractor rally in the national capital on January 26," Channi tweeted.On January 26, protesters broke barricades to enter New Delhi and clashed with police in several parts of the national capital during the January 26 'tractor rally' protest organised by farmers.The protestors also had entered the iconic Mughal era monument Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-stir-punjab-to-give-compensation-to-83-people-held-for-r-day-tractor-rally-101636773912457.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||As Delhi pollution nears emergency level, CPCB advises people to skip outdoors, cut vehicle use||As the air quality level in Delhi plunged to near emergency levels, the pollution controlling authorities have asked people in the national capital to limit outdoor activities and told government and private offices to cut vehicle use by at least 30 per cent. The air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was 471, according to the Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) 4pm bulletin on Friday, the worst this season so far. It was 411 on Thursday.Also Read | Among world's 10 most polluted cities, 3 are from IndiaA record number of farm fires are among the major reasons for pushing up Delhi's pollution on Friday.A sub-committee on Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) said meteorological conditions will be highly unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants till November 18 and agencies concerned must be fully ready to implement measures under "emergency" category.After warning, parents have begun keeping their children at home as the days remain particularly dangerous for those with respiratory conditions.“This spike in pollution is an amalgamation of many things. Delhi already saw peak pollution levels after Diwali and the high stubble count in Punjab and Haryana. Because of slow winds, the pollution load is not being eased, and more pollution is being added. All this is being recirculated in the air,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research department.According to an analysis of data from heat-sensing satellites done by Hindustan Times, there have been 24,694 incidents of fire recorded since November 8. This number is the highest for the second week of November since 2012, the earliest year for which data was available.Also Read| Air trap around Delhi may stay for a weekThe CPCB said the 24-hour average concentration of lung-damaging fine particles known as PM2.5 in Delhi-NCR crossed the 300 mark around midnight and stood at 381 micrograms per cubic metre at 4pm on Friday, over six times the safe limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre.The PM10 level was recorded at 577 micrograms per cubic metre, over five times the safe limit of 100 micrograms per cubic metre.According to Grap, the air quality is considered to be in the 'emergency' category if the PM2.5 and PM10 levels continue to be above 300 micrograms per cubic metre and 500 micrograms per cubic metre respectively for 48 hours or more. The emergency-level curbs include measures like ban on construction work and entry of heavy vehicles, and odd-even car use limits.A layer of eye-stinging smog lingering over Delhi-NCR thickened on Friday, giving an orange tint to the sun and lowering visibility to 200 metres at several places in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-delhi-pollution-nears-emergency-level-cpcb-says-don-t-go-outside-101636773554730.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The other Chandni Chowk||These days people are composing new ballads for Chandni Chowk. The refurbished avenue has become more pedestrian-friendly for the Walled City aficionados. The change is believed to have accentuated the enjoyment of the district’s signature pleasures—the shops and eateries, the havelis and shrines, the idyllic view of the Red Fort on one side, and of the Fatehpuri Masjid on the facing side.You’ll be surprised to discover that there’s another Chandni Chowk in Old Delhi. It is not called by this name, but the resemblance is like of a conjoined twin. Here also are very many shops. This too is very pedestrian-friendly (since a long time!). The signature pleasures include a view of the Red Fort on one side, and of Delhi’s greatest mosque on the facing side.The Meena Bazar extends from Netaji Marg to the Jama Masjid (gate no. 2). It skirts past the garden-mausoleum of freedom fighter Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. The market bustles with a smorgasbord of distractions, diverse enough to give Chandni Chowk an inferiority complex. Consider the stuff on display in the pavement stalls today—jackets, coconuts, towels, wrist watches, chhole bhature, shawls, shoes, overcoats, camera chips, skirts, leggings, haleem, mobile phone screen protections, hats, dolls, laptop chargers, leather belts, peanut chikkis, suits, teddy bears, scarves, computer mouses, biryani, bed sheets, ear danglers, old coins, cassette recorders, channa jor garam, perfumes, machine ka thanda pani, ear phones, cotton candy, wigs… an exhaustive list might fill up at least half the page of this paper.The bazaar also happens to be the only location in Old Delhi that showcases the frontal prospect of the Jama Masjid; this is the only side of the 17th century monument unencumbered by Walled City’s chaotic architecture. This market lane was the official route of the Mughal emperors to stage a royal procession from their residence in the Red Fort to the Jama Masjid. The area was then known as Khas Bazar, and in ordinary days it would teem with jugglers, dancers and magicians strutting their skills to the awestruck travellers.This evening the lane is crowded with shoppers trying out sweater/jacket/sandal, etc. The red sandstone mosque is shrouded in winter smog, and appears grainy as if it were an apparition of golden dust. Even so, one can clearly identify the sweeping staircase, the doorway, the minarets, the dome, and the pigeons flying about the dome. Soon the sun starts to set behind the mosque. While a half-moon surfaces in another part of the sky.Chandni Chowk’s name suggests that it glows with moonlight. Any nighttime visitor there will tell you that this is factually incorrect. But the bazaar here does glow in a full moon night. May be it is a truer Chandni Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-other-chandni-chowk-101636767766748.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees 2 deaths as Covid cases rise||With 62 new infections of the coronavirus disease reported in Delhi on Friday, the highest in 79 days, new cases of Covid-19 appear to have again started rising in the Capital, data shows, suggesting that the seven-month-long contraction of the outbreak in the city may be bottoming out again.Experts have warned that while the increase in infections in the city appear to be still in the nascent stages, it is crucial for the government to closely monitor the numbers, ensure adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour, and increase testing, contact tracing and vaccination.The city also reported two deaths due to the infection on Friday, which is the highest in 45 days, since September 28, data shows. There have only been four deaths in the past 30 days, and six deaths were reported in the 30 days before that, and 14 in the 30 days prior. In comparison, at the peak of the second wave, 448 deaths were recorded in a single day on May 3.“An increase in the number of cases has been reported not only in Delhi but from across the country – cases went up in West Bengal after Diwali; number of deaths has increased in Maharashtra and Kerala as well. There is an increasing trend and we need to be vigilant...,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a member of the Lancet Commission on Covid-19 in India.A minor blip in trajectory of Covid-19 cases in Delhi that began towards the end of October appears to have now gathered momentum, with the new infection rate appearing to slowly rise again after a bottoming out, the data shows.The seven-day average of new Covid-19 cases (a number which reflects the case trajectory of a region) in Delhi has now risen by 68% from lows seen after the end of the brutal second wave of the pandemic (from 25 cases a day week ending October 21, to 42 cases a day for week ending Friday). Incidentally, the October 21 case rate was the lowest Delhi’s wave has dropped to in the year-and-a-half of the outbreak expanding in the country.To be sure, these numbers are still minuscule compared to the previous wave of infections in Delhi – at the peak of the city’s fourth wave (which coincided with the brutal second wave of infections in India), the Capital was reporting and average of 25,294 new cases a day for the week ending April 26, 2021.The Covid-19 positivity rate, too, has started inching up, data shows. The seven-day average of positivity rate, which had dropped to a near all-time low of 0.05% three weeks ago (for the week ended October 22) has risen marginally to 0.9% for the week ended Friday.Experts have said this rise is particularly worrying as it comes at a time when fever wards are already full of dengue cases. The largest Covid-19 hospital in the city, Lok Nayak, is currently receiving five times as many dengue cases as Covid-19, with their fever ward running full.“We are still seeing some Covid-19 patients, probably five to six a day. But dengue cases continue to remain high; every day we see 20-30 dengue patients... we have started a 100-bed fever ward for all those who come in with mosquito borne diseases, seasonal flu, and Covid-19. It is almost always 80% full,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.Experts said that the state government needed to step up its testing and tracking activities, whereas the central government needed to reduce the gap between two doses of Covishield.“...the government should test more people and trace 15 to 20 contacts for each. There is a need to ensure that people follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour... In addition, we have seen that there is a huge gap between the numbers of people who have received the first dose of the vaccine and the second dose. This is important especially because we have seen in Israel that despite vaccinating a high proportion of the population there was an increase in cases,” said Garg.She added, it was also time for the government to think about allowing booster doses in the health care workers.Around 88% of Delhi’s adult population have received at least one vaccine dose, as against a national average of 79.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-2-deaths-as-covid-cases-rise-101636766954927.html
13-11-2021||Bhopal||MP govt writes to home ministry about renaming Habibganj rail station||The Madhya Pradesh government has written to the Ministry of Home Affairs about renaming the recently redeveloped Habibganj station after Rani Kamlapati, the 18th Century Gond queen of the region.The letter from the state's transport department has said that renaming the station is also in accordance with the Indian government's decision to celebrate November 15 as 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas' in remembrance of revered tribal leader and freedom fighter Birsa Munda.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the station which has been redeveloped at a cost of ₹100 crore on November 15, the day government launches the 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas', a week-long celebration of the pride of the Scheduled Tribes in India.The letter also explains the reason behind the decision to rename the station.Rani Kamlapati was the widow Gond ruler of Nizam Shah, chief of Ginnorgarh. The Gond community comprises the largest tribal group of India with more than 1.2 crore population. Linguistically, the Gonds belong to the Gondi–Manda subgroup of the South Central branch of the Dravidian language family.The letter states that the renaming of the station will honour Rani Kamlapati's legacy and bravery.The decision of the state government to rename the station as Rani Kamlapati station comes a day after BJP MP from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur demanded that the station be renamed after former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee."Arrival of the hon'ble prime minister on 15/11/2021 to participate in Janajatiy Gaurav Diwas is a good omen for Bhopal. I am sure that Modi ji will announce to rename Habibganj railway station in the name of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji and fulfil my old request," Thakur said in a tweet on Thursday.The name of Allahabad railway station has been changed to Prayagraj and Mughalsarai railway junction ras been renamed Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay junction. PTI ASG NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-writes-to-home-ministry-about-renaming-habibganj-rail-station-101636766340650.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Stubble fires at record high as a ‘river of smoke’ flows over Delhi||This year, the number of farm fires in the second week of November is at a record high, offering worrying signs that the problem might not relent anytime soon.Data from heat-sensing satellites accessed by HT show that since November 8, there have been 24,694 fire events, higher than the 16,931 in the same period in 2016 which was previously the highest.Pawan Gupta, senior scientist, earth sciences (USRA), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Marshall Space Flight Centre, said that when seen from satellite images, Delhi currently looks to be engulfed in a “river of smoke”. “You can see the river of smoke over Delhi even in the afternoon hours, when winds tend to pick up and clear up the smoke,” said Gupta.According to the data accessed by HT from the SUOMI VIIRS C2, FIRMS-NASA resource, there have been 70,655 fire events recorded this year, which has inched closer to the 73,788 recorded in 2020. Last year, however, the farm fires were spread more evenly through the month, possibly helping dispersion, in particularly so since conditions are windier in October.The highest number of farm fires recorded in any year was in 2016, with 93,211 recorded events.Union ministry of earth science’, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said that on Friday, the share of farm fires in the amount of pollutants in Delhi’s air went up from 26% on Thursday to 35%. The analysis indicated that while the fire count will remain nearly the same, stubble smoke share in Delhi could reduce marginally in the next two days.“Winds at transport level are likely to reduce from November 13 evening leading to less transport of pollutants from upwind region to Delhi,” Safar said.Experts said late monsoon withdrawal and few intense post-monsoon spells in the month of October shortened the window for farmers in Punjab and Haryana to prepare their fields for the next crop season. They also said stubble burning is likely to continue till November-end and Delhi should brace for further deterioration of air quality.“Delhi has been experiencing severe air quality levels since November 10, 9 pm. According to Delhi’s Early Warning System, calm winds in the evening and morning hours are responsible for trapping pollutants. While faster surface winds favour pollution dispersion, relatively calmer winds are extremely unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants,” said Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).“Besides, the last eight days have witnessed a spike in farm fires in nearby states with daily counts reporting in the range of 3000-6000 fires. Additional emission load from farm fires due to northwest winds are further amplifying pollution levels in Delhi. According to forecasts, air quality is likely to remain in very poor and severe conditions for the next two days on account of unfavourable meteorology,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stubble-fires-at-record-high-as-a-river-of-smoke-flows-over-delhi-101636765898821.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Dust and smoke from farm fires in deadly cocktail||The toxic smog in Delhi’s air on Friday was a hazardous amalgamation of smoke from farm fires in the nearby states of Punjab and Haryana, and Delhi’s local pollution sources such as vehicle emissions, open garbage burning and dust from construction, according to environmental experts.The estimates are from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s (IITM) decision support system (DSS), which provides a forecast for Delhi’s air quality and identifies the components of the pollution, which at present includes a spike in all major sources.The analysis said that on Friday, Delhi also received pollutants from other cities such as Jhajjar, Gurugram, Baghpat, Ghaziabad and Sonepat.“While stubble smoke remained the primary external pollution source, pollutants from other neighbouring cities also contributed to Delhi’s pollution levels. This was because Delhi shares an air shed with the entire Indo-Gangetic Plains and while measures can be taken to control the city’s local pollutants, there is still around 20-30% pollution share that comes into the Capital from other states,” said a IITM scientist, who asked not to be named.The DSS analysis showed that on Friday, paddy stubble fires contributed to 15% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres), local vehicular emissions had a share of 25%, emissions from households contributed to 7% of the particulate levels and industries in Delhi and its peripheries made up 9-10% of the city’s pollution profile.SAFAR, the Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring station said that the stubble fires accounted to at least 35% of pollutants in the air on Friday.Weather experts said that apart from the pollutants, a large part of Delhi’s air also had high moisture content.“What we are seeing currently is trapping of pollutants, but along with pollutants, moisture is also being trapped and re-circulating. When moisture increases, the size of pollutants also increases and it starts expanding. Because of this sun rays are not able to reach the ground,” said Harish Madhavan, a Delhi-based independent meteorologist.IMD scientists said that the haze in the city can be called ‘smog’, which is a toxic mix of water vapour, smoke and other pollutants.“The visibility levels remained in the 300-800 metres range throughout the day. It is the first time this season that we have seen such poor visibility throughout the day. Even during afternoon hours, there was a thick cover of smog. Yesterday (Thursday), the smog was there, but by afternoon visibility improved to 800-1200 metres,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.Experts also explained that apart from primary pollutants, which are released directly from sources, Delhi’s air also saw a toxic mix of hazardous chemicals such as sulphur dioxides and nitrogen oxides. These are formed by reaction of primary pollutants with the atmosphere. By the time pollutants from sources such as industries and biomass burning in the neighbouring states reach Delhi, they react with other pollutants or water molecules in the air to change and become more toxic.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said while the governments cannot change the weather conditions, during such emergency conditions, they can work towards controlling the local pollution sources.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dust-and-smoke-from-farm-fires-in-deadly-cocktail-101636765548570.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Air trap around Delhi may stay for a week||There may be no respite for the next seven days from the toxic smoke and hazardous pollution levels, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned, and added that weather conditions unfavourable to the dispersal of pollutants are likely to continue for a week.VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research department, said calm local winds were trapping pollution from stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana, and the Capital’s local pollution closer to the surface. High moisture levels have worsened this condition, as it helps pollutants stay suspended close to the surface.“After Diwali, when cracker smoke and stubble fires peaked, the winds have remained slow, which resulted in an accumulation of pollutants. On Friday, during the day, the wind speed was only around 6kmph, and after sundown it became even more calm. Similar, conditions are being seen over the last few days,” said Soni.IMD data shows that the relative humidity in Delhi at 8.30am on Friday was 93%. As the day progressed the humidity levels came down to 69%, but still stayed unfavourable for dispersal of the pollutants.A Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) scientist explained that when moisture content increases in the air, the secondary pollution particles—particles that are formed by chemical reactions in the atmosphere—swell up in size.“As they grow bigger by absorbing moisture, the pollutants and particles block the sunlight from reaching the surface and form a hazy blanket,” the scientist explained, asking not to be named. As the sunlight stays away, the air stays cold and dense making it difficult for the pollutants to disperse.He added that such conditions are rare for this time of the year, and are usually seen by November-end or December.“These conditions are abnormal. During this time of the year, while pollution levels do spike, we get a few bouts of moderate to high speed winds that facilitate pollution dispersion. But that has not happened this time and consistently, the winds have remained stable,” the scientist added.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, said Delhi is yet to receive any western disturbance this month, which either brings rain to clear the air or improves wind speed. He also said that the weather condition where two winds—northwesterly from Punjab and Haryana and southeasterly from a depression over the Bay of Bengal—are colliding over the city is also continuing, creating a barrier for the movement of pollutants.“This time in November, we are yet to see a western disturbance, and there is no forecast for at least the next five days. Usually, we see around two to three western disturbances by this time. This year, it last happened on October 24,” Palawat said.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai blamed the stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana for the persistent pollution episode, and said the state governments did little to prevent the annual fire incidents. He added that strict directions have been issued to all agencies in the city to control local pollution sources so that the air quality does not worsen.“The current levels of pollution are spiking due to the consistent increase in stubble burning from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. It has been reported that a total of 45,000 stubble burning incidents have been reported till now from these regions. The impact of these fires is being witnessed by the people of Delhi as the air accumulates more pollution,” Rai said.He also said government is implementing anti-dust campaign, anti-burning campaign, and the Red Light On, Gaadi Off campaign to control pollution from local sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-trap-around-delhi-may-stay-for-a-week-101636765218526.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Breath by breath: Pollution levels in Delhi may trigger health emergency||Severe levels of pollution pose a health risk to not only those who have respiratory diseases or compromised immunity but also healthy people, experts said, adding that breathing in heavily polluted air for a prolonged period adversely affects not just the lungs but also other vital organs in the body.Air pollution was the top risk factor for death in India in 2019, killing an estimated 1.67 million people, according to the Global Burden of Disease report.Delhi on Friday reported an average Air Quality Index of 471 -- the highest reported so far this year, as a toxic haze hung over the city. Individual air quality monitoring stations reported much higher AQI with Mandir Marg at 494, Chandni Chowk (491), ITO (490) and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and Patparganj at 486.Here is how, the polluted air affects some vital organs of the human body.Chokes lungsThe respiratory system comprises nose, throat, respiratory tubes and the lungs. PM 2.5 and PM 10 is considered dangerous because these are of respirable size, and can travel down to the lowest part of the lung where gas exchange takes place.“When we say PM 2.5 or 10, it’s just the particle size that we are talking and the kind of damage depends on the source of that particle such as firecrackers, fuel combustion, stubble burning, etc. The particulate matter formed due to diesel or kerosene burning can even cause lung cancer,” says Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonology department, AIIMS, Delhi.The damage starts with inflammation of the airway, and finer the particulate matter, the deeper it penetrates. “What nobody talks much about and do the maximum damage are ultrafine particles of 0.1 micron or less. These penetrate the lung and reach the blood stream, and once in blood these can reach anywhere — the brain, the heart, kidneys etc. Even perfectly healthy persons can experience short-term symptoms such as breathing issues, sore throat or red eyes,” Dr Khilnani said.Harms the heartBreathing in heavily polluted air can cause irreversible damage to the cardiac arteries.“When the fine particles that lungs aren’t able to filter reach the blood stream, they get attached to the walls of the arteries. Over a period, it could lead to the formation of clots and may cause blockage. There’s sudden narrowing of the blood vessels that eventually can lead to a heart attack,” said Dr Upendra Kaul, chairman, cardiology, Batra Hospital & Medical Research Centre.Respiratory diseases such as chronic bronchitis can also cause damage to the heart, he added.Impacts the brainWhen heart malfunctions, it automatically also affects the brain functioning by restricting the flow of blood or oxygen flow, said Dr Deepak Aggarwal, professor, neurosurgery, AIIMS. “Also, inhaling pollutants emits certain chemical responses within the body that can also cause stroke over a period of time,” he said.Since pollutants affect a person’s immunity, it can also cause autoimmune disorders. “Exposure to pollutants can also lead to a condition called vasculitis, meaning inflammation of blood vessels that leads to narrowing of the vessels. This may cause stroke,” he added.Children vulnerableYoung lungs are vulnerable as they breathe in twice the rate than adults, which makes them inhale larger amounts of harmful pollutants, doctors said.“Though it is not practical to ask kids to stay indoors, we should ensure they avoid outdoor activities during early mornings and evenings when pollution is at its worse,” Dr JS Bhasin, head of paediatric department, BLK Super Speciality Hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/breath-by-breath-pollution-levels-in-delhi-may-trigger-health-emergency-101636764452266.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: UP seeks more time to respond to SC||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday sought some more time from the Supreme Court to revert to the court’s recommendation for appointing a retired high court judge from outside Uttar Pradesh to oversee the probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident so as to “infuse fairness, independence and faith” into it.The top court has been critical of the manner in which the state police have so far conducted the investigation in the case where eight people died in the incident on October 3 -- four farmers, three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, and a journalist.Representing the UP government, senior counsel Harish Salve asked for some time from the bench, led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, saying: “Please give me a day or two. Something is being worked out.”On Salve’s request, the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, adjourned the case to November 15.On November 8, the bench had pulled up the UP police, commenting that the investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident appears to be favouring the “main accused” in the case.The remarks continued the trend of the top court’s dissatisfaction with the probe in the case where a convoy, in which at least one vehicle belonged to Union minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, ran over farmers protesting three farm laws.Ashish Mishra, the son of the minister, is one of the accused in one of the two cases (the convoy running over farmers) being investigated. The other case being investigated by the police relates to the lynchings of some of the occupants of vehicles in the convoy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-up-seeks-more-time-to-respond-to-sc-101636762235907.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||UP elections: Akhilesh Yadav to launch third phase of ‘Vijay Yatra’ from Gorakhpur today||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav will on Saturday arrive in Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's home turf of Gorakhpur, from where he will begin the third phase of his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra, which the party launched in October to connect with the voters ahead of next year's assembly elections in the state.Spread across two days, the third phase will end on November 14 in Kushinagar. The former chief minister began his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra on October 12 in Kanpur, with the first phase, which ended on October 13, covering Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun and Hamirpur. The second phase, meanwhile, was held in Hardoi on October 31.The yatra sees Yadav travel on a bus, which has been converted into a ‘rath,’ with one side of the vehicle displaying his posters, while the other side displays those of his father, SP patriarch and former CM Mulayam Singh Yadav. According to the party, the initiative is aimed at making people aware about the ‘corrupt, autocratic and suppressive’ policies of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government.Yadav's programme in CM Yogi's Gorakhpur bastion will take place on a day when Union home minister and BJP leader Amit Shah will be in Azamgarh, which is the SP chief's parliamentary constituency. Shah will visit Basti as well.Also Read | Amit Shah in UP's Azamgarh today, to lay foundation of state universityThe high-voltage Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are likely to take place in February-March 2022, across all 403 assembly constituencies. In 2017, the BJP unseated the SP, bagging 312 seats in the process, while the then ruling party could win only 47 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-elections-akhilesh-yadav-to-launch-third-phase-of-vijay-yatra-from-gorakhpur-today-101636760752759.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: IAF chopper makes ‘precautionary’ landing in Samba||A major mishap was averted on Friday when a helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) made a ‘precautionary’ landing on a soccer field in Purmandal area of Samba district. “Chetak helicopter of IAF being flown by squadron leader Saradh Kumar with five crew members on the board made an emergency landing on a football ground in Purmandal in Samba due to some technical fault,” said an official. The chopper was on a routine sortie from Udhampur to Mansar. “After rectifying the technical glitch, the chopper flew within an hour from the soccer ground for its destination,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-iaf-chopper-makes-precautionary-landing-in-samba-101636757686303.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 125 fresh Covid cases, three deaths||Himachal Pradesh logged 125 fresh Covid infections on Friday, taking the state’s caseload to 2,25,589. Death toll mounted to 3,786 after three patients succumbed to the infection. Highest 53 cases were reported from Kangra, followed by 20 from Hamirpur, 11 from Solan, 10 from Una, nine each from Mandi and Shimla, five from Kullu and four each from Bilaspur and Chamba.Active case count has come down to 1,123 while the recoveries reached 2,20,663 after 168 people recuperated. Administer second vaccine doses by Nov 30: CMChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday reviewed the Covid situation in the state via videoconference with deputy commissioners. He directed all districts to administer the second dose of vaccine by November 30 with special focus on senior citizens.He said 72% population has been given second dose in the state. Health minister Rajiv Saizal, chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh and secretary, health, Amitabh Awasthi were among those who attended the meeting. Parents oppose reopening of schools in ShimlaParents of children studying in private schools in the state’s capital on Friday opposed the decision to resume physical classes just for 10 days and met the Shimla ADM seeking directives to private institutions to conduct annual examinations online.Students Parents Forum convener Vijendra Mehra and member Vivek Kashyap expressed strong opposition to the decision to reopen the schools. Mehra said it was immature and insensitive on the part of the administration and school managements.158 test positive in J&KSrinagar: Jammu and Kashmir reported 158 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday.Of the total cases, 132 were reported in Kashmir with Srinagar, which is witnessing a spurt in cases, being responsible for 73 infections. The Jammu division saw 26 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 105 with active cases slowly going up to 1,364. Officials said with 73 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 31 cases in Baramulla.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 623 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 208 and 116 cases, respectively.The number of people who have recovered reached 3,28,013, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.21%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have gone up to 3,33,825 and the death toll stands at 4,448.Jammu district has the highest number of 1,147 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 855 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-125-fresh-covid-cases-three-deaths-101636757146354.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Malana fire: Jai Ram announces ₹1.5 lakh relief to affected families||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday visited the Malana village in Kullu district and announced ₹1.5 lakh each to 36 affected families for rehabilitation. Sixteen houses were gutted and at least 150 people rendered homeless after a massive fire broke out in the Malana, known as the world’s oldest democracy, on October 27.While handing over the sanction letters to the victims, the chief minister said the amount is being given under the Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana. He also announced that ₹40,000 each would be provided to the affected families under MNREGA. Apart from it, ₹25,000 each will be given to the families whose houses were completely gutted and ₹10,000 to those whose houses were partially gutted, from his discretionary fund. He further announced opening a health subcentre at Malana and upgrade of the government high school in Malana to senior secondary. Thakur said seven cubic metres timber would be given to the affected families for construction of houses. He said that irrigation facilities would also be made available in Jari village under JICA and tapped water be provided under the Jal Jeevan Mission.Jai Ram also announced the construction of an alternative road to Malana. He directed the PWD authorities to complete the ₹1-crore road work within six months. He said this would not only give boost to tourism in the area, but also ensure development of the village. He also urged the people of the area to preserve their rich cultural heritage and also motivate the younger generation to be proud of their culture. Education minister Govind Singh Thakur and Banjar MLA Surender Shourie, Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd), former MP Maheshwar Singh, BJP district president Bhim Sen, local pradhan Raju Ram, deputy commissioner Ashutosh Garg and superintendent of police Gurdev Sharma were also present among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malana-fire-jai-ram-announces-1-5-lakh-relief-to-affected-families-101636756966373.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-MLA Khaira’s arrest vindicates Congress govt acting strictly: Navjot Kaur||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife and former MLA Navjot Kaur Sidhu on Friday said former Bholath legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s arrest by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money-laundering case vindicates that the Congress government in Punjab is acting strictly against wrongdoings by politicians. Kaur, who was interacting with mediapersons in Amritsar, said, “Earlier, when Khaira got an ED notice, everyone said he will not be arrested. Now, he has been arrested because he did something wrong with the money that came from abroad. You have never seen MLAs being arrested like this before. A case of rape was also registered against (Lok Insaaf Party MLA) Simarjet Singh Bains.”Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala condemned the arrest of Khaira who was elected as MLA on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket and recently joined the Congress. Navjot Kaur said on the high court’s direction, the report of the special task force (STF) on drug smuggling is being opened on November 19. “The first name mentioned in the report is that of a senior Akali leader. You will see that justice being done,” she added. Forty percent of the buses being impounded are run by Congress leaders, Kaur said. “The ruling party MLAs have also been asked to meet the criteria or they will face action. Therefore, action is being taken by rising above political lines,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ex-mla-khaira-s-arrest-vindicates-congress-govt-acting-strictly-navjot-kaur-101636749887913.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab government yet to start process for new advocate general’s appointment||The Punjab government is still to start the process for the appointment of new advocate general (AG) even as four days have passed since the incumbent’s resignation was accepted by the state cabinet. Senior officials in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the file on APS Deol’s resignation as AG was still to be cleared by governor Banwarilal Purohit who arrived in Chandigarh from the national capital on Friday afternoon. While accepting Deol’s resignation on November 9, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had said in a press conference that the new AG will be appointed the next day. “It got delayed as the governor was away. He is probably going to clear the resignation by today evening. The process for the appointment of new AG will start only after,” an official privy with the development said. The CM is likely to appoint the new AG after discussing the matter with the Cabinet to avoid any embarrassment further. “Even as choosing AG is the CM’s prerogative but he is likely to take every member of his council into confidence in the wake of the controversy that had erupted over Deol’s appointment,” he added. No date has been fixed for the next cabinet meeting yet. Deol had to resign following a standoff between Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for over a month over the appointment. Sidhu pressurised Channi to replace Deol as he had represented former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in cases of police firing at the time of Bargari sacrilege. No communication from UPSC on DGP’s appointment The state home department has not received any information about the meeting to be convened by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) over the appointment of the new DGP. A panel of nine officials was sent by the Punjab government to the UPSC on September 30 but there has been no communication over holding the meeting to shortlist three officers for the top post. The Punjab chief secretary will also be part of the meeting as per the protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-government-yet-to-start-process-for-new-advocate-general-s-appointment-101636749525491.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Regularising illegal water-sewer connections: 3 Ludhiana MC staffers in the soup for fleecing residents||Three municipal corporation employees conning people on the pretext of regularising their illegal water-sewer connections under the one-time settlement policy found themselves in a soup after there antics were captured on camera on Thursday. The accused, EPD Avtar Singh, peon Varun Kumar and sewerman Karan Sood, were captured fleecing residents in Ram Nagar of Ward 27. The employees were seen charging ₹800 against the actual fee of ₹200 for regularising the connections. The Class 3 and 4 employees fleeced eight residents of ₹2,500. They were made to return the money. A video of the incident, which was widely circulated on social media, also shows the staffers apologising to the public after their con was discovered. Superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said strict departmental action has been recommended against the employees. Municipal corporation commissioner Pardep Sabharwal also marked an inquiry to joint commissioner Ankur Mahindroo. He also asked residents to check the rates at the MC website and ask for receipts while making payment for getting connections regularised.591 illegal connections caught in two zonesWith the MC starting door-to-door surveys to check illegal water-sewer connections, 591 illegal connections were found in Zones A and D. The report of the other two zones is being compiled.The survey is being conducted in four blocks of the MC, including blocks 29, 31, 32 and 34, which comprise around 2-lakh properties.Around 1,100 properties were checked in areas falling under the Zone D and around 1,300 in Zone A, of which 281 and 310 properties were found to have illegal connections in either zones. With the OTS policy getting a lukewarm response, mayor Balkar Sandhu had on November 9 directed the MC to conduct a door-to-door survey in four major blocks of the city to catch defaulters and regularise their connections. Only around 4,000 defaulters have applied under the policy, while the MC suspects that there are over 1 lakh illegal connections in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/regularising-illegal-water-sewer-connections-3-ludhiana-mc-staffers-in-the-soup-for-fleecing-residents-101636749227433.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Stubble burning a way of registering protest by farmers: Former PAU V-C Dhillon||Former Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon on Friday said resorting to stubble burning by farmers was a way of registering their protest against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. Dhillon, who was conferred with Padma Shri for agricultural research in 2019 and had declined further extension in his tenure in June this year, said the number of farm fires needed to be interpreted carefully. “There is a growing sense of frustration among farmers who are sitting at the borders of Delhi. Weather also compounded the problem. Late rain narrowed the window between paddy harvesting and wheat sowing,” said Dhillon.The number of incidents this year and the last time should not be seen as parameters to assess the efficacy of the efforts being made by institutions and departments concerned, he said.“If we managed to achieve the target of utilising 54 percent of stubble since 2016, it is an indicator that we have both the expertise and intent to manage the crop residue,” said Dhillon.With the rise in diesel prices and other farm machinery, the in-situ and ex-situ management of paddy straw has become more expensive, he said.“Both the state government and opposition parties making noises about offering bonuses to farmers, but incentives are elusive,” said Dhillon.In January, Dhillon had said the 3 laws were formed in haste and that there should have been a broader consultation with farmers and other stakeholders before they were enacted. He has stated that agriculture is a state subject and there should be no roadblock to legalise the minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stubble-burning-a-way-of-registering-protest-by-farmers-former-pau-v-c-dhillon-101636749225803.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farm fire smog: Bathinda sees six days with half of normal bright sunshine hours in November||Punjab’s Bathinda district in November so far has witnessed six days with no more than half of normal bright sunshine hours amid a blanket of haze as the burning of paddy stubble continues unabated in the state. Moreover, the district saw zero bright sunshine hours on Thursday, according to the observatory of Punjab Agricultural University’s regional research centre. On Friday too, hazy conditions prevailed in the morning and there was no sunshine in the afternoon. The exact details of bright hours for the day will be released on Saturday.Senior agrometeorology scientist at PAU Raj Kumar said the drastically reduced sunshine time was due to heavy smog in air. “Weather conditions are dry for over two weeks and there should have been complete bright sunshine time for average 8-10 hours per day. But as the burning of crop residue in the fields is being reported across the state, bright sunshine hours are adversely impacted,” he said.On three days of November, bright sunshine was seen for six hours, and one day, full sunlight was recorded for seven hours. November 1 was the only day when the sunshine hour was recorded for full 8 hours.Paddy harvesting in southern Punjab gained momentum from November 1 and there has been a spike in the number of farm fires in the region since.Seven districts of the south Malwa belt have reported a daily average of 1,672 farm fire cases since November 1, adding up to the air pollution.Sunil Mittal, dean of school of environment and earth sciences at Bathinda-based Central University of Punjab, said reduced bright hours are also likely in the adjoining districts of Malwa as smog conditions are similar. A blanket of pollutant particulate matter created in the atmosphere has lowered the surface temperature by 3 degrees Celsius than the normal temperature.“Such conditions during the winter are conducive for various viral infections. Reduced sunshine hours are expected to stay for another 10 days and smog might cause serious discomfort to vulnerable sections,” said Mittal.On Friday, 3,403 farm fires were reported in Punjab and 1,421 incidents were recorded from seven districts of south Malwa.Maximum 619 fire incidents were reported from Sangrur. Moga, Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda and Barnala districts reported more than 200 fire cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-fire-smog-bathinda-sees-six-days-with-half-of-normal-bright-sunshine-hours-in-november-101636748865463.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu spreading panic among people of Punjab: BJP’s Tarun Chugh||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday cautioned Punjab PCC president Navjot Sidhu against spreading panic and fear among the people of Punjab by giving a statement on the possibility of civil war. In a press release, Chugh lambasted Sidhu for “ his completely irresponsible and reprehensible statements targeted at spreading fear among businessmen and traders in the state”. “Sidhu is using such language because he has been deprived of the post of chief minister. His desperation and frustration is reflected in his anti-national sentiments that he keeps expressing off and on,” he added. Chugh warned the state Congress chief against fomenting and instigating reprehensible ideas like civil war in the border state where Pakistan has been plotting subversive activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-spreading-panic-among-people-of-punjab-bjp-s-tarun-chugh-101636748685604.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege conspiracy hatched at sect’s Sirsa headquarters: SIT in status report to high court||The conspiracy of desecration of Sikh scriptures was hatched at the administrative block of Dera Sacha Sauda in Sirsa and that the followers never acted without the permission of sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases said in a status report filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday. The SIT led by inspector general of police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar submitted the 65-page status report by way of a nine-page affidavit of its member and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar. An interrogation report, including a copy of the questionnaire as well as replies, of Ram Rahim Singhwas filed along with the affidavit. On November 8, the SIT had asked 114 questions from the sect leader during his grilling for more than seven hours at the Sunaria jail in Rohtak. The probe team also told the bench of Justice Manoj Bajaj that the present petition may be dismissed as the custodial interrogation of the accused (Ram Rahim) was imperative to unravel the conspiracy behind the 2015 sacrilege incidents. The matter was adjourned for December 17. “Though Ram Rahim answered all the questions of the SIT members, his replies were evasive. He pretended to be ignorant of the occurrences around him, when the desecrations took place in Punjab,” the probe team report read. The dera’s national committee members Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kler directed the actual perpetrators to commit acts of sacrilege in a particular area of Punjab, it added. “It is clear that if the planning of the crime was done at the dera headquarters, Ram Rahim was bound to be involved in the whole episode. Keeping in mind his criminal bent of mind since he has already been convicted in three cases of murder and rape, it can be easily concluded that he is the main culprit in all the cases. Moreover, it is an open secret that the dera members did not do a single act without the permission of dera head and were willing to lay down their lives for him,” the SIT further said. The SIT also submitted the statements of witnesses Pardeep Kumar and Gopal Krishan, three dera followers Jatinder Veer Arora, Prithvi Singh and Mithus Singh Mann, accused in the 2015 Moga sacrilege case and confessional statement of the sect’s state committee member Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacrilege-conspiracy-hatched-at-sect-s-sirsa-headquarters-sit-in-status-report-to-high-court-101636748445764.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rocket shell defused near Ladhowal in Ludhiana||A day after a rocket shell was recovered from a park in Sarabha Nagar, the bomb squad defused the explosive in an isolated area in Ladhowal near the Sutlej River on Friday morning. That an explosive was found in a posh city area has cops puzzled. Such explosives have been detected earlier too, but from Focal Point or rural areas. Officials suspect that the rocket shell could have reached the park with scrap brought from the canal. “It is possible that an industrialist may have imported it and then disposed it of in the canal. Those scouting the river for coins after Chhath Puja may have found the shell and dumped it in the park,” he said. Joint commissioner of police (JCP) J Elanchezhian said, “The bomb squad of the Punjab Police is well-trained and equipped. The team defused the shell with the help of a controlled explosion.”“We are still investigating the matter to determine how the shell reached the residential area. We are also scanning CCTV footage,”said the JCP.With Ludhiana being the industrial hub of the state, chances of live ammunition entering the city mixed with scrap are very high. The city frequently imports scrap from Bay Countries - Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Thailand, Malaysia and Sumatra. In the past, live shells have been recovered from canals, sewerage and vacant plots. Besides, the city was the epicentre of terrorist activity during the militancy, which has also led to recovery of weapons years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rocket-shell-defused-near-ladhowal-in-ludhiana-101636748205561.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Alert liquor company driver foils ₹ 5-lakh robbery bid||An alert liquor company driver foiled a ₹5-lakh robbery bid by driving off with the money bag on Thursday. Around 10 people had surrounded the liquor company’s pick-up jeep, which was being used to collect earnings from the company’s vends near CMCH chowk. The four company employees in the jeep -- the complaint Jagjit Singh of Haibowal, Angrej Singh and Jagjit Singh of Badbar of Barnala and the driver Raj Kumar of Zira -- had alighted from the jeep when the accused accosted them and tried to steal the cash. When the staffers resisted, the accused started thrashing them with baseball bats and sticks and also damaged the vehicle.Before the robbers could make away with the money, the driver sped off. Foiled, the robbers thrashed the staffers left behind and dragged them on the road. One of the accused, Pali of CMCH Chowk, has been arrested and two of his accomplices Deepu and Kaka have been identified. Sub-inspector Rachhpal Kaur, who is investigating the case, said a case has been registered under Sections 379B (snatching using force), 511 (attempt to commit offences), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-alert-liquor-company-driver-foils-5-lakh-robbery-bid-101636747845488.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Parking pangs plague Ward No. 5||Ward number 5 is the second of the three wards into which Manimajra has been divided. It comprises Thakur Dwara and Old Manimajra (NAC) from the older ward number 25 and Pipliwala Town, Darshni Bagh, Subhash Nagar, Dhillon Complex and Motor Market, Manimajra, from the older ward number 26. The newer ward number 5 has emerged as the most commercially active of the three wards of Manimajra with market areas like Motor Market, NAC Market and Dhillon Complex, while also bringing the charm of Old Manimara into it. The ward has been reserved for women candidates only for the upcoming elections.Parking woes top the list of the problems being faced by the residents of the area. This is at its worst at the Motor Market here, with no space left for pedestrians as most of the times mechanics repair vehicles on the road.Rajinder Singh, who has been working here since the 80s, says, “The next councillor must drive through the area to get a first-hand experience of the parking issues plaguing the area. The traffic problem has become only worse as we can sometimes find JCBs parked on road for repairs. The next councillor needs to work in tandem with the traffic police and challan those who block roads.”Garbage raising a stinkHeaps of garbage can be seen all over the place in the Motor Market. In contrast, regular cleaning and hygiene are maintained at the NAC market. However, shopkeepers here have their own problems. President of the market association, NAC, Suresh Bansal, said, “Though we have paid parking, contractors don’t manage it at all. Recently, a lot of vendors have also started sitting outside shops, which are creating problems for shopkeepers. While the earlier councillors remained accessible to us, we hope that the next councillor will liaise better with the MC as we have to call them repeatedly to pick up waste from gardens here, which they are required to do.”In Old Manimajra, roads are narrow and spats over parking is a regular affair. However, hygiene is an even bigger problem here. Fateh Singh, 65, a resident of NAC, Manimajra, said, “The cleanliness situation has gone from bad to worse. Due to meat markets here, vehicles carrying chicken are parked close to our houses leading to a foul smell here. The next councillor must take measures to ensure cleanliness in the area. Also, all colleges are too far from Manimajra. We hope the councillor can initiate the process to open a college here.”Present councillor Jagtar Singh Jagga said, “The water supply here was a big problem and at one point, sewage was getting mixed into the water supply. We got the water supply revamped with sewerage lines getting placed away from freshwater lines. Manimajra will also be the first in the city to receive 24/7 water supply. I have got all streetlights fixed here and replaced them with LED lights.”Local Congress office holder Rameshwar Giri, however, said, “The situation has become worse. The law and order situation has deteriorated and drugs are being openly sold in Old Manimajra. The maintenance of parks is abysmal. Sewage water still gets mixed with supply water which is why so many people here are falling sick.”Old Manimajra resident Mohammad Imran also said contaminated water had remained an ongoing problem in the ward which hasn’t been resolved.Know your wardLocalities: Old Manimajra (NAC), Pipliwala Town, Thakur Dwara, Darshni Bagh, Subhash Nagar, Dhillon Complex and Motor Market ManimajraReserved for women (general)Voters: 20,000Key issuesShortage of parking and narrow roads in Old ManimajraDumping of garbage near residential areas, especially around the Motor Market, and hygiene issuesContaminated and irregular water supplyLocal voicesThe place needs better road connectivity and cleanliness must improve. There is a big network issue in Manimajra and with the push towards online classes and work from home, many residents here are experiencing a lot of inconveniences. We need a more proactive councillor. -- Rahul Simhar, 42, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, Old Manimajra, who works at a coaching institute in ChandigarhThere are electric wires hanging all over the area, yet nobody fixes them. For any problem, MC officials blame the administration and vice versa. We want a councillor who solves our issues rather than blaming others. The cleanliness of the area needs to be checked, especially in the present times with a high number of dengue cases here. -- Jaswinder Singh, 50, a resident of Manimajra NAC, who owns a grocery shop The motor market needs to be managed better. Roads should be kept clear and the area must be cleaned regularly. Garbage should not be thrown in the open. It should be picked up regularly and taken to the dumping ground. Those repairing cars on main roads should be punished. -- Rajinder Singh, 54, who runs a workshop in the Manimajra Motor MarketPaid parkings here are not run properly. The encroachment by vendors in markets has risen. The new councillor needs to fix this. While the older councillors were accessible on phone, we expect the new councillor to also take our calls. -- Suresh Bansal, 49, NAC Market Association president||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-parking-pangs-plague-ward-no-5-101636746890156.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Four convicted of hacking man to death in Sector 40||Two years after a 27-year-old man was hacked to death in broad daylight in Sector 40, Chandigarh, a local court on Friday held four men guilty while acquitting one.June 2019 in full public view, the court of additional district and session judge, Rajnish, held four persons guilty on Friday. The convicts have been identified as Rajat Tiwari (23) of Kharar, Tilak (23) of Burail, Ritwik Bhardwaj, alias Billa (21), of Sector 55, and Harpreet Singh, alias Laddi (21), of Sector 43. The quantum of sentence will be pronounced on November 15. Meanwhile, Chetan Singh (20) of Sector 34 was acquitted for lack of evidence. Police had registered a case of murder on June 28, 2019, after Amit Katoch (27), a resident of Sunny Enclave, was hacked to death after being chased in full public view at the busy market in Sector 40. Amit was into sale and purchase of cars while his father operated an ayurvedic clinic in Badheri. The family before shifting to Sunny Enclave in 2012 was staying in Sector 40. Amit was visiting a sweets shop just before noon when he as attacked with sharp-edged weapons and glass bottles. Desperate to save himself, the victim had even tried to hide in a shop, but all in vain. He was rushed to the PGIMER, where he succumbed to his injuries. Police later arrested five men for the crime. Police had said that accused Rajat was nursing a grudge against Amit since 2018 after they had an argument. The entire murder was captured in CCTV cameras, which helped nail the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhfour-convicted-of-hacking-man-to-death-in-sector-40-101636746888690.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC allows traders to run parking lots in internal markets||The General House of the Chandigarh municipal corporation on Friday gave the green signal for allowing market associations to manage parking lots in the city’s internal markets.There will be no parking fee as the House decided that the associations will have to run these parking lots for free.All markets located along the V4 roads (which bisect the sectors) are to be transferred to the associations. The next step will be the signing of memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the associations and the MC.The MC aims to improve parking management in internal markets, while at the same time offering it for free to the public.After the civic body’s earlier attempts to bring these parking lots under the purview of private parking contractors faced stiff opposition from market associations, the MC House in February 2019 had directed the officials to prepare a draft MoU for operation and management of parking lots in internal markets by market associations.The associations had contended that handing over parking lots to contractors will increase parking rates, making the markets unattractive for shoppers.Thereafter, an MC committee was constituted to prepare the draft MoU. The market associations in its meetings with the committee requested it to formulate two draft MoUs, one for operating the parking lots for free and another on “no profit no loss” basis.“Under the no profit no loss basis, markets were to charge the users to cover their parking management expenses, which had come to around ₹5 for car parking and ₹2 for scooter parking,” said Charanjiv Singh, a nominated councillor and Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) president. The CBM is an umbrella organisation of 80 market associations, which was holding talks with the MC committee on the issue. Among these 80 markets, 60 are located on V4 roads. The CBM assured the MC committee that it would persuade all associations to take up these parking lots for public convenience.After two draft MoUs were finalised by the committee, these were submitted to the MC commissioner, who directed that only the one for free parking should be prepared and tabled before the House for approval. The House in its meeting concurred with the commissioner’s observation and decided that market associations willing to take over parking lots must not charge any parking fee from the users.No licence fee exemption to parking contractorsPrivate firms engaged to manage parking lots in Chandigarh could face cancellation of their contract after the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s General House on Friday rejected their demand for licence fee exemptions worth around ₹2 crore.Already served recovery notice for outstanding dues by the MC, the contractors will now be served revised notices amounting to around ₹3.6 crore.If dues are not paid within the stipulated period, the civic body will initiate cancellation proceedings and take over 89 parking lots allotted to them, said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra during the General House meeting on Friday.Divided into two zones, the parking lots are being run by two parking contractors. On account of the Covid-19 pandemic and free parking extended to all MC employees, the contractors had sought licence fee exemption. For Zone 1, the exemption sought was ₹1.02 crore, and for Zone 2, it was ₹98.64 lakh.Till October 31, Zone 1 owes around ₹1.2 crore and Zone 2 around ₹2.4 crore, for which recovery notices will be issued, said SK Jain, MC additional commissioner.Immediately after the agenda for the remission of the licence fee came up for discussion before the MC House on Friday, both Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress councilors opposed the move.Leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla said: “The companies cannot threat us in the form of surrendering the parking lot or going to court. They don’t deserve these exemptions at all.”Showing a picture of misuse of a “handicap parking” by a contractor, BJP councillor and former mayor Davesh Moudgil said: “Even after many directions, the contractors continue to mismanage the parking lots. The violations are galore and we cannot allow public money to go waste on their undeserved exemptions.”Reacting to the MC House resolution, Vikas Pandey, manager of the firm operating parking lots in Zone 2, said: “We will again request the MC to reconsider its decision. We are only seeking what is genuine. During the pandemic lockdown, the parking lots were closed. We are also providing free parking to MC employees. Moving court will be our last resort to seek justice.”A month’s vending fee waived in view of pandemicTaking into account the adverse affects of the coronavirus pandemic on the livelihoods of street vendors, the Chandigarh municipal corporation waived off their vending fee for May 2021 on Friday.Those who have been defaulting on their vending fee prior to January 1, 2020 or have had their certificates suspended or cancelled at any stage will not be eligible for the exemption. As many as 7,240 street vendors are eligible for the fee waive-off, while 3,677 others are not. The decision was taken at the MC general house meeting.The MC house also decided to waive off the licence fee of firms managing unipoles for 90 days and for those managing advertisements at 55 public toilets for 45 days. Fee amounting to ₹77.81 lakh will be waived off. The firms had sought exemption on account of the pandemic. In another decision, it was decided that Group D employees of the municipal corporation will be insured under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana at an annual cost of ₹87,192.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-allows-traders-to-run-parking-lots-in-internal-markets-101636746830564.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali cop in dock after he turns hostile in drugs case||A Mohali court has ordered legal action against Phase-1 station house officer (SHO) inspector Shiv Deep Singh for allegedly giving false evidence and turning hostile in a drug seizure case that led to the suspect’s acquittal. Additional and district sessions judge Parminder Singh Grewal has fixed the next date of hearing on November 18 to initiate legal proceedings against the cop under relevant sections of the Criminal Procedure Code. The case dates back to November 2019, when one Mukesh Kumar, alias Kaka, was arrested from near the old bus stand in Phase 9 for carrying restricted drugs (1,080 tablets of lomotil and 300 tablets of alpranof). A case was registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act at the Phase 8 police station, where Shiv Deep Singh was stationed as the SHO at the time.The SHO was a prosecution witness when the case went to trial. The judge said that the court is of considered view that inspector Shiv Deep Singh did not support the prosecution case, and on the request of the additional public prosecutor, the court declared him hostile on the ground that “he was suppressing the truth with regard to facts deposed by him before the police in the shape of his statement recorded during the course of the investigation”. “Inspector Shiv Deep Singh has stated incorrect and untrue facts in his examination in chief with respect to the role played by him during the course of the investigation, which prima facie amounts to the offence made punishable for giving of false evidence,” the court observed. The court said that if the additional public prosecutor for the state had not taken due care and caution at the time of recording the testimony of the cop during the trial, then the latter might have demolished the entire case of the prosecution regarding the recoveries made from the suspect. The judge has issued a show-cause notice to the inspector as well as the court ahlmad to separate the papers, including the copy of the challan, the copy of the aforesaid statement of the inspector recorded during trial and the copy of the judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-cop-in-dock-after-he-turns-hostile-in-drugs-case-101636746828408.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue death toll climbs to 37 in Mohali||A 40-year-old man from Kansal succumbed to dengue at a private hospital on Friday, taking Mohali district’s death toll to 37 this year. While two people had died in September, 29 succumbed to the virus in October and six have died in November. This is the deadliest outbreak in years. The previous two years had recorded just one death each. Meanwhile, no fatality was reported from Chandigarh and Panchkula on Friday. The health authorities also confirmed 98 fresh cases in the tricity, with Mohali reporting 57, followed by 25 in Chandigarh and 16 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far recorded 1,182 dengue cases, of which 293 surfaced in November. It has recorded just three deaths this year. Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,558 while Panchkula’s case tally stands at 784 with one death this year.Health dept issues advisory for Zika virus diseaseThe Chandigarh health department on Friday issued an advisory on Zika virus, after cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh.The virus is primarily transmitted through the bite of an infected species of aedes mosquito, the same mosquito that is responsible for causing dengue and chikungunya. Other routes for transmission are maternal-foetal, sexual transmission from an infected person to his or her partners and blood transfusion.Doctors requested people to cover all water tanks and containers with tight lids, to dispose of and destroy all unused containers, junk material and tyres, and to empty, scrub and dry desert coolers. The doctors also advised people to use bed nets at home and hospitals during dengue/zika virus fever to prevent mosquito bite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-death-toll-climbs-to-37-in-mohali-101636746827025.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh fully vaccinates 67% target population||The Union government has placed Chandigarh at the seventh position among all States and UTs when it comes to the second-dose coverage of the Covid-19 vaccine.“At 67%, Chandigarh’s second-dose coverage is seventh highest in the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has stated during the national immunisation day conference on Thursday,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.Around 8.4 lakh people are to be immunised in Chandigarh. As on Friday, 9,30,465 (110%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot while 5,75,017 (68%) are fully vaccinated.The UT is performing much better than most states as the Centre had recently stated that only 38% of the country’s eligible beneficiaries had received both vaccine doses, while close to 79% have received at least one dose. With 100% coverage, Lakshadweep has topped the second-dose ranking. Lakshadweep was also the first among all States and UTs to achieve 100% first-dose coverage. Chandigarh was second. Other than these two, six States and UTs have already jabbed the eligible population with the first dose. 63K people skip 2nd jabAround 63,000 people, who have taken their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine from healthcare facilities in Chandigarh, have not turned up to take their second jab even after the completion of the recommended time gap. However, the number has come down from 75,526, as on October 28.“The health department has already started the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaign and we are motivating people to end the hesitancy and take the second dose. As per the central government’s CoWIN app, these people have missed their second dose despite a reminder message, which is automatically sent to the beneficiary once they are eligible for the second dose. The UT health department is now telephonically contacting these people and is conducting a special drive to vaccinate them at the earliest,” said Dr Suman Singh.Dr Singh said that when the teams were contacting these people, many were untraceable through phone calls. Many mobile numbers were changed while many people ignored the calls, she said, adding that the department is now tracing the addresses of those people through their Aadhaar numbers.According to medical experts, the first dose of vaccine helps in building antibodies, but without a booster dose, the antibodies are insufficient to fight the virus, especially with more deadly variants spreading fast. Even in the second wave of the pandemic, people who had just got their first dose were getting infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-fully-vaccinates-67-target-population-101636746825508.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man arrested over car’s tinted windows||A man was arrested for using tinted glass in his car on Thursday. As per orders issued by joint commissioner of police (JCP) J Elanchezhian using tinted glass in cars has been banned in the city. Earlier, violators were challaned or fined. However, the accused, Shalok Mittal of Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, was arrested for the violation near Phullanwal Chowk. A case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-arrested-over-car-s-tinted-windows-101636746527377.html
13-11-2021||Other||Allahabad CJM allows CBI to take voice sample of Anand Giri||The chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Allahabad, allowed the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) application to take a voice sample of Anand Giri, one of the accused in the mysterious death of Narendra Giri, the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, on Friday.However, the CJM directed the CBI, which is investigating this case, to take the voice sample according to the jail manual, as Anand Giri is in judicial custody and lodged in Naini Central Jail, Prayagraj.Earlier, the CBI had moved an application before the CJM’s court requesting the court to permit the investigative agency to take a voice sample of Anand Giri.During court proceedings, the counsel appearing on behalf of Anand Giri opposed the application on the ground that Anand Giri was in custody of the CBI for seven days but the investigative agency did not take his voice sample. “Now, no clear reason has been disclosed for taking the voice sample. Hence, moving an application for the same is nothing but a move to linger the investigation of the case,” they said.However, Anand Giri, who appeared before the court during the court proceedings through video conferencing, stated that he had no objection in giving his voice sample.After hearing both sides, CJM Harendra Nath said that the apex court in the case of Ritesh Sinha vs State of UP had held that if a request for voice sample is made during the investigation, the courts should accept it. Further, the accused has no objection in giving his voice sample. Besides, the investigating officer has stated that a voice sample would enhance the quality of the result of the investigation. “Hence, keeping in view the law laid down by the apex court and also the seriousness of the case, the CBI is permitted to take the voice sample of the accused, who is in judicial custody, as per the jail manual,” the order read while further extending the judicial remand of Anand Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-cjm-allows-cbi-to-take-voice-sample-of-anand-giri-101636746526035.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Union minister Rai reviews progress of projects in city||Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai on Fruday reviewed the progress made under various centrally sponsored schemes and other flagship programmes that are being implemented in Chandigarh.In a meeting with senior officials, including Chandigarh adviser Dharam Pal, the minister sought details about the projects such as Air Force Heritage Centre, Heritage Conservation, Green City, Clean City, and Smart City. The administration also shared the progress report of the flagship schemes implemented in Chandigarh.The Chandigarh administration said the work on Air Force Heritage Centre, which will house aircraft, simulator, aero engines and other IAF artefacts, will be completed by February 2022. The administration has set a target of December 2023 to conserve all major sites in Chandigarh.The officials also briefed the minister on the progress in issues such as lal dora extension and expansion of sites for the street vendors. Chandigarh officials also took up the pending issues with the minister and sought speedy decisions.Other engagementsRai addressed a public meeting organised by the Purvanchal Cell of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran.Rai thanked the people of Purvanchal for their contribution in the development of the city, and assured them that all their issues will be resolved.The minister also met a delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal. The traders urged him to bring out a scheme to clear all pending assessment cases of VAT with penalties and interest prior to 2016-2017 on the pattern of Punjab and other nearby states. Chandigarh BJP chief Arun Sood also accompanied the traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-union-minister-rai-reviews-progress-of-projects-in-city-101636746405626.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Duping case: Chaudhary amassed properties over ₹100 crore, Chandigarh police to write to ED||Property dealer-cum-financier, Ram Lal Chaudhary, who was arrested for cheating, has amassed properties worth ₹100 crore, as per the Chandigarh police, which is in the process of writing to the enforcement directorate (ED). Chaudhary, who was arrested for duping Atulya Sharma, a Gurugram resident of ₹5 crore in name of investment in real-estate during the year 2015-2016, was on Friday sent to seven-day police custody by a local court in Chandigarh. “We have found documents relating to properties worth more than ₹100 crore, so we will be writing to the ED to take over the case and provide all necessary assistance,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. Police are probing where the money invested by Sharma, has been used by the accused. During searches, Chandigarh police had found about 520 blank cheques and 115 affidavits signed by different people. Ram Lal Chaudhary had allegedly taken money from several persons on the pretext of getting judicial relief for them.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector-34 police station in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/duping-case-chaudhary-amassed-properties-over-rs-100-crore-chandigarh-police-to-write-to-ed-101636746105617.html
13-11-2021||Other||‘Palaayan’, sports won’t help BJP in West UP: Observers||Will issues of ‘Palaayan’ (escaping to save life) and pleasing youngsters by promoting an atmosphere of sports help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) counter the farmers’ movement in western UP during the forthcoming Assembly election in the state?That’s the speculation doing rounds in the political corridors of western UP, where farmers are protesting against the three contentious farm bills for the past 11 months, under the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU).During his visit to Kairana of Shamli district on November 8, chief minister Yogi Adityanath made an attempt to revive the issue of ‘Palaayan’ by meeting family members of those traders who had left the town and later returned. He also met family members of three traders who were killed in broad daylight by henchmen of Furqan and Mukeem Kala, in August 2014.Moving a step further, the CM announced financial assistance to the families of victims and assured them full support of the state government in providing security. “It was a matter of our pride and dignity”, he said while referring to the issue of ‘Palaayan’ and claimed that the situation turned during BJP’s rule and people returned to their home after criminals were dealt with.Home minister Amit Shah had also mentioned the issue of ‘Palaayan’ during his recent visit to Lucknow.BJP leader and the then MP from Kairana, Hukum Singh, had raised the issue of ‘Palaayan’ in 2016 and released a list of 340 families that had allegedly left Kairana town. The issue, however, became debatable when many families mentioned in the list denied leaving the town to an investigation team constituted by the then SP government and local administration.Political analyst Jamshed Zaidi explains that a few families left Kairana because of fear of criminal gangs and later Hukum Singh too realised it. “It was wrongly hyped as an ‘exodus’ which people themselves quelled by ensuring the defeat of Mriganka Singh in the 2017 Assembly election”, said Zaidi. Mriganka Singh is the daughter of Hukum Singh, who contested the Assembly election from Kairana in 2017 but lost to her rival SP candidate, Nahid Hasan.Later, in the 2018 Lok Sabha election, BJP fielded Pradeep Choudhary in Kairana constituency in place of Mriganka Singh, who wanted to contest on her father’s seat after his demise.Zaidi claims that under such circumstances ‘Palaayan’ won’t be a substantial issue for BJP to win elections but the party still wanted to try this earlier trusted issue for polarisation of votes. He believes that the farmers’ movement is now too deep-rooted and issues like ‘Palaayan’ won’t be able to either dilute or counter it in western UP. “Farmers are facing multiple issues of pending payment of sugarcane, demand to legalise MSP, withdrawal of three farm bills, high tariff of electricity, spiralling price of diesel, pesticides, fertilisers etc. Therefore issues like ‘Palaayan’ won’t be able to distract them,” Zaidi said.BJP’s Vyapaar Prakosth state convenor Vineet Sharda has different views on the issues. He said that why “should we think of countering the farmers’ movement. Farmers are our soul and the BJP government has done everything possible for their welfare.” He claimed that the BJP will form the government in the state with a thumping victory in the forthcoming elections.Samajwadi Party’s district president in Meerut, Rajpal Singh, however, said that they (BJP) has picked up the issue of ‘Palaayan’ again to divide people on the lines of religion ahead of the election with a motive to counter the effect of farmers’ movement in western UP. “They will not succeed in their wicked move to divide people,” Singh said.Western UP is also known for its affection for sports and it has produced many players of national and international repute. CM Yogi Adityanath felicitated medal winners of the Tokyo Paralympics in a grand function in Meerut on Thursday and distributed cash prizes to the tune of ₹32.50 crore to different medallists and those who represented the country in the Paralympics.During his address, Yogi shared the state’s new sports policy and how infrastructure is being developed to promote sports in the state.Leaders of rival parties opined that BJP’s declining popularity among youngsters in western UP might be behind the idea of projecting the party’s sports-friendly image by organising such a grand felicitation function to reach out sport-loving youngsters of the region.Rajpal Singh questioned inviting players of other states and giving them huge cash prizes from people’s tax money. “Their states should give them cash prizes and here they could be felicitated,” said Singh and described it a move of BJP to please youngsters. “But they might have forgotten that these youngsters are also sons and daughters of farmers whom the BJP has insulted and compelled to sit on the roads for over 11 months,” he said.BJP leader Vineet Sharda, however, said that sports has never been a political issue for BJP as it always believed in nurturing talent in sports and many sports schemes have been started to support and nurture sports in the country. “India bagged record medals at the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics because the BJP governments support sports,” Singh claimed.Political analyst Zaidi, however, believes that people are facing multiple problems due to inflation and other issues and glorifying sports through a much hyped event won’t do much for BJP, which wants to lure youngsters by projecting its sport-loving image in a region where youngsters have great affection for sports.He explained that sports is a major medium of getting jobs in the region and a majority of youngsters believe that the ruling government has failed to fulfil its promise of providing jobs.The BJP had a spectacular victory in 2014 Lok Sabha elections in the region. Party candidates won all 14 Lok Sabha seats in 14 districts of Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions after fierce riots in Muzaffarnagar in 2013. The party contested Assembly elections in 2017 under similar situations but it could manage victory of its candidates in 51 out of 71 constituencies of Meerut, Moradabad and Saharanpur divisions. RLD failed to woo voters on its home turf and managed to win only Chaprauli seat and the Congress won two seats in Saharanpur district.Under the changed circumstances, because of ongoing farmers’ movement it’s a tough challenge for BJP to retain its seats in western UP. Therefore, party leaders are looking for issues which could appeal to voters and help the party show its strength in western UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palaayan-sports-won-t-help-bjp-in-west-up-observers-101636746047632.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialists’ protest against inflation goes green||City industrialists’ ongoing agitation against inflation took a green turn on Friday as they distributed table-top plants to commuters outside the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association’s (UCPMA) office on Gill Road with an inscription demanding the formation of a regulatory commission to check the soaring prices of raw material. Representatives of different industrial sectors, who hit the streets for the eleventh day, said they will form a human chain on Saturday to draw the Union governments’ attention to their plight. UCPMA vice-president Gurcharan Singh Gemco and industrialist Avtar Bhogal said the price of steel had doubled over the last two years, and the price of rubber and nickel had also skyrocketedThe industrialists have been holding a series of symbolic protests to ensure their voice is heard by the powers that be. Asserting that the industries were on the verge of closure, they forewarned that large scale unemployment will ensue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-protest-against-inflation-goes-green-101636746045485.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Two-day special assembly session a failure, says AAP||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday termed the two-day special session of the Punjab vidhan sabha convened by the Congress government a “failure”, asking chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi what special was done for the benefit of the state. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the Channi government had only staged a drama in the name of a special session and wasted crores of rupees of the state. “The Congress government has certainly held its last assembly session, but the decisions and problems that have ruined Punjab are still there,” he said at a press conference. Cheema accused the Congress of politicising issues of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib, power purchase agreements and unemployment along with drug, cable, sand and transport mafias. “From former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and current chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other leaders were talking about cancellation of power deals, but the present government and the Congress are now talking of revising power tariffs and not cancelling power deals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/twoday-special-assembly-session-a-failure-says-aap-101636745986200.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Five more test positive for Covid in Chandigarh tricity area||Five more people tested positive for Covid in the tricity on Friday, a dip from 13 cases on Thursday. Of the total, Mohali reported three fresh infections while two Covid cases surfaced in Chandigarh. Panchkula, however, didn’t report any fresh Covid infection on the day.After a steady decline of cases last month, Mohali is witnessing an uptick in the cases since November 1. However, no Covid fatality was recorded in the tricity on the day.In Mohali, all the three cases surfaced from Kharar. In Chandigarh, one Covid case each was reported from Sector 10 and Dhanas. Tricity’s active Covid cases tally stands at 81 with 49 patients still being infected in Mohali, followed by 23 in Chandigarh and only nine in Panchkula. Chandigarh has so far reported 65,378 positive Covid cases, of which 64,535 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total Covid cases recorded till date are 68,874. Among these, 67,755 patients have recovered and 1,070 have died. Panchkula’s Covid caseload of 30,783, includes 30, 395 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-covid-update-five-more-test-positive-101636745805731.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Criminal cases against MPs/MLAs: HC seeks fresh status reports on investigation by January 10||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought fresh status reports on probes in criminal cases against MPs and MLAs from Punjab and Haryana by January 10.In the detailed order released on Friday, the high court bench of justice AG Masih and justice Sandeep Moudgil expressed satisfaction over the progress made by police following-up the criminal cases. The hearing took place on Thursday. The HC is monitoring probe in criminal cases against lawmakers following orders of the Supreme Court since February 2021.The high court directed the inspector general of police (Crime), Punjab, to personally look into the probe reports and if satisfied, proceed to submit the same in trial courts. A compliance report on the same has been submitted prior to the January 10 hearing. Earlier, Punjab’s affidavit stated a total 53 cases are pending at various stages before the trial courts. Of these, cancellation/untraced reports have been submitted in 14 cases. It had further stated that there are 29 cases under investigation, but as of now only 19 are pending investigation. Punjab had sought six weeks time to conclude the investigations and submit a specific report indicating the progress in the probe. As of Haryana, it had said that after May 2021, final reports have been submitted in 30 of the 44 cases under investigation after completion of the same. Challans have been filed in seven cases. There are 17 more cases in which investigation is still in progress, the government said. The court observed that the speed at which the progress of investigation is going on, is not satisfactory. Without further delving into the details, the court gave six weeks time to police after the government counsel had assured that the inspector general of police is personally monitoring these investigations and efforts would be made to conclude the same at the earliest. As of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED), the agencies told court that in some of the matters, stay has been granted by the courts, wherein appropriate applications have been moved for vacation of the same. Efforts are being made to expedite the trial. No fresh report is required to be submitted by the income tax department and the enforcement directorate as the matters are pending before high court and the apex court, where the matter is being pursued by the authorities, Satya Pal Jain, additional solicitor general had told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/criminal-cases-against-mps-mlas-hc-seeks-fresh-status-reports-on-investigation-by-january-10-101636745565327.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021: Shiv, Rashid tied at top on Day 2 of golf tourney||Shiv Kapur and Rashid Khan were tied at the top at the halfway stage of the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021 at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Friday.While Dubai-based Shiv (64-68) went bogey-free for the second day in succession with a four-under 68, Delhi-based Rashid (65-67) brought in a card of five-under 67 featuring seven birdies and two bogeys as both players enjoyed the joint second round lead at 12-under 132.Chandigarh’s Aadil Bedi (68-65) shot the day’s best score of seven-under 65 to move up five spots to third place at 11-under 133.The cut came down at even-par 144. Sixty professionals and two amateurs made the cut.Tournament host Jeev Milkha Singh (75-72) missed the cut despite a steady even-par 72 in round two. He totaled three-over 147 for the week.Shiv, who admitted to being rusty at the start of the week having not played a tournament for about a month, seemed to have shaken off the rust as he maintained his position as the joint leader for the second straight day.The six-time international winner Kapur, who began his round from the 10th, had a scrappy start as he made pars on the first six holes. Shiv then found the hole from a range of seven to eight feet for his three consecutive birdies from the 16th through the 18th.On the front-nine, Kapur was steady with eight pars and a lone birdie on the sixth where he sank his longest putt of the day, a 15-footer.Two-time Asian Tour winner Rashid Khan jumped from overnight third to tied first. Rashid was one-under through the front-nine and then pushed ahead with a four-under on the back-nine. Rashid attributed his low score to his good course management. Aadil’s 65 brought him into contention. Aadil, who has just recovered from a wrist injury which kept him out of action from three PGTI events in September, sank a 40-footer for birdie on the 15th and converted four more birdies from a range of 10 to 15 feet.Delhi’s Kshitij Naveed Kaul produced a second consecutive 67 to occupy fourth place at 10-under 134. Chandigarh’s Abhijit Singh Chadha slipped from the overnight joint lead to tied fifth at nine-under 135 following his second round of 71.Three-time Asian Tour winner Gaurav Ghei of Delhi was also tied for fifth as a result of his 68 on Friday. Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (69) was the third Chandigarh player in the top-10. He was tied seventh at eight-under 136. Olympian Udayan Mane (68) is tied ninth at seven-under 137.Among the other marquee names in the field, former champion Ajeetesh Sandhu of Chandigarh was tied 11th at five-under 139 while another former champion Chikkarangappa of Bengaluru was a further shot back in tied 15th. SSP Chawrasia lies tied 18th at three-under 141.Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar (70), the defending champion and PGTI Order of Merit leader, is placed tied 21st at two-under 142 along with Jyoti Randhawa.Gaganjeet Bhullar was in tied 34th place at one-under 143.The two amateurs to make the cut are Aryan Roopa Anand of Bengaluru who is tied 34th at one-under 143 and US-based Varun Chopra who is tied 51st at even-par 144.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-2021-shiv-rashid-tied-at-top-on-day-2-of-golf-tourney-101636745505480.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege case: Dera chief not cooperating, want to question him again, say police||Punjab Police on Friday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it wanted to grill Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim again in a 2015 sacrilege case.Punjab’s senior deputy advocate general Gaurav Garg Dhuriwala submitted that Ram Rahim was not cooperating and he needed to be grilled again. So, the state police be given permission for the same.Hearing a bail plea of Ram Rahim, the high court bench of justice Manoj Bajaj deferred the hearing for December 17 and orally observed that police do not need court’s permission for questioning. Punjab Police are yet to file a formal response to Ram Rahim’s bail plea. The court was hearing an anticipatory bail plea from Ram Rahim moved last month. On October 28, the high court had stayed production warrants issued against the dera chief by a Fairdkot court and had asked police to quiz him in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail, if so desired. Subsequently, a special team of Punjab Police had gone to Rohtak on November 8 for questioning the dera head.Ram Rahim’s role is being probed in a sacrilege case registered on June 2, 2015, at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot. According to the Punjab Police, the dera head has emerged as a main conspirator. The three incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, holiest scripture of Sikhs, were reported in 2015. After the sacrilege incidents, the protests started at two places in Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan. On October 14, 2015, two protesters were killed in Behbal Kalan in alleged police firing. As of dera head, he is lodged in Sunaria jail of Rohtak since August 25, 2017. In 2017, he was awarded 20-year jail term for the rape of two disciples. Subsequently, he has been convicted in murder cases of a journalist, Ram Chander Chhatrapati, and Ranjit Singh, a former dera manager, in which life sentence has been awarded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-case-dera-chief-not-cooperating-want-to-question-him-again-say-police-101636745385529.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Nurses withdraw strike||The Punjab State Nurses Association withdrew their strike following the assurance from the government that all their demands will be met. The health services were paralysed in all government hospitals of the state as association members were staging a protest outside civil hospitals since November 9. In Ludhiana, besides the labour ward, dialysis unit, caesarean section deliveries and emergency services remained suspended as the staff nurses were staging protests against the recommendations of the 6th pay scale and non-fulfilment of their long-pending demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nurses-withdraw-strike-101636745274094.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandumajra is SAD candidate from Ghanour, Dilraj from Sardulgarh||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday announced names of two more candidates for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls. While former member of Parliament and senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra will contest from Patiala’s Ghanaur, sitting MLA Dilraj Singh Bhundar will seek re-election from Sardulgarh assembly constituency in Mansa district.With this, the party has so far named 81 candidates for the upcoming state polls. Chandumajra unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from the Anandpur Sahib constituency. His son Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra is sitting MLA from Sanour and his candidature from the same segment has already been announced for the 2022 polls. Dilraj is son of party’s secretary general Balwinder Singh Bhundar. The SAD is contesting polls in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj party (BSP), giving it 20 seats out of 117 in the state assembly. The BSP, according to its state president Jasvir Singh Garhi, had so far announced candidates on 15 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandumajra-is-sad-candidate-from-ghanour-dilraj-from-sardulgarh-101636745270797.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC employees protest, seek regular jobs||Accusing the state government of discriminating with municipal corporation’s (MC) contractual staff by not including them in the list of 36,000 employees to be regularised in the state ahead of the assembly elections, MC sanitation employees staged a protest for the second consecutive day outside the MC Zone A office on Friday. The protest was staged under the banner of the Municipal Karamchari Dal. During the protest, union leaders slammed the Congress government and accused them of befooling the SC community by allegedly making false claims. They said around 3,000 contractual sanitary staff, including sewermen, sweepers, were working in the MC.Chairman of the union and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Vijay Danav claimed that the Congress was trying to woo the SC community by appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister, but this move to discriminate with the MC employees had revealed the true face of the government. Danav threatened to intensify the stir if their demands were not fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-employees-protest-seek-regular-jobs-101636745269415.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Road repair: RTI activist protests failure of Ludhiana MC to submit report to vigilance department||With the municipal corporation (MC) failing to submit a report with the vigilance department regarding the alleged multi-crore scam where ₹212 crore is said to have been spent on the maintenance of roads from 2015 to 2020, RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal staged a peaceful protest outside the MC Zone D office on Friday.Sabharwal said the vigilance department had sought the report from the MC in February, but the report had still not been submitted by the MC despite repeated reminders by the vigilance department.Sabharwal alleged that it was a scam through which crores of rupees were drained out of the state exchequer by MC officials through corrupt practices. Citing the information collected through RTI, Sabharwal said in the reply to an RTI application, the MC officials stated that ₹212 crore had been spent only on maintenance/repairs of the roads, which was surprising as the roads had been in a bad shape for the last few years.He had filed a complaint with the local bodies department and the vigilance department in February following which a vigilance inquiry was marked. The vigilance department has been demanding a report from the MC, but the officials have failed to submit the same, which points towards anomalies.“Now that I have filed a complaint and inquiry has been marked, the department is also not sharing the details regarding the amount spent on the maintenance of roads after 2020. It is a scam and the MC should submit the reports regarding the same. I have also written regarding the delay being made by the MC to senior officials of the local bodies department,” said Sabharwal.Meanwhile, MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal said the entire amount had not been spent on repairs, but it also included the amount of road reconstruction works and other maintenance works. A report regarding the same is being prepared and it will soon be submitted to the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-repair-rti-activist-protests-failure-of-ludhiana-mc-to-submit-report-to-vigilance-department-101636745208144.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: On Day 4 of Punjab basketball championship, 100 matches played||A total of 100 qualifying matches were played in the senior group category on the fourth day of the Punjab Open 3x3 Basketball Championship for men and women at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Friday.The tournament will conclude on November 14 and the winners will get a cash prize of ₹1 lakh, besides getting a chance to get selected in the state team.The men teams played 70 matches and the women played 30 qualifying matches on Day 4 of the tournament.As many as 220 players in the senior category participated from across the state.Gurpreet Kaur Purewal, SSP Vigilance, Ludhiana, who herself is an international player and a former captain of the Indian handball team, was the chief guest on the occasion.She expressed pleasure in watching the girls being supported by their parents to play basketball.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, PBA, said Purewal was an inspiration for the young generation.Paramveer Bhogal, executive, District Basketball Association, praised basketball coaches Davinder Dhindsa, Rajinder Singh, Saloni, Narinder Kumar and others for grooming players in the state following which they could play national and international level.JP Singh, president DBA, Vijay Chopra, VP-PBA, and Avinish Aggarwal from the DBA were also present on the occasion.As many as 21 men teams and 12 women teams will compete in the qualifying matches on Saturday. The knockouts, including the semifinals and the finals, will be played on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-on-day-4-of-punjab-basketball-championship-100-matches-played-101636745206986.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman fraudster who claimed links with governor booked again||Police have registered another case against Manjit Kaur of Sector 51, Chandigarh, who is accused of duping multiple people by promising them allotment of Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) flats using her alleged connections with the Punjab governor and UT administrator. In the present case, a case has been registered against Manjit Kaur, her son Vijay Pal and his wife Mallika on the complaint of Devinder Singh Thakur, also a resident of Sector 51. Thakur told police that he had come in contact with Manjit when she had visited the Police Housing Society in May 2019, where she has done some beautification work. She had allegedly told him that she is a member of the Punjab Governor’s Oustee Quota Committee and she can get a flat allotted to his son through the governor’s quota. Police said the woman used to claim that she is active member of the BJP, was close to the Punjab governor, and even had links in the Prime Minister’s office through the local MP. Manjit was last arrested in July 2021 for duping a couple using the same modus operandi. At the time of her arrest, police had recovered fake documents showing her as a member of the CHB committee and authorising her to make allotments. She was already facing four other cases at that time. In the present case, she has been booked under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the police station in Sector 49.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-fraudster-who-claimed-links-with-governor-booked-again-101636745205554.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s aided colleges seek release of grants under Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for SC students||The executive committee of the Non-Government Aided Colleges Managements Federation (NGCMF) held a meeting on Friday at the DD Jain Memorial College for Women, Ludhiana, under the chairmanship of its president Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina pertaining to the state of higher education in Punjab.The committee criticised various arbitrary decisions being taken by the DPI and the higher education department stating that those decisions undermine the autonomy of 142 aided colleges in Punjab and Chandigarh.The members of the executive committee were critical of the non-release of the SC scholarship amount and sought immediate release of full pending grants under the Post Matric Scholarships Scheme for SC students in one instalment and restoring 95% grant-in-aid scheme for making appointments of teachers in the colleges.“The colleges are in severe financial crisis and non-release of the SC scholarships pending grants have further complicated problems of the colleges. We will move the court in case our demands are not met,” said Chhina.He added that despite the court orders, the government did not release the money for SC students to the colleges.Chhina said the government must withdraw its decision to nominate a representative to managing committees as it will be a direct interference into the functioning of the colleges.The issues, including pending DPI grants, implementing 95% grant-in-aid schemes instead of 75% for appointment of the teachers, filling up of vacant posts, repealing the reservation policy for colleges and universities and better coordination of state universities, were also discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-aided-colleges-seek-release-of-grants-under-post-matric-scholarship-scheme-for-sc-students-101636745146613.html
13-11-2021||Other||Modi to inaugurate KV Corridor on Dec 13||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi on December 13, co-convener of the State BJP social media cell, Shashi Kumar, said. PM Modi will be on a two-day visit to the city.The anointing of Baba Kashi Vishwanath will be done with waters from all the major rivers of India. The chief priests of all the 12 Jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva will also be invited for this event.According to Kumar, on the inauguration day, the entire Varanasi city will be decorated with lamps like Diwali and Devdeepawali.Modi laid the foundation of the Corridor on March 8, 2019. It has been constructed on 5.5 lakh square feet area at an estimated cost of around ₹1000 crore. It is equipped with all facilities including a Vedic library, a meditation platform, a virtual Vedic gallery, a cafe, a food court, a security room and several other facilities for the devotees. Seven kinds of marble has been used in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modi-to-inaugurate-kv-corridor-on-dec-13-101636745145356.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||8 mobiles, heroin recovered in Amritsar jail; 3 inmates booked||Three inmates were booked after eight mobile phones and a heroin were recovered from the Amritsar Central Jail during a search, police said on Friday.The accused have been identified as Randeep Singh, alias Deepu, of Phattu Bhilla village, Samsher Singh, alias Shera, of Kohali village in Amritsar, and Sukhchain Singh, alias China, of Margindpura village in Tarn Taran district.The seizure was made on Thursday when prison’s room number 7 situated in barrack number 6 was searched. A case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act has been registered at the Islamabad police station in Amritsar on the complaint of assistant jail superintendent Balvir Singh. He said: “During checking, 12gm of heroin and three mobile phones—two feature phones and one smart phone—with their SIM cards were recovered from the possession of Deepu. Similarly, two feature phones were recovered from Shera while one from Sukhchain.”He further said when the barrack’s garbage was searched, two mobile phones were recovered from it.Sub-inspector (SI) Jatinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused would be brought on production warrant to ascertain their backward and forward linkages.The seizure of eight mobiles in a day has also exposed the security chinks of the high security jail. The state government had appointed BSF officials as jail superintendents in four jails of Punjab in August to curb the entry of banned items in prisons and control the activities of gangsters and hardcore criminals inside jails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-mobiles-heroin-recovered-in-amritsar-jail-3-inmates-booked-101636745085519.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Bhangra steals the show at PU Zonal Youth Heritage Festival||The mesmerising bhangra performances by participating colleges stole the limelight on the third day of the Panjab University Zonal Youth Heritage Festival at Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Kotttan, on Friday.The audience was enthralled with the power-packed bhangra performances at the fest which also saw youth showcasing their skills in creating heritage items.The events, including instrumental music (percussion, non-percussion) Indian orchestra, folk instrument and folk orchestra were organised.Heritage items like phulkari, bagh, cross-stitch, knitting, crochet, pakhi designing and mehndi application were also a part of the fest. the participants performed mime, skit and mimicry.The chief-guest of the morning session was Harjinder Singh Dhammi, Chief-secretary, SGPC. He said such youth festivals bring out the hidden talent of youth and also give them a platform to make a niche for themselves among thousands of college students.The chief guest of the evening session was Rajkumar Mahajan, registrar, GNA University.Raghbir Singh Sahranmajra, additional secretary of the local college managing committee, and Joginder Singh Oberoi, member of the local college managing committee, also graced the occasion. Principal Kuldip Kaur Dhaliwal thanked the guests and said education should not be just about getting good grades but a more realistic approach to development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianabhangra-steals-the-show-at-pu-zonal-youth-heritage-festival-101636745025386.html
13-11-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress workers file police complaint against Kangana at Roorkee, Jwalapur||Congress activists have lodged police complaints against actor Kangana Ranaut at two places in Haridwar district--Jwalapur and Roorkee--- calling her anti-national and disrespectful of sacrifices made by martyrs during the country’s freedom struggle which led to independence for India. Kangana Ranaut recently triggered controversy with her statement that India won true independence in 2014, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power and the 1947 Independence was “bheekh” (charity). At Jwalapur youth Congress workers stageda protest against the actor demanding an apology from her and registering of a case of treason against her. Uttarakhand Youth Congress spokesperson Varun Baliyan said that they had lodged a complaint at Jwalapur police station against the actor for her derogatory statements. “Kangana is a national award winner but her thinking and words appear anti-national. Just to gain media mileage and present herself as pro-BJP, she now and then makes such statements which need to be legally dealt with,” said Baliyan. In Roorkee, women Congress activists filed a complaint against the actor for her controversial remarks at the Civil Lines police station. Women Congress Roorkee Mahanagar president Rashmi Chaudhary said that Kangana had insulted martyrs and people who contributed immensely during the freedom struggle. Police officials at Civil Lines police station Roorkee and Jwalapur in Haridwar city said that they have received complaints from Congress activists but no case has been registered yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-congress-workers-file-police-complaint-against-kangana-at-roorkee-jwalapur-101636744905344.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh MC waives off vending fee for May||Taking into account the adverse affects of the coronavirus pandemic on the livelihoods of street vendors, the Chandigarh municipal corporation waived off their vending fee for May 2021 on Friday.Those who have been defaulting on their vending fee prior to January 1, 2020 or have had their certificates suspended or cancelled at any stage will not be eligible for the exemption. As many as 7,240 street vendors are eligible for the fee waive-off, while 3,677 others are not. The decision was taken at the MC general house meeting.The MC house also decided to waive off the licence fee of firms managing unipoles for 90 days and for those managing advertisements at 55 public toilets for 45 days. Fee amounting to ₹77.81 lakh will be waived off. The firms had sought exemption on account of the pandemic. In another decision, it was decided that Group D employees of the municipal corporation will be insured under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana at an annual cost of ₹87,192.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-chandigarh-mc-waives-off-vending-fee-for-may-101636744845459.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Money laundering case: Khaira sent to seven-day ED custody||MohaliA Mohali court on Friday sent former Punjab MLA and Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, arrested in a money laundering case, to seven-day Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody. On Thursday, the ED arrested Khaira and he was taken into custody by the central probe agency under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The agency had raided his premises in March this year. He was produced in a PMLA court in Mohali and sent to the ED custody for a day. On Friday, the ED sought a remand for 13 days, but duty magistrate Ranjan Kumar Khullar ordered the remand for seven days.Khaira will be produced in the Mohali court on November 18 after his remand period ends, said Khaira’s son Mehtab Khaira, who is also an advocate. While coming out of the court, Khaira said he was “innocent” and termed the ED’s action as “total victimisation.” Khaira’s son also called his father’s arrest “unconstitutional and illegal.” The ED has alleged that Khaira was an “accomplice” of a drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers.The ED told the court they have to probe the source of funds that Khaira got from the US for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in 2016. The ED said Khaira was issued notices four times, but he did not cooperate.Opposing the remand, Khaira’s lawyers Keshav Chaudhary and PS Walia pleaded that after the drug case, the ED summoned Khaira but they got stay from the Supreme Court. So, the ED couldn’t arrest him. Now, the ED filed a fresh case against Khaira, which is against the law. They also raised a question why hearing was going on in different courts instead of the ED court.Meanwhile, Khaira’s son alleged that his father had been framed in false cases. He said in 2017, his father was framed in an NDPS case as one of his supporters was arrested and was later sentenced to 20 years in jail. He said in the present case, Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal had in 2016 asked Khaira to raise funds from NRIs living abroad. He said the ED had framed his father for bringing 1 lakh Canadian dollars and asked how anyone can bring such a huge amount from abroad. He said the ED, instead of checking the account of the AAP, was framing his father in the case which is “baseless”. Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from the Bholath assembly seat in Kapurthala district on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. He resigned from the primary membership of the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP in January 2019 and floated his own outfit, Punjab Ekta Party. He then re-joined the Congress in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-case-khaira-sent-to-seven-day-ed-custody-101636744785369.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Night temperature drops further in Chandigarh||As winters draw near, the night temperature of the city is continuing to fall as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The minimum temperature went down from 11.8°C on Thursday to 10.7°C on Friday, the lowest it has gone this season till now. As per IMD officials, the temperature can drop by 2-3°C in the next few days.The officials said, “The temperature is falling due to the clear weather. There are no rains in the region and cloudy weather at night can keep the temperature from falling down. With north-westerly winds also blowing in the region, the temperature can drop down further by 2-3°C within a week.”The maximum temperature went down from 29.2°C on Thursday to 28.6°C on Friday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 28°C while the minimum temperature will remain around 11°C.MORE NEWS FROM TRICITY AND AROUNDBritish Deputy High Commission marks Remembrance Day The British Deputy High Commission, Chandigarh, observed Remembrance Day on November 11 to honour those who fought during the two World Wars and later conflicts.The day provides an opportunity for the country to offer its respect for the sacrifices made by British and Commonwealth military personnel fighting for our freedoms, stated a release.Brigadier Gavin Thompson, defence adviser at the British High Commission, said: “ The Armed Forces have not forgotten the sacrifices that previous generations from all walks of life have made, and we honour the fallen. We will not forget those that have served before. We continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with our international partners to tackle shared threats.”Deputy high commissioner Caroline Rowett said: “We come together every November to commemorate the servicemen and women from Britain and the Commonwealth who sacrificed their lives for our freedom. We will continue to remember them as we build a peaceful and united world for future generations.”Foot and mouth disease: Second vax round beginsThe second round of vaccination drive against foot and mouth disease was launched under the National Animal Disease Control Program (NADCP) by the department of animal husbandry and fisheries in Sarangpur, Chandigarh, on Friday.The NADCP is a central government scheme for eradication of foot and mouth disease and brucellosis in livestock. While launching the campaign, director, animal husbandry, Manish Kumar Lohan said that overall aim of this programme is to control foot and mouth disease by 2025 with scheduled vaccinations and its eventual eradication by 2030. “This will increase domestic production and ultimately increase exports of milk and livestock products. This disease is among the most serious diseases of animals in terms of economic impact and is globally recognised as priority disease for control and eradication,” he said.Dr Kanwarjit Bhangoo, joint director, animal husbandry, said this vaccination campaign will be completed in one month. “This door-to-door vaccination drive for all large and small animals will be done for free. All animals in Chandigarh had been tagged and ‘Pashu Aadhaar’ numbers were issued to livestock farmers.”Kid dies after falling into drainA three-year-old girl died after falling into a drain while playing outside her house at Singhawala village in Ambala City on Friday. Identified as Kanika, she belonged to a family of migrant labourers, said police. Vij slams farm leadersHaryana home minister Anil Vij on Friday questioned the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leadership for its failure to initiate a dialogue with the government on the contentious farm laws. Vij said the government is ready for a dialogue, and protesting farmers should seek answers from their leaders about the outcome of the year-old agitation. Calling the SKM leaders “anti-farmers”, the minister accused them of having a “hidden agenda”.AAP hits out at BJPA day after the BJP labelled Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) the “B-team” of Congress, AAP’s Chandigarh affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh hit back at the saffron party. He said that after facing defeat in the byelections held in Himachal Pradesh and other states, the BJP is also fearing defeat in the municipal elections in Chandigarh. PGI faculty body gets new teamThe new faculty association has been elected unanimously at the PGIMER for the year 2021-22. Prof JS Thakur, department of community medicine, has been elected the president. Prof Sameer Aggarwal from the orthopaedics department is the vice-president. Exhibition at high courtThe State Legal Services authorities of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh organised an exhibition on various topics showcasing achievements of courts and legal services authorities at the high court premises on Friday. The exhibition was inaugurated by chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha. Taranpreet to lead U-25 teamTaranpreet Singh will lead Chandigarh in the upcoming Under-25 One Day Tournament scheduled to be held from November 20 at Bengaluru. Amrit Lal Lubana is the vice-captain. Chandigarh is placed in the Elite C group wherein the team will compete against Gujarat, Mumbai, Maharashtra, Tripura and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-temperature-drops-further-in-chandigarh-imd-101636744726249.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Negligence in work will not be tolerated, says Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu||Municipal corporation mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Friday held a review meeting with various contractors and officials of the corporation. Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and commissioner Kamal Garg were also present during the meeting. Sidhu asked the contractors to start and finish the work on time and give priority to quality. He said no negligence would be tolerated during the working hours and no compromise would be made with the quality. He said the process of disqualification of contractors violating rules could also be initiated. Sidhu instructed the officials to carry out sampling of various works for quality checking. He said in case of non-compliance, action would be taken against those responsible. He said the Mohali municipal corporation had issued orders worth crores of rupees for various works and it was the responsibility of the corporation to complete them on time. He said if these works were not completed on time and their quality was not good then the people of Mohali would have to bear the brunt. He said in any case. The mayor also constituted a five-member committee of officials in this regard which will conduct a preliminary inquiry into various matters. The committee consists of two executive engineers, Rajbir Singh and Sunil Sharma, SDO Akshay Kumar, JE Sandeep and draftsman Deepak..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/negligence-in-work-will-not-be-tolerated-says-mohali-mayor-amarjit-singh-sidhu-101636744665331.html
13-11-2021||Other||Punjab logs 39 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Friday reported 39 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,02,733, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality reported in Hoshiarpur district, the death toll in the state reached 16,571, it said. The state’s positivity rate was 0.12% on Friday. Among fresh cases, seven each were reported from Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar. There are 286 active cases in the state, the bulletin said. With 17 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,876, it said. A total of 1,57,34,090 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far of which 33,431 were tested on Friday. As many as 68,351 doses of the vaccine were administered in the day, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-logs-39-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101636744605478.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Enhance vigil along Pak border: Randhawa to Punjab Police||Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday directed police authorities to enhance vigil in districts along the India-Pakistan border against narcotics trade.Randhawa, who chaired a meeting in Bathinda with senior police officials of eight districts of the Malwa region to review law and order, said strict action will be taken against those involved in organised crime.The deputy CM, who was accompanied by the state police chief Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, said strict punitive action will be initiated against a police officer if any drug smuggler is caught selling drugs in his jurisdiction.Randhawa told reporters that the Congress government under the leadership of Charanjit Singh Channi is committed to maintaining zero-tolerance toward drug peddling.Randhawa said Punjab Police is capable to check any trans-border illegal activity and there is no justification in extending the operational right to the Border Security Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/enhance-vigil-along-pak-border-randhawa-to-punjab-police-101636744425739.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 5,726 students appear for National Achievement Survey exam||As many as 5,726 city-based students appeared for the National Achievement Survey exam, which was conducted nationally by the ministry of education of Classes 3, 5, 8 and 10. The exam was conducted smoothly and without any untoward incident, as per officials of the Chandigarh education department.As per the education ministry, National Achievement Survey is a nationally representative large-scale survey of students’ learning undertaken by the education ministry. “National Achievement Survey gives a system-level reflection on effectiveness of school education. Findings help compare the performance across spectrum and across population in order to find the desirable direction for improvements,” the ministry website notes.A total of 106 schools from the city had been shortlisted to participate in this, including seven schools of the central government, 52 government schools, seven government-aided schools and 40 private schools. Around 5,800 students were expected to participate in this exam and near full attendance was reported. For Classes 3 and 5, the exam was held between 10:30 am and 12 noon while for Classes 8 and 10, it was held between 10:30 am and 12:30 pm. The Chandigarh administration also conducted a parallel National Achievement Survey exam for students who were not included in the sample for National Achievement Survey. Saying it was to ensure that these students didn’t feel left out, UT district education officer (DEO) Prabhjot Kaur said, “We wanted to test the preparation of the students and we wanted to make sure they didn’t feel left out even as they had been preparing for this.” The test was conducted at the same time as the National Achievement Survey exam and the selected schools had been given instructions on Thursday to ensure that all students of classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 were present on Friday.The National Achievement Survey exam is held with a cycle period of three years. The last National Achievement Survey was held in 2017. Chandigarh had secured the first rank among all the union territories in this and the UT education department officials are predicting that a similar result can be expected this time. The exam was conducted in language, mathematics and EVS for classes 3 and 5, language, mathematics, science and social science for class 8 and language, mathematics, science, social science and English for class 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-5-726-students-appear-for-national-achievement-survey-exam-101636744125373.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Massive fogging drives to be carried out in Lucknow to contain spread of Zika virus||After confirmation of two Zika cases in Krishnanagar and Phoolbagh areas of state capital, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has decided to carry out massive fogging and cleanliness drives in selected areas of the city. The staff of health department of LMC has been put on alert. Besides, LMC is also keeping a close watch in areas like Thakurganj, Chowk, Para, Rajajipuram, Aliganj, Gomti Nagar, Faizullahganj, Khadra, TriveniNagar, Alambagh, Ashiana where dengue cases have been reported. The corporation will also organise special cleanliness drives in these areas with the help of local corporators, said an LMC official. “The LMC will do whatever is required to control the spread of Zika. We are always there to support and follow the instructions of health department and district administration,” said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi.Since the mosquito responsible for spread of Dengue and Zika is same so the district malaria department and LMC will run awareness campaign for residents to keep the surroundings clean and not allow any storage of water, the official said and added that the residents will be told not to allow stagnation of water inside houses, especially inside coolers, tyres or drains.Meanwhile, Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia has directed the municipal authorities to start a massive fogging drive across the city.“At a time when residents are already suffering due to pandemic, the municipal corporation cannot allow epidemics like Zika and dengue to hurt them. That’s why regular fogging of city areas is important. I will also write to the malaria department to conduct anti-larvae drives in coordination,” said Bhatia.Till now, 111 Zika virus cases have been reported in UP this year – 108 in Kanpur, one in Kannauj and now two in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/massive-fogging-drives-to-be-carried-out-in-lucknow-to-contain-spread-of-zika-virus-101636743947094.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Tribunal awards ₹35 lakh relief to family of road accident victim||A Delhi-based family, which lost one of its member in a road accident, got a compensation of ₹35.5 lakh from the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Chandigarh. The petition in the case was filed by Ram Kishan and Kamlesh, whose daughter Rashmi Verma had succumbed to grievous injuries sustained during a road accident that took place on January 24. A notice was issued to the offenders — Ishank Sharma from Delhi who was driving the car, vehicle owner Sanjay Kumar Sharma and insurer TATA AIG General Insurance Company Limited Branch Office, Chandigarh. The court was informed that a compromised has been reached as the insurance company has offered to pay ₹35.5 lakh as “full and final settlement amount on account of death claim of unmarried Rashmi.” The insurance company assured to make payment within one month from the date of award. The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal awarded the compensation in the favour of both the parents which is to be paid in equal share. “The insurance company will pay up the amount within 45 days from today failing which, the claimant shall be entitled to recover the amount along with interest at 6% per annum from the date of institution of the present petition till realisation of the amount,” the court ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tribunal-awards-35-lakh-relief-to-family-of-road-accident-victim-101636743825295.html
13-11-2021||Other||TRS holds protests in Telangana against BJP, Centre over paddy procurement from state||HyderabadIntensifying its attack on the BJP and the NDA government at the Centre, the ruling TRS in Telangana on Friday held protests across the state against the Centre’s alleged refusal to procure paddy from the State during the ‘yasangi’ (summer) crop.TRS Working President and State Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao and other Ministers participated in the protests demanding that the Centre procure the paddy. The TRS’s decision to organise protests came amid an ongoing war of words between the TRS and BJP over paddy procurement and reducing VAT (value-added tax) on petrol and diesel.TRS president and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who sought procurement of the entire paddy grown in the State by the Centre, said on Sunday last that his party would raise the issue in Parliament besides holding dharnas in the districts.Rama Rao, attending a dharna in Sircilla, alleged that the Centre refused to procure paddy grown during the summer crop in the State. The summer crop yields parboiled rice.While the State government attempted to make farmers take up alternative crops in view of Centre’s reluctance to buy paddy, the State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar sought to politicise the issue by asking farmers to go for paddy cultivation in the summer season, he said.Hitting out at Sanjay Kumar, Rama Rao, son of Chandrasekhar Rao, asked whether the TRS government is discouraging farmers to take up paddy cultivation even though the BJP-led Central government is ready to buy paddy from the State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trs-holds-protests-in-telangana-against-bjp-centre-over-paddy-procurement-from-state-101636743467461.html
13-11-2021||Bangalore||Australian, Israeli PMs to attend Bengaluru tech summit||Israel prime minister Naftali Bennett and his Australia counterpart Scott Morrison will be part of delegates who are expected to attend the 24th edition of Bengaluru Tech Summit, the Karnataka government announced on Friday. The three-day event, starting on November 17, will be inaugurated by Indian Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. It is expecting participation of 300 speakers, 5,000 start-up attendees, over 300 exhibitors, more than 20,000 business attendees and overall digital reach to half a million tech enthusiasts from over 30 countries, according to the state Information Technology and Biotechnology department. “With the theme, ‘Driving the Next’, the summit will highlight how technology, innovation and collaboration can shape the post-pandemic world. Multi-lateral collaboration between countries can significantly catalyse development. Through the Global Innovation Alliance program, we have created a platform for all our GIA country partners and Industry stakeholders to come together and collaborate and promote innovation. Karnataka has expanded the State’s innovation ecosystem Beyond Bengaluru, and we would like to encourage and welcome all GIA partners to explore other cities in the state,” CN Ashwath Narayan, minister for IT, BT and S&T, said in a statement on Friday. The BTS is also expected to showcase the growing relationship between India and the US. Australian consul general for south India Sarah Kirlew announced that Morrison will lead Australia’s delegation to the BTS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/australian-israeli-pms-to-attend-bengaluru-tech-summit-101636743405206.html
13-11-2021||Bangalore||Seers call on CM Bommai seeking law against ‘forcible conversions’||Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday was seen sharing space with controversial rightwing leader Pramod Muthalik of the Sri Rama Sene in his official residence here.Muthalik was part of a delegation of Hindu seers who met Bommai and submitted a memorandum to bring in a legislation banning forcible conversions at the earliest.“Today (Friday) at chief minister’s official residence, over 50 Hindu seers, Sri Rama Sene, Hindu Janajagruthi Samithi members and others requested him to bring in a legislation to ban (religious) conversion,” the Hindu Janagagruthi Samithi said in a statement.The state government has already proposed to bring in a law to ban forcible conversions after the BJP’s Goolihatti Shekar made a passionate speech in the monsoon session of the state legislature held in September.Muthalik had made national headlines when his extreme rightwing organisation Sri Rama Sene had assaulted women in a pub in Mangaluru, about 350 km from Bengaluru, in 2009.Muthalik has since tried to stay in the headlines as his organisation has tried to protest against Valentine’s Day and other occasions in the garb of “protecting culture” and “resisting westernisation”.Sri Ram Sene was founded in the late 1960s by Kalki Maharaj, the right hand man of Shiv Sena leader Bal Thackeray, and a former member of the Bajrang Dal and Vishva Hindu Parishad. Muthalik held the top post in the organization and shot to infamy in the 2009 Mangaluru pub attacks.On January 24, 2009, a group of 40 activists of the Sene barged into a pub called “Amnesia — The Lounge” and trashed a group of young women and men, claiming the women were violating traditional Indian values. Two of the women were hospitalised.He has also tried to secure a BJP ticket to contest the assembly polls in Karnataka.In October, the rightwing leader said he was mobilising support to “reclaim” Gadag’s Jumma Masjid.“For 72 years we had to fight for Rama Mandir. After 72 years of struggle, we were able to complete our resolve to demolish it and construct a grand temple. In the same way in Gadag, I challenge that the place known as Jamma Masjid is actually Venkateswara Temple,” Muthalik said, HT reported on October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/seers-call-on-cm-bommai-seeking-law-against-forcible-conversions-101636743285446.html
13-11-2021||Bangalore||Congress, BJP trade barbs over money laundering case||The Congress on Friday continued its attacks on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leadership in the state over the alleged scandal of laundering money through crypto currencies.Priyank Kharge, the Congress legislator from Chittapur in Kalaburagi and former information technology minister, said chief minister Basavaraj Bommai brushed off allegations on the scandal calling it a ”non-issue” but then what was the need to brief the prime minister of the same. “If this (Bitcoin scandal) was a non-issue, what was the need to talk to the prime minister about it,” Kharge said.The legislator said the way in which the chief minister was talking on the issue appeared as though he was inviting others to “settle” the scam rather than uncover it. “This investigation is being done not to unravel the truth but to bury it. Because this is a big scandal. Maybe the first in the country involving bitcoin, cryptocurrencies,” Kharge said.The statements come when the Congress have been relentlessly trying to corner Bommai and other senior BJP leaders in the alleged scam, reportedly involving thousands of crores.While facts of the case continue to unravel in front of cameras, Kharge also placed before the media documents pertaining to the submissions made by Srikrishna or Sriki, a hacker, who is at the heart of the alleged scandal.He is currently out on bail and has feigned innocence in the entire episode.State Congress president DK Shivakumar said Bommai has been trying to be evasive during the entire episode.Referring to Bommai’s statement on Thursday, Shivakumar said the chief minister has conveyed that the prime minister asked him not to worry about the Bitcoin scandal. “Can there be smoke without fire?” Shivakumar said.Bommai had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday in Delhi. He had said Modi asked him not to worry about the alleged scandal even when the latter only tried bringing up the issue.The BJP is also hitting back at the Congress with their own version of the alleged scandal.“An investigation is already underway in the bitcoin issue. I have clarified all actions being taken by the government in this regard. But Congress leaders are unnecessarily creating a controversy. I have already said it (Congress) can present any specific evidence,” the BJP Karnataka unit said in a post on Twitter, attributing the quote to Bommai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-bjp-trade-barbs-over-money-laundering-case-101636743045470.html
13-11-2021||Bangalore||Police filed ‘incomplete charge sheet’ in bitcoin scandal: Congress||The Congress on Friday accused Bengaluru police of filing an “incomplete charge sheet” against hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki in the alleged bitcoin scandal.In a series of allegations, citing the charge sheet, the Congress said crucial evidence such as logs of hackers chats with his partners, recovered bitcoins and details of his bank transactions were missing from the charge sheet.HT, which has accessed the charge sheet and documents, had reported that 31 bitcoins seized allegedly from the hacker were missing from official records and there was a delay in reporting the hacker involvement in other crimes to the central agencies.During the interrogation, Srikrishna confessed to hacking into a cryptocurrency exchange -- Bitfinex, police claimed in the charge sheet. On August 2, 2016, hackers had breached the security systems of the exchange and stole around 120,000 bitcoins, which was about $72 million at the time. This case has caught the attention of the international enforcement agencies and India was flagged about the development as well.The hacker in question, Srikrishna, was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of police on November 17, 2020, in a drug peddling case. He had allegedly bought drugs from international dealers using bitcoins on the dark web. In the interrogation that followed, CCB found that the software engineer was also involved in a series of online crimes. He confessed to hacking and stealing from three Bitcoin exchanges, 14 company websites, including 10 poker websites, and a government portal.An examination of the charge sheet also pointed out that the voluntary statement filed by Bengaluru police in the charge sheet didn’t have relevant details, including the date on which the statement was recorded. Even though the hacker had claimed he was involved in crimes involving the hacking of certain international Bitcoin exchanges, police investigation was limited to the hacking of certain poker websites in the country.In a statement issued on Friday, the Congress said even though police records show that the hacker was arrested on November 17, he had surrendered before police on November 14. The Congress claimed he was in illegal custody for three days before his arrest was registered.The Congress also alleged that the hacker was illegally drugged by police while he was in custody. “On January 11, 2021, when Srikrishna is produced in a court, his father Gopal Ramesh filed an application under Sec 190(1)(c) accuses police and joint commissioner to having illegally administering Alprazolam (am anxiety drug) on Srikrishna. Srikrishna agreed that he has had Alprozolam during police custody in front of the magistrate,” Congress said.HT accessed the petition filed by the Srikrishna’s father, which read: “…application was filed by the petitioner being the father of the accused that he has credible and reliable information that the respondents (police) at the behest and unlawful orders have been administering the Petitioner’s son Srikrishna with excessive mind-altering drugs specifically Alprazolam which is a prohibited drug and therefore, sought cognizance be taken against all officials who have committed various offences under the NDPS Act as also under the IPC.”The opposition went to allege even though the magistrate ordered a scientific examination of the hacker’s blood and urine samples, police conducted a stomach wash done on him, defying the order. The opposition also produced a document from Victoria Medical College that read that stomach cleaning performed “to rule out poisoning”.The Congress also accused Bengaluru police of misappropriation in handling the bitcoins allegedly seized during the investigation. Quoting a press note released by Bengaluru police on January 12, the Congress said 31 bitcoins worth ₹9 crore were seized by police during the probe.According to the statement, police had accessed the bitcoin wallet of Srikrishna and changed the password of the wallet. As per police records, there were 31 bitcoins in the wallet at the time of the “panchanama”. “Where are the 31.8 bitcoins as shown in the screenshot of Panchanama of Crime No 45/2020? Since it is not withdrawn to the police wallet, who has them now? asked the Congress.Alleging there was an intentional delay in informing the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation and Interpol, the Congress alleged that police waited for more than three months to inform central agencies despite having a voluntary statement from Srikrishna claiming he has than 5,000 cryptocurrencies with him. “A statutory govt orders states that all cases related to economic offences falling outside the jurisdiction of the state should be informed to higher authorities,” said the party.Further pointing out the loopholes in the charge sheet filed by Bengaluru police, the Congress alleged that the charge sheet filed by police was intentionally incomplete. “None of the Skype chats, Facebook chats, logs are mentioned in the charge sheet. Despite having more than 100 days of police custody, police have not recovered any of the hacked bitcoins.”It went on to add the hacker confession in the statement that he had transferred 80,000 euros was neither investigated, nor reported to Enforcement Directorate. “Facebook chats on drug trafficking were neither investigated nor reported to Narcotics Control Bureau. The charge sheet doesn’t have any mention of the 5,000 bitcoins (worth 2,500 crore as of today), which the hacker claims to have hacked. There is no tracking done on the amount transferred to bank accounts from hacking E-Procurement Website of Karnataka government,” the Congress alleged.Senior officers of Bengaluru police rebutted claims of the Congress. Presenting their versions, two senior police officers said several claims made by the hacker in his voluntary statement couldn’t be verified during the investigation, which is being highlighted by the opposition.A senior Bengaluru police officer, who didn’t want to be named, said although Srikrishna had told police about his involvement, it could not be corroborated. “Yes, in his voluntary statement (copy of which is available with HT), Sriki has claimed a lot of things including being part of the Bitfinex hacking and transferring funds etc. We were not able to verify this information, so it was not communicated to authorities during early stages of investigation. We were trying to get more evidence.”The officer said police could only find evidence of his involvement in the hacking of some poker companies and the government portal.Another senior officer said he had done an evidence collection in presence of two experts, who had changed login details of an account, where Srikrishna showed 31 bitcoins. “Several days later, we realised the seized account didn’t belong to Sriki. We have submitted all these details before the court. I don’t understand why there is a controversy over this,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/police-filed-incomplete-charge-sheet-in-bitcoin-scandal-congress-101636742805258.html
13-11-2021||Lucknow||Purvanchal Expressway a highway of development: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that the Purvanchal Expressway would become the backbone of east UP’s economy. He also said investment had been made in the infrastructure sector in Uttar Pradesh, to achieve the target of five trillion-dollar economy envisaged by Prime Narendra Modi . Yogi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would inaugurate the Purvanchal Expressway on November 16. He had laid the foundation of the expressway on July 2018. The chief minister inspected the preparations for the inauguration programme in Sultanpur on Friday. Later, he said the expressway had been completed despite 19 months of Covid pandemic. The Purvchanchal Expressway was being inaugurated this month, the Bundelkhand Expressway would be completed in December and work on Gorakhpur Link Expressway was continuing on a war footing. The work on the Ganga and Ballia Expressway is in progress, he said. UP would soon be known as the state of the expressways, Yogi said, adding the Purvanchal Expressway would play important role in the development of east UP. “I reviewed the preparations of the inauguration programme in a meeting with the people’s representatives, district administration officers and officers of the construction agency,” he said. Immediately after the grand inauguration programme, an air show will be organized by the Indian Air Force. A 3.50 km air strip has been constructed on the expressway near Sultanpur for the landing of the Air Force aircraft. Facility of emergency landing of other aircraft will also be provided. A state government officer said fighter aircraft Rafale, Mirage, Jaguar, Sukhoi, C-130J Super Hercules, Kiran Mk II and AN-32 would showcase the might of the Air Force during the air show. The aircraft will fly from the five air bases to the Purvanchal Expressway. While some will land on the runway constructed near Kurebhar village in Sultanpur district, others will participate in the touch and go operation. A rehearsal was conducted by the Air Force on Friday. Senior Air Force officer s were present on the occasion. Terming Purvanchal Expressway a highway of development, the chief minister said east UP that was neglected post-independence but now it was moving fast on the path of development. At eight spots on the expressway, the state government would develop industrial corridor to give fillip to the industrial and business activities. The state government had issued notification for the development of the industrial corridor, he said. A state government officer said the 341-km Purvanchal Expressway originated from Chandsarai village on Lucknow- Sultanpur highway. It passed through Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and terminated at Haldariya village in Ghazipur district. The six-lane expressway is expandable to eight lanes. The travel time from Lucknow to Ghazipur has been reduced from 6 hours to 3.5 hours. The expressway has seven major bridges, seven Railway overbridges, 114 minor bridges and 271 under passes. Police vehicles, cattle catcher vehicle and ambulance will be deployed for safety and medical emergencies. The prominent industries in the Purvanchal expressway region include food products and processing, beverages, chemicals products, print media, non-metallic mineral products, fabricated metal products, coke and refined petroleum products, electrical equipment, medical and dental instruments, repair and installation of machinery and equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/purvanchal-expressway-a-highway-of-development-yogi-101636742625406.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Police unearth pension scam in Delhi govt department, 6 held||The Delhi Police crime branch on Friday said they had unearthed a widow and disabled persons pension scam involving the Delhi government’s social welfare, women and child development office at south Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar, after arresting six people, including four contractual employees of the department.The arrested persons were allegedly involved in preparing false and forged disability as well as death certificates for sanctioning monthly pension to ineligible persons. One of them, identified as 35-year-old Riyasat, was drawing a disability pension for himself while his wife had been drawing a widow pension, the police said.Police said the racket was in operation for nearly two years and, during this period, monthly pensions had been sanctioned to over 300 people on the basis of forged disability and death certificates. Many instances of disability pension sanctioned to multiple people on the same person’s disability certificate as well as pension sanctioned to women beneficiaries on the basis of a man’s disability certificate have also been found during the investigation. The crime branch said it also received information of a similar scam at the department office in northeast Delhi. “We have seized 36 passbooks that mention the credited pension money, 180 online applications for disability pensions, 117 copies of Aadhaar cards related to approved widow pensions, and a list of 136 persons who are already obtaining pensions on the basis of forged disability certificates,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.The other arrested persons were identified as Sahil,30, Balram alias Balraj,33, Mubarak,37, Rajesh Kumar, 25, and Jai Prakash,33. While Riyasat and Sahil were private persons who arranged candidates for the pension schemes, the other four men worked as contractual employees at the social welfare, women and child development department’s office at Lajpat Nagar.Riyasat and Sahil charged between ₹10,000 and ₹15,000 from each applicant for helping him or her in getting the pension sanctioned by using forged documents. The arrested contractual employees were getting money from the duo for clearing the files and sanctioning the pension, said DCP Bhardwaj.Police said that the scam came to the fore after a woman filed a complaint, alleging that two persons named Riyasat and Yunus (father of Sahil) were running private offices in Jaitpur and sanctioning window and disability pensions on the Delhi government’s behalf. The woman told the police that during the first Covid-19 lockdown, her husband stopped working because of the pandemic and it led to a financial crisis in her family. She went to their office and asked for financial help.Riyasat and Yunus, who is a social worker, told her that the Delhi government is running a scheme through which she could get ₹2,500 every month. They took her Aadhaar card, Pan card and two photos for registration. Riyasat and Yunus’s son Sahil told her that she will have to pay ₹15,000 them as processing charge after the money is credited to her account, the police said.“From January 2021, ₹2,500 started coming into her account. She would withdraw the money and gave it to the duo as promised. Later, she learnt that the amount was being credited on account of Delhi government’s Vidhva Pension Yojna (Widow Pension Scheme) despite her husband being alive. She enquired into the matter and found that many people in her neighbourhood were fraudulently getting similar amounts of money. She approached us and filed a complaint. After thorough investigation, we have arrested six men for running the scam,” added DCP Bhardwaj.Explaining the syndicate’s modus operandi, the DCP said that Riyasat and Sahil also hired agents who lured people in need and convinced them to apply for the pension schemes. Those who agreed for were taken to the offices of the duo who then directed them to deposit their IDs and other documents required for registering for the schemes.“Before applying for the schemes, the applicants were told that the dup would keep the pension for the first 10 months, as they were helping them get the pension,” added Bhardwaj.Riyasat’s interrogation revealed that after his father’s death three years ago, he and his mother had visited the Lajpat Nagar office of the district officer of women and child development to apply for her widow pension. During the time he met Sahil who cleared the pension scheme files with the help of Balraj and Mubarak. He requested Sahil to get his disability pension cleared and his wife’s widow pension. Sahil took ₹14,000 from him and Riyasat’s files for both the schemes and cleared them. Thereafter, Riyasat also started his own office and hired local women as his agents to collect applications from people in their neighbourhood, the police said.The Delhi government condemned the misuse of government credentials.“A thorough investigation must be conducted if such an incident has been reported. Misuse of government credentials in such a manner is a highly condemnable act. The police should proceed with their own investigation and the concerned department, too, will conduct an intricate enquiry into the matter. The Delhi government had issued strict directions to the directors concerned to verify each and every case properly as well as crosscheck the validation of all the life certificates every year to prevent such misuse,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-unearth-pension-scam-in-delhi-govt-department-6-held-101636742385255.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Fifteenth accused in cruise drug bust case gets bail||A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) court on Friday granted bail to Gurugram resident Mohak Jaiswal, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the Cordelia Cruise drugs bust case. Of the 20 people arrested in the case, Jaiswal has become the 15th accused to get bail.Special NDPS judge VV Patil granted Jaiswal bail on a personal bond of ₹50,000. Jaiswal was also directed to visit the NCB office every Monday.Advocate Lakshmi Raman, who appeared for Jaiswal, had argued that there was no recovery from him, and as other accused in the case were already granted bail on the grounds of parity, he too, should be given bail. Raman also submitted that section 27A of NDPS Act (punishment for financing illicit trafficking and harbouring offenders) was not applicable to Mohak as he had not financed any co-accused to help support an illegal organisation or the business of drug trafficking. The counsel argued that investigation was completed and the allegations against the accused were vague and no direct role was attributed to Jaiswal.Raman submitted that even if the entire case of prosecution was to be taken as “Gospel truth”, Jaiswal had only committed an offence for facilitating procurement of intermediary quantity of ecstasy pills for the co-accused and there is no material on record to show that he had committed any offence involving commercial quantity of contraband.After arresting Jaiswal on October 3 along with other accused – Bollywood star Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Vikrant Chokkar, Ishmeet Singh Chadha, Gomit Chopra and Nupur Satija – NCB had alleged that the ecstasy pills recovered from Satija were given by Jaiswal.Based on the leads given by Jaiswal, the agency had arrested a man named Abdul Kadir Shaikh, 30, from Jogeshwari and had recovered commercial quantity of 54.3g of mephedrone and 2.5g of ecstasy from him.Jaiswal’s bail application was initially rejected by a metropolitan magistrate court, after which he applied before the NDPS court.Based on a tip-off that a rave party was scheduled on the ship off the Mumbai coast, an NCB team led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise on the evening of October 2. Aryan was granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fifteenth-accused-in-cruise-drug-bust-case-gets-bail-101636742026466.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to carry out to fresh census to deal with stray dog menace||With the stray dog menace becoming a major problem across Chandigarh, the municipal corporation (MC) is set to conduct a fresh census of stray dog population.Taking a fresh and comprehensive view of the problem,Chandigarh MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “Without a latest census, it is very difficult to effectively monitor dog sterilisation being carried out in the city. When we don’t know how many stray dogs are in the city how can we know how many stray dogs have to be sterilised,” said Mitra.To make the census more effective and humane, Chandigarh MC will opt for non-invasive techniques for the census. “We are exploring different non-invasive method of counting the animals.” Currently, invasive method is generally used wherein ears or other parts of the animals being counted are physically tagged.The last census was done in 2019, which had shown an increase in stray dog population by 65% within seven years from 2012. While the number of stray dogs stood at 7,847 in the census conducted in 2012, it reached 12,900 in 2019.Before the last census, even the Punjab and Haryana high court had ordered a fresh survey of stray dogs in Chandigarh in August 2018.The increase in stray dog population had put a question mark over Chandigarh MC’s sterilisation efforts, which had started in 2015. This is despite, the MC claims of sterilising more than 20,000 dogs since 2015.Similar questions are being raised over Chandigarh MC’s efforts at present too as city residents face increasing number of dog bite cases. Last year, around 28 dog-bite cases per day were reported in the city. A total of 10,558 persons were bitten by dogs last year.Resident welfare associations have raised their doubts over the number of the sterilisation being carried out by the Chandigarh MC. They have repeatedly demanded getting them involved in the sterilisation process.Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 38, said, “Whenever the Chandigarh MC conducts the sterilisation drive in a sector, it should inform the residents about it so that they can also give their inputs as to which areas are most effected. This will also give confidence to residents that the drive is being carried out properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-carry-out-to-fresh-census-to-deal-with-stray-dog-menace-101636742025217.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Sought court nod to take KP Gosavi’s statement: NCB official||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) deputy director general (northern region) Gyaneshwar Singh, who is leading a departmental vigilance probe into the extortion allegations against NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, and four other officers, said on Friday that the team has sought the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court’s permission to record the statement of KP Gosavi, an independent witness in the cruise ship drug raid case. The five-member special enquiry team arrived in Mumbai on October 27, four days after Prabhakhar Sail, an independent witness in the cruise ship raid and an employee of Gosavi, released a notarised affidavit claiming that Wankhede was part of an extortion attempt of ₹25 crore.Gosavi was arrested by the Pune police on October 28 in connection with a 2018 cheating case. On Thursday, a different police station in Pune took custody of Gosavi in a separate case. “We approached the court for recording the statement of Gosavi, who in the custody of Pune police in a cheating case registered against him in 2018,” Singh told reporters gathered outside the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) office in Bandra, Mumbai, on Friday. He added that more people will be called in to record their statement based on what Gosavi said.Wankhede had conducted a raid on a cruise ship, Cordelia, docked off the coast of Mumbai, on October 2, following which 20 persons were arrested including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23). Wankhede was removed from the investigation — but retained his position and continued to assist in the case — after the vigilance team began its probe.In the affidavit, Sail claimed to have overheard a phone call between Gosavi and a certain Sam D’Souza. “You put a bomb of 25 crores and let’s settle at 18 final, because we have to give 8 crores to Sameer Wankhede,” Gosavi reportedly said, the affidavit stated. “The vigilance team has recorded statements of 15 people, including Sameer Wankhede, VV Singh and three other NCB officers who were present at the October 2 raid. There are few important witnesses who need to be examined and we will record their statements soon,” Singh said.He said that the team has also questioned 10 other people including Sailand the lawyer who notarised the affidavit. “The team has procured electronic and documentary evidence," Singh said.  “We have visited the crime scene and reconstructed events. Mumbai police has cooperated with us. They have assured their support. We have gathered a few CCTV evidence during enquiry,” he added.Aryan Khan questioned by NCBA separate NCB special investigation team (SIT) constituted to investigate the cruise ship raid case interrogated Aryan Khan on Friday.Aryan also visited the NCB office in south Mumbai to mark his weekly attendance as per the bail condition set by the Bombay high court,which granted him bail on October 28.The SIT headed by deputy director general Sanjay Singh, was formed on November 5 to investigate the cruise drug bust case and five other cases including one involving Sameer Khan, the son-law of state minister Nawab Malik, who has alleged that the October 2 raid was an attempt to “kidnap” Aryan for “ransom” and Wankhede was purportedly part of this plot. Aryan visited NCB office for the first time after he was released from Arthur Road jail on October 30, after spending 22 days in custody. Earlier, the SIT had summoned Aryan and co-accused Arbaaz Merchant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sought-court-nod-to-take-kp-gosavi-s-statement-ncb-official-101636741725125.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools prohibit some activities, attendance drops||Attendance has begun falling amid growing concerns that the worsening air quality can impact the health of children, the administrators of several schools have said, barely a fortnight after children began in-person learning after a gap of over one-and-a-half years.Children are among the most vulnerable to air pollution, which is at its worst – the air quality index was at 471 at 3pm and the concentrations of poisonous PM2.5 particulate matter has been above the “emergency” threshold of 300 micrograms per cubic metre of air since 1am on Friday. PM2.5 pollutants, which are now over five times the safe limit, can penetrate deep into the lungs and lead to lasting health damage.Parents are now worried students will be more vulnerable to respiratory diseases. “Parents in Delhi are facing two kinds of dilemma. First are existing concerns of Covid-19 infection and now it is the severe air quality. Many schools are still holding unit tests and parents are forced to send their children to school despite not wanting to. Many children have asthma, allergies, or even allergic bronchitis which worsens during the pollution season. Going to school in such a scenario is harmful to their health but there is little that parents can do,” said Aprajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents’ Association.A Commission for Air Quality Management(CAQM) sub-committee, after a meeting on Friday, advised citizens to limit outdoor activities and exposure. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority, which issues guidelines pertaining to Covid-19, has encouraged schools to continue with online learning. Several schools said they are working on reducing the number of classes and in-person lessons till the pollution levels are in control. “We had resumed in-person classes only for classes 9 to 12 so far and classes 6 to 8 will start on Monday. Even in middle school, less than 50% of the parents agreed to send their children to school due to several factors including pollution. While deciding on reopening, we had kept various factors in mind including the pollution levels and the Covid-19 situation after Diwali,” said Madhulika Sen, senior adviser at Tagore International School, where several parents approach school authorities thanking them for not reopening completely. The school is planning to reopen for nursery to class 5 in January and is holding staggered in-person only for the middle school and senior section. School administrators said they have limited some activities but closing schools may not be on the radar for now. “We have reduced physical activities such as yoga and others in our playground. But when children have come back to school after nearly 20 months, it would not be prudent to close schools and send them back home. We are not planning on closing schools for now because addressing the learning gap is extremely important right now,” said Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference which has over 120 top Delhi schools under it. Schools have reduced the duration for which students would have to stay on school premises, she added. Laksh Vir Sehgal, principal of Bal Bharati Public School, GRH Marg, said, “The attendance in classes 4 and 5 is around 20-25%. The dip in air quality affects the health of children and in the previous years too, if the pollution levels increased, the attendance would decrease. This time around the attendance is low across all classes and the pollution levels are one of the reasons among it along with Covid-19 concerns. Since schools are working for a shorter period of time, there are no outdoor activities and we are ensuring that students say in the classrooms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-prohibit-some-activities-attendance-drops-101636741066406.html
13-11-2021||Gurugram||Namaz in open disrupted again, this time in Gurugram’s Sirhaul||Protesters on Friday disrupted namaz (Friday prayers) being offered at a park in Sirhaul village in Sector 18, one of 20 sites designated by the district administration last week for the purpose. However, no violence or untoward incident took place and the situation was soon brought under control, the police later said. According to the police, about 100 members of Manavta Sanghatan, a Hindu outfit involved in “social service”, and area residents gathered at the park carrying the tricolour and chanting religious slogans. A senior police officer, who was present at the spot, said when locals objected to the namaz being offered in the open, the Muslims shifted to another spot nearby. “The situation was soon controlled,” he said, asking not to be named.Protests against namaz in the open in Gurugram have been going on since September. They began in Sector 47 and then spread to Sector 12A. Last Friday, Hindu groups organised a Govardhan Puja at the spot in Sector 12A, where namaz used to be offered.In light of the continued protests, the district administration formed a committee comprising representatives of both communities and officials from the police and the administration last month to resolve the issue. The committee, in consultation with imams, identified 20 public places for Friday prayers last week, including the one in Sirhaul where the prayers were disrupted.On Friday, most Muslims chose to offer prayers at Sector 57 mosque, after the number of public sites for namaz was reduced from 37 to 20 last week. Namaz was not offered at any of the sites where objections were raised earlier, said officials of district administration on Friday, adding that the payers were only disrupted in Sirhaul, while they were held peacefully at the other 19 designated sites.Praveen Yadav (33), a resident leading the protest in Sirhaul, said Muslims encroached on parks in the area to pray despite repeated requests by residents to not do so. Sachin Yadav (32), a resident of the village and another protester, said, “We will not allow them to offer prayers in any of the parks. Either they should go to mosques or do it on Waqf board land. If they come here again, things may get ugly.”The protestors said a park is a public place and people of nearby areas visit it all day. “Many private companies are located close to the park and people working in these companies visit the park during lunch break and residents also spend time in the park during winters. We are not against the offering of prayers but we won’t allow it in the open,” said Praveen.Rajiv Mittal, a member of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella body of several Hindu outfits, said they have given a call to oppose namaz in public places and now people are doing so on their own. “Today, namaz was opposed by local residents of Sirhaul village,” he said.Responding to the latest disruption, members of the Muslim community said they were being harassed by protesters every week. “After facing issues in Sector 47 and Sector 12A, we shifted our prayers to other sites, but people are after us and are intentionally harassing us. Police and the administration should take action against them,” said Altaf Ahmad, a member of Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a citizens’ platform, and spokesperson for Gurgaon Muslim Council.He said the administration has already reduced the prayer sites from 37 to 20, and land should be allotted to them so that they can set up mosques and not offer prayers in the open. “It seems that the disruptions will not end unless the government assigns us land where we can pray with dignity,” he said.Ahmad said locals of Sector 12A have taken over the erstwhile namaz site and have smeared the spot with cow dung to dissuade any attempt to hold the prayers there.Khurshid Rajaka, chairman of Muslim Rashtriya Manch and member of Haryana Waqf Board, said, “Establishing peace should be the priority, not politics.”An official of the district administration said if residents oppose namaz at a particular site, then the site will be changed. “Namaz will be offered at places where residents have no objection. Maintaining law and order is our priority,” said the official, asking not to be named.Police had earlier issued a statement saying that permission for namaz at a designated site could be withdrawn if residents of the area continued to raise objections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-in-open-disrupted-again-this-time-in-gurugram-s-sirhaul-101636740825341.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||GK’s busy M-Block market to get biggest car parking lot in South Delhi||The M-block market in Greater Kailash 1 is set to get the biggest automated car-parking facility run by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) as the standing committee on Friday cleared the proposal for the project, which can accommodate up to 399 vehicles, that will be undertaken at an estimated cost of ₹63.74 crore. The parking facility will be a seven storey structure with the provision to accommodate 57 cars on each floor.Chairman of the standing committee Col (retd) B K Oberoi said the car-parking facility in the key South Delhi market is the biggest automated parking project being undertaken by the SDMC. “In 2017, a proposal was made to set up a car-parking facility that can accommodate upto 200 vehicles. But, we have decided to double the capacity in the current project to meet future needs,” said Oberoi. In the last one year, SDMC has operationalised three automated parking projects in Green Park, Lajpat Nagar and Adhchini. A senior engineering official from the SDMC said that the agency, design and the rates that will be charged at the new parking facility have been finalised and once approved by the standing committee, the work order will be issued. Since the BJP has a majority in both the standing committee and the south municipality, the project is expected to sail through. “Since the automated parking projects are based on steel structure-based modules, which can be assembled relatively faster than the RCC (reinforced concrete cement) based structures, we are expecting to complete the project in a year to maximum 18 months. In the shuttle parking system, the dolly which carries the vehicle uses RCC slabs,” said the official. The parking facility at the M-block in Greater Kailash 1 will be the first “shuttle system”based automated car parking by the SDMC. The Green Park automated parking project is based on ‘tower parking’ model while the ones in Lajpat Nagar and Adhchini were based on “puzzle parking” concept. A senior municipal official explained the shuttle system permits both horizontal as well as vertical movement of the platforms carrying the vehicle. “The user leaves the vehicle at a designated spot. The automated parking system will select the floor as well as the available vacant spot on that floor where the vehicle can be parked. All the information will be available in the card that will be given to the user,” explained the official. Rajender Sharda, who heads M-block GK1 market association, said the market urgently needs a parking solution as there are frequent traffic jams. “The vehicles of shoppers often spill over on to the road. The new parking facility will help meet our needs; the SDMC should focus on timely completion of the project,” he added.In a letter to the standing committee dated October 22, 2021, municipal commissioner Gyanesh Bharti wrote that the M-block market is prone to traffic congestion as it is one of the affluent markets in the south zone. “The market is visited by a large number of shoppers resulting in traffic jams on day-to-day basis due to lack of sufficient parking space. The existing surface parking capacity is about 80 cars which is insufficient to cater to demand of parking,” said the letter by Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gks-busy-m-block-market-to-get-biggest-car-parking-lot-in-south-delhi-101636736264980.html
13-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man held for sending threats, extortion messages to friend’s in-laws||A 21-year-old man was arrested for allegedly conniving with his friend and sending threats, abuses and extortion messages to the latter’s husband and in-laws using different fake international WhatsApp numbers that they had created using a mobile application, police said on Friday.An iPhone used in the crime was recovered from the suspect, identified as Shahbaaz, by the northeast district’s cyber cell that registered the case and arrested him on Tuesday, police said.The woman is yet to be arrested as investigators are looking into her role in the crime, said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain.According to police, Shahbaaz, who was pursuing a teaching course after graduation, said that the woman allegedly wanted to harass her in-laws after she started living separately due to the differences. She confided in Shahbaaz her problems and he allegedly decided to help her in harassing them.He also allegedly sent threats and indecent messages to the fiancé of the woman’s sister-in-law as a result of which they broke up.DCP Sain said that the crime came to light after one Imran, from Bhagirathi Vihar, filed alleging that he and his family members were receiving threats, abuses and extortion messages from different international WhatsApp numbers. “The district cyber cell team collected details of the WhatsApp numbers and found that all of them were operated through the same mobile phone. Through technical investigation, the suspect was identified as Shahbaaz and he was arrested,” said Sain.During the interrogation, the DCP said, Shahbaaz allegedly admitted that he and the woman downloaded an app to generate duplicate WhatsApp numbers and used them to send the threats and abusive messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-held-for-sending-threats-extortion-messages-to-friend-s-inlaws-101636736024827.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: AAP releases first list of 10 candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday released its first list of 10 candidates for the Punjab assembly elections to be held early next year. All 10 are sitting legislators who have been fielded from their present seats. Also read: Canada set to welcome record number of permanent residents from IndiaAAP legislature party leader Harpal Singh Cheema has been fielded from Dirba assembly constituency, whereas his deputy Saravjit Kaur Manuke will contest from Jagraon. Jai Kishan Rori has been named from Garhshankar, Manjeet Bilaspur from Nihal Singh Wala, Kultar Singh Sandhwan from Kotkapura, Baljinder Kaur from Talwandi Sabo, Budhram from Budhlada, Aman Arora from Sunam, Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer from Barnala and Kulwant Pandori from Mehal Kalan, according to the list released by AAP state unit chief Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh. All 10 are first-time legislators. Red-faced after Ruby joins Congress and Hissowal praises CM The party released the list after its sitting MLA from Bathinda Rural (reserved), Rupinder Kaur Ruby, jumped ship to join the Congress on Wednesday and then Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, who represents Raikot (reserved) seat, openly endorsed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in the state assembly. Though Hissowal later said he is not joining the Congress, his actions have left the AAP leadership red-faced. After Ruby quit the AAP, Harpal Cheema had stated that she was not going to get the AAP ticket and had, therefore, joined the Congress. Both Ruby and Hissowal had backed party leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira when he rebelled against the AAP leadership. Five years on, down from 20 to 11 AAP MLAs In 2017, the AAP won 20 seats, but its effective strength has now depleted to 11, with five MLAs, including Khaira, joining the Congress. While HS Phoolka has quit politics, Kanwar Sandhu is under suspension. The remaining two, Baldev Singh and Amarjit Sandoa, have been in and out of the party and their candidature has not been announced. Baldev Singh was disqualified from the state assembly last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-aap-releases-first-list-of-10-candidates-101636709265709.html
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||China building troops along LAC in Himachal districts: Police report||hina has been building up troops along the 240-km stretch of the Line of Actual Control adjoining Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts of Himachal Pradesh over the past year besides accelerating the construction of roads, bridges and helipads in the area, a report prepared by Himachal Pradesh police has said.In the report, addressed to state governor Rajendra Arlekar, the police have cited the troop buildup and rapid construction of infrastructure along nine passes on the LAC in the two remote districts. HT has a copy of the presentation made by HP police to the Governor. “During the past year, China has increased the presence of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and improved its infrastructure and surveillance capability along the border with Himachal Pradesh,” state director general of police Sanjay Kundu said in Shimla on Friday.Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts share a 240-km boundary with China. This comprises an 80km stretch in Chumar in Lahaul and Spiti and 160km from Daroti to Mumri Dogri in Kinnaur district.India and China have hardened their stance on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies in the midst of the ongoing border standoff in the sensitive sector, HT reported on November 8, four weeks after military talks to cool Ladakh tensions reached an impasse. Military talks are unlikely to result in a breakthrough and only higher intervention can show the way to resolving the 18-month-old border crisis, that report added.PLA building personnel’s accommodationThe state police report said China is building a new road in Churup from the north bank of the Pareechu river to the new hinterland. It has stepped up construction in the border villages of Shaktot, Churup and Dunmur.China has set up new posts equipped with high-quality surveillance equipment besides new buildings in Churup village, the report based on inputs from local police patrolling units added.The PLA has accelerated construction between Manja and Shangrangla around its permanent base at Rando village near Lapcha Pass. The movement of heavy machinery and vehicles has been reported in this area, the report said.It added the Chinese army is building accommodation for military personnel in the Lapcha Pass area, which was traditionally used for travel by Tibetan people and local traders. The report also mentioned that China has stocked up construction material at Kyuk village and built new barracks for troops in the Lapshak region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/china-building-up-troops-infrastructure-along-himachal-border-101636704403033.html
13-11-2021||Mumbai||Plastic pollution: A crisis in Mumbai’s beaches and the Arabian Sea||Between his work as a fisher hauling catch in the early hours of the day from August to October and a gig as a lifeguard with the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM), 26-year-old Sanjay Bamaniya, a resident of Sagar Kutir, Versova, has little time for fun.But, whenever he can, he surfs. Well-built and athletic, Bamaniya is a keen swimmer — he was part of a civic body operation that saved the lives of two boys who almost drowned during the recent Ganesh Chaturthi visarjan near Versova koliwada — and he has grown up with the ocean a walking distance from his front door. When he hits the waves at Juhu and Versova beaches he is undeterred by the pollution and debris that Mumbai pours into the sea every day, he said. “Surfing is incredible. Early on, I taught myself to float on my stomach using large sheets of thermocol and travel with the waves. About three or four years ago I finally acquired a surfboard and now I do it quite regularly with a friend,” he said. Had it not been for the large thermocol sheets floating around Versova beach, Bamaniya would have never learnt to surf. But the irony is not lost on him – Thermocol is one of the most common plastic pollutants in Mumbai’s coastline and it poses a larger threat to Bamaniya’s livelihood. “Sometimes, at high tide during monsoon months, there’s so much plastic floating on the water you can’t possibly go swimming or surfing,” Bamaniya said. “When hauling fish, we end up with several kilos of plastic waste in the nets. It can take hours to segregate the waste from the catch before going to market. We end up spending a lot of money and time fixing our nets; sharp bits of plastic can get tangled in them or even cut them open,” he said.A sea of plasticThermocol, or expanded polystyrene (EPS), is one of several varieties of plastic that can be found along Mumbai’s shoreline. A recent research conducted by Helen White, an oceanographer at Haverford College in Pennsylvania, United States of America, found that polystyrene comprised about 16% of plastic debris collected from three beaches of Mumbai: Juhu, Mahim, Ambojwadi in Malad.Polyvinyl Chloride, or PVC — typically used to make drainage pipes, medical devices and insulation for power cables among others — made up 40% of the debris. Polyethylene Terephthalate or PET — usually found in food and beverage packaging — made up 17%. Trace amounts of Polyvinyl Acetate (PVA; 1%), acetal (1%) and silicon (1%) — components which have a wide range of application as industrial adhesives and in the manufacture of consumer electronics — were also found.These results are based on analysis of nearly 1,200 plastic samples that were collected at random from the above three locations in Mumbai between 2018 and 2020. White presented these findings as part of a trans-disciplinary collaboration entitled Inhabited Seas, where natural and social science researchers, architects and designers across the US and India studied various aspects of Mumbai’s urban design in the context of its geographical location, as a coastal city, and its rains.That there is a crisis isn’t new information. But it took another catastrophic event to push this crisis into the limelight.On May 17, an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm with windspeeds between 150kmph and 160kmph made a landfall on the Gujarat coast leaving a trail of destruction behind. Lakhs of people were evacuated along the Konkan coast, and property worth several lakhs was damaged. As the storm intensified over the days before it made landfall, an accommodation barge off the coast of Mumbai broke free and sank. Another tugboat got caught in the swirling waters and went under. The Indian Navy launched a search and rescue operation almost immediately but at least 88 of the 274 people couldn’t be rescued. On June 30, the Bombay high court expressed grave concern over another aftermath of the cyclone. A bench comprising the Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni said that several newspaper reports had pointed to the amount of trash that the sea had regurgitated on Mumbai’s beaches and promenades. These reports painted a “very sorry picture with regard to the cleaning of the coast,” the bench observed.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) told the court that it had collected 153 metric tonnes (MT) of waste, mostly plastic, from the city’s seven beaches the day after Tauktae passed Mumbai. That’s how much 51 elephants put together on a scale would weigh.The exact quantum of the plastic polluting Mumbai’s shoreline, however, is hard to know. In a paper published by the Elsevier Journal Science of the Total Environment in August last year, a group of researchers from ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE) found that north-east Arabian Sea, just off Mumbai, contained an estimated 379 MT of marine debris of which plastics contributed to 40.6% of the total by weight. The rest consisted of varying proportions of “metal, glass, rubber, wood/paper, cloth/fibre and others (small degraded particles and natural debris like branches of a tree, coconut, etc),” the paper stated. The researchers used a technique called swept area method, where the ocean is trawled at selected sampling locations to collect data, which is then used to arrive at a metric called the mean catch per unit area or CPUA. The group conducted 25 trawls between September 2017 and May 2018, collecting 1,107 items of marine debris. Plastics items comprised 87% of it. “Among this, plastic bags and food wrappers were dominant,” the study noted.The mean CPUA of marine debris in Mumbai’s water was estimated at 22.4 kg per square kilometre of the ocean, though this method has its limitations as small objects like bottle caps, loose fibers and cigarette butts are not always caught in trawl nets. The researchers used this number to calculate the quantum of marine debris in the study area — 379MT.So what does this mean?Martin Xavier, who works at the Fisheries Resource Harvest and Post-harvest Management Division at CIFE, and was one of the scientists involved in the 25 trawls said that the plastic to fish ratio is an estimated 1:17. “For 17kg of fish caught by a trawler off the Mumbai coast, a corresponding 1kg of plastic is also inadvertently caught,” he said. “The presence of plastics is not just an environmental hazard, but also a health hazard. As the plastics remain in the environment, they become a source for microplastics which then find their way into the food chain and can bio-accumulate in humans,” added Xavier.In 2019, he led a study that estimated that there were 80 microplastic particles per 100 grams of fish, bivalves (clams, oysters) and shrimp, caught in Mumbai. Microplastics are small pieces of plastic less than 5mm in length, which enter the environment from disposal and degradation of various consumer and industrial products. Over time, large pieces of plastic break off into tinier fragments under influence of wind, abrasion and exposure to UV light. These may be ingested by marine life, and move up the food chain when humans consume fish, for example.Studies show their potential to disrupt the body’s endocrine, reproductive and cardiovascular systems, in addition to potentially carcinogenic impact. “It is a serious concern as we found microplastic in the tissue, which is the edible part,” Xavier added.It’s not just the deep ocean that’s polluted. A 2013 study led by researchers at the National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency, Sri Lanka, found a mean abundance of 68.83 items of plastic per square metre of land on four beaches in Mumbai: Dadar, Mahim, Juhu and Aksa.A more recent study, published in July this year by researchers at CIFE found that plastics dominate the composition of marine debris in Mumbai’s mangrove forests, comprising 62% of all surface debris items (by number) and 43 percent (by weight) collected from Versova, Gorai, Bandra Bandstand, Sewri, Vikhroli and Elephanta Island. Such empirical findings come as no surprise to environmentalists and citizens, some of whom have stepped in to clean up. One of them is Afroz Shah, a lawyer and environmentalist who was credited with organising the world’s largest beach up in Versova, in 2015, and has since kept up efforts at keeping the beach clean.“In seven years of organising beach clean ups, we’ve collected a total of 85,000 tonnes of plastic from just two beaches, Versova and Danapani. Most of it is plastic, and most of the plastic is food wrappers and multi-layered packaging, or MLP. MLP is so conspicuous precisely because it is essentially impossible to recycle, and the informal system of rag-pickers has no use for it,” Shah said.His team of volunteers now regularly segregates MLPs and sends them to a pyrolysis plant where they are turned into oil.In the past year, in the midst of an unfolding catastrophe like the Covid-19 pandemic, we’ve also added more plastic to our daily use: PPE kits, gloves, face shields, N95 masks. Plastic, plastic everywherePlastic typically enters the ocean through the city’s drainage channels and rivers, along with other pollutants like sewage and industrial waste. One way to reduce its ingress into the sea would then be to clean these channels.Under the Mithi River Rejuvenation pilot, the city purchased a specialised machine for mechanical removal of plastic waste (developed by Finland’s RiverRecycle project; the MMRDA is overseeing the project in association with the global Marine Debris Partnership). The machine is essentially a floating barge with a mechanical barrier that segregates and extracts plastic waste and other debris from the water. It is capable of cleaning up about 50 tonnes of waste a day. But experts argue that this is hardly enough. An assessment by the state mangrove cell across 14 locations in 2019 found that more than 50,000 tonnes of plastic was strewn in mangrove forests alone. Plastic garbage and sewage is found in the other city’s rivers too. According to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, the state itself produced over 300,000 tonnes of plastic waste in the year 20-21 alone.“A better option would be to install grates at the sea end of various outflows and have them cleaned regularly. This has been a demand of environmentalists in the past that we have also suggested in the High Court, but the municipality has not shown any inclination toward considering it,” said Stalin D, director of city-based NGO Vanashakti, which is currently pursuing litigation in the Supreme Court to curtail pollution of city drains.For those living in closest proximity to this waste, like Bamaniya, the conspicuousness of plastics has become easy to overlook. “I know it is bad for the environment, and that the fish eat it, but I really don’t know what else to tell you,” he said.What’s fuelling the crisis?On paper, Shah explained, India has a robust set of laws to deal with plastic waste, including the Centre’s Solid Waste Management Rules and Plastic Waste Management Rules. In 2020, the Centre also came up with a draft policy called the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR), which makes manufacturers responsible for recycling an amount of plastic equivalent to what they generate.And while these rules clearly outline pathways for collection, segregation and recycling of plastic, they only address the problem of plastic once it has turned into waste.“In the journey of plastic, it doesn’t start out as waste. There is what I call the pre-litter stage, when plastics exist on shelves of stores and in our homes as items of use. It’s only when they fall out of use that they become waste, and that transition is something that the law has not even begun to address,” Shah said. What is required instead is what experts call a circular economy of plastic, in which these materials aren’t allowed to turn into environmental contaminants. “The EPR rules are meant to address this, but there are problems with it. For example, a manufacturer who produces 10kg of MLPs in a day is not actually required to recycle the same kind of plastic. He can just as easily recycle 10kg of PET bottles, which have more resale value, and fulfill his responsibility. The law generalises the types of plastic, and leaves room for the worst kind to become pollutants. This is why we are stuck in a post-litter narrative, and why beaches need to be constantly cleaned,” Shah said.What’s more, there is no legal mandate for the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board to act on plastic pollution in the ocean. “The mandate of the MPCB is to regulate industries. In the event that an industrial unit is found to be violating the Water Act, we revoke our clearances. But as far as the specific issue of plastic pollution in the ocean is concerned, there is no legal mandate for us to act. Our job is to make sure industries don’t pollute, and the BMC’s job is to keep the beach clean. Where the sand ends and water begins, there is a lack of clarity as to who is accountable for the problem.” HERE’S WHAT WE CAN DOLimit thickness of plastic carry bags, ban manufacture of plastic lesser than 5 microns thick, phase out single use plasticSanction the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) guidelines which places onus of recycling on the manufacturers Recycle more. The state has the capacity to recycle 365,236 tonnes per annum in its 111 recycling units. In 2020-21, Maharashtra generated 311,254 tonnes of plastic; collected 251,556 tonnes of plastic waste; of that, sent 23,237 tonnes to landfills and recycled 221,278 tonnes. Give plastic a longer social life; create a circular economySources: Plastic Waste Management Rules and Solid Waste Management Rules: Central Pollution Control Board)Quote 1: “Whenever we receive segregated waste from generators, all the components including plastic are properly recycled. Pollution happens because of littering and lack of segregation at source, which is as much a responsibility of citizens as that of authorities. The Extended Producer Responsibility guidelines, once implemented, should be able to address the current situation. We have been working closely with the pollution control board for sustainable waste management and will continue to do so.” Minesh Damodar Pimple, deputy chief engineer in the BMC’s solid waste management division Quote 2: “A manufacturer is not required to recycle the same kind of plastic he produces. He can just as easily recycle 10kg of PET bottles that have more resale value. The law generalises the types of plastic, and leaves room for the worst kind to become pollutants”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/plastic-pollution-a-crisis-in-mumbai-s-beaches-and-the-arabian-sea-101636309809709.html
