14-11-2021||Other||Cong supporters rally in Bholath against Sukhpal Khaira’s arrest||Jalandhar Opposing the arrest of former Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, his son Mehtab Singh Khaira on Sunday addressed a gathering of workers at his native village Ramgarh on Sunday and said that this action of ED was totally illegal, unconstitutional and aimed at state elections. This has been done under a well thought out conspiracy. He said his father was not involved in any criminal activity and had not committed any wrongdoing as alleged by the Central Investigation Agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-supporters-rally-in-bholath-against-sukhpal-khaira-s-arrest-101636914554500.html
14-11-2021||Noida||Around 7,800 candidates turn up at 2-day job fair in Noida||Seeking employment, 7,800 applicants turned up at the job fair organised by the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authorities at the Shilp Haat campus in Noida this week, said officials on Sunday.Hundreds of companies participated in the two-day event, which ended on Sunday. The three authorities had organised the job fair after local farmers in Gautam Budh Nagar, comprising Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas demanded jobs for their children in companies and factories which are functional in these three industrial hubs.The Noida authority was appointed as the nodal agency to look after the job fair operations.22 organisations related with industrial units, including micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) association in Noida, Noida Entrepreneur Association, Udyog Bharti, and Ecotech III industrial association, among others, set up their desks to collect details of the applicants at the fair.“7,800 applications from different candidates were collected at the job fair. We have accepted the biodata of these candidates, and also informed them that now they will be called for an interview by the respective organisation at their offices for selection. They will get the jobs as per their qualification,” said Surendra Nahta, president of MSME association, Noida.3,300 applications were received on the first day, and 4,500 applications on the second day. Top officials of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway monitored the job fair. Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari visited the event on Saturday and Sunday, and Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan also visited the Shilp Haat both the days to oversee the job fair.“All agencies have been told that they should give priority to the children of farmers, who gave their land for the development of this city,” said Maheshwari.The authority has asked all the organisations and companies which took part in the event to call candidates for interview within a month and select them according to their need and qualification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/around-7-800-candidates-turn-up-at-2-day-job-fair-in-noida-101636914553204.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong leader Sidana may join SAD||Chandigarh Days after Congress leader Raman Behl joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), party’s Punjab unit intellectual cell chairman Anish Sidana, a senior leader from the Hindu community, appears set to leave the party. Sidana, a member of the Kandi Area Development Board (KADB) till a few months ago, is likely to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) along with several of his associates. “He has already had a few rounds of meetings with SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and is tentatively scheduled to join the party this week,” said sources close to the Congress leader. The intellectual cell chairman’s exit, if it goes according to plan, will be a setback for the ruling party, which is already facing the challenge of retaining its Hindu leaders. The rival parties, SAD and AAP, have also started making efforts to woo its Hindu and OBC leaders. On November 9, Behl had joined the AAP, which has been looking to expand its base in Majha, after resigning from the post of chairman of Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board. In June, former MLA Ashwani Sekhri was to join the SAD, but changed his mind at the last minute after Congress leaders reached out to him. Sidana, who belongs to Jalalabad and remained opposed to Sukhbir in the past, has been from time to time voicing his concerns regarding their lack of adequate representation. On October 31, Sidana, in an “open letter” to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, raised the issues of neglect of leaders of these communities, lack of consultation with dedicated workers and indiscipline in the party. Six months ago, he had resigned from KADB over some of these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-leader-sidana-may-join-sad-101636914551964.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab basketball championship: Sri Amritsar Club, Generals lift titles||The women’s basketball team of Sri Amritsar Club and boys’ team of The Generals from Ludhiana Basketball Academy won the finals of the senior Punjab Open 3x3 Basketball Championship for men and women at the Guru Nanak Stadium on the concluding day of the six-day tournament.Sri Amritsar Club defeated Swag Ballers 21-13. Punjabi Cops, a women’s team of Punjab Police, bagged the third spot by defeating Khalsa Warriors 16-13. Meanwhile, in the men’s category, The Generals defeated The Iconics by 21-20. Warriors Club men beat Punjabi Hoopers by 21-8 to bag the third spot.Eight matches each were played in both men’s and women’s categories on the concluding day of the tournament.“Basketball has been popularised in Ludhiana by the District Basketball Association under the guidance of PBA,” said Brij Bhushan Goyal, a DBA official. As many as 220 players in the senior category participated from across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-basketball-championship-sri-amritsar-club-generals-lift-titles-101636914493976.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Warring launches ‘No Challan Day’ road safety campaign||Punjab transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring launched the statewide ‘No Challan Day’, a road safety campaign, on the occasion of Children’s Day from Jalandhar on Sunday. The campaign was simultaneously organised at 100 locations across the state in collaboration with the police department, Punjab Youth Congress, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) Punjab, Mahila Congress, besides NGOs taking an active part in disseminating traffic and road awareness among commuters. Traffic violators were administered a pledge instead of being issued a challan between 10am to 12 noon to sensitise them towards their own safety and of others travelling on the road.Speaking on the occasion, Warring said every life lost in accidents is a loss for the nation. “Let us all today on the Children’s Day vow to make our state safest for our children and let us start it with roads,” said the minister while making an emotional appeal to citizens to adopt traffic compliance into their day to day behaviour.Launching the campaign, Warring expressed concern over the average high rate of road fatalities in the state and directed the department to ensure the strictest implementation of low and safe speed limits within school areas to ensure the safety of children.“Punjab loses 10-12 precious lives every day in road crashes, which is a serious cause of concern. It would be highly regrettable if we do not act now to ensure a safe road environment for our kids, the collective onus of which falls on all of us. It starts with you and me at home and from our schools to make our children vigilant about traffic rules,” he said. Warring said under the leadership of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, the party will secure a thumping victory in the forthcoming assembly elections. He also attacked former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for colluding with the Badals in the “loot” of Punjab’s resources.‘Capt was a compromised CM‘Ludhiana Amrinder Singh Raja Warring termed Captain Amarinder Singh a “compromised chief minister” at an event in Ludhiana. He said Captain Amarinder had a secret pact with the BJP and the SAD and helped them regaining lost ground in the state. “I have a hunch that it was all planned. The formation of a new party, announcing an alliance with the BJP and then trying to please farmers by saying that he (Captain Amarinder ) had a word with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over repealing the three farm laws. But people will not forget the death of over 650 farmers at protest sites,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/warring-launches-no-challan-day-road-safety-campaign-101636914372701.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar wins Punjab junior softball championship||The Amritsar junior boys’ team on Sunday emerged champions in the 26th Junior State Softball Championship held at Guru Nanak Stadium. They defeated the hosts Ludhiana 3-2 in the finals.The tournament was organised by Punjab Softball Association, in collaboration with Ludhiana Softball Association.PN Passi, secretary, Punjab Softball Association, awarded the medals to the winners along with their coaches Jaspreet, Nirmaljit Kaur, Ranjit Singh, Ramesh Kumar, Rakesh Kumar and Indervir Singh.A total of 13 boys’ teams participated in the tournament including Amritsar, Gurdaspur, SAS Nagar, Moga, Barnala, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Malerkotla, Mansa, Sangrur, Patiala, Tarn Taran and Ludhiana.In the semi-finals, Amritsar beat Fazilka 1-0 and Ludhiana beat Ferozepur 5-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-wins-punjab-junior-softball-championship-101636914313322.html
14-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad aims to jab all beneficiaries with first vaccine dose by November 15||With Ghaziabad district lagging behind in vaccinating beneficiaries in different age groups, officials of the health department said they will use a host of measures to achieve their target of administering at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to all the eligible beneficiaries by November 15. According to official data, the district has a target of vaccinating 2,702,167 beneficiaries, of whom 2,296,012 people have received at least the first dose till November 13. The first dose coverage is about 84.97%.  The second dose coverage is about 43.08% with 1,164,119 beneficiaries jabbed with both the doses of Covid-19. “The government has given us a target of covering all the eligible beneficiaries with the first dose by November, we are aiming to meet this target by November 15. If there are still some beneficiaries left out, we will adopt different measures to administer the first vaccine dose to them,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. Officials of the district health department said they are taking different measures to increase the vaccination coverage. “We will achieve this target in all probabilities. During the festive season, the turnout at the vaccination centres was low but it will pick up now. Our door-to-door survey is already in place, as part of which our teams are trying to find out those who have still not taken a single vaccine dose and encouraging them to take the jab,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination. “We are also running vaccination drives in the evening at 17-18 locations everyday for the convenience of working professionals. Our daily vaccine allocation has also increased from 23,000 to 33,000. Hence, we are hoping to achieve the first dose target in the next couple of days,” said Dr Mathuria. Data from the health department shows it has completed administering the first vaccine dose to all the beneficiaries identified under the ‘healthcare workers’ and ‘frontline workers’ categories. The first dose coverage for the 18-45 years age group is about 85.48% while it is 92.14% for the 45+ age group category. Experts said that now is the right time to get both the vaccine doses. “Since the Covid cases are very less and have considerably declined, it is vital that beneficiaries get vaccinated at the earliest,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). According to official figures, till Saturday morning (November 13), the overall tally of Covid-19 cases in the district stood at 55,676, of which three are active cases. The death toll has stood at 461 ever since the last fatality was reported on June 18 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-aims-to-jab-all-beneficiaries-with-first-vaccine-dose-by-november-15-101636914252074.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Assembly elections: Ludhiana Admn holds relay to rally voters in district||To motivate people to vote in the upcoming assembly elections, the district administration on Sunday organised a relay race in Atam Nagar and Ludhiana south constituencies, following the directions of deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer, Varinder Kumar Sharma.In Atam Nagar, the race commenced from Government Model Senior Secondary School and ended back at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Model Town. As many as 70 students participated in the race and held placards stating “make vote and cast vote” to encourage residents to cast their votes in the assembly elections.The relay race was held under the supervision of MC joint commissioner Poonampreet Kaur and was led by assistant SVEEP nodal officer Balwant Singh, Yogesh Chander along with principal Harwinder Kaur, BLO Aseem Prabhkar, Rajiv Sharma, Sarbjeet Singh, Kamalpreet Kaur, Deepak Kumar and others.In Ludhiana south, a similar relay race was held under the supervision of ARO Mahesh Gupta. More than 300 students participated in the race that started from Vikas Public School and moved to Sunshine Public School, GK Public High School and then back at Vikas Public School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-ludhiana-admn-holds-relay-to-rally-voters-in-district-101636914193877.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 25 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Sunday reported 25 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 602,795, according to a medical bulletin. The state registered the positivity rate of 0.09% and 323 active cases. With one Covid-related fatality reported in Fatidkot district, the death toll reached 16,572, the bulletin said. Among the fresh cases, eight were reported in Jalandhar, five in Amritsar and three each in Faridkot and Mohali.With 11 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 585,900 the bulletin said. As many as 22,362 tests were done and 17,620 vaccine doses were administered on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-25-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101636914192177.html
14-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Exam solver arrested||PRAYAGRAJ: Dhumanganj police arrested an exam solver, who was to appear in SSC stenographer recruitment examination in place of another candidate on Saturday. A case has been registered against the accused under sections 419, 420, 467, 48, 471 and 6/10 of UP Public Examination Act 1998, police said. Station house officer (SHO) of Dhumanganj police station, Tarkeshwar Rai said, staffers at Madhu Vachaspati Intermediate College examination centre, Sulem Sarai, were suspicious of one of the aspirants, who was to appear in the exam as Mohd Nizam, son of Mohd Usman of Soraon area. The school authorities detained the suspect and took him to police station. During questioning, the suspect told police that his real name was Hasan Yadav, son of Vishnu Yadav, a resident of Agam Kuan area of Patna in Bihar. Hasan informed police that he had come to appear in the examination in place of his friend Mohd Nizam on forged documents.“A forged PAN card, fake voter identity card and admit card were recovered from his possession,” the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-exam-solver-arrested-101636914132103.html
14-11-2021||Noida||Two mobile vans flagged off to educate street children||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar police flagged off two mobile vans on Sunday on the occasion of Children’s Day with the aim of educating street children who have not been put in schools or have dropped out. The vans, under Nanhe Parinde initiative, are equipped with books, LCD screens, sound systems, CCTV cameras and sanitization infrastructure among other facilities. The initiative, supported by HCL Foundation and Chetna NGO, was originally launched on January 24 this year. Through this initiative, children are first introduced to the concept of schools and then put into mainstream education. As part of the initiative, two such vans were already operational in the district. Police said with the help of this initiative,108 out-of-school children have been brought into the fold of education system, of whom 69 have been enrolled in local schools and 39 are taking online lessons.“These children have improved their life by learning new life skills such as child rights, safe and unsafe touch, leadership and planning, decision making, and self awareness,” said a statement by Noida police. Alok Singh, commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said this initiative has resulted in creating a confident and favourable environment for the disadvantaged children. “This effort will further protect the children from getting into conflict with law and will empower them to follow their dreams and contribute to the nation building. These children are the future of our country and together, we need to nurture and support their hidden talent from an early age to help them become responsible citizens,” he said.Nidhi Pundir, director of HCL Foundation, said with this initiative, they have been able to bring a positive transformation in the lives of many children.“The success of the programmes in the first phase propelled us to expand the initiative by adding two new mobile education and protection vans,” she said. Sanjay Gupta, director of Chetna NGO said, “We have designed these vans keeping in mind all the needs of street children. These vans are also equipped with the necessary infrastructure required to maintain Covid appropriate behaviour, security cameras, seats, nutrition packets, and stationery to provide quality education to children,” he said. The vans will visit different areas and connect with 50-60 students every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-mobile-vans-flagged-off-to-educate-street-children-101636914073113.html
14-11-2021||Gurugram||Senior citizens meet Haryana CM, demand better social, physical infra||A delegation of retired officials, former bureaucrats, and senior citizens called on Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday, and presented a set of demands on creating social and physical infrastructure for them.The senior citizens, who met the chief minister on Sunday, said that clubs and community centres for senior citizens should be constructed in the city and they should be allowed to organise events at senior citizens’ club in Sector 4.TK Sharma, former divisional commissioner of Gurugram and president of Gurugram federation of senior citizens welfare forums, said that a delegation of seven senior citizens apprised the chief minister about problems being faced by them, and set of measures that could be taken to make their lives better. “We have demanded that the government should observe October 1 every year as senior citizens’ day, as mandated by the United Nations (UN). There is also a need to create more social and physical infrastructure conducive to make life easier for senior citizens. Almost 10% of the population falls in this category,” said Sharma.The delegation also demanded that six sites earmarked by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) for senior citizen homes and facilities should be developed as only one in Sector 4 has been made. “We have requested that the first floor of a senior citizen home should be assigned to us for some activities. The community centres also remain vacant throughout the year, and could be opened for the senior citizens for meetups and other social activities,” he added.They also demanded that at least one senior citizen from recognised forums should be included in the district grievance committee, consumer cells, and other tribunals as a large number of issues also pertain to their community. The delegation also submitted that police and other agencies should be asked to coordinate in a better manner and build better relationships with senior citizens, to ensure that they are safe and secure.A spokesperson of the district administration said that the chief minister heard their demands and assured them that action would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/senior-citizens-meet-haryana-cm-demand-better-social-physical-infra-101636914072321.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||DMCH holds free sugar check-up camp on World Diabetes Day||The endocrinology department of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) organised a free sugar check-up camp at its OPD Block on Sunday on World Diabetes day This year marks the 100th anniversary of the discovery of insulin and the theme this time is : “Access to diabetes care: if not now, when?”.Secretary of DMCH’s managing society, Prem Kumar Gupta, said that the hospital is conducting such health awareness programmes regularly for the benefit of the society.Dr Parminder Singh,professor and head of endocrinology, said that diabetes is a major concern worldwide and a major cause for blindness, kidney failure, stroke, lower limb amputation and heart attack. Although it has no cure, patients can take steps to manage it and stay healthy, he added.Dr Naveen Mitta, professor, department of endocrinology, said that sedentary lifestyle and lack of physical exercise are some of the major causes of the diseaseDr Saurabh Arora, assistant professor, department of endocrinology, said that major symptoms of diabetes include increased thirst and urination, increased hunger, blurred vision, unexplained weight loss and numbness or tingling in the feet or hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dmch-holds-free-sugar-check-up-camp-on-world-diabetes-day-101636913951961.html
14-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Residents want sound barriers to curb noise pollution||Residents having houses along Noida’s first elevated road cannot enjoy sound sleep because of noise and vehicular pollution along the area which passes through this road, officials said on Sunday.They demanded a sound barrier and adequate measures as their peace is disturbed, particularly during wee hours. They also demanded a remedy to address this issue, but the Noida authority has not taken any action on this for a long time, said the officials.In June 2017, the Noida authority had opened ₹500 crore budget for the city’s first elevated road for the public use. There is no dense green belt which can work as a buffer zone between the residential areas of sectors 22, 27, 28, 53 and 61, and the 4.8-km-long elevated road. As a result, vehicular pollution and noise keep affecting the health of the people in the residential area.“The biggest trouble is the honking by heavy vehicles which ferry construction materials during the night time. Their unregulated honking during wee hours troubles the residents the most and it is so annoying that we cannot sleep peacefully during this time. We have taken up the matter with the authority officials but nothing has happened till date,” said Atul Gupta, a resident of Noida Sector 28.The elevated road begins from Sector 28 and ends at Sector 61. It is above the Master Plan 2 road which is surrounded by residential areas such as sectors 28, 26, 26, 23, 53 and 61 in Noida.“There are two issues -- noise pollution and air pollution which we are facing. The air is saturated in the morning. The air is so heavy as if it is mixed with oil, and we face this issue perennially. During winters, the issue aggravates further. We are working from home and it is like living in hell here. This road has become a highway, troubling us. Due to farmers blocking the Meerut-Delhi Expressway, Delhi-bound heavy traffic is being diverted towards this road, troubling us even more,” said Rakhi Sinha, another resident of Sector 28.Sector 61 federation of apartment associations has written to Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, and the Noida authority demanding action on this issue, but nothing has happened so far. “The elevated road and service lane facing our sector remains congestion ridden daily, during the peak hours, thereby, leading to air pollution and noise pollution. We hope the authority will act on this issue,” said Namit Gautam, general secretary of association -- an umbrella body of the apartment complexes.The Noida authority’s chief general manager, Rajiv Tyagi, said, “We will look into the issue and act appropriately. We are yet to receive any proposal on the issue. Let the proposal from residents’ come and we will address the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residents-want-sound-barriers-to-curb-noise-pollution-101636913892142.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police seize 1,795 rolls of plastic kite string||With the kite flying season just round the corner, shopkeepers have already started smuggling plastic kite string into the city. One such attempt to smuggle in the banned strings was foiled when a pick-up auto carrying 1,795 rolls of plastic kite strings was stopped for checking. Faced by cops, the driver fled, leaving his vehicle behind. Assistant sub-inspector Surjit Singh said the police held setup a checkpoint near Khwaja Kothi Chowk where the pick-up auto comprising 25 cartons of string was stopped for checking. A case was filed under Sections 188 (disobeying a public servant), 336 (negligence endangering other’s lives) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and Environment Protection Act. Joint commissioner of police (JCP) J Elanchezhian has banned the storage and sale of plastic kite strings under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), terming it dangerous for humans as well as animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-seize-1-795-rolls-of-plastic-kite-string-101636913772236.html
14-11-2021||Noida||Air quality improves in Noida, Ghaziabad after a span of 10 days||The air quality for all the three cities significantly improved on Sunday for the first time in the last 10 days since November 5, a day after Diwali from when pollution levels started spiking and the air quality began deteriorating. According to the air quality index (AQI) bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) , the air quality fell from the ‘severe’ to the ‘very poor’ category on Sunday with Ghaziabad recording an AQI of 331,Greater Noida 310 and Noida 321. The figures indicate that Sunday was the least polluted day for all the three cities since November 4, the day Diwali was celebrated. An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. The improvement in the air quality on Sunday was a source of relief for Ghaziabad, which has been reeling under the ‘severe’ category for 10 straight days since Diwali. Noida too suffered from ‘severe’ air quality for nine days from November 4 to 13, except on November 10. The air quality in Greater Noida hovered between the upper end of the ‘very poor’ category and the lower end of the ‘severe’ category during this period.According to the CPCB data, the air quality started worsening from November 5 with Noida being the most polluted city in the country on that day with an AQI of 475. The AQI in Ghaziabad stood at 470 while in Greater Noida, it was 464. The three cities witnessed the worst air quality on November 12 with Noida recording an AQI of 488,Ghaziabad 486 and Greater Noida 478.  On Sunday, despite the pollution levels being low, all the four air quality monitoring stations in Ghaziabad and two in Greater Noida recorded PM2.5 as the primary pollutant while the four stations in Noida had both PM10 and PM2.5 as the primary pollutants. According to the figures of the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), the share of stubble burning in PM2.5, which peaked to 48% on November 7, drastically dropped to 12% on Sunday. “The AQI today (Sunday) indicates ‘very poor’ category and is likely to improve for the next two days as winds at transport level are slowing down, resulting in lesser intrusion of farm fires related pollutants into Delhi. However, calm local winds reduce dispersion of pollutants. Net effect is likely to make air quality remain (in the) ‘very poor’ category,” said the Safar forecast. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board said they are closely monitoring the situation. “The improvement in air quality started since Saturday night. The layers of air above the ground level are slow, resulting in lesser influx of pollutants. We will keep tracking the meteorological conditions in the coming days. The directions given by the sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management have been forwarded to the different departments,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. The committee, during its meeting on November 13, observed that PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations have come down below the standard limits. According to CPCB data, the PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations breeched the standard limits on two days since Diwali--November 5 and 12. In view of the prevailing situation, the committee has now directed the states and agencies to be ready to implement ‘emergency measures’ listed under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). It asked agencies to ensure uninterrupted power supply to discourage the use of generator sets, stopping the use of diesel generator sets (except for emergency purposes), increasing the parking fee,stopping the of use of coal/firewood in hotels and open eateries and stringently enforce/stop garbage burning in landfills and other places among other measures. Residents said that given the prevailing conditions, they are taking extra precautions and staying indoors as much as possible. “The impact of pollution can be felt even inside our homes. I am running three air purifiers at home and have stopped stepping outside. There is considerable difference in breathing, when I move to the other rooms which do not have air purifiers,” said V K Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments RWA. Environmentalists said they were expecting better air quality this year due to the restriction on firecrackers. “The situation turned out to be worse as both Noida and Ghaziabad continued to be in ‘severe’ zone for days together since Diwali. The measures to control local sources of pollution lacks sting,” said Akash Vashishtha, an environmentalist from Ghaziabad. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality early warning system for Delhi, the air quality is likely to deteriorate but remain in the ‘very poor’ category on November 15 and 16. “The outlook for subsequent five days: The air quality is likely to remain in upper end of ‘very poor’ category. PM2.5 to be the predominant pollutant,” said the forecast. It also predicted a shallow to moderate fog in the morning of November 16 due to predominant surface winds that are likely to come from the northwest direction of Delhi at a speed of 4-8 kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-improves-in-noida-ghaziabad-after-a-span-of-10-days-101636913593024.html
14-11-2021||Other||Two held for murder in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur District police have solved the murder case of 22-year-old youth Aryan Hans, of locality Hari Nagar, by arresting two accused. Hans’s blood-soaked body was recovered in Bhangi choe on November 12. SSP Kulwant Singh Heer said city resident Dalvir Singh and Bassi Maruf resident Manminder Singh had been arrested and charged with murder. He claimed that the duo had killed Hans using stones and sharp-edged weapons over some enmity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-murder-in-hoshiarpur-101636913591792.html
14-11-2021||Gurugram||With 11 fresh cases, Gurugram’s Covid positivity rate sees slight uptick||Gurugram reported 115 cases of Covid-19 in the past two weeks with a slight increase in the positivity rate, according to the district health department data, said officials on Sunday.“There has been a slight increase in Covid-19 cases in the past few days , and we have sent a proposal to the district administration to declare three places as containment zones in the city. The positivity rate in the district, which increased by 0.1% in the last two weeks, stands at 0.4%. The situation is under control, but we are still conducting regular tests and rigorous contact tracing,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram. The district reported 11 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, as four patients recovered, with 77 active cases in the district. Of the 77 cases, 70 patients are in home isolation and seven are hospitalised.Experts said that the increase in the Covid-19 cases can be attributed to social gatherings, especially during the festive season. Dr Amitabh Parti, director of internal medicine, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said, “There has been an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks. This has spiked following the festive season. The increase can be correlated to social gatherings, crowds at shopping areas, and probably the festivals which led to the accumulation of large groups of people and spread of the virus. Most infections we are seeing are breakthrough infections. In fact, most cases are being seen in the people who have already received both the doses of vaccines, and most of the individuals are elderly people.” He said that the intensity of Covid-19 is not of concern because most of the patients are responding well to conventional symptomatic therapy, and not too many complications are being seen. Meanwhile, 1,705 people were vaccinated on Sunday, with 314 people being administered the first dose and 1,391 being administered the second dose. Till now, over 3.68 million people have been vaccinated in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/with-11-fresh-cases-gurugram-s-covid-positivity-rate-sees-slight-uptick-101636913531867.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP cries foul over Ludhiana deputy commissioner’s transfer||Alleging that deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma had been transferred for not kowtowing to those in power, the district unit of the Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday demanded revocation of the transfer orders. AAP’s Ludhiana in-charge Amandeep Singh Mohi said, “This is a punishment transfer as the DC had not allowed the sale of the land of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust at rates much lower than the market value and for marking an inquiry against a legislator.” We have written to the election commission of India, requested that attempts to dislodge an “honest and upright officer” be thwarted. AAP’s Punjab spokesperson Ahbaab Singh Grewal said AAP will not allow the transfer of an officer who had saved”hundreds of crores of public money. The Congress is planning to replace Sharma with a tainted officer who is facing corruption charges and has no experience with administrative affairs.” APP leaders Gurjit Singh Gill, Madan Laal Bagga and Ashok Prashar (Pappi) said the SAD and Congress were hand in glove with each other in protecting the corrupt and penalising honest officers.On the other hand, Ludhiana improvement trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramaniam slammed the allegations as baseless. “They appear to be uneducated lot .The AAP leader are levelling baseless allegations just to stay relevant. The auction concerned has been cancelled and the matter is pending for hearing in a court of law,” said Balasubramaniam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-cries-foul-over-ludhiana-deputy-commissioner-s-transfer-101636913357528.html
14-11-2021||Gurugram||Crackdown on old polluting vehicles in Gurugram||The traffic police, in a crackdown on polluting diesel vehicles from January to November 14 this year, impounded over 360 vehicles and penalised over 28,000 violators for parking on the wrong side of the road and leaving their ignition on.Police started an extensive drive last Monday to impound old vehicles plying in violation of environmental norms leading to pollution.Orders issued by the National Green Tribunal in 2015, as well as the Supreme Court in 2018, state that diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years cannot ply in the National Capital Region (NCR) due to high levels of air pollution. In July 2016, the Haryana government also passed a similar order, banning such vehicles in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts.Owners of such vehicles were directed to either replace such vehicles or sell them as scrap material. The Gurugram traffic police said they impounded 858 such vehicles from 2018 to November 14, 2021.Gurugram on Sunday recorded an Air Quality Index reading of 287, in the “poor” category.Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said that they deployed over 25 teams on highways and internal roads to check diesel vehicles. “We are impounding polluting diesel vehicles every day and heavily penalising people parking vehicles on the wrong side of the roads with the ignition on,” he said.Balhara said parked vehicles with the ignition on lead to a rise in pollution and they penalise over 200 commuters every day. “Our teams are deployed in two shifts and the highway is our prime concern as heavy vehicles add to pollution,” he said.Balhara said that traffic policemen were directed to penalise people with ₹500 for a first-time offence and ₹1,500 for a second-time offence. “Impounded vehicles are parked in the nearest police station and later given away to be scrapped. A fine of ₹5,000 is also generated against the offender on the spot and owners are only returned the vehicles if they agree to scrap them,” he said.Police said the air pollution levels rise in the city as farmers in northern states set their paddy fields afire to remove leftover stubble after harvest to prepare the soil for sowing the next crop. Such is the impact of stubble burning that air quality levels are often 30-35 times higher than the permissible limit across the NCR.Vehicular pollution in the city further compounds problems during winter.Authorities on Friday advised people to limit outdoor activities and told government and private offices to cut vehicle use by at least 30% as air quality in Delhi-NCR inched towards the emergency level amid a rise in emissions from farm fires and unfavourable meteorological conditions.The measures to be followed in the ‘emergency’ situation include stopping the entry of trucks in Delhi, a ban on construction activities and introducing the odd-even car rationing scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/crackdown-on-old-polluting-vehicles-in-gurugram-101636913292407.html
14-11-2021||Gurugram||Four held in Faridabad for robbing commuters on highway||Faridabad police on Saturday arrested a gang of four persons allegedly involved in over 100 robberies. Police said they targeted commuters travelling on the highway, stopped them by threatening them with iron rods and wooden sticks and robbed them of their belongings and cash. Police are currently interrogating them and also trying to find out about their involvement in other cases. Police said the men are from Nuh and were jailed for a similar crime earlier. They recovered iron rods, wooden sticks and a torch from the men’s possession. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that the police have increased night patrolling in the area and near the highway from where incidents of robberies were being reported. “We deployed a team at night and kept a close watch on the movement of commuters at Faridpur crossing. The team witnessed four men reaching the roadside with sticks and rods and stopping motorists,” he said. The suspects were identified as Rashid Khan, Sazid Khan, Akhlaq and Armaan Khan of Pinagwan, Nuh. Police said they caught the suspects in the act. Kadiyan said the suspects were travelling in a Swift car and had parked it in the middle of the road. “One of the suspects would carry a torch and the other three would threaten the victims with rods and sticks and rob them,” he said.He said that the police team laid a trap and reached the area. The men tried to rob them but after realising they were cops, tried to flee. Police said the men are drug addicts and would gamble with the money they robbed. The suspects had also stolen motorcycles from Faridabad, which police recovered from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-held-in-faridabad-for-robbing-commuters-on-highway-101636912871682.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: South MCD forms committee to audit waste management concessionaires||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has constituted a committee to probe the billing and auditing of private concessionaires managing municipal waste collection and transportation in its zones. The order to form a panel that will audit records from the last three months, was issued after unanimous approval from the standing committee of the civic body. Col BK Oberoi (retd), the standing committee chairman, said that the committee will also comprise councillors from other zones and Opposition members. Several standing committee members recently highlighted that while the agreement of the local body with the private companies stipulates strong penal provisions and fines in case of violations and absence of mandated machinery/manpower, the department of environment management services (DEMS), or sanitation department, has rarely imposed these provisions.Col Oberoi (retd) said that the municipal commissioner and deputy commissioners have been directed to submit the records from the last three months. “We will look into the issues that are affecting solid waste management. According to the agreement, private concessionaires are expected to have a certain number of garbage collection and transportation vehicles as well as enough manpower. If the vehicles are not present, then the billing should reflect it. We will crosscheck these records with the area councillors and fix accountability,” he said.Tulsi Joshi, standing committee member and representative from RK Puram ward said that in the zonal meetings, a majority of councillors have raised the issue of vehicles breaking down and norms being flouted, but the department has taken no action.Joshi said that according to the agreement’s Clause 108, there is a penalty on non-repair of damaged dhalaos and the sanitation department should submit a list of dhalaos to the company. “We have asked for communications about damaged dhalaos to be submitted to the committee. Moreover, the agreement states that there will be a penalty of ₹500 per day per garbage-lifting rickshaw. Twenty-five units are not working in our zone. Similarly, out of 264 auto-tippers, around 45-50 are non-operational in our zone. There is a penalty of ₹25,000 per day for not cleaning one dhalao. The penalty for our zone alone totals ₹2.6 crore, but such penalties are not being issued despite so many shortfalls,” she said. Suresh Kumar, the municipal councillor from Khanpur, said that he has been facing similar problems.Councillors from Bharatiya Janata Party and Aam Aadmi Party have agreed to form a panel to look into the billing and penalties. The three-member committee will be headed by the standing committee chairperson and will comprise one member each from AAP and BJP. All four zones under SDMC are now managed by private concessionaires, three out of six zones under the north corporation are managed by private companies, and the east corporation has also outsourced garbage collection in both its zones to private companies. BS Vohra, who heads the east Delhi residents’ welfare association (RWA) joint front, said that they have not noticed any change in garbage collection in their area. “The same auto-tipper has been making visits in our area for several years,” Vohra said. Atul Goel, who heads URJA -a collective body of RWAs, said that the accountability in managing waste can’t be fixed unless residents are involved in the oversight mechanism. “An independent committee should probe the shortcomings. We have been arguing for safai nigrani samitis-- local area committees at the ward level which have RWA representation. There should be a structured mechanism to monitor the functioning by default,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-south-mcd-forms-committee-to-audit-waste-management-concessionaires-101636912571789.html
14-11-2021||Bangalore||Bull valued at ₹1 crore star at Bengaluru’s Krishi Mela; semen in ‘high demand’, says owner||A three-and-half-year-old bull named Krishna, and valued at around ₹1 crore, has emerged as the centre of attraction at this year’s Krishi Mela being held in Bengaluru, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.Boregowda, who is the owner of the bull said the animal belongs to the ‘Hallikar’ breed, which is considered to be the “mother of all cattle breeds.”He further told ANI that the semen of this breed is in “high demand” and a dose of the same will be sold at ₹1,000.
14-11-2021||Mumbai||MSRTC operates 79 buses as strike continues||The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) operated 79 buses across the state on Sunday even as the indefinite strike called by its employees went into its 17th day. Workers of the corporation runs state transport bus service, started an indefinite strike on October 28 to demand the merger of the cash-strapped body with the Maharashtra government. The MSRTC is in bad shape financially though it runs a fleet of 18,500 buses, and cartered to 6.7 million commuters daily in the pre-pandemic era. Since the start of the strike, all 250 bus depots in the state were shut. A limited number of buses began to ply starting Friday as a few employees returned to work.The state has formed a three-member panel to look into the demands of the employees. Unions had called from a strike on October 27 which was later called off, but a section of employees continued their agitation. Their demands also include an increase in salary, dearness allowance and home allowances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/msrtc-operates-79-buses-as-strike-continues-101636912391900.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Relief for tourism sector as flying norms for foreign visitors eased||New Delhi: The Centre’s move to lift restrictions limiting arrival of foreigners on tourist visas to the country only by chartered flights on Monday is expected to give a boost to the tourism industry in the Capital that was hit hard by the Covid pandemic.With little to no business during the past 19 months, stakeholders from the tourism sector are being cautiously optimistic and hoping for a recovery. Ashok Kumar (24), manager at The Grace House hotel in Paharganj, said that due to the pandemic, business was hit as only around 4-5% of foreign tourists were currently coming to India on business and medical visas. He, however, said that it could take another six-seven months for business to bounce back. “We are dependent on foreign tourists and don’t get any domestic revenue. Our business has been nearly zero since March. We are hoping that more foreign tourists will start visiting the country... Our entire staff is fully vaccinated and prepared to welcome guests,” said Kumar, whose hotel is among the hundreds of establishments in the Paharganj main market.Peppered with multiple outlets engaging with tourist affairs -- like hotels, money changers, travel operators, restaurants or handicrafts shops -- the market used to be a go-to place for foreign tourists prior to the pandemic. With foreign tourists being the primary clientele for these outlets, business has been dull here since March last year.When HT visited the market earlier this week, it wore a largely deserted look, with owners sitting idle in shops.Sumit Chadha (45), who runs a handicrafts shop in Paharganj’s main market, said his outlet used to be frequented by many foreign tourists before the pandemic. “Over 70% of our clients are foreigners. Since the [initial] easing of restrictions, around 5-6 foreign clients have come to us. These are clients who have had a long relation with the country and us. Regular tourists are not coming at least as of now,” said Chadha. Reacting to the resumption of tourist visas, he said that the move alone would not be enough to attract tourists at a time when there was a lot of uncertainty regarding Covid. “Something is better than nothing but a lot more needs to be done if we want people to come back. It will be necessary to provide a safe environment and for that, enforcement of Covid norms is crucial. The government could organise a festival to show that the country is open for tourism,” said Chadha. While most stakeholders are hoping that the sector will pick up gradually, the optimism is not shared by everyone. Ajay Suri (56), a money exchanger, said that the pandemic has devastated his family. “There has been no business in the last two years. I had to sell my house to pay for medical bills. There is no income and I only come here because one cannot stay at home forever,” said Suri, who started working in the market at the age of 16. “Don’t trust anyone or any talks about revival now. Business has crashed completely. Till the time all flights are resumed normally, people will not return to India for tourism. Flight tickets are also expensive right now. It will take months for the business to pick up once all restrictions on flights are lifted,” said Suri. Dildar Singh, a city-based government-registered tourist guide, said that it was difficult to predict by when business would pick up. Since the pandemic started, he has only been catering to domestic tourists, many of whom do not prefer to hire the services of guides. “I think it will take some time for tourists to return. They could possibly start coming by December. I have seen a few foreigners working in the Embassy at monuments but other than that the footfall is mostly due to domestic tourists,” said Singh. Historian and author Swapna Liddle said that it was important to expand tourism beyond the popular places in a Covid-impacted world. Liddle said that instead of converging at the few popular sites, one could develop places that are less crowded. “There are many small places in Delhi and beyond which are beautiful and can be developed as tourist places. One simply needs to promote them and send out a message that tourists are welcome. We need to be mindful of covid and not congregate at small places with large crowds,” said Liddle. She added that while businesses were already running, the need of the hour was to instil confidence in visitors and make them believe that safe practices in compliance with covid were being adopted.Sanjeev Kumar, president, Government Approved Tourist Guide Association, Delhi, said that the revival of full-fledged would need a sentimental change which is unlikely to happen so soon. Kumar said that the resumption of tourist visas was only 1% of the efforts that need to be taken for the industry to bounce back. “Things are not changing right now. People do not travel without insurance and right now, insurance companies globally are yet to put travel in the normal category. Business tourists might continue to come but that will not have much of an impact on tourism unless travel advisories globally are relaxed,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhirelief-for-tourism-sector-as-flying-norms-for-foreign-visitors-eased-101636912211745.html
14-11-2021||Other||Chorus grows for Patiala mayor’s removal; councillors meet Mohindra||Patiala On a day when Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, wife of former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, and mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over development projects in Patiala, over 40 councillors in the local municipal corporation (MC) have sought removal of city mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu. Later, Preneet and Bittu also CM Captain Amarinder Singh at his Siswan farm house.Of 60 seats in MC House, 32 are in Captain’s constituency, 26 in local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra’s Patiala (rural) constituency and two in Sanaur.Councillors met local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra late on Sunday evening and submitted a signed document, seeking removal of Bittu, a close protégé of Amarinder and Preneet.Mohindra said the councillors have lost confidence in the mayor and had requested him to resolve the issue. “Seventeen councillors from Patiala Urban constituency have submitted in writing, on a legal document, seeking the mayor’s removal. Twenty-six councillors from Patiala rural constituency and two others also put up the same demand, following which the whole process was video-graphed,”the minister said, adding, “It suits me politically as well. I have ensured that the whole process has legal sanctity,” Mohindra said.He added that according to the Punjab Municipalities Act, at least two-third of councillors will write a formal communique to the mayor for holding a general House meeting. “If the mayor fails to hold the meeting, any elected member is authorised to hold it. In this meeting, a resolution could be passed for the mayor’s removal. The whole process will be with government approval,” Mohindra added. Responding to the calls for his removal, mayor Bittu said, “Those who were silent over the past four years are now making a hue and cry over my working. After Captain Amarinder Singh’s removal, local Congress leaders and councillors have shifted their loyalties. They are against me, only because I have association with Preneet Kaur.” He added, “It is also strange that a city, which has no association with Patiala city are concerned about him as a mayor.”In a letter to PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu last month, Congress councillor Krishan Chand Budhu had accused the mayor of corruption, misuse of power in awarding contracts and promoting illegal construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chorus-grows-for-patiala-mayor-s-removal-councillors-meet-mohindra-101636911911558.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Man killed after altercation in Delhi’s Ranhola||A 44-year-old man was killed and at least two of his relatives were injured after they were attacked allegedly by a group of 12 people following an altercation over his motorcycle touching a woman on a street in outer Delhi’s Defence Enclave near Ranhola on Saturday night. Seven persons, including the woman, were arrested while her 14-year-old son was apprehended in connection with the murder, police said on Sunday.“At least four persons involved in the crime are still on the run. Our teams are conducting raids to nab them and recover the weapons used in the crime. Both the parties live in the same neighbourhood,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.The deceased man was identified as Manoj (who is known by his first name only) while those injured were his nephew, Amit Shrivastava and relative Sanjeev (who is known by his first name only). The first information report was registered based on the statement of Shrivastava. The first round of altercation took place around 9.30pm near Balajo Chowk in Defence Enclave, the police said.Shrivastava, in his statement, told the police that his brother-in-law, Sanjeev, left home on a motorcycle to bring something from the nearby market. On the way, Sanjeev’s motorcycle touched a woman who was crossing the road with her son. An altercation took place between them. Some locals intervened and sorted it out. Thereafter, Sanjeev returned home.An hour later, the mother-son duo arrived at Shrivastava’s house along with at least 10 people and began quarrelling with his family, and a fight broke out between the two groups. During the scuffle,someone stabbed Manoj and injured Shrivastava and Sanjeev . As the injured persons screamed for help, the alleged attackers fled.“The injured men were rushed to a nearby hospital where Manoj was declared dead on arrival. The injured men were discharged after medical attention,” said an investigator.DCP Singh said that several teams were formed to nab the attackers. The teams carried out a local enquiry apart from scanning CCTV cameras to identify all those involved in the attack and ascertain the exact sequence of events.“Our teams identified the suspects and nabbed eight of them after conducting raids. At least three of them have previous criminal records,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-killed-after-altercation-in-delhi-s-ranhola-101636911431369.html
14-11-2021||Other||Will probe MGNREGA embezzlement, if voted to power: Sukhbir||Ludhiana Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Sunday that if the SAD-BSP alliance was voted to power, it would order a probe into the embezzlement of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) funds by Congress leaders. Sukhbir, who addressed gatherings in this constituency, said Congress leaders had misappropriated MGNREGA funds to the tune of thousands of crores by indulging in bogus billing, as well as over-charging for tiles, pavers and other construction work.He said Congress leaders had opened their tile and paver factories and were supplying substandard material for use in government works. “All such misdeeds will be probed and corruption cases will be registered against the guilty”, he added. Sukhbir said he was also receiving complaints that grain markets had been closed prematurely in the state when the paddy crop had still not been harvested fully. “This is being done under pressure from the centre,” Badal said adding now farmers would be forced to sell in distress. Badal added that the government was oblivious to the spread of dengue in the state. SAD supremo faces protest in Sarinh villageSukhbir faced angry protests from farmer organisations during his visit to Sarinh village on Sunday, where he had gone to campaign for party candidate and former MLA from Gill constituency Darshan Singh Shivalik. The farmer unions learned about the event and gathered in huge numbers near the marriage palace, where Badal was scheduled to address the rally.Harnek Singh Gujjarwal, secretary, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Naujawan Sabha and Raghubir Singh Benipal, general secretary, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, Punjab, said, “Initially Sukhbir praised the farm laws, only later did he oppose it. Now, the political parties and farmers had decided not to allow polls rallies and campaigns in rural areas. Sukhbir has now carried out a road show in utter disregard of the agreement.” Protesting farmers alleged that police used force to disperse farmers, leading to the tossing of the turban of the activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-probe-mgnrega-embezzlement-if-voted-to-power-sukhbir-101636911371568.html
14-11-2021||Other||Vacant agri-management posts in Punjab: Sangrur chief agriculture officer handling 3 other districts||Barnala At a time the Punjab government is faced with myriad of issues related to agriculture, here’s another issue it needs to address, the shortage of agriculture officers. Barnala, Malerkotla and Patiala districts do not have a regular chief agriculture officer (CAO). The Sangrur CAO has been handling these districts as additional charges, effectively making it four districts under him. All this, at a time, when paddy stubble burning, shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) and ensuring smooth sowing of wheat remain major challenges. The post of the Patiala CAO has been vacant for the past six months. Since its formation as the state’s 23rd district, Malerkotla has also been seeking post of the CAO. In Barnala, work is being managed with the additional charge since October 22.Barnala district president of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) Chamkour Singh Nainewal said the Charanjit Singh Channi led Congress government has been making tall claims of providing employment, but vacant posts of senior agriculture officers had exposed it.“Punjab is an agrarian state, but the key occupation of people is being ignored. With vacant CAO posts, the government appears intent on ruining the sector. The government must answer on how it will implement any pro-farmer initiative when it does not even appoint CAOs,” he claimed. Data with the agriculture department shows Barnala required 18,145 tonne DAP for rabi crops and is facing a shortage of 7,351 tonne. In Patiala, the district demanded 44,000 tonne DAP, and it requires another 17,600 tonne. Sangrur needs 35,500 tonne and requires 5,600 tonne. Farmers also suspected that amid agitation against three agriculture laws against the central government, the state may face shortage of urea supply for wheat crop over the 10-15 days.Malerkotla deputy commissioner Madhvi Kataria said she had written to authorities concerned and spoken to relevant authorities over phone for appointment of a regular CAO for the district. “We are managing things and trying our best,” added Kataria.Punjab agriculture director Rajesh Vashisht said those deputy directors who were available have been appointed, but these vacant posts will be filled after the new promotions. “Sangrur and Patiala are relatively large districts and one officer is managing them. We will appoint deputy directors on these posts soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vacant-agri-management-posts-in-punjab-sangrur-chief-agriculture-officer-handling-3-other-districts-101636911011170.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||Central Railway earns ₹100 crore as fine from ticketless travellers||The Central Railway (CR) earned ₹100.82 crore from passengers travelling without tickets on its suburban and non-suburban train network between April and November this year. Over 1.7 million passengers were booked for travelling without railway tickets. This also includes ₹26 lakh collected from 23,816 passengers who were fined for not wearing masks. CR also registered 29,019 cases against passengers for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour such as spitting inside the train compartment and railway platform, crowding at the booking office, among others.  ₹17.73 crore was collected from 465,000 passengers travelling without railway tickets on the suburban train network alone. The suburban CR includes a mainline that operates between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan/Karjat and Kasara railway stations, the harbour line between CSMT and Panvel and the trans- harbour railway line between Thane and Vashi. The non-suburban CR refers to railway lines ahead of Karjat. “In terms of earnings, Bhusaval division has registered a revenue of ₹33.74 crore, followed by Mumbai division with ₹33.20 crore from suburban and non-suburban train networks. Central Railway, in its endeavour to provide better services to bonafide rail users and also to curb ticketless travel, has regularly conducted intensive campaigns against ticketless and irregular travel in suburban and non-suburban trains in accordance with government guidelines and following coronavirus appropriate behaviour.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway. Since August, after passengers were allowed to travel on trains again following a four-month travel ban due to the pandemic, the number of passengers travelling by local trains has increased. The railways currently allow only fully-vaccinated people to travel and issue only monthly passes to passengers.The Central Railway operates 1,774 local train services on its network and 1,367 train services on the Western Railway network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-railway-earns-100-crore-as-fine-from-ticketless-travellers-101636910772534.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj cops install CCTV cameras to control burglaries||PRAYAGRAJ: The Prayagraj police are installing CCTV cameras in main markets of the district under an initiative called ‘Pahal’, to control thefts in shops and showrooms which register a rise during winter. Through CCTV cameras, police will be able to identify the burglars and other miscreants it will be easier to trace them. City traders in all main markets have CCTV cameras at their establishments but those in rural markets lack them and are easy target for thieves. In the absence of CCTV footage, it often becomes difficult for the police to identify miscreants who commit crimes at far off places. Under the initiative ‘Pahal’ taken by SSP Prayagraj Sarvshrestha Tripathi, police in rural areas have installed CCTV cameras in markets for safety of traders and their goods. Recently SHO Manda Awan Kumar Dixit installed four CCTV cameras at Manda Khas Chauraha which will cover the market area. Earlier, Baharia police installed a CCTV camera at the shop of a trader at Awaipur Mod market area. Awareness campaigns have also been launched among traders to motivate them for installing CCTV cameras at their establishments for their security, the SSP said. It is worth mentioning that some incidents of thefts have been recently reported from some markets in the district. In the absence of CCTV cameras, police faced difficulties in identification of miscreants. A surge is witnessed in cases of burglaries and thefts during winter nights. Earlier, police approached poor and marginalised sections of the society to help them in their daily struggle, took immediate action in case of missing persons, especially women and children, reunited estranged couples and did other good work under the initiative ‘Pahal’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-cops-install-cctv-cameras-to-control-burglaries-101636910771080.html
14-11-2021||Bhopal||MP: Kamal Nath mocks Shivraj Singh Chouhan's cow, urine, dung link to economy||A day after Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said cows, their dung and urine can strengthen the economy, state Congress chief Kamal Nath on Sunday hit back and claimed such statements will not build trust among investors. Talking to reporters at the PCC headquarters here, Nath also said such statements are examples of the thinking of the ruling BJP, adding that the cow and its urine have their own uses but the economy will improve only when investment comes in and financial activities increase. While addressing a convention of women veterinarians organised by Indian Veterinary Association on Saturday, MP CM Chouhan had said "if we want, we can strengthen our own economy and make the country financially capable through cows, their dung and urine."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-kamal-nath-mocks-shivraj-singh-chouhan-s-cow-urine-dung-link-to-economy-101636910253762.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||Shahganj in Agra near normal after communal tension||Agra The market area of Shahganj locality here limped back to normalcy on Sunday after the communal flare-up on Friday night following the death of a woman who had had an inter-faith marriage. The woman was found hanging inn her in-laws’ house. They said it was a suicide but her parents alleged it was a dowry death.Police force along with PAC continued to be deployed but the markets opened as usual on Sunday. Meanwhile, Agra police lodged a case at Shahganj police station against unidentified people for hooliganism in the market on Friday night. Some shops were targeted and complaints were made about cash being taken away by the nuisance-makers. “A case has been registered at Shahganj police station against unidentified people for hooliganism and ruckus, targeting shopkeepers in Shahganj market on Friday night. Police is itself the complainant in the case. Efforts would be made to identify the accused through CCTV camera footage made available and required action will be taken,” said a police official from Loha Mandi circle of Agra. Initially, a case was registered against five people on the complaint of the brother of the deceased woman and her husband, father-in-law and brother-in-law were arrested. Meanwhile, two other cases have also been registered at Shahganj police station related to Friday night clashes. One is against BJP Yuva Morcha leader Gaurav Rajawat who is the complainant in another case registered by him. Markets had opened on Saturday but were closed again for about one hour. SP city Vikas Kumar interacted with the shopkeepers who demanded deployment of anti-Romeo squad at a girls’ school in the area. They also sought security for BJP Yuva Morcha leader Gaurav Rajawat. The SP assured them and convinced them to open shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shahganj-in-agra-near-normal-after-communal-tension-101636910291488.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Elected leaders switch parties ahead of civic polls in Delhi||NEW DELHI: As the city approaches the crucial municipal elections, due to be held in April next year, it is the season of shifting loyalties in the political parties. According to the records provided by the various political parties, at least 38 municipal councillors have left their parties and joined rival group. The Congress, according to the records, is the most affected with 23 members of the party switching over to the other side -- more than one third of its 30 members elected to the three corporations in the last elections held in 2017. The next biggest group comes from the Bharatiya Janata Party that is ruling the municipal corporation in Delhi for the past three consecutive terms. Seven BJP councillors joined other parties. Despite the party’s poor showing in the 2015 assembly elections, when the BJP could manage only three seats, it retained power in the three municipal corporations. In 2017, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) replaced the Congress as the main opposition in all three municipal bodies, but the BJP had a comfortable majority in all three houses. The rest of the turncoats included three independents, four of the Bahujan Samaj Party and one of the Samajwadi Party.According to political pundits, the municipal corporation elections in Delhi are crucial for all the three main contenders -- for the BJP, it will be a big test if it could manage to hold on to power despite a huge anti-incumbency; for the AAP, it will be the last frontier in its bid for complete administrative control over Delhi after having humbled its political opponents in two consecutive assembly polls; and for the Congress it will be yet another elections where it has to fight to regain whatever space it could that it has ceded to rivals since 2013. Administratively, the municipal corporations play a very important role in the lives of the citizens touching almost every aspect from cradle to the grave. The three corporations in Delhi administer almost an equal area and similar number of services as the Delhi government. For all those who left their parties, the AAP remained the first choice. According to the data, 15 of the 38 joined AAP -- these include seven from the Congress, four from the BJP, two from the BSP and one each from the SP and independents. Besides, at least 20 former councillors from other parties have also shifted to the AAP. Delhi BJP chief, Adesh Gupta, said turncoats will not make any impact in the coming MCD polls. “Many of such leaders from other parties are also willing to join the BJP. But, we are least bothered about poaching. Since the people of Delhi are aware of the corrupt practices being followed by the AAP government, they will never vote for them. We will once again win the MCD polls, and with more seats this time,” he said. In 2017, the BJP won 181 of the total 272seats across the three municipal corporations. He said the BJP councillors who have joined the AAP were “inactive in the organisation”, and were only hoping to a lucrative position. “This is not a family-run party like the Congress or regional parties. Many Congress and AAP people have joined the BJP, so these things happen,” he said. Senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge, Durgesh Pathak, said the leaders from other parties have been joining the AAP because of the high-headedness and corruption among the top leadership of their parties. “There are number of areas in which the BJP-ruled MCDs have failed to deliver. The heaps of garbage and mountain-like landfills are common sights in the national capital. In the past few years, the Kejriwal government has proved that it can provide better facilities to Delhiites as it has given free electricity and water to one and all. Even the unauthorised colonies have been given the basic necessities. On the other hand, the BJP and the Congress has made the civic bodies a white elephant. Since the workers’ voices in these parties have never been heard by their top leaders, they are shifting their sides to make the MCD pro-people, than being pro-BJP or pro-Congress,” he said. Pathak said many more councillors from both the Congress and the BJP, as well as former councillors, are in touch with AAP and willing to join the party ahead of MCD elections. “But before the entry, we are trying to ensure that they have a clean record, and the conviction to carry forward the pro-people agenda of the AAP,” he said. Senior Congress leader and councillor from Andrews Ganj, Abhishek Dutt, said turncoats make no impact on election results. “The main reason, for the leaders to change their sides before the polls, is the lure of the lucre. And, since the BJP and AAP always attract the leaders, who want to make easy money through politics, they are always the better choice. Since Delhi people have realized the corrupt practices going on in the AAP government and BJP-led MCDs, they are now looking for options. We are sure that the Congress will wrest power in civic bodies,” he said. Experts, however, say that turncoats may not make much of a dent electorally, but they are a clear indication of “which way the wind is blowing”. But, they cautioned, there are always exceptions.Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), said, “It is a common phenomenon that leaders bet on the party having an edge over its rivals. But there are exceptions, too. We must not forget the recent West Bengal results, where many Trinamool leaders shifted their sides to the BJP before the polls. But, despite the side-shifting drama, Trinamool won by a thumping majority,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/elected-leaders-switch-parties-ahead-of-civic-polls-in-delhi-101636909571831.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||Woman can’t be ousted from matrimonial house: Allahabad HC bench||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has quashed an order of the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Lucknow (Sadar), directing eviction of a widowed daughter–in-law from her in-laws’ house on the basis of summary proceedings under the Senior Citizens Act. A single judge bench of Justice Vivek Chaudhary on November 2 said: “In the given facts and circumstances of the case, the impugned order dated 14.07.2021 cannot stand and is set aside.” “Respondents (in-laws) are directed to hand over the possession of the ground floor of the House No. 3/347, Vishal Khand, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow to the petitioner(daughter in-law) and her son forthwith,” said the court. “Petitioner shall not in any manner interfere with the ingress and egress of the occupants of the floors above the ground floor. Private respondents (in-laws) also shall not disturb or interfere in any manner with the living of the petitioner and her son in the said property,” added the court. The court observed that a wife cannot be evicted from her matrimonial house on the basis of the summary proceedings under the Senior Citizens Act, 2007. One Khushboo Shukla had filed a petition in the high court challenging July 14, 2021, order of the SDM (Sadar), Lucknow.In its order, the SDM had ordered Khushboo Shukla to vacate the house of her in-laws in Gomti Nagar. The SDM had passed the order on a petition field by Shukla’s father-in-law. In her petition, Khushboo Shukla had alleged that after the death of her husband Gaurav Shukla on July 15, 2019, her in-laws started harassing her. She also told the court that after the SDM’s order, she and her child were rendered homeless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-can-t-be-ousted-from-matrimonial-house-allahabad-hc-bench-101636909570600.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||No spike in cases in Mumbai despite rise in Covid tests||Five days after testing for Covid-19 was increased marginally in the city, no spike has been recorded in the city yet, according to daily Covid-19 data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On the other hand, civic officials have maintained that the period of 15 days after Diwali remains is crucial and they will continue to be closely monitoring the situation till November 20 at least. Daily testing has risen from November 9 anywhere between 33,000 and 41,000 samples from the previous 25,000 to 35,000 tests a day. However, the daily positivity rate remained below 1% throughout. Similarly, active cases in Mumbai have dropped from 5997 on October 13 to 3580 on November 14, a drop of 40.3%. Mumbai has conducted 11.86 million tests until November 14 with an overall positivity rate of 6.40%. Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiologist at BYL Nair Hospital said, “The load of active cases is going down. Testing in the city had reduced, but is regaining momentum. Fortunately, daily positivity is quite low in spite of huge public movement for festival celebrations, travel, and visits to temples. However, we will have to wait for a week or eight days more to observe any possible impact of Diwali crowding.” To be sure, the city did not see any spike in daily caseload even after suburban train services reopened on August 15. From October 4, the civic body allowed reopening of schools for Grades 8 to 12 followed by reopening of religious places from October 7. Subsequently, theaters and multiplexes in the city were allowed to restart on October 22. BMC officials said that even if the third wave hits the city, it will be milder than the second wave, when the city saw a maximum of nearly 11,000 daily cases. On Sunday the city reported 264 cases and two deaths taking the case tally to 760,329 and toll to 16,292. There are 737,930 recoveries in the city with 97% recovery rate. The mortality rate is 2.14% and there are 3,580 active cases in the city, according to data from the state health department. Dr Sathe added, “The daily count is unlikely to exceed 400 in Mumbai, and for the state, it should not cross 1,500. Overall, things are looking across the country. Also, post Diwali, vaccination rate is picking up. However, close to 20% of the population in India has not taken any dose so far, and 60% are still not fully vaccinated. Our vaccine stock has improved, but the general public feels Covid-19 is gone. This is certainly not true. We cannot let our guard down.” A BMC health department officer said: “The period right up to December 31 is going to be crucial, but most likely in phases. In the first phase, the impact of spread due to festivals and relaxations will be known by November 20. In the second phase, Christmas and New Year celebrations will need to be monitored. There is a possibility of international traffic arriving in Mumbai from western countries as they have long holidays during Christmas week.” As of November 13, 100% of the city’s eligible adult population was vaccinated according to the Central government’s CoWin dashboard. But more remains to be done as thousands of Mumbai residents are still not vaccinated. To be sure, Mumbai may have statistically achieved the milestone of 100% first dose coverage, but the city will have to administer many more doses to truly cover its entire adult population. The reason: An estimated 10-20% people who have got the Covid-19 vaccine in Mumbai are likely to be from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) or the rest of Maharashtra. “We are definitely accounting for this slight mismatch. Therefore, our vaccination drive will continue aggressively,” said Mumbai’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. “We will have to reach much beyond 100%,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-spike-in-cases-in-mumbai-despite-rise-in-covid-tests-101636908970779.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||UP on top in country in setting up MSMEs: Chief secy||Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Sunday said Uttar Pradesh was on the top in the country in setting up micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with a total 88.99 lakh registered units that accounted for country’s 14.20% MSMEs. He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating the “Uttar Pradesh Mandap” (Hall No 02) in the International Trade Fair that began in the Pragati Maidan in Delhi on Sunday. He said the government had created the right climate for investment in the state.“The MSME Act-2020 guarantees approvals within 72 hours of applying for various certificates etc and ensures that there were no inspections of new units till 1000 days of their being operational,” he said.He said the government organised loan fairs from time to time to distribute loans to MSMEs to the tune of ₹73,765 crore in 2021-22 against ₹28,136 crore in 2016-17.Tiwari further said that export from UP had also gone up by 37% between 2017-18 and 2019-20. He said UP launched a unique scheme of one district, one product (ODOP) on the occasion of UP Diwas in 2018 and this he said was first scheme of its kind in the country. Additional chief secretary, SMES, Navneet Sehgal, Greater Noida chief executive officer (CEO) Narendra Bhushan and Noida CEO Ritu Maheshwari were among other officers present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-on-top-in-country-in-setting-up-msmes-chief-secy-101636908731397.html
14-11-2021||Other||Free bus travel for women: PRTC awaits ₹60-cr due||Patiala Six months into the implementation of the Punjab government’s decision to provide free bus travel to women, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) is yet to receive arrears amounting to ₹60 crore for the period.In the state budget presented in the assembly on March 8, the government had set aside ₹170 crore to fund the scheme to ensure timely payments to the corporation. The scope of the scheme was expanded to cover government college students as well. The government had also announced that payments will be made every fortnight after the implementation on April 1.“The corporation has already sent bills amounting to ₹60 crore bills over the past months with state finance department, but they are yet to be cleared,” said a PRTC official, who did not wish to be named. Officials added that they are ensuring that the bills are forwarded on time, and the delay in receiving the funds was inexplicable.Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener, PRTC-linked trade unions, said the government had promised to sanction funds every fortnight, but had failed to clear bills over the past six months. “Instead of making late payments to the corporation, the government should give the required amount in advance,” he said. The corporation runs buses from nine depots in Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Chandigarh, Patiala, Bathinda, Budhlada, Barnala, Faridkot and Sangrur. “It spends around ₹65 lakh a day on diesel for running its full fleet of 1,073 buses. The government must ensure that the bills are cleared on time so that the corporation does not face any financial crunch,” said Dhaliwal. PRTC managing director Parneet Shergill says she had joined only recently, and yet to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-bus-travel-for-women-prtc-awaits-60-cr-due-101636908070707.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence case: SIT likely to file chargesheet soon||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case was likely to file the chargesheet in the case of mowing down of four farmers that led to the violence in the coming week, said senior police officials privy to the development on Sunday.As many as 13 accused, including Ashish Mishra, the son of union minister of state for home Ajai Kumar Mishra Teni, were arrested in connection with the case of mowing down of the four farmers after which the violence erupted in Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri and led to death of four more people, including a local journalist, two BJP workers and the driver of Ashish Mishra’s car that mowed down the farmers on October 3.Sharing further details, a senior police official said the chargesheet was likely to be filed against at least 13 accused on the basis of statements of over 100 witnesses recorded in the matter and the findings of the forensic team while recreating the sequence of incident.He said the mobile locations of the main accused and other co-accused as well as the ballistic reports of three weapons seized from the arrested accused will also be included in the chargesheet. He said the ballistic report has earlier confirmed firing took place from the three licensed weapons of Ashish Mishra, his friend Ankit Das and his private gunner Latif alias Kaale.The state government had formed the nine-member SIT headed by deputy inspector general Upendra Agarwal to probe the two cases related to the violence. The second case was registered in connection with the killings of four other people during the violence.Ashish Mishra, who has maintained that he was not present at the site of the violence, was arrested on October 9. Das and Latif were taken into custody five days later. The farmers alleged there were firing during the violence and that a farmer from Bahraich died of a bullet wound. But two post-mortem examinations of the farmer ruled out bullet injuries.The post-mortem reports of the eight, who were killed in the incident, concluded they died of shock, excessive bleeding, and haemorrhage caused by ante-mortem injuries and that none of them received bullet injuries.
14-11-2021||Patna||Bihar BJP chief sends Bhagavad Gita to Rahul Gandhi amid Hindutva row||Amid the continuing debate over Hinduism and Hindutva, which was trigged following the release of a book written by Congress leader Salman Khurshid, Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Sunday presented a copy of the ‘Bhagvan Gita’ to Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi at a press conference in Patna. The epic will be dispatched to the Congress leader via post.Addressing the press conference, Jaiswal even called Rahul Gandhi “the most confused leader in the country”. “He should read and understand it to know about Hindutva and get rid of the habit of lying and distorting facts for false propaganda and decisive politics. Trying to differentiate between Hinduism and Hindutva is like differentiating between mother and motherhood or Diwali and Deepawali and he has shown his intent. Sometimes, it is necessary to give knowledge of truth to people resorting to habitual lying, especially the manner in which Rahul Gandhi has been attacking Hindutva. We know he is the most confused political leader of the country and, therefore, he could not have even an iota of knowledge about Hindutva despite visiting temples after temples for sheer politics,” Jaiswal said. Jaiswal said that ‘Gita’ is an epic to understand religion and spiritualism, which remains relevant even today due to its teachings and guidance about the art of living. “It develops the ability to take right decisions and encourages to stand by truth. I am confident that should Rahul Gandhi read and comprehend it, he would have a change of heart to move away from the divisive politics based on distortion and deceit. His remarks on Hindutva, which is in line with Congress DNA, reflect his immaturity and lack of knowledge. He claims to have read Upanishad, but one doubts if he could comprehend even a sentence. He may have tried to read it in Italian,” he added.Jaiswal said that the three big leaders attacking Hindus within 24 hours was a clear indication of the “wicked mindset” of the Congress and part of a larger design. “We knew it from the beginning that these poisonous statements against Hindus were coming on the order of the Gandhi family and Rahul Gandhi only proved our apprehensions right,” he further said.Hitting back at Jaiswal, Congress MLC and AICC media panellist Premchandra Mishra said that the “highly knowledgeable Jaiswal” should first write to the Prime Minister. “People are suffering due to failed promises of Narendra Modi ji, with price rise and unemployment peaking, India is ranked 101st among 116 countries in global hunger index and farmers are protesting. He himself seems confused about Hindu and Hindutva. BJP has a habit of viewing everything from the point of view of political benefit and they are again at it unabashedly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bjp-chief-sends-bhagavad-gita-to-rahul-gandhi-amid-hindutva-row-101636907350600.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||Civic body in action mode to curb air pollution in UP’s capital||After identifying 61 hot spots spreading maximum air pollution in the state capital, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) pressed into service eight anti-smog guns with advanced sprinklers, 40 tractor-mounted sprinklers, eight mechanical sweeping machines and other resources of the civic body to check the air pollution on Sunday.A rally to raise awareness about the hazards of pollution was also flagged off by mayor Sanyukta Bhatia and municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi at 1090 crossing in the morning.Speaking on the occasion, municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “Through this rally, a massive campaign for the prevention of air pollution has been started by LMC. With an effort like this, residents would be made aware of the air quality of the city.” “In view of the air pollution and smog, effective measures are being taken by the LMC for the improvement of the air quality. The data received from Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) is analysed daily and that’s how the hot spots in all areas of the city have been identified,” he added.“Construction work, building material, road dust, pollution in industrial areas, traffic jams and burning of garbage etc are the major reasons for the air pollution. They will be controlled with the coordination and cooperation of various departments,” Dwivedi said. “The only way to control building pollution is sprinkling of water on main roads and construction sites, covering the under-construction buildings with green mats, etc,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/civic-body-in-action-mode-to-curb-air-pollution-in-up-s-capital-101636907290804.html
14-11-2021||Other||Sudhir K Jain appointed new VC of Banaras Hindu University||VARANASI Director of IIT-Gandhinagar, Prof Sudhir K Jain, has been appointed as vice-chancellor (V-C) of Banaras Hindu University (BHU). Confirming the development on Sunday, BHU public relation officer Rajesh Singh informed that BHU registrar’s office has received a letter from the Union ministry of education regarding appointment of Prof Jain as the BHU V-C. After the end of his tenure as V-C, Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar gave charge to senior professor VK Mishra on March 28. Since then, Prof Mishra was discharging his duties as the officiating V-C. Born in 1952, 62-year-old Prof Sudhir K Jain is a civil engineer and at present, he is completing his third term as director of IIT- Gandhinagar. He is conducting intensive research and development in the areas of seismic design codes, dynamics of buildings and post- earthquake studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sudhir-k-jain-appointed-new-vc-of-banaras-hindu-university-101636907231008.html
14-11-2021||Patna||Two inujred in Danapur bomb blast||Two persons including a woman were injured after a powerful bomb exploded at a house situated behind Janakdhari School at Sultanpur area under Danapur police station on Sunday noon, police said. The injured have been admitted to the PMCH for treatment.Police said that incident took place at the house of one Mohammad Shafiq. “The bomb was so powerful that glasses and walls of adjoining houses were damaged,” he added.Police identified the injured persons as Shafiq’s son Mohammad Abdullah and wife Aayesha Khatoon. “They have been referred to the PMCH from Danapur sadar hospital. It seems that the bomb was kept in Shafiq’s house which was damaged and two were injured,” he added. On getting information, several police teams and army officers from Danapur rushed to the spot and investigated the matter. FSL and dog squad teams have also been pressed into service to collect the evidence from the spot.SSP, Patna U K Sharma said, “The police received information that a bomb exploded at Danapur. We are investigating the matter, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-inujred-in-danapur-bomb-blast-101636907170510.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||Two promise gold at cheaper rate, dupe couple of ₹2 lakhs; arrested||The Bangur Nagar police on Saturday arrested two members of a gang for allegedly cheating a couple by promising them gold at a lesser amount than the market rate. According to the police, the complainant Prashant Mane, 21, who is a resident of Ravivar Peth, Pune, was informed by his girlfriend that a man was selling gold at a lower rate. The girlfriend said that she was informed about the alleged accused by an acquaintance. Mane arrived in Mumbai on Friday along with ₹2 lakhs to buy gold. As directed by the girlfriend’s acquaintance, the three reached Infinity Mall, Malad, where they had been promised to meet. After a while, a man arrived at the spot with a bag, which contained a gold biscuit. He then asked Mane to show him the money, which Mane agreed to. However, when Mane asked to see the gold biscuit, the accused refused. After an argument, a woman Sangeeta Lokhande, 50, arrived at the spot, acting as a mediator. She convinced Mane to give the accused the cash, and then take the gold biscuit. After Mane handed over the bag of cash, the accused fled from the spot in a vehicle. An officer from the Bangur Nagar police station said, “We arrested Lokhande and she has confessed about her involvement in the crime. Another accused Sannit Mahadik, who helped the accused flee the spot in his vehicle, is also arrested. The police are now on the lookout for the accused who fled with Mane’s money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-promise-gold-at-cheaper-rate-dupe-couple-of-2-lakhs-arrested-101636906930196.html
14-11-2021||Other||Bulandshahr: Priyanka rules out pre-poll alliance, says Cong will fight on all seats||MEERUT Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday ruled out pre-poll alliance with any political party and said that the party would go solo in the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Lashing out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for misleading people that Congress has a weak organisation in Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka said, “We will show them our strength by contesting alone on 403 seats in the forthcoming Assembly elections in UP. How can they say that we have a weak organisation when over 18,000 workers and leaders of our party had been booked for raising issues of public? We didn’t see Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) fighting for public issues in the past two years,” said Priyanka while interacting with leaders and workers of the party and frontal organisations at a party workers’ conference in Bulandshahr on Sunday. Party leaders and workers from 14 districts of Meerut, Aligarh and Agra divisions attended the conference. She also paid tributes to Pt Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary at the beginning of the workers’ meet. Spokesperson of Meerut district Congress committee, Harkishan Verma, who attended the Sammelan, said that Priyanka asked workers to be more active on social media in order to counter lies, fake news and propaganda by the ruling BJP. “Elections are won on the strength of women party workers,” she said while calling upon leaders to have a team of at least 25 women workers at each booth. She said that two of them should actively coordinate with others for effective execution of the party’s activities. Priyanka accused the BJP of trying to write a new definition of the country and independence. She asked party workers to reach out to people and explain how constitution is in danger under the BJP rule. She further asked party workers to inform people about the party’s decisions for welfare of women and people of different segments of the society. “Each worker should associate at least five families with the party,” she added. Congress leader said that Mahatma Gandhi, Nehru, Sardar Patel, Baba Saheb Ambedkar and others sacrificed their lives for the Independence. “But BJP leadership didn’t know the meaning of Independence. Only few people enjoy independence today. Family of Hathras rape victim had no independence of doing the last rites of the girl. Now, the time has come to re-do the slogan of ‘ do or die’,” Priyanka said. She said that people are in deep trouble due to increasing prices of essential commodities. “Petrol price remained at ₹70 in past 70 years which has now risen to ₹100 in just past seven years,” she said. Party’s state president Ajay Kumar ‘ Lallu’ and other Congress leaders accompanied Priyanka, who interacted with several delegations from each district to have their feedback about what more could be done to strengthen the party further. A similar conference of Saharanpur, Moradabad and Bareilly divisions would be held in Moradabad on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bulandshahr-priyanka-rules-out-pre-poll-alliance-says-cong-will-fight-on-all-seats-101636906810645.html
14-11-2021||Patna||Apex liquor body writes to Bihar CM, urges to end prohibition||The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), the representative body of leading Indian alcohol beverage companies on November 12 wrote to the Nitish Kumar government and leaders from all constituents of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to end liquor prohibition in the state after a series of deaths linked to consumption of spurious liquor was reported earlier this month. “Bihar is paying a heavy price for its prohibition policy in the form of proliferation of unlawful and spurious liquor, hooch tragedies, rise of crime syndicates and loss of legitimate government revenues. The government can impose special cess on sale of liquor to fund alcohol de-addiction and rehabilitation centres and put liquor trade under state control,” reads the letter from CIABC director general Vinod Giri, citing three presentations it had made before the chief minister to underline how prohibition, despite its good intent, was going astray with the emergence of liquor mafiosi.Giri, who also hails from Patna, said that he has been consistently trying to bring the facts before the chief minister since 2019, as liquor mafiosi had poured water over whatever noble intentions the government had behind enforcing the prohibition.“Since imposition of prohibition in 2016, over one-lakh crore liquor has been seized in the state. Even if seizure rate is considered 10%, it means around 10-crore-litre of illicit liquor reached Bihar. Besides, the entire police force is engaged in enforcing prohibition, which means lack of attention on other cognisable offences. Strong enforcement has also created fear psychosis in the private sector,” the letter further stated.Maintaining that the state is losing out on revenue from the legitimate liquor trade which is pegged at around ₹10,000 crore per annum, the CIABC has urged the chief minister to direct liquor factories to hire 50% of their workforce as women which would lead to their economic self-reliance and empowerment.Citing the National Family Health Survey 2019-20 report, the letter said that it clearly states that Bihar consumes more liquor than Maharashtra, which proves that prohibition has not worked. “Report also suggests that 90% of illegal sale of liquor is among poor and backward people and Bihar’s loss has turned out to be neighbour’s gain due to increase in liquor sale in border areas,” it added.The letter further stated that prohibition is known to have not worked earlier in other states like Haryana, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. “Gujarat, by the way, does not have a complete ban as non-domiciles are permitted alcohol through licensed shops,” Giri added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/apex-liquor-body-writes-to-bihar-cm-urges-to-end-prohibition-101636906750583.html
14-11-2021||Other||Bihar journalist’s killing: JD(U) leader Leshi Singh plotted murder of my husband, says distt board member||The sensational killing of a local journalist and ex-Zilla Parishad member in Purnia took a political twist after his wife and district board (DB) member Anulika Singh lodged an FIR against JD(U) leader and MLA from Dhamdaha seat Leshi Singh. In the FIR lodged at Sarsi police station, Anulika accused Singh of plotting the murder of her 33-year-old husband Vishwajeet Singh alias Rintu Singh. She also alleged that Ashish Singh-Leshi Singh’s nephew, along with two others, killed Rintu out of political rivalry. Anulika said that her husband’s popularity had fuelled fear in the Bihar minister that is why she got him killed. Anulika has also mentioned that her husband had lodged an FIR at the same police station on November 3, in which he had begged for security after “Ashish Singh had made a bid to eliminate him.” She also accused the Bihar minister’s husband Ashish Singh of killing RJD leader Banni Singh during the last assembly polls. On the other hand, Purnia police are tight-lipped over the issue. Purnia SP Daya Shankar said the police were carrying out massive raids to nab the accused. No arrests have been made so far. Rintu Singh was shot dead on Friday evening near a petrol pump close to the Sarsi police station. JDU leader Leshi Singh refutes allegations, says ready for inspection
14-11-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls: Lalu’s grand daughter-in-law suffers defeat||RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav’s grand daughter-in-law Savitri Devi, who was contesting for the mukhiya’s (headman) post from her native Phulwaria village had to face defeat at the ongoing panchayat polls in Bihar. The counting of polls for the sixth phase was held on Saturday in Gopalganj. Savitri Devi, wife of Sudesh Yadav, grandson of Lalu’s deceased eldest brother Mangru Yadav, who secured only 701 votes lost to Altaf Hussain who got 1,765 votes. In the last few rounds, several top politicos wife and relatives have faced defeat. In the fifth round, Agion’s MLA from CPI-ML( Liberation) Manoj Manjil’s wife, Sapna Manjil lost the polls for the post of district board member to one nominee Aarti Devi, who is associated with the RJD, reports said. In the sixth round, BJP MLA from Sikti Vijay Kumar Mandal’s brother lost the polls for the post of mukhiya.However, some of the kin of sitting MLAs have making their foray in politics, have won elections in last few rounds. Among the notables are Rani Bharti, daughter of former minister and sitting JD(U) MLA from Rupauli in Purnea, who won the election for post of district board member from Bhawanipur . JD(U)’s Belhar MLA Manoj Yadav’s wife Simple Devi has won the election for district board member Barahat block in Banka, during the sixth round of election held on November 3. The panchayat polls in Bihar will conclude on December 12 with seventh round of polls scheduled on Monday. A total of 2.55 lakh posts in three tier rural local bodies and gram kutcheries are being filled up in the 11 phase polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-lalu-s-grand-daughter-in-law-suffers-defeat-101636906210342.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Light rain forecast for Pune as overall air quality stays moderate||PUNE Even though the minimum temperature in various parts of the city has gradually increased over the last few day, as per the System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (Safar), some parts of the city are reporting poor air quality. As the night temperature has gone up, Pune city may experience light rainfall in the next few days, said weather department officials.Speaking about the air quality, Dr BS Murthy, director, Safar and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), said that the overall air quality in Pune city was moderate on Sunday.“The Air Quality Index (AQI) of the city was 132 μg/m3 for PM2.5, particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres. Whereas for Shivajinagar, the AQI was 232 μg/m3. Pashan reported satisfactory air quality whereas other parts had moderate air quality on Sunday,” said Dr Murthy.Alandi, Kothrud, Hadapsar, Bhumkar Chowk and Nigdi had moderate air quality on Sunday.Minimum temperature in Shivajinagar on Sunday was 20.2 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees warmer than the forecast normal. Rainfall forecast for Pune cityAs per forecasts by India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune city is likely to get light rainfall till November 19.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that night temperature will see a consistent rise in the next few days.“Cloudy weather is forecasted by the department till November 19. It is likely that during the afternoon, the sky will be cloudy. And light rainfall is likely in the afternoon time,” said Kashyapi.Light rainfall along with thunderstorms and lighting are likely in central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa and Marathwada till November 18. Vidarbha will have dry weather during this time, said weather officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/light-rain-forecast-for-pune-as-overall-air-quality-stays-moderate-101636906090257.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 240 new Covid cases, no deaths on Sunday||PUNE On Sunday, Pune district reported 240 new Covid-19 cases and no deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.15 million, of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,993 is the death toll and 2,885 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also 10,000+ vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 86 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 366,645 and the death toll stands at 6,934. Pune city reported 108 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 521,874 with the death toll at 9,205. PCMC reported 46 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 269,193. The death toll stands at 3,505 as no more deaths were reported on Sunday. Pune district also saw 10,299 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Sunday. Of a total of 12,401,768 vaccinations, 7,917,855 are first doses and 4,483,913 are second doses. A total of 231 sites saw vaccinations of which 137 were government centres and 94 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-240-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-on-sunday-101636905910723.html
14-11-2021||Patna||Oppn slams Nitish govt, seeks CBI probe in Purnia murder case||Seeking a CBI inquiry into the killing of Congress leader and former zila parishad member of Purnia Vishwajeet Singh alias Rintu, the opposition on Sunday alleged that the Nitish Kumar government is protecting criminals, particularly those involved in high-profile murder cases. Lashing out at the chief minister for alleged deterioration of law and order, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav alleged that the state police did little to protect the victims. He also cited the cases of murders of an RTI activist cum freelance journalist in Madhubani and the husband of a district councillor in Purnea. Rintu Singh, husband of current zila parishad member Anulika Singh, was allegedly gunned down by four armed assailants, including Ashish Kumar Singh alias Athira, who is nephew of minister Leshi Singh, at Sirsa area of Purnia town on Friday evening. However, the police are yet to arrest the main accused even 24 hours after the incident.Yadav challenged the government to cull out the “call details of Leshi Singh and the SHO of the police station concerned”, alleging that the same would point towards the involvement of the cabinet member. He also blamed the “health sector mafia” in the state for the murder of Buddhinath Jha alias Avinash Jha, who had gone missing a few days ago and whose charred body was recovered from a secluded spot in Benipatti police station area of Madhubani on Friday night. The RJD leader also blamed the government for the hooch tragedies that claimed more than 40 lives in West Champaran, Gopalganj, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur districts around Deepawali. “An impartial probe into all such crimes may land all legislators of the ruling NDA behind bars. They will end up being brought in prison vans to attend sessions of the House,” Yadav said.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha demanded sacking of food and consumer protection minister Leshi Singh for her alleged role in the murder of Rintu, who was a vice president of Purnia district Congress committee.Accusing the police administration of having hands in gloves with the criminals, Jha also demanded a CBI inquiry in to Rintu’s killing. “The delay in police reaction and their apathy to arrest the main culprits creates doubt for an impartial probe by the police. The district superintendent of police (SP) must also be removed from the post for his deliberate reluctance to act on the deceased petition for safety and security when Rintu was attacked first on November 3,” said Jha, adding that it was on his behest that the police lodged an FIR regarding an attempt on life on November 3. Jha also threatened of an agitation if CBI inquiry is not initiated. “The party workers would launch agitation in Purnia for justice if the state government refused to order a CBI inquiry in the case,” he said.The deceased’s wife also sought a CBI inquiry in to the murder alleging that the police were not acting against the accused as the main accused is a close relatives of minister Leshi Singh. In her FIR lodged with Sirsa police station, Anulika named the minister as the chief conspirator.Janata Dal (United) national president Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh, however, rubbished the opposition’s allegations and said that law and order in the state is such that it could send shivers down the criminals’ spine. “Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is a non-resident Bihari. Maybe, he (Tejashwi) could be thinking about the Bihar when his parents were in power. Police is investigating Rintu Singh’s muder properly and no guilty in the case would be spared,” the JD(U) leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/oppn-slams-nitish-govt-seeks-cbi-probe-in-purnia-murder-case-101636905850974.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports another death due to Covid-19 in 2 days, new cases lower than 50||Delhi on Sunday reported one death due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the health bulletin data. This was the second death in two days after the city reported two deaths on Friday after a gap of 21 days.With the latest addition, the city has already reported three deaths in November. Last month, Delhi reported a total of four deaths, which was the lowest monthly toll the capital had since March 2020.As many as 36 fresh cases were reported on Sunday, which took the cumulative tally of Delhi to 14,40,424. The figures are a drop from Saturday’s 56 when the city witnessed more than 50 infections for second day in a row. On Friday, Delhi recorded 62 new cases, which was the highest single-day rise since August 8, the health bulletin data revealed.The active caseload of Delhi stands at 349 with the overall case positivity rate seeing a marginal dip to 4.79 per cent from Saturday’s 4.8 per cent, while the case fatality rate remained unchanged at 1.74 per cent.The total number of recovered patients in Delhi has climbed up to 14,14,981 after 47 new recoveries were registered.The capital has vaccinated 2,11,25,734 eligible beneficiaries so far, of which, 78,443 were administered the jabs in the past 24 hours. Of the total vaccinated individuals, as many as 1,32,76,215 have received the first dose while the remaining 78,49,519 were inoculated with the second shot, the bulletin data showed. A total of 26,892 beneficiaries received the first Covid-19 vaccine dose in the previous 24 hours and 51,551 got the second jab.Delhi has been battling extreme air pollution since Diwali and the Supreme Court on Saturday even pulled up both the Centre and the Delhi government on Saturday over their approach towards the issue. Following an emergency meeting with Delhi government ministers and other senior officials later in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the closure of schools in the capital for a week starting Monday in order to safeguard children from inhaling polluted air.All government officers were also directed to function from home, while the same suggestion was given to private firms as well. Construction activity has also been instructed to be stopped between November 14 and 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-another-death-due-to-covid-19-in-2-days-new-cases-lower-than-50-101636905003809.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Research institutes overcharging PhD, MPhil students get SPPU warning||Taking serious cognisance of PhD and MPhil students being overcharged in terms of fees, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has strictly instructed all its affiliated research centres not to overcharge students or else, be closed down as punitive action.As per a circular issued by SPPU’s deputy registrar Rajesh Raherkar on Sunday: “At all affiliated colleges and research institutes the fees for PhD and MPhil students have been fixed by the university and we have received complaints from students about overcharging. If any research centre is founds to be violating the fee rules, then the centre will be closed immediately”.Several research students have complained about “overcharging” at various research centres, after which student organisations complained to the SPPU’s education department. “We got several complaints from students about high fees charged for PhD and MPhil courses and accordingly we contacted to SPPU education department. We hope that strict action will be taken on centres that are overcharging fees,” said Kamlakar Shete, student and vice-president of Yuvak Kranti Dal, Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/research-institutes-overcharging-phd-mphil-students-get-sppu-warning-101636904891550.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||IAF conducts rehearsal on Purvanchal Expressway||The Indian Air Force (IAF) conducted a rehearsal on the Purvanchal Expressway on Sunday in the run-up to the air show to be organised on Tuesday (November 16) after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the 341-km expressway in a programme in Sultanpur district of Uttar Pradesh.During the rehearsal, a C-130J Super Hercules aircraft made a trial landing on a concrete cement airstrip, measuring 3.20 km in length and 34 metres in width, on the Purvanchal Expressway near Kurebhar village in Sultanpur district.The airstrip has been constructed for the emergency landing of aircraft on the expressway.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will land on the Purvanchal Expressway in the C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft that is used by IAF in airlift, search and rescue operations during natural disasters. Manufactured by US company Lockheed Martin, the aircraft has the capability to land on the highest land strip in the world, besides on unprepared runways, said a state government officer.The landing of C-130J Super Hercules was followed by landing and take-off by Mirage, Jaguar, Sukhoi, Kiran Mk II and AN-32 aircraft on the runway during the rehearsal. The Purvanchal Expressway is part of the government’s plan to develop emergency landing facilities for fighter jets across the country.A large number of people from nearby villages gathered near the expressway to watch the landing and take-off. Security personnel were deployed and barricades were erected on the expressway to manage the crowd. Senior IAF officers were present on the occasion.The Purvanchal Expressway originates from Chandsarai village near the Lucknow-Sultanpur highway. It passes through nine districts Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkarnagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. It terminates at Haldaria village in Ghazipur district. The six-lane expressway will be expandable up to eight lanes. Once it is opened to the public, the travel time from Lucknow to Ghazipur will be reduced from six hours to 3.5 hours.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has termed the Purvanchal Expressway a highway of development.East UP that was neglected post independence is now moving fast on the development path, he had said on November 12.The state government will develop an industrial corridor at eight spots on the expressway and it has issued a notification in this regard, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iaf-conducts-rehearsal-on-purvanchal-expressway-101636904890054.html
14-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal's education, tourism depts win Skoch award; Suvendu questions credibility||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said school and higher education and tourism departments of her government have secured gold at the Skoch award. Instituted in 2003, the Skoch award recognises efforts in digital, financial, social inclusion, governance, inclusive growth, technology and applications and corporate leadership. Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Suvendu Adhikari, however, claimed that "there are serious allegations regarding the credibility of such awards".“School Education Department and Higher Education Department of GoWB - both have won the prestigious SKOCH GOLD awards. Heartiest congratulations to all officials and members for this remarkable achievement,” Banerjee wrote on Twitter. State education minister Bratya Basu also expressed happiness over the achievements and complimented all the stakeholders in the sector, including teachers, officials and students, for their efforts and services to ensure that teaching activities do not get hampered during the Covid-19 pandemic. "Happy to share that the Tourism Department of GoWB has received the esteemed SKOCH GOLD award for transformational performance during #COVID19! Congratulations to all officials and members for your hard work and dedication. Let us keep aiming higher,'' Banerjee also said on the microblogging site. Adhikari alleged that spending more results in "bigger awards". "Some WB Govt depts have won ‘prestigious’ SKOCH Awards recently. There are serious allegations regarding the credibility of such awards. Seems like everyone who applies gets the award. In final stage one just has to buy expensive stalls for displaying themselves," the BJP leader said. He also said, "Spending more results in bigger awards. For eg (example) Skill development dept bought a ₹12 lakh stall & got Gold award while someone bought ₹2 lakh stall & received Silver award or SKOCH order of merit. These 'for sale' awards raise questions about the authenticity of the awardees." West Bengal power minister Aroop Biswas denied the allegations and said the Skoch gold award is an important honour for every recipient who meets certain criteria and benchmarks. "The BJP was rejected by people of the state in the last assembly elections," he added. Notably, the central government's tribal affairs ministry had received the 'Skoch challenger' award for its performance in e-governance earlier this year, while Maharashtra's rural development and Haryana's industries and commerce departments had also won the award for liability register payment system and ease of doing business respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-education-tourism-depts-win-skoch-award-suvendu-questions-credibility-101636903839664.html
14-11-2021||Other||Women outnumber men in taking NDA exam in Punjab, 5 for every one male||Ludhiana Three months after the Supreme Court, in a landmark order on August 18, 2021, opened the doors of the National Defence Academy (NDA) to women cadets, the fairer sex outnumbered men in taking the exam by some distance in Punjab. Five women appeared for every men who took the exam in the state; of 6,355 who completed the exam in both the shifts, 5,208 were woman and 1,147 were men. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) had conducted the exam across the country on Sunday. OP Kapoor superintendent, Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC), one of those charged with conducting the exams, said, “Ludhiana was the only centre for the exam in Punjab. Students from far-flung and a few from other states, including Himachal Pradesh, took the exam in Ludhiana.”HT had previously reported on October 30 that overall, across the country, a third of the candidates who had applied for the NDA exam were women. “A few candidates didn’t appear in the second shift as they just wanted to get an idea of the exams or they didn’t perform as expected,” said Aditya Dachalwal, additional commissioner, Ludhiana MC. The NDA exam was held in two shifts from 10am to 12:30pm and from 2 pm to 430 pm. Of 16 centres, 13 were specially formed for women candidates and only three general NDA centres had been set up, where both men and women were allowed. Arpal Kaur, Class-12 medical student from Jaito, Faridkot said that she always wanted to serve the Indian Army and now since the girls have been allowed in NDA, she had taken the exam with great hope and energy. Her father Harpreet Singh said that he was planning to send her daughter abroad, but it will be better if her daughter got the chance to serve the nation. To stop candidates from resorting to unfair means, mobile phones, electronic Gadgets, watches, cardboards, etc were banned and jammers were deployed at the exam centres. To avoid physical touch, frisking of the candidates was avoided but face masks were made mandatory for them. Candidates had also been asked to bring their own sanitisers in transparent bottles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/women-outnumber-men-in-taking-nda-exam-in-punjab-5-for-every-one-male-101636904169980.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||No criminal can even think of extortion in UP now: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that his government has been able to create a better environment in the state for businesses by acting against mafias, adding that no criminal can even think of resorting to extortion in Uttar Pradesh now.He was addressing a gathering of the Vaishya community in Lucknow. The event was organised by BJP leader Naresh Agarwal at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in the Gomti Nagar area of the state capital.“There was lawlessness in the state during the previous government. Goonda tax was extorted from traders. But no criminal can even think about extorting money, fearing that the state will recover (the money) from his seven generations. We have simplified doing business in the state. Many investors have shown interest in investing in UP. Not just security, we also provide insurance cover to registered businesses, providing an environment that is best for traders and businesses,” Adityanath said in his address.He pointed how the country has taken the road of development after the Narendra Modi government come to power and the “double engine government” in Uttar Pradesh is taking the state to newer heights of development.The convention was called a few months before the state goes to elections early next year.State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and Vidhan Sabha deputy speaker Nitin Agarwal also attended the event.Swatantra Dev Singh said the BJP gets its strength from people of the Vaishya community. “You will have to dedicate at least 15 days till elections to ensure that the BJP comes to power again in the state. People from Vaishya Samaj are the strength of the party. Talk to people in your neighbourhood and locality to bring the BJP back to power,” Singh said.Naresh Agarwal said, “Yogi Adityanath has removed lawlessness from Uttar Pradesh and now criminals fear his name. The Vaishya community has always been with the BJP and will work to bring the party to power again under the leadership of Yogi Adityanath.”Hundreds of people of the Vaishya community, especially traders from Lucknow, Kanpur and the nearby districts, attended the convention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-criminal-can-even-think-of-extortion-in-up-now-yogi-adityanath-101636901529730.html
14-11-2021||Pune||State fails to improve key child health indicators as per National Family Health Survey||PUNE In the past five years, as per a report from by the National Family Health Survey (NFHS), the state average for important indicators with regards to children aged under 5 years has not seem any change, despite measures put in place. The state average for stunting, wasting, severe wasting and also underweight, have not seen any noticeable changes in the past five years.Despite a few districts reporting a declining trend in the number of children reported as underweight, there are many that still need attention with regards to all the four primary indicators of child health. The NFHS survey happens four years in Maharashtra. The basic indicators for the health of a child is dependent on stunting, which is children who are short of height in proportion to their weight and age; wasting, which is loss of body weight in proportion to the height of the body; and severe wasting which is wasting in increased proportion - this could be loss of body mass; and lastly underweight, when the weight of the child is below the expected weight for a particular age. These are the primary indicators used to conclude if a child is healthy. As per NFHS 4 report for 2015-16 and then 2019-20, the state average for stunting went from 34.4% in NFHS 4 to 35.2% in 2019-20, while the same for wasting went from 25.6% in the previous survey to now 25.60%, for severe wasting it went from 9.40% to 10.90% and for underweight kids the numbers went from 36% to 36.10%. These despite the state taking several measures to ensure that the national and state-level health programmes are in place on the ground. Comparing data from the NFHS 4 report and NFHS 5 reports, some of the districts that have performed well in the past five years are Akola, Jalna, Jalgaon, Beed, Gadchiroli, Gondiya, Nashik, Osmanabad, Raigad, Satara, Solapur, Washim and Yavatma, which have shown a decline in the number of weak children in at least three of the four parameters. While districts that have not shown positive results are Ahmednagar, Amravati, Aurangabad, Bhandara, Chandrapur, Mumbai island, Palghar, Pune, Ratnagiri, Sangli, Sindhurdurg and Buldhana, all of which showed a continued negative trend in at least three of the four trends. Rubal Agarwal, commissioner at the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) said, “The centre has praised our work in 12 districts which showed a decline in the number of underweight children and our efforts have definitely worked on the ground. The good thing is that multiple districts have shown a positive change and now we have to focus only on those that are reporting a decline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-fails-to-improve-key-child-health-indicators-as-per-national-family-health-survey-101636899729695.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav hits back at Amit Shah’s JAM jibe||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday hit back at Union home minister Amit Shah for his JAM jibe in Azamgarh and said he would reply to JAM with butter.“I don’t know what BJP means by JAM, but as far as I know JAM stands for Jhoot (lies), Ahankar (arrogance) of BJP and Mehangai (inflation) in their rule,” Akhilesh Yadav said. He was addressing a gathering after a road show during the Samajwadi Vijay Yatra in the Hata area of Kushinagar district in eastern Uttar Pradesh.“The BJP needs to reply to JAM, but it is diverting people’s attention from core issues like inflation, corruption and unemployment. We will reply to their JAM with our butter. Soon, you will know what our butter is,” Akhilesh Yadav said.On Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah had attacked the Samajwadi Party at a public meeting in Azamgarh, the Lok Sabha constituency of Akhilesh Yadav.He had asked people to choose between SP’s JAM (Pakistan founder Jinnah), Azam Khan and Mukhtar Ansari and BJP’s JAM(Jan Dhan account) Aadhaar card and Mobile phones to eradicate poverty.Amit Shah had said, “BJP gave the people JAM – Jandhan (bank accounts), Aadhar and Mobile — but the SP people say they have also brought JAM - Jinnah, Azam Khan and Mukhtar (don-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari).”“Tell me whether you want BJP’s JAM or SP’s JAM. These people can never work for the welfare of Uttar Pradesh. These people do the politics of division,” the BJP leader had said at the public meeting in Azamgarh where he laid the foundation stone of a state university.For his part, Akhilesh responded to the turnout at the road show by saying: “The people of Uttar Pradesh have decided to change the government which has changed names and colours.”“They have laid the foundation stone of a university in Azamgarh but they should also mention its budget. A medical university that they have set up in the name of Atal Bihari Vajpayee is running on the ninth floor of a medical college which was built by the SP. In addition, an agriculture university which was given to Azamgarh by the SP was taken to Gorakhpur by Babaji (an apparent reference to chief minister Yogi Adityanath who is also the chief priest of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur).”While attacking the BJP, he also said, “At least, they should say how much investment has come to the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-hits-back-at-amit-shah-s-jam-jibe-101636899429426.html
14-11-2021||Pune||First ‘platform parking’ in the state begins at Hadapsar railway station||PUNE The next time you travel from the Hadapsar railway station and need to board a train, simply drive your vehicle onto a platform allocated for drop-offs, and/or pickups, and gain easy access to the trains at the station.The idea of ‘platform parking’ comes from the Howrah railway station in Kolkata, where passengers can take their vehicles inside the railway station, and onto a dedicated platform, to board a train, or pick some passenger up. The Hadapsar station now is the first in Maharashtra to offer the platform option for drops and pick-ups. There is no waiting allowed and an efficient system is in place to manage to the flow of vehicles.Currently, there are four platforms at the Hadapsar railway station and one foot overbridge. “Lots of new developments and passenger amenities have been developed at the Hadapsar railway station, as we are now shifting train operations to start from Hadapsar. Currently, a Hadapsar to Hyderabad daily special runs from here and soon a few more trains will also start. In this development process a parking space just next to what is platfrom number one has been created where passengers park their vehicles and directly board the train from the platform,” said Renu Sharma, Pune divisional railway manager (DRM). “It will be like the Howrah railway station’s platform parking system, where vehicles enter the station and passengers board or pick up trains. The parking lot area is small at the Hadapsar station, but it can be increased after more train operations start Hadapsar,” added Sharma. The daily Hadapsar to Hyderabad train departs at 3.30 and it is stationed on platfrom number 3. Another special train, Hadapsar to Jhansi has been started. The station is on the Mundhwa-Kharadi bypass road in Hadapsar and has only one approach road. The capacity of the platforms has now increased to 22-coach trains. Vipul Alekar, a nearby resident and passenger said, “We had to go all the way to Pune railway station to board trains. Now if more trains start running from here it is beneficial for all of us. Also the platform parking system will reduce the hassle of carrying heavy luggage and running to catch the train in time. It will also help elderly people to easily board the train.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-platform-parking-in-the-state-begins-at-hadapsar-railway-station-101636899369595.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||Violence and rioting a ploy to destabilise Maharashtra government, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena on Sunday said that the violence and rioting in a few cities of Maharashtra is a ploy to destabilise the state government. Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s statement came after incidents of stone-pelting were reported from Nanded, Malegaon and Amravati, in the backdrop of protests staged against the violence that took place in Panisagar in Tripura, on October 27. The Sena leader asked why there should be a reaction in Maharashtra to incidents that happened in Tripura. He added, “Why only Maharashtra? Why not in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Karnataka, or Madhya Pradesh. We feel that there is a bigger conspiracy to create tension in the country and to destabilise the Maharashtra government,” the Sena Member of Parliament (MP) said. Raut said that Hindus are being targeted in Kashmir, jawans are being martyred, an army colonel was killed with his family in Manipur in an ambush, but no such protest was held so far. The Sena MP also questioned the protest in Tripura where stones were allegedly thrown at mosques. Following the alleged incident, violence was seen in Amravati and Nanded on Saturday. Raut further said that if Hindus are truly under threat then Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat should lead a protest in Delhi, and ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah about Hindus being targeted in Kashmir. “The attacks on the temples in Bangladesh is a matter of concern, but Hindus are being targeted and killed in Kashmir. Why are there no protests against it,” he asked. He further said, “All the nationalist and Hindutvawadi parties must come together and lead a protest in Delhi under the leadership of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. Questions must be asked to Amit Shah and Prime Minister on what is happening against the Hindus in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/violence-and-rioting-a-ploy-to-destabilise-maharashtra-government-says-sanjay-raut-101636899189345.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Pune Metro: Shivajinagar,Civil court underground stations ready by Q1 2022||PUNE: With more than 75% of work on the elevated metro stations complete, the Maharashtra Metro Railway Corporation (Maha Metro) has decided to focus on underground metro stations in the first quarter of 2022. Shivajinagar and Civil court will be among the first metro stations to be ready in February 2022.Atul Gadgil, director, Maha Metro, said, “Among the underground stations, Shivajinagar and Civil court will be completed first as more than 60% of the work has been completed. Work is going on in full swing under the supervision of contractors. The tunneling work is also progressing at good speed.”The underground stretch between Agriculture College and Swargate is part of the 16-kilometer Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate corridor. There are five underground stations. Of these five metro stations, Maha-Metro is erecting multi-modal hubs at three stations. The underground station of Mandai is behind schedule as the land was handed over to Maha Metro only in July. The tunneling work speeded-up after crossing the Mutha river, with 80% of it having been completed as of now.Hemant Sonawane, general manager (administration), Maha Metro, said, “After Shivajinagar and Civil court, Swargate, Phadke haud and lastly Mandai station will be completed. We have set a four months’ deadline to complete the underground stations.”With Maha Metro having completed 65% of the work on Pune metro, the priority sections namely, Sant Tukaram nagar to Phugewadi and Vanaz to Garware college will be soon made operational for passengers. The complete Pune metro project will wind up by December 2022. Pune metro has 30 stations and is spread over two corridors running a distance of approximately 33.1 km. The 17.4 km line 1 from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to Swargate has a 6 km underground stretch from Shivajinagar to Swargate. The 15.4 km line 2 from Vanaz to Ramwadi is an elevated one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-shivajinagar-civil-court-underground-stations-ready-by-q1-2022-101636898949586.html
14-11-2021||Pune||MSRTC drivers, conductors stay on strike, but 350 admin staff back at work in Pune||PUNE The strike of the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers continued on Sunday, day 16, but at least 350 workers in the Pune division have reported to work over the past two days.Private contractor-owned Shivshahi and Shivneri buses continue to operate on various routes from the Swargate, Wakdewadi and Pune railway station ST stands. Workers from the maintenance and administrative departments have returned, but a large number of drivers and conductors are still on strike, due to which buses cannot be operational. “We will continue the strike as our main demand of merging the MSRTC into state government has not been heard. This time it is a do-or-die situation for all of us. We are aware about the inconvenience caused to passengers, but the state government should also realise and understand our issue,” said Sandeep Panchal, a protesting driver at the Swargate ST stand. “Till now 350 workers have joined work in the Pune division and we are in continuous dialogue with other workers too. The decision will be made by the state government, but it is necessary for workers to join work, as the main Diwali season is on. We have started operations of private contractor-operated Shivshahi and Shivneri buses from our ST stands and the number will increase to 100 in the coming days. Proper police protection is provided to these buses,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Ramakant Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-drivers-conductors-stay-on-strike-but-350-admin-staff-back-at-work-in-pune-101636898589321.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||48 districts of Uttar Pradesh declared Covid-free; Agra, Ayodhya included||As many as 48 districts of Uttar Pradesh have now been declared as free of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the recovery rate of the state has reached 98.7 per cent, according to latest data updated by the government.These districts have seen both active as well as fresh Covid-19 cases dipping to zero. Agra, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Fatehpur, Firozabad, Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Kasganj, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Rampur, Sitapur and Unnao are some of the districts that have been declared Covid-free. With this, the infection has been wiped out from more than 64 per cent of Uttar Pradesh, the state data revealed.Meanwhile, all 75 districts in the northern state-led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, have not recorded fresh Covid-19 cases in double digits lately. Of them, as many as 67 districts did not report a single case in the last 24 hours.The active case count of Uttar Pradesh stands at 99 – a massive reduction from 3,10,783 from April when the country was battling the deadly second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.In the last 24 hours, only 12 individuals were found to have tested positive for Covid-19 after samples of more than 1.58 lakh people were tested. In the same period, three new recoveries were logged, thereby taking the total number of patients who recovered from the virus to over 16.87 lakh, the state government data showed.Uttar Pradesh continues to follow a rigorous testing process with the ‘Trace, Test and Treat’ formula as well as prevention via vaccination and partial curfew. The case positivity rate in the state currently is at 0.01 per cent. The state has tested more than 8.54 crore samples so far, followed by Maharashtra’s 6.38 crore.As far as vaccine is concerned, the state has inoculated Covid-19 vaccine jabs to over 13.97 crore eligible beneficiaries. More than 69 per cent of the adult population has been administered the first dose, while over 26 per cent has received both shots of the coronavirus vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/48-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-declared-covid-free-agra-ayodhya-included-101636896436280.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Section 144 imposed in Pune rural following communal violence||PUNE: In the aftermath of communal violence reported in Amravati, Nanded, Malegaon and other parts of Maharashtra following a march organised by the Raza Academy on November 12 to protest the alleged fighting in Tripura, the Pune district administration on Sunday imposed section 144 in rural areas.According to the superintendent of police (Pune rural) Abhinav Deshmukh, district collector Dr Rajesh Deshmukh has imposed section 144 in the rural areas of Pune district for seven days to prevent any untoward incident. The rural SP in his order said that the collector’s order is effective from Sunday till November 20. The preventive order prohibits persons from posting or sharing communal or objectionable content on social media, including YouTube, Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp. “If there is any such post in WhatsApp groups, the group admin will be held responsible. There will be restriction on gatherings of five or more people at any place. No person shall organise any meeting. Also, nobody shall carry any weapon or stick. There is a ban on displaying provocative slogans,” the order stated.The administration said that the order has been issued to ensure that anti-social elements do not take advantage of the situation to incite violence among various groups. The district collector said, “It is a preventive order aimed at maintaining peace in the area. We appeal to the people to avoid rumours and ensure that nothing untoward takes place.” Earlier on Friday, protest rallies turned violent in Nanded, Malegaon and Amravati with mobs pelting stones at police vans and two police personnel sustaining injuries at Deglur naka and Shivaji nagar. Protestors were also seen torching shops and police vehicles in Malegaon and Amravati, following which the riot squad was called in to quell the protests. In response to the violent march, BJP called an Amravati bandh on Saturday which also turned violent with stones being pelted at various shops as mobs gathered at Rajkamal chowk and some of the city’s old parts. As a preventive measure, the local administration in Amravati has imposed a curfew in the district for three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/section-144-imposed-in-pune-rural-following-communal-violence-101636897151374.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||Situation under control in Amravati; curfew imposed for four days: Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil said the situation in Amravati and neighbouring districts were stable as there was no violence reported on Sunday. He said that the state government has imposed a four-day curfew in Amravati and the internet services will remain suspended for three days. The state home minister, while talking to reporters, said that they will investigate the violence and whoever found guilty, will be punished. “We will probe the violence that occurred during the rallies that were called to condemn the violence that may or may not have happened at Tripura,” Walse-Patil said. “We have imposed a four-day curfew and internet services have been suspended for three days in the Amravati district,” he added. When asked if action will be taken against Raza Academy, which had called for a bandh, the home minister said, “I cannot name anyone organisation. We will probe the intention behind organising the bandh. Be it Raza Academy, or any other organisation, the guilty will be punished,” he replied. The instances of violence were reported in Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded, during a day-long bandh called by Raza Academy on Friday, to protest against the alleged incidents of violence and mosques being vandalised in Tripura. While the situation was brought under control in Malegaon and Nanded, fresh violence was reported in Amravati city during another shutdown called by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday, to protest against clashes that occurred a day before. On Sunday, the Opposition party called another bandh in Amravati district to protest against the clashes. Walse-Patil also said that they are taking all the necessary precautions in the areas such as Nanded, Malegaon, Yavatmal and Amravati, where they suspect violence may break out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/situation-under-control-in-amravati-curfew-imposed-for-four-days-maharashtra-minister-101636896969383.html
14-11-2021||Kolkata||Video showing ‘money for nomination’ call stings Bengal BJP; party alleges conspiracy||A video, showing a cell phone during a call being made on speaker mode, caused embarrassment for the Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday afternoon as it purportedly showed a party worker asking for one lakh rupees from an unidentified person for candidature during the coming civic body polls. The BJP worker also allegedly claimed that victory for some BJP candidates could be ensured “in arrangement with the TMC”. The unidentified caller, who sought nomination for 12 people, tried to bargain. The video, the authenticity of which could not be verified by HT, was posted by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on its official Twitter handle at 12.41 pm. It soon went viral. Elections for Kolkata and Howrah municipal corporation seats will be held on December 19. It will be followed in phases in more than a hundred civic body areas in the rest of Bengal. Though the five-year tenure of most of the civic boards ended in 2018-19, the polls were indefinitely postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The video purportedly showed a conversation taking place between Pritam Sarkar, a BJP worker from Behala in the south-western suburbs of Kolkata, and an unknown caller. Sarkar’s photograph, which was apparently saved in the caller’s phonebook, showed up on the screen. The conversation mentioned BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar. The TMC’s tweet said: “@BJP4Bengal is demanding one lakh for each candidate. @DrSukantaBJP, is this how you collect funds for your propaganda? SHOCKING!” Majumdar brushed aside the allegation and said, “The BJP worker featuring in the video earlier worked for the TMC. The truth will be exposed soon.” Sarkar claimed that the voice heard in the video was not his. “This is a conspiracy by a group of people who want to create problems for the BJP before the civic polls,” he told the media. The name of Shankar Sikdar, president of the BJP’s south Kolkata unit, also figured in the conversation. “This is a conspiracy by the ruling party and certainly not the first one. Our leaders are not involved in such practices,” said Sikdar. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said some BJP leaders had alleged in the past that money changed hands before allotment of election tickets. “Even former state BJP president Tathagata Roy recently alleged that money played a role in allotment of tickets before the recent assembly polls. This video calls for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate,” said Ghosh. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “People will laugh at the suggestion that anyone can contest for the BJP by giving one lakh rupees. One of the voices in the audio is doctored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/video-showing-money-for-nomination-call-stings-bengal-bjp-party-alleges-conspiracy-101636894688887.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Solo journey home turns life-changing experience||When Rabindranath Tagore gave the call of “Ekla cholo re,” even the poet laureate would have been unable to fathom the turmoil that a kid, all of 13 years, was undergoing as he embarked upon his first solo journey from Jamshedpur in faraway Jharkhand to his hometown of Patiala away from the protective care of his parents and comfort of his friends. My father was with the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti and a frequent traveller, but yours truly, a student of Class 9 at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Saraikela in Jharkhand, was making his first lone foray into the unknown to spend the summer vacation with his mother who lived in Punjab. According to the original plan, my father was to accompany me but had to cancel the trip due to some urgent work. The thought of being alone in a train scared me no end. It was 2008 and incidents of retaliation against attacks on North Indians in Maharashtra were taking place. Clashes had taken place at railway stations in the region that fuelled my apprehension. But overcoming the reluctance, I decided to undertake the journey. My mother was to receive me at the New Delhi railway station. “Mom, please reach on time. I want to see you in front of my compartment when I arrive,” I begged her. Finally, the day to travel dawned. The train was to leave at 7am and reach Delhi by 5am the next morning. My reservation was in an air-conditioned compartment as my father wanted to make sure I had a safe journey. Most ofthe passengers were asleep. My father pulled out a ₹100 note. Giving it to me, he advised me to stay alert. Then in a stroke of paternal affection, he took out ₹500 more and handed the money to me. The temperature in the AC compartment had dipped, but I felt the warmth in his concern. By afternoon, a gentleman in his mid-40s seated on a berth next to me, woke up. After a few minutes, he asked me my name. “Sutanterpal,” I replied. “Where are you from,” he continued. “Punjab,” I said. He smiled and said he was also from Punjab but lived in Delhi. I felt my confidence go up. He offered me his mobile phone so that I could talk to my mother, who was relieved to hear my voice and we reiterated our commitment to meet at the Delhi station the next morning. The gentleman was listening to my conversation. After I was through, he asked me why I was troubling my mother by making her travel from Patiala to Delhi. After I explained the situation, he said, “In future, you should travel alone as your mother can’t be with you every time. You should learn to be independent instead of depending on your parents.” His words forced me to rethink my decision. Convinced, I called up my mother and told her that I would be able to reach Patiala alone. The next morning, after we reached Delhi, the gentleman accompanied me to the Inter-State Bus Terminus. After making me comfortable in a bus, he called up my mother and gave her the details about the bus I had taken for Patiala. By now, my hesitation had gone and I was bubbling with energy and enthusiasm. My first solo journey, undertaken without the security of my parents, gave me the confidence and courage required to step into adulthood. Later, I went on to travel alone from Patiala to Jamshedpur on a few more occasions, including going to Delhi to receive my mother when she was returning from Jamshedpur. Life sure had come full circle. spsmanes.000@gmail.com The writer is a Patiala-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/solo-journey-home-turns-life-changing-experience-101636892768667.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Govt to hold meetings with DTC and metro officials to increase frequency of public transport||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai told reporters that the government will hold a meeting with Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Delhi Metro officials on Monday to make public transport more frequent as the national capital’s air quality index (AQI) fell into the “very poor” category on Sunday."Tomorrow we'll hold a meeting with Metro and DTC to increase the frequency of public transport," Rai told reporters on Sunday.The Delhi government has announced the closing of schools for a week and issued an advisory for government employees to start working from home. Construction work has also been ordered to stop starting from November 14 till November 17.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said a complete lockdown of the city was likely but the decision would be taken after consultation with concerned agencies and the federal government.Confronted with a worsening AQI and a thick haze enveloping the national capital region, the Delhi government has started to push public transport and bicycles as a viable alternative to personal vehicles.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged citizens to ride cycles or take the bus to curb air pollution. “To reduce pollution, foremost responsibility lies with the government to make rules and regulations. Then the industrial sector and thirdly, we as individuals. Take out at least a day to travel via cycle or bus,” Sisodia told reporters on Sunday.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, who was participating in a campaign to promote safer and cleaner streets, rode a bicycle to raise awareness and insisted that “people can ride a cycle at least once a month to prevent pollution and save the environment for future generations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-govt-to-hold-meetings-with-dtc-and-metro-officials-to-increase-frequency-of-public-transport-101636888940749.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Your Space: State government should ensure ST travellers do not suffer due to MSRTC strike||The strike by the staff of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) over grievances has left travellers stranded at bus depots even as the Bombay high court has directed the state government to resolve the issue. Hapless passengers are left at the mercy of private transporters who have hiked ticket fares. Readers share steps that should be taken to ensure bus users do not suffer... Provide transport facility for outstation students It is unfortunate that between the mismanagement of the state transport and the strike of the employees, the common man is paying the cost. The state transport (ST) is one of the cheapest and safest way of traveling across Maharashtra and inter-state. And the employees like drivers and conductors work hard to keep the system functional. In such a case, if the employees are not adequately paid then it seems only legitimate for them to go on strike. But the common people are suffering because of this. Especially, students who want to return to cities to rejoin colleges. They have to pay a lot of money to private transport vehicles for transport. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and the state government authority should ferry buses at fixed and lower prices to cities. For example, many students commute from Marathwada to cities like Pune and Mumbai. There should be special buses to help them reach their destination in time. Sai Waghmare Commuters suffer Many people who travel to hometown during the festive season faced hardship because of the strike by the staff of the state transport (ST) corporation. When the Diwali vacations for students were cut off abruptly, many parents could not get access to state transport buses due to the strike. The local governing bodies and the state government should have thought about the inconvenience to commuters and arranged private buses for them. In my area many families paid as much as ₹1,000 per seat in private buses from villages near Aurangabad to cities like Pune, Nashik and Mumbai. Many families had to hire a car and travel, putting a dent in pocket. Even though the demands are justified of the staff, the government should take steps to ensure that families of economically weaker sections do not suffer during such times. Even today, only the state transport buses connect even the remotest village to the district town or city. The employees should be helped and the issues should be resolved soon. Vidya Kulkarni Regulate private bus fare during ST staff strike I am stuck at my hometown in Ambejogai taluka. I was expected to reach Pune last week, but due to the state transport corporation’s staff strike there are no buses. And private buses are charging exorbitant ticket fare. Here with me, there are many other families and students who face the same plight. The state government should resolve the matter soon. And affordable buses should be started from major towns and cities to ease the situation for commuters. The bus fares should be regulated by the government during these times. Otherwise, private players will hike bus fares as per their wish which is unfair to students like me. The government should intervene. When we have such a strong state transport facility, it should be strengthened further so that there is more demand from citizens and plenty of choice for commuters to choose their mode of transport. Rajesh Deshmukh ST bus is the sole transport option for my village I live in a village near Shirur town in Pune district. There is just one bus that comes to my village and it is run by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). Using this bus, I have finished my college from Shirur and this bus is the only reason why students from my village have access to higher education. Even school students from class 9 to 10 use this bus to reach their schools which are comparatively far away. This bus connects us to the rest of the district. And now this bus is not functioning. It has impacted all our lives because we have to walk at least 20 kilometres to reach the main road. There are private small vehicles, but their fare is higher than the state transport buses. Local government bodies should intervene and start immediate transport for students like me who are in remote areas and are in need of travel connectivity. Local governing bodies can take such initiatives which can help many people while the strike is ongoing. Karuna Kadam Foreign tourists were also affected Commuters all across Maharashtra state are facing issues due to the ongoing state transport (ST) strike. One of my relatives were off to Ajantha for a vacation. And there due to the strike, they had to walk from the parking to the base of the caves which is four kilometres. While returning they had hired a bullock cart to travel the distance. There were foreign tourists who were also forced to do the same. This shows that due to the strike, even foreigners are facing issues and they are taking a bad image of our country with them. Hence, I think the issues should be resolved soon by the government. Having said that, I feel the strike is legitimate. The staff of state transport staff works day and night for us. They should be given sufficient pay and on time to ease their life. Due to the Covid pandemic, many people have suffered, including the bus staff. But, they resumed work as soon as transport services were resumed. The government should resolve the issues at the earliest to help commuters travel at economical cost. Ashwini Limbane||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-state-government-should-ensure-st-travellers-do-not-suffer-due-to-msrtcstrike-101636887667678.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: A magical theatre experience!||One of the first plays that we ever produced as a group, from Natak Company, was a play for children called “Sutti Butti”. It was based on a story written by Russian writer Sergei Mikhalkov. I had his book of stories at home since my childhood and had known that particular story since long. The parents of all children in a small town are tired because of their misbehaviour and decide to teach them a lesson collectively. They leave town when the children go to sleep. When the children wake up, they are happy at first and later start missing their parents and understand their importance. It was a fantasy (obviously!) and there were many fun moments in the story which had translated in the play version too. We had used a projector and animations in a play for the first time and that was another learning experience for us as a group. The play opened at a children’s theatre festival at Prithvi theatre in Mumbai and we later performed in Pune. The reception was decent. Nothing too memorable! But there was one incident that was magical. We were invited to perform at a new venue in Mumbai. It was the monsoon season and naturally it was raining very heavily. I realised immediately what a foolish and inexperienced decision it was! Nevertheless, the people who were in charge of the venue were extremely sincere and were genuine theatre lovers. We had reached a day early and started our technical set-up. Online booking was not in vogue back then and most of the tickets were either reserved via phone or on the spot. We were informed that our phone booking was zero. But they were hopeful that a decent number of people will come the next day. As you might have expected, it rained extremely heavily. Five minutes before the show the venue managers came and met me. They informed me that the number of people who had come to watch was two. Our team had 17 people! They wanted to check if we wanted to go ahead with the performance and were perfectly ok if we decided to call it off too. My team were at their opening positions, waiting for the third bell. I knew this was my decision to make, but I felt it would have been unfair to the entire team if they didn’t know. I called them in a huddle and informed them. I also told them that I was thinking of still going ahead with the performance. And that they should not take this show lightly or let this hamper their energy. I was pleasantly surprised to see that everyone was even more charged up! It was a wonderful feeling to see this spirit. The third bell was given. Our audience members had taken their seats in the front row. The opening music piece started. As the curtain opened, so did the main door of the auditorium and in walked 10 more people. And most of them were kids, accompanied by an adult. It was our audience! They quickly took their seats. My team started performing and I could see the pleasant surprise on their faces when they heard a lot more laughter and response from the audience than they had expected! It has been 12 years to this incident. Till date, it is the least attended performance of mine. But it remains one of the most magical experiences of my life. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-a-magical-theatre-experience-101636887127461.html
14-11-2021||Indore||Indore doctors announce they'd only offer services to fully vaccinated people starting Nov 30||In order to spread awareness regarding Covid-19 vaccination, two doctors in the Indore district has decided that they will not give their services to those patients who have not taken both the doses of vaccine from November 30.Dr Ajay Chaglani and Dr Pinki Bhatia have written letters to the District collector and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) informing them about the decision."In the letter written to the DC, I have extended my support to the mega vaccination drive being carried by the district administration," said Dr Ajay Chaglani, who was a government doctor earlier but now runs a private clinic after retirement."I have taken this step to make people aware of the vaccine so that people get the vaccine as soon as possible and Indore becomes corona free," he added.Dr Pinki Bhatia (Topiwala), who runs a physiotherapy clinic in Indore, said to ANI, " We have a staff of 20-25 people, 50 people come daily for physiotherapy, who have to come in physical contact with the clients.""The government has given free facility for Covid-19 vaccination, so we are taking these steps for awareness. If stop the treatment, people will be forced to get vaccinated," Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-doctors-announce-they-d-only-offer-services-to-fully-vaccinated-people-101636885420827.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Physically challenged man killed in Pune godown fire||A physically challenged person was killed in a fire at a wood godown in Maharashtra's Pune city on Sunday, police said. According to brigade officials, they received a call around 3 am about the blaze at the godown located in Sade Sataranali area of Hadapsar following which fire tankers were rushed to the spot. The fire was extinguished by 6.30 am, they said. "During the cooling process, the charred body of a man, who did not have legs, was found at the spot. The body has been sent for postmortem," an official from Hadapsar police station said. The victim used to stay at the godown, he said. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/physically-challenged-man-killed-in-pune-godown-fire-101636885788727.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||To tackle Delhi’s air pollution, Manish Sisodia has cycles and buses in mind||With the worsening air quality in Delhi, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday urged the residents of the national capital to use bicycles or buses to commute at least one day in a month to reduce the alarming levels of pollution.“To reduce pollution, foremost responsibility lies with the government to make rules and regulations. Then the industrial sector and thirdly, we as individuals. Take out at least a day to travel via cycle or bus,” news agency ANI quoted Sisodia as saying.“People can ride a cycle at least once a month to prevent pollution and save the environment for future generations,” he also said during a cycle rally at West Vinod Nagar, Patparganj as part of the Delhi government’s Raahgiri programme.Also read | Pollution: Delhi-NCR wakes up to another smoggy day, air quality remains poorWhile the overall air quality levels in Delhi and the adjoining National Capital Region (NCR) remained worrisome on Sunday, it improved in the national capital partially to reach the ‘very poor’ category. The Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 386, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), ANI reported.“Participated in "Raahgiri" - a campaign to promote safer & cleaner streets. I would like to thank Raahgiri Foundation for collaborating with Delhi Govt's "Yudh Pradushan Ke Viruddh" campaign. Such initiatives are necessary to raise public awareness about pollution,” he tweeted.Participated in "Raahgiri" - a campaign to promote safer & cleaner streets. I would like to thank Raahgiri Foundation for collaborating with Delhi Govt's "Yudh Pradushan Ke Viruddh" campaign.Such initiatives are necessary to raise public awareness about pollution. pic.twitter.com/qFs4HUuVS8He said that the programme would be held widely across the city. “We are taking Raahgiri to every corner of Delhi. Initially, it will be organized at six locations in six weeks. The message is to reduce pollution on your part,” ANI quoted him as saying.The remarks of the deputy CM came a day after the Arvind Kejriwal-led government announced several measures to handle the worrisome air quality conditions.Watch | Delhi pollution: Schools shut, construction halted. Kejriwal acts after SC prodKejriwal on Saturday announced that physical classes would be suspended for a week in schools and students can attend lessons online. He also said that all construction activities will be stopped in the city until November 17.Kejriwal also said that all government offices would completely work from home (WFH) while issuing the same advisory to private offices, asking them to implement WFH as far as possible.The announcements came after the Supreme Court, while hearing a petition on Delhi’s air pollution, asked the Centre if some emergency measures such as a lockdown should be implemented to control the situation. The top court also expressed concerns about the pollution in Delhi and highlighted the issue of exposing school-going children to such pollution.It has also directed the Centre to call an emergency meeting with all stakeholders regarding the issue and posted the matter for further hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/use-cycles-or-buses-a-day-every-month-manish-sisodia-on-delhi-s-air-pollution-101636882955777.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Now, electric vehicle users can install home charging station at ₹2.5k||In what comes as a piece of good news for the new generation of electric vehicle owners in Delhi, there is now no need to physically visit government departments to apply for the setting up of private e-vehicle charging stations in the national capital. E-vehicle owners can now apply for the same from the comfort of their homes and get charging stations installed within seven days. Moreover, the government has also included the benefit of a subsidy for availing of this facility.According to a report by HT's sister publication Live Hindustan, the cheapest e-vehicle charging station in Delhi will cost about ₹2,500, the original price of which was set at ₹8,500. With a subsidy of ₹6,000 (a 70 per cent discount) in place, applicants will now only have to pay ₹2,500 for the same.Earlier this week, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gehlot launched a single-window system for private e-vehicle charging stations. At the launch ceremony, Jasmine Shah, the vice-president of the dialogue and development commission of Delhi, was also present.With a customer potentially having to pay ₹2,500 for an electric vehicle charging station, Delhi is providing the cheapest of such facilities in the entire country. However, only the first 30,000 applicants for the EV charging facility will get the subsidy on installation charges.Additionally, the Delhi government will also be supplying power for the EV charging station at only ₹4.5 per unit. This is the first time such a convenient process has been developed in India for the ease of electric vehicle owners.Here's how to apply for an EV charging stationHere's a step-by-step guide to applying for an EV charging station in Delhi:1. Delhiites will have to visit the respective website of their power supply company.2. The CA (consumer account) number of the applicant's own electricity connection has to be entered at the link provided on the website.3. This list of power companies has to include any one of the 12 that have been chosen to provide the EV charging facility.4. After the application is completed, a representative from the company will talk to the consumer over the phone within seven days and send a team to set up a charging station,5. The consumer has to pay for the EV charging facility after the subsidy amount has been deducted. The government will provide a guarantee on the charging station for up to three years.6. If a customer is willing to just install the charging station for himself, they can make use of the electricity in their residence but if they are looking to set up a business charging the vehicles of other electric vehicle users, they have to install a commercial meter along with it, at the uniform cost of ₹4.50 per unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-now-electric-vehicle-users-can-install-home-charging-station-at-rs-25k-101636873433551.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||After 2 days of violence, Maharashtra govt says situation in Amravati under control||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said on Sunday that the situation in violence-hit Amravati was under control, a day after internet services were snapped and an indefinite curfew was imposed in the city following two straight days of violent protests. Addressing a press conference, the minister also said that no casualties have been reported from Amravati thus far. Situation in Amravati is under control. No casualties have been reported in the violence: Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil on recent violence in Amravati(File photo) pic.twitter.com/PyvCEpAGtuMaharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said on Sunday that the situation in violence-hit Amravati was normal, a day after internet services were snapped and indefinite curfew was imposed in the district after two straight days of violence. Addressing a press conference, the minister also said that no casualties have been reported from Amravati thus far.|#+|“We’ll definitely investigate the rallies that were taken out in Maharashtra over the incidents that may nor may not have taken place in Tripura. We will also assess the damages. I’ll tell you more after reports come,” Walse Patil said, according to news agency ANI.  I can't tell you today but we will probe this. Be it Raza Academy or any other organisation, their motive behind the rally will be probed: Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil when asked if action will be taken against Raza Academy pic.twitter.com/i24lItsnZyOn the possible role of the Mumbai-based Raza Academy, which gave the initial bandh call for Friday, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said that an investigation will be conducted. “I can’t tell you today, but we will probe this. Be it the Raza Academy or any other organisation, their motive behind the rallies will be probed,” he said.Also Read | After fresh violence, curfew imposed, internet suspended in AmravatiOn Friday, violence broke out in at least three cities--Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded—as Raza Academy held a day-long bandh to protest against reported incidents of mosques being vandalised in Tripura. While the situation was brought under control in Malegaon and Nanded, fresh violence was reported from Amravati, during yet another shutdown, called by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to protest against clashes from the day before. The police resorted to lathi-charge during the BJP’s demonstrations, leading to injuries to at least 10 people. As the situation escalated, authorities imposed prohibitory orders, and also rushed in reinforcements from the nearby districts.Also Read | Raza Academy in focus as protest rallies turn violent in Amravati, Nanded, MalegaonThe ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, has accused the BJP, which is in power in the north-eastern state, of ‘conspiring to destabilise the Maharashtra government.’ The Tripura Police, state government, as well as the Centre, have all refuted reports of vandalisation of mosques in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-2-days-of-violence-situation-in-amravati-under-control-says-maharashtra-govt-101636869498074.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Pollution: Delhi-NCR wakes up to another smoggy day, air quality remains poor||Residents of the national capital region (NCR) on Sunday woke up to another smoggy day as air quality levels remained in poor categories across Delhi and the surrounding satellite cities.While the air quality index (AQI) of Delhi improved to 'very poor' from the 'severe' category at 338, in neighbouring Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Noida, the same was recorded at 312, 368, 301 and 357, respectively.In Delhi, the air quality index of Lodhi Road, Pusa Road, Chandni Chowk and Delhi airport was recorded at 295, 313, 352 and 321 respectively, according to the Sameer app.On Saturday, the capital’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced various emergency measures, including shutting of schools for a week, ban on construction activities and work-from-home plan for government officials, to deal with the pollution crisis.He said his government would also present a plan of lockdown before the Supreme Court.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".Meanwhile, the authorities have urged citizens to limit outdoor activities and cut vehicle use as air quality in the region inched towards the emergency level amid a rise in emissions from farm fires and unfavourable meteorological conditions.Also read | On pollution in Delhi, Supreme Court suggests imposing lockdown for 2 daysA sub-committee on Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) said meteorological conditions will be highly unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants till November 18 and agencies concerned must be fully ready to implement measures under "emergency" category.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.1, three notches below the season's average, on Sunday. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 83 per cent.The weather office has predicted a mainly clear sky with moderate fog in the morning with a maximum temperature expected to be around 26 degrees Celsius.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-delhi-ncr-wakes-up-to-another-smoggy-day-air-quality-remains-poor-101636868726683.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||JAM vs JAM: Akhilesh Yadav replies to Amit Shah’s criticism||Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday came up with another acronym to counter Union home minister Amit Shah’s criticism over his comments on Mohammad Ali Jinnah, which have stoked a controversy with both parties trading barbs at each other.“Whatever their JAM means, the Samajwadi Party has come up with its own meaning for JAM. The BJP is J for 'jhooth' (lies), A for 'ahankaar' (arrogance), M for 'mehengai' (inflation) and the party doesn’t have any reply to all this. The BJP has to give a reply on their own JAM...," Akhilesh Yadav said during a press conference.The SP leader said the BJP is making all the promises only because it’s election time but his party if elected, will help the poor for five years.Also read | Ahead of UP polls, SP chief Akhilesh's Jinnah remark triggers political rowOn Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah coined an acronym 'JAM' to take a dig at Akhilesh Yadav asking people to choose between SP chief’s ‘JAM’ and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s JAM.Addressing a public rally in Azamgarh, the constituency of Akhilesh Yadav, Shah said that while government ushered in a positive 'JAM' that is J for Jan Dhan account, A for Aadhar Card, M for mobile phones, the SP had riled the state with another JAM - J for 'Jinnah, A for 'Azam Khan' and M for 'Mukhtar'.“Now you tell me... do you want the BJP’s 'jam' or the Samajwadi Party’s?” Shah asked.Also read | Uttar Pradesh free of riots under Yogi, says Amit Shah"They do not want the development of Uttar Pradesh. They only believe in dividing society with casteism, riots, appeasement politics and vote bank politics. As polls approach, Akhilesh ji is seeing a great person in Jinnah. I want to ask the people of the minority community, 'Do you find a great person in Jinnah’?” Shah asked.Akhilesh Yadav’s reference to Muhammad Ali Jinnah in the same breath as some of the icons of India’s freedom movement has snowballed into a controversy. Yadav made the comment at a public meeting in Hardoi earlier this month.Also watch | 'JAM = Jinnah, Azam, Mukhtar': BJP's Amit Shah attacks SP chief Akhilesh Yadav 
14-11-2021||City||Dev Uthani Ekadashi 2021: Over 5000 weddings expected in Delhi-NCR today||The month-long wedding season in Delhi began on Sunday, on the occasion of Dev Uthani Ekadashi. According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, approximately 2000 weddings will take place in the national capital on the first day itself and, therefore, one should be prepared to face long traffic jams while leaving home.“On Dev Uthan Ekadashi, Lord Vishnu wakes up after being asleep for four months. From a religious angle, several stories have been there. According to one, Lord Vishnu killed Shankhasur on the Ekadashi during the Shukla Paksha of Ashadha month. However, the war left him completely tired,” Livehindustan quoted Acharya Krishna Dutt Sharma, national secretary, of the Akhil Bharatiya Jyotish Parishad, as saying on the significance of the occasion.He further said that Lord Vishnu woke up on Kartik Shukla Ekadashi, and was worshipped by all Gods and Goddesses. “It is for this reason, that he is worshipped on this day, which is celebrated as Dev Uthani Ekadashi. Thus begins the month-long duration, getting married during which is considered auspicious,” Sharma explained, adding that the period will come to an end in December with the beginning of the Paush month.Overall, across the Delhi-NCR region, around 5000 marriage ceremonies will take place and, with the Ekadashi falling on a Sunday, long traffic jams are expected in Delhi and surrounding areas. Since many ceremonies will take place in private farm houses, most of which are on the outskirts of the city, the attendees should leave home hours in advance, the Delhi Traffic Police have advised.According to the Delhi government's latest Covid-19 guidelines, issued on October 29, maximum 200 people can attend a wedding ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dev-uthani-ekadashi-2021-over-5000-weddings-expected-in-delhincr-101636864782859.html
14-11-2021||Patna||Charas worth ₹40 lakh seized in Bihar||Three people were arrested in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Saturday with huge quantity of charas, valued at ₹40 lakh in international market, police said.Vivek Jaiswal, the station house officer (SHO) of Sagauli police station said acting on a tip off, a police team intercepted a motorcycle and arrested three persons with eight packets of charas weighing four kg near Bansapti Sthan on Bettiah - Motihari road under Sagauli police station.“During the preliminary investigation, we came to know that the accused hailed from Raxaul and were engaged in procuring charas and other narcotics from Nepal and supplying the same to customers in different states,” said Jaiswal.Also Read: Burnt body of Bihar journalist writing on ‘fake’ clinics found on roadAn official aware of the developments said the value of charas was estimated to be ₹40 lakh.The trio, identified as Vivek Verma (35), Anuj Kumar (50) and Mukesh Kumar (30), were arrested while heading towards Motihari from Raxaul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/charas-worth-40-lakh-seized-in-bihar-101636864563846.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Nasa records 57,000+ stubble fires till Nov 13||Between November 1 and November 13 this year, Punjab and Haryana have recorded the most number of stubble fires since 2012, satellite data from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shows.According to the data accessed by HT from SUOMI VIIRS C2, FIRMS-NASA resource, between November 1 and November 13, the cumulative fire count reported from the two states was 57,263, exceeding 52,719 incidents recorded in 2016.Data also showed that during the entire stubble burning season, which begins from October 1, these two agrarian states have together recorded 75,225 fire incidents that is just 440 short of the incidents recorded in 2020. Maximum fire counts in the two states were reported in 2016, when 94,173 such incidents were seen. This was also the year when Delhi recorded one of its worst pollution spells.“Our analysis shows that if you look at the total fire count recorded in Punjab this year, it is still slightly short of the 2020 numbers. But in Haryana, this year 7,963 fires have been reported, which is higher than the count it recorded in 2020, 2019 and 2018,” said Pawan Gupta, senior scientist, earth sciences (USRA), NASA Marshall Space Flight Centre.According to the Punjab government data, the state recorded 3,742 farm fires on Saturday, taking the total number of incidents in the state this season to 62,863, the second highest over the past five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nasa-records-57-000-stubble-fires-till-nov-13-101636843786755.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||‘WFH ideal under current situation’: Delhi residents||With pollution hitting ‘severe’ levels in the city, the Delhi government on Saturday said that it will issue a work from home (WFH) advisory to private offices -- a move which was largely welcomed by working professionals even as a few expressed apprehensions of a break in the regular work momentum.Many office-goers said that while work from home is ideal amid the spiralling pollution levels, they added that such decisions could not be enforced by all companies, especially at a time when work was slowly returning to normalcy amid the pandemic.Riyaz, an HR professional, said that while the repercussions of pollution on health can’t be taken lightly, reverting to work from home would break the work momentum. “Personally, I feel that we should adopt work from home... If the weather is not conducive for employees, people will not feel good. An unhealthy employee coming to office will not be very productive,” said Riyaz, who prefers to use his first name.The South Delhi resident said that while there had been some discussion regarding switching to work from home amid pollution concerns, the company has not issued any work from home advisory so far.“If one looks from the business point of view, there will be a sudden break in the momentum of people returning to the office, and a disruption in the day-to-day work. At a time when the business has already been affected due to Covid, such decisions will need a lot of thinking,” said Riyaz.Amit Bhatt, executive director (integrated urban transport), WRI India, said that if people who can work from home do so, it would improve the transport situation and people on the roads will breathe easier. “Air quality is worse on roads... If traffic congestion is eased, people will take lesser time to reach home and will breathe in less toxic pollutants. There will be fewer emissions since there are fewer vehicles on the streets. However, I don’t think that all activities can take place remotely,” said Bhatt.Bhamini Shenoy, who works with a law firm having offices in Delhi and NCR, said that she will opt for work from home if given the choice. “Due to pollution, I can regularly feel my eyes burning and throat itching... At least till the time the situation in the city becomes better, I’d prefer to work from home,” said Shenoy.She, however, added that all employees could not afford to work from home. “ The senior management that engages with clients will need to come to office even if an advisory is issued,” said Shenoy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wfh-ideal-under-current-situation-delhi-residents-101636841947237.html
14-11-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Harpreet Kang’s book on dealing with pandemic blues launched||Harpreet K Kang, a journalist, academician, entrepreneur launched her book “I Am” with much fanfare on Saturday. The book was launched at the PCTE Group of Institutes where several leading authors, critics, and journalists besides other eminent personalities from the industry gathered to double celebrate the birth of a new author and a new book.Prof Bhupinder Aziz Parihar, an Urdu poet, translator and editor was the keynote speaker. He is a prolific writer with over 50 books to his credit. He analysed the book based on the post-colonial era authors and works done by contemporaries. He said, “The opening decades in the west were problematic. The literature of this age introduced four major concerns in modern English writings. Alienation, quest for identity collapse of communication and search for roots. These were the existential dilemmas and crises that have re-emerged today in our post-modern times rather more acutely and more menacingly. The book ‘I Am’ appears at a time when human faculties are numbed and the thin line between living and extinction has blurred beyond belief.”The book ‘I Am’ is a powerful turnaround in simple interactive dialogue, with incredible examples that help readers transcend their minds. Harpreet K Kang said “I Am” gives the reader a profound understanding of self-evolution, consciousness, and acceptance. The early onset of the pandemic followed by the lockdown was hard for most and it is not different even today, a year and a half down the line. She said the turbulence and unexpected changes severely affected mental health and well-being. Responding to struggles among people around her, a journey, which began with simple friendly counselling, led her to pen down her thoughts in an endeavour to reach the larger masses with her message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-harpreet-kang-s-book-on-dealing-with-pandemic-blues-launched-101636840376543.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 3 chemists arrested; 5k intoxicant tablets recovered||The special task force (STF), Ludhiana range, in a joint operation with drug inspectors on Saturday arrested three chemists and an employee for selling intoxicant tablets. The team has recovered 5005 intoxicant tablets and capsules from their possession.Snehdeep Sharma, AIG, STF Ludhiana range, informed that the STF team along with drug inspector Rooppreet Kaur arrested two accused identified as Gagandeep Manchanda alias Gagan, 41, of Janta Colony in Basti Jodhewal and his employee Gaurav Dutt, 39, of New Shakti Nagar. The accused were arrested on Rahon Road near Basti Jodhewal Chowk when they were travelling on a scooter. The team recovered 2,460 intoxicant tablets from their possession.During questioning, Gagandeep said he owns a chemist shop, Paras Medical Store, but the licence of the shop had expired a long time ago. “He has been smuggling intoxicant tablets for the past around a year. He also said that he used to purchase intoxicant tablets from a person identified as Rinku of Subhash Nagar.”Similarly, a team of STF along with Drug inspector Lajvinder Kumar conducted a raid at Khalsa Medicos near octroi post on Rahon Road and recovered 965 intoxicant tablets. The drug inspector has taken action against chemist shop owner Harvinder Singh of Jain Nagar under the Drug and Cosmetic Act.Another team of the STF along with drug inspectors Gurpreet Singh and Amit Lakhanpal conducted a raid at Amrit Medicos located on Barota Road in New Shimlapuri and recovered 1,580 intoxicant tablets from the store. The drug inspector took action against store owner Munish Kumar of Suraj Nagar.A case under Sections 22 and 29 of the NDPS Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-3-chemists-arrested-5k-intoxicant-tablets-recovered-101636840313587.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: On Day 5 of Punjab basketball championship, 40 matches played||A total of 40 qualifying matches were played in the senior group category on the fifth day of the Punjab Open 3x3 Basketball Championship for men and women at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Friday.The women’s teams played 12 matches and the men’s teams played 28 qualifying matches in total.The tournament will conclude on November 14 and the winners will get a cash prize of ₹1 lakh, besides getting a chance to get selected in the state team.The men’s teams played 70 matches and the women’s teams played 30 qualifying matches on Day 4 of the tournament.As many as 220 players in the senior category participated from across the state.The knockouts, including the semifinals and the finals, will be played on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-on-day-5-of-punjab-basketball-championship-40-matches-played-101636840312424.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rape case: Chargesheet against Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains weak, says SAD leader||Accusing the police and state government of submitting an incomplete charge-sheet in the court in the rape case against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA (Atam Nagar) Simarjit Singh Bains and allegedly trying to save him, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and counsel of the complainant woman Harish Rai Dhanda said the chargesheet was incomplete and full of loopholes.SAD candidate from Atam Nagar constituency Dhanda and district president of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD) Gurdeep Gosha conducted a press conference outside the office of the commissioner of police (CP) on Saturday where the woman complainant is sitting on a protest for the last eight months. The police had, three days ago, filed a chargesheet against Bains and six others, including Bains’s brothers, in the rape case in the court.Demanding the arrest of Bains in the case, Dhanda alleged that the police was giving free hand to Bains for pressuring the victim and other witnesses in the case.Dhanda said the FIR was lodged eight months after the complaint was made against Bains and it took four months for the police to submit the chargesheet, which should have been submitted in two months. Citing the chargesheet, Dhanda stated that the police have submitted in the court that arresting Bains might result in a law and order situation and he cannot run away as he is a public representative. “This shows the incompetence of the police and the state government in arresting Bains and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi should resign as he is also trying to help Bains,” said Dhanda. Meanwhile, MLA Bains stated that he will not comment on the allegations levelled by Dhanda and any other leaders as the allegations are “baseless”. “Earlier also false FIRs have been lodged against me in a bid to pressurise and stop me from raising the voice of the public. I have full faith in the judicial system and will surely be announced innocent in the case,” said Bains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rape-case-chargesheet-against-lok-insaaf-party-mla-simarjit-singh-bains-weak-says-sad-leader-101636840311199.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurates Old GT Road reconstruction work||With the Old GT Road crying for attention for a long time, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu inaugurated the work of reconstructing 7.5 km-long stretch of the road from Sherpur Chowk to the Jalandhar bypass on Saturday. The department will also be developing green belts alongside the road at a combined cost of ₹11.64 crore.Under the first phase of the project, the road portion from Sherpur Chowk to the Jagraon bridge will be constructed at a cost of ₹3.16 crore. Ashu stated that municipal corporation (MC) officials have been directed to complete the project at the earliest for providing relief to commuters. Stating that the road being formally known as the Old GT Road has played a vital role in the development of the Ludhiana city and the project also includes the development of green belts, relaying of mastic, construction of footpaths, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bharat-bhushan-ashu-inaugurates-old-gt-road-reconstruction-work-101636840252635.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Congress protests against Modi government’s ‘anti-people’ policies||On the 132nd birth centenary of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, senior Congress leader KK Bawa and party workers on horseback staged a protest against the Modi government.The protest march was carried at the Jagraon Bridge where Punjab State Industries Development Corporation chairman KK Bawa, party in-charge of the Dakha assembly constituency Sandeep Sandhu, Pawan Diwan, Congress leader, Nirmal Singh Kaira, president, Punjab Congress Seva Dal, Lina Taparia, president, Women Congress, Ludhiana, Sehri, Resam Singh Sagu also participated.Bawa and a convoy of Congress workers laid wreaths at the statues of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev before marching towards the southern constituency against the “anti-people” policies of the Modi government. The workers expressed anger by burning pictures of the Modi government in the Lohara area of the southern constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-congress-protests-against-modi-government-s-anti-people-policies-101636840251289.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Ferozpur girls win gold in state softball championship||Ferozepur girls’ team on Saturday won the gold medal in the 26th junior state softball championship held at the Guru Nanak Stadium in Ludhiana.The tournament was organised by the Punjab Softball Association along with Ludhiana Softball Association.Ludhiana got the second position in this championship as it lost to Ferozpur by 3-0. Fazilka bagged the third spot by defeating Amritsar by 10-0.PN Passi, secretary, Punjab softball Association, along with coaches Jaspreet, Nirmaljit Kaur, Ranjit Singh, Ramesh Kumar, Jaspreet Singh, Rakesh Kumar and Tejinder gave the medals to the winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ferozpur-girls-win-gold-in-state-softball-championship-101636840193469.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PU Youth and Heritage Festival concludes at Mata Ganga Khalsa College||A spectacular extravaganza of Punjabi folk culture marked the concluding day of the four-day PU Youth and Heritage Festival at Mata Ganga Khalsa College on Saturday.While SCD Government College won the overall winner trophy, AS College Khanna bagged the second spot. Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College clinched the third overall winner trophy. The day witnessed ladies’ traditional ritualistic songs.Meanwhile, “jhoomar”, “sammi”, “luddi” and “giddha” stole the spotlight on the last day of PU Youth and Heritage Festival at Mata Ganga Khalsa College.Professor Karamjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University (PTA), was the chief guest on the occasion.Principal Kuldip Kaur Dhaliwal extended a warm welcome to all guests.Addressing the students, she said cultural presentations exhibited the zeal capability and extraordinary talent of the youth. She expressed gratitude to Nirmal Jaura, director of Youth Welfare of Panjab University, for providing an opportunity to host the youth festival on the campus.Professor Karamjeet Singh said such youth festivals provided an opportunity to the students to showcase their inner talent.Punjabi singer Pammi Bai entertained the audience with his singing.Principal Kuldip Kaur Dhaliwal congratulated the winning teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pu-youth-and-heritage-festival-concludes-at-mata-ganga-khalsa-college-101636840191356.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Now, PSEB to conduct Class 8, 10 and 12 board exams at self-centres||Students enrolled in board classes of government, government-aided and Punjab School Education Board-affiliated (PSEB) private schools in the state will now take final exams in their own schools.As per the latest order of the PSEB, the students of Classes VIII, X and XII will have their board centres in their own respective schools like the students of Class V.Earlier, board students of upper primary classes used to appear in exam centres of other schools. “This has been done for the first upcoming session of the final board exams to be held next month tentatively from December 13 to December 23. Since students will appear for the first time post relaxations in Covid restrictions, we don’t want them to be under any kind of stress,” said Yograj Sharma, PSEB chairman.Pertinently, boards will be held in two sessions of 50 marks each.He added that though students no longer will go to other schools to take their board exams, their subject teachers will be deputed in other schools for the exam duty.“This will help us to stop students from cheating and thus staff will be shuffled for the exam duties,” stated Sharma.Moreover, to refrain schools from adopting cheating tactics, the PSEB-affiliated private schools have been strictly asked to install CCTV cameras in classrooms during the board examination or else the board will cancel the examination centre on the day of the examination.“The order for the installation of cameras is only for private schools since they will have their own staff on duty,” added the chairman.A Performa as an undertaking pertaining to the same has been mailed to the schools and the principals have been asked to submit their forms with the board till November 15.Mixed response from teachersMeanwhile, the decision has got a mixed response from teachers in the district.A government teacher in a senior secondary school, Ludhiana, said this will be an opportunity for private schools to improve and manipulate their results.“The policy of students going to other schools for their board exams was earlier formed to curb the practice of helping students during their final exams to procure better results for schools. Now private schools will easily manipulate the board results of their students,” said the teacher.Another teacher appreciated the move stating that students are already overburdened with so much on their plate and thus this will help them mentally.However, for the first time, students will get the objective type question papers in their board exams.“Since students were busy preparing for National Achievement Survey (NAS) since the past a few months, similar multiple-choice questions (MCQs) pattern followed in the NAS will be followed in the first session of the board exams next month,” said a senior official in the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-now-pseb-to-conduct-class-8-10-and-12-board-exams-at-selfcentres-101636840133299.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man shot in robbery attempt, one held||A man was injured during a robbery bid at an ATM kiosk, 50m from the Division 8 police station, near Kailash Cinema on Saturday evening. The victim, Sandeep Kumar, was withdrawing money from the kiosk when two men accosted him and tried to take the cash. When Sandeep resisted, he was shot in the leg. When the locals cornered the accused, one of the men, Ashwani Kumar, open fired in an attempt to escape and injured his leg. He was nabbed by the locals and handed to the police. Meanwhile, his nephew, Gaurav managed to escape. Both of them are residents of Jassian village. The countrymade pistol used by them has been recovered, civil lines assistant commissioner of police Harish Behal said Joint commissioner of police (JCP, City and traffic) J Elanchezhian said that the accused has been taken into custody and the police are questioning him.He added that the police will honour the security guard and the people who helped the police in nabbing the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-shot-in-robbery-attempt-one-held-101636840131245.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Robbers strike Ludhiana ATM, make away with ₹9.7 lakh||An ATM was broken open and robbed of ₹9.74 lakh at Sawaddi Kalan village in Sidhwan Bet on Friday. The accused used a gas gutter to cut open the ATM. The police suspect the involvement of some old Ludhiana-based gang. The Sidhwan Bet police have scanned the CCTVs installed on the road to trace the robbers.A case was lodged on the statement of Pankaj Kumar Pandey, the manager of the State Bank of India, Sawaddi Kalan. Pandey said he came to know about the incident on Friday morning after locals alerted him. When he reached the spot he found the shutter broken open and the ATM machine damaged. Assistant sub-inspector Daljit Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused and their car has been captured on CCTV, although they had sprayed black paint on the shutter of the kiosk. It took atleast 20 minutes to execute the crime.The ASI added that no security guard had been deputed at the ATM. Similar modus operandi The modus operandi of the miscreants was found to be the same as a gang that has previously struck ATMs in Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon. Cops suspect that the target ATMs in rural areas as they face less resistance. The gang is targeting ATMs that are far from the city and near the main road for a quick getaway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/robbers-strike-ludhiana-atm-make-away-with-9-7-lakh-101636839831650.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana juvenile home inmate sodomised, 10 teens booked||A 17-year-old juvenile home inmate was allegedly thrashed and sodomised for six days. Ten of his fellow inmates were booked for the same on Saturday. After the victim raised a complaint, a case was registered at the Shimlapuri police station on the complaint of the observation home superintendent Arun Aggarwal. In his complaint, Aggarwal said that on November 8, the 17-year-old inmate had filed a written complaint saying the accused boys had been sexually exploiting him since November 3. He also alleged that whenever he resisted, the accused would thrash him. Shimlapuri assistant sub-inspector Ranjeet Singh said the police have registered a case against ten juvenile home inmates under Sections 377 (sodomy), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-juvenile-home-inmate-sodomised-10-teens-booked-101636839471110.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man arrested with 3 pistols, 1.8-kg explosive||Foiling an attempt to disturb law and order in the state, the police arrested a 27-year-old truck driver with a cache of illegal weapons and explosives on Friday. The police have recovered two .32 bore pistols, one .315 bore pistol, 10 bullets and a 1.8 kg explosive from the accused, Harmanpreet Singh alias Harman of Nathowal. The police are going through his social networking sites to identify his associates and determine out his affiliations with terror groups. A motorcycle without a numberplate has been recovered from his possession. Police said the accused was in contact with radical elements and wanted to execute a blast in the area to disturb law and order. A case was registered under sections of the Arms Act and sections of the Explosive Act. Inspector Prem Singh, Jagraon CIA staff in-charge, said acting on a tip-off the police arrested the accused while he was riding his bike and seized the explosives. The accused was produced before the court on Saturday and remanded five days in police custody for questioning. Cops suspect that the accused was connected with Ranjit Singh alias Gora of Nihanga Da Jugga village of Ferozepur, who is a key accused wanted by police in the Jalalabad tiffin bomb blast.Earlier, on September 17, the police had busted a secessionist module of the banned ‘unlawful association’ Sikhs for Justice with the arrest of Doraha resident Gurwinder Singh. Over 2.8 lakh pamphlets carrying propaganda material related to ‘Referendum 2020’, a printer, spray pump and spray bottles for writing secessionist graffiti on walls, one laptop, three mobile phones and one Honda City car were recovered from possession of Gurwinder Singh after his arrest.Accused was an introvertThe accused, Harmanpreet Singh, has no prior criminal record. He hails from an economically poor family. His father is a truck driver and he has four sisters. Villagers say Harmanpreet never talked to anyone and would mostly stay in his house. They were shocked to know that the police had arrested him with weapons and explosives. After his arrest, the police also raided his home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-arrested-with-3-pistols-1-8-kg-explosive-101636838810829.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana share broker, aides threaten security agency owner at gunpoint||A sharebroker and his aides have been booked for threatening a security agency owner at gunpoint over a monetary dispute near Jalandhar Bypass on Saturday. The victim, Som Dutt Sharma of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, raised the alarm, after which the accused Anil Jain of Bawa Colony and his two unidentified accomplices fled. Sharma came in contact with Jain a few months ago through a common friend, and decided to invest in the stoke market through him. Sharma alleged that Anil Jain had provided him with a fake ID and showed fake transactions of sale and purchase of shares in his account. The accused was supposed to pay him ₹14.21 lakh on October 25. However, he kept postponing.On November 11, the accused asked Sharma to come near Jalandhar Bypass to get the money. He and his friend, Kulwant of Jagraon, went to meet him, but far from being paid he was held at gunpoint and asked to drop the matter. The incident was also captured on CCTVs installed near the spot, in which the accused can be seen carrying weapons.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, Salem Tabri station house officer, said the police have registered a case against under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-share-broker-aides-threaten-security-agency-owner-at-gunpoint-101636838211262.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 2 salesmen steal dresses worth ₹5 lakh, open showroom||Two salesmen of a readymade and wedding-wear showroom who stole dresses worth ₹5.31 lakh and opened their own store at Rani Jhansi Road were booked on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Rajiv Kalra and Sanjiv Kumar, both residents of Khanna. An FIR had been lodged on the statement of Ravinder Kumar of Sarabha Nagar, the owner of Royalista, a showroom on the posh Satpal Mittal Road (Malhar Road).Ravinder Kumar said the accused had been working in his showroom for 15 years. However, he later learnt that the accused would steal expensive dresses from the showroom. “The theft was discovered during the audit.” Whenever he would ask for the stolen dresses, they would claim that they had been misplaced within the showroom. However, later they quit without notice and stopped taking his calls. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Malkit Ram, who is investigating the case, said that the accused have been booked under section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-salesmen-steal-dresses-worth-5-lakh-open-showroom-101636837731016.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana industrialists called off protest after 12 days||Ludhiana industrialists finally called off their protest after the BJP leadership arranged a meeting between the industry and union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal.The BJP leadership led by state general secretary Jeevan Gupta, state vice president Parveen Bansal, district president Pushpinder Singal among others conducted a meeting with the protesting industrialists, following which the protest was called off on Saturday evening. UCPMA general secretary of Manjinder Sachdeva said,” Detailed discussions were held regarding formation of a regulatory commission to control prices of raw material and inflation. We will meet Goyal next week.” Human chain formed Protesting against inflation for the 12th consecutive day, around 200 industrialists formed a human chain outside the office of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) at Gill Road on Saturday. The industrialists, who took to the streets against rising prices of raw material and cartelisation, said that the BJP-led government had brought both farmers and industrialists on the roads. Blaming cartelisation for the rising prices of raw material, the consortium of industrial associations re-asserted their demand for a regulatory commission to control rising prices. UCPMA general secretary, Manjinder Sachdeva, Ludhiana Dyeing Association president Ashok Makkar,and Fastener Manufacturers Association president Narinder Bhambra said the industry had faced colossal losses and was on the verge of closure, which will also result in unemployment.Bhambra said that if the government fails to provide relief, the industry will also contemplate moving to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-called-off-protest-after-12-days-101636837551380.html
14-11-2021||Other||Ludhiana | Pregnant woman among two succumb to dengue||With dengue continuing to take a toll on residents, two suspected deaths due to the disease have been reported in the district in the last 72 hours.The two victims are an ESIC dispensary woman technician Hemkala, 25, and district ayurveda and unani officer of Moga and Tarntaran Dr Jaspreet Singh, 53. So far, the dengue deaths have reached eight. District epidemiologist Dr Prabhleen Kaur said the cause of death will be confirmed only after going through the documents and history of the patients in the meeting of dengue death review committee. 18 fresh dengue cases detectedWith 18 fresh cases of dengue reported in the district on Saturday, the count of confirmed dengue patients in the district has reached 1,552, while 3,884 suspected patients were reported in different hospitals of the district.Of the total confirmed cases, 1,143 have been reported from Ludhiana city, while the others have been reported from Khanna, Jagraon, Payal, Samrala, Sahnewal among other areas.One fresh Covid caseOne fresh case of Covid was reported in the district during the last 24 hours. The total count of Covid patients in the district has reached 87,637, of which 2,108 patients have succumbed to the disease. There are 24 active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-pregnant-woman-among-two-succumb-to-dengue-101636837190988.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | Lucky Daboo from the LoC||Shelling and landmines routinely claim wild creatures on the LoC, leaving the offspring of such species as the high-dwelling Himalayan black bear orphaned. The story of Daboo is also one of great torment and an accursed birth but human compassion turned around the fortunes of this doomed bear cub. Daboo’s mother was shot by poachers on the LoC in the Neelum valley of PoK. The poachers cropped the ears of the cub, which had barely opened its eyes, to sell it in the bear baiting market.Ears are cut in furtherance of this illegal blood sport in Pakistan. A pack of proverbial blood-drinking dogs, reared to exhibit extreme viciousness, are launched on the bear tethered to a stake. Galleries ogle and place bets on blood and gore. The flaps of bear ears are docked because dogs target them, leading to wounds and a reduction in the longevity of the entertainment’s mainstay.By providence, Anila Umair and Sana Raja of the Critters Ark, Rawalpindi, got wind of the cub’s auction and managed to extricate the wailing waif from the poachers’ clutches. The cub was emitting heart-piercing cries very similar to a human child when teased and ill-treated by its ‘deaf’ tormentors.Once safe in foster mother Anila’s house, the cub received tender care and was fed three litres of milk daily every three hours from a baby feeder. Its ears healed and scabies subsided. Christened ‘Daboo’, the cub’s life bloomed to one of a happy child’s disposition.The cub was handed over to the Islamabad Wildlife Management Board (IWMB), where it has found the genial company of another cub, Baloo, rescued from a bear charmer. The IWMB plans to rehabilitate Daboo in the LoC forests where it was born. Daboo will need all our blessings and fortune to soldier on in those war-ravaged tracts of a paradise lost.The conqueror’s humbug Perched as my better half and me were on the slope of a verdant ridge overlooking the Mirzapur check dam in the Shivalik foothills and savouring a picnic lunch of chilled beer from the icebox and ‘bhurji-piyaaz paranthas’, we welcomed to what seemed to us a guest and a novel on at that. It was distinct from the birds, bees and deer that had crossed our trail to the ridge top. It was a bug, wild by design in colour and pattern.The tiny creature ventured close to our picnic rug. Upon feeling assured there was no danger from what must have seemed to it as a gigantic and an equally exotic pair of two-legged intruders, its long antennae soon assumed a less-nervous twitch. My wife, Hemani, cautiously took some photographs after her instinctive displeasure with the world’s creepy crawlies relented in Nature’s lap of Mirzapur. On my return home, I consulted Dr Sandeep Khushwaha from the Hemiptera Section and DNA Laboratory, Zoological Survey of India, Jabalpur. He has authored research papers on such insect families. Dr Kushwaha identified it from the photos I sent him as the red cotton bug (Dysdercus koenigii -- Fabricius 1775, family: Pyrrhocoridae) with an average length of 16mm.Agricultural scientists working on pest threats routinely label this species as a common pest on cotton. In recent times, they have alarmingly targeted BT cotton. Red cotton bugs feed on seeds within developing cotton bolls, leaving a stain on the lint. Consequently, this feeding by puncturing the flower buds or young cotton bolls usually causes reduction in size; or the cotton plant’s fruiting body may abort and drop to the ground.It is another matter that the human conquest has cleared the natural habitat of such creatures, forcing them to adapt to the supposedly ‘green’ agricultural colonisations of their erstwhile wild homes. Luscious crops of the verdant countryside are, in fact, a minefield for such creatures: booby-trapped as they are with poisons in the guise of pesticides and insecticides.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-lucky-daboo-from-the-loc-101636836953669.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati | Surviving millennial children||Children’s Day will never be the same. Simply because childhood is no longer the same.Can’t blame it on Trump or Tharoor, as most ills, thrills or spills are wont to be blamed upon. Gone are the days when children eagerly awaited community celebrations or Chacha Nehru-centric tales that defined November 14th.Children’s Day will never be as simple and innocent. Simply because childhood is no longer as simple or innocent as that of yore.Blame it on millennial kids being born as fully loaded digital natives. Wired to the world perhaps with not a milk tooth but bluetooth even before they burp. Born digital natives, with wireless contraptions clothing their cochlear compartments, with corneas affixed to smartphone screens that are possibly the only lens through which they view life or live life.Scarcely space there for Chacha Nehru or Children’s Day sentimentality.There was a time when our childhood excitedly awaited Children’s Day, as much for the gaily caparisoned classrooms and gooey goodies that our otherwise austere convent nuns treated us to, as also for the trip to the movie theatre or the theatrics the tutors themselves staged to entertain the taught.For the millennial kids, no nun. Only an attitude of second to none.In a post-pandemic world, forget theatre, all that virtual classrooms may be staging is a theatre of the absurd. The taught twiddling on touchscreens for an unofficial e-games period, boasting a syllabus of Ludo King or Rummy, whilst the official tutorials roll on, only to pop up their heads into the virtual grid every now and then, to reassure the tutors that millennial childhood is all ears. If not all eyes.Gone is the charm of waiting all agog on Children’s Day for tutors to dish out entertainment to the taught.Instead, the entertainment now already runs right under the e-nose of the tutors. Parallel entertainment peculiar to Pandemic’s virtual classrooms.A recent chat may contain clues to the deglamorisation and downgrading of Children’s Day revelry.“What would you like for Children’s Day?”This poser was tossed at one’s offspring by a bosom overflowing with instincts of mothering. Rather, smothering.“Children’s Day?” “You know it commemorates Chacha Nehru’s birthday?“Chacha?”The offspring’s contorted countenance conveyed it all.“On Children’s Day, our teachers or parents treated us to chocolates, chikkis or candy floss,” pre-historic Motherhood dished out nostalgia. “Hmm, so why don’t you treat me to ‘death by chocolate’ Belgian waffle cake?”“Btw, Candy, who?”‘Death’ of an era of Childhood.Move over, Chacha Nehru or Chacha Chaudhary.Enter, Candy Crush Soda Saga.Motherhood bestirred to oblige millennial childhood.“Sure sweetheart, let me call the confectionery ... ““Better still, gimme your card and lemme order on Swiggy.” That one’s progeny had finally ordered some treat, ostensibly as a run-up to Children’s Day, was borne upon one the moment the smartphone squiggled with a notification.“Mom, you must have got an OTP,” the offspring peeped out of the door, only to retreat and shut the room again.Motherhood squirmed at the new face of disconnected childhood or teenagehood. That indeed is the one defining thing perhaps for which Millennial Childhood peeps out of the digital existence to talk or connect to parenthood.OTP Childhood. Or, Oblivious To Past Childhood.chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-surviving-millennial-children-101636836530909.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | Embracing life, the virtual way||Sitting through the online sessions of the decennial edition of the Khushwant Singh Literary Festival, got me thinking that humans have been endowed with the unique qualities of resistance and resilience, which allow us to transform challenges into opportunities. The catastrophes that we encounter in life contain in themselves the seeds of new openings, if only we can discover them. Case in point: the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown came as a challenge, calling upon us to do away with our intensely intrinsic urge for human connection, and putting our survival impulse to the test. Being trapped in our homes without any social interaction, a sense of ennui and torpor made us uneasy in the initial days. But soon the cyberspace took the world by storm: work from home, online classes, webinars, virtual interactions, online shopping, and home delivery brought dormant humanity back to life. As the internet kept us hooked to our devices, we became dependent on a profusion of online activities, not just for entertainment but to find something worthwhile to do to broaden our intellectual horizons, thus taking us out of the deep dark pit of vacancy and inadequacy. The aforesaid literary fest was one of the many I have attended recently. Invitations have been forthcoming in bunches for book launches, meet-the-author sessions, literary discussions, poetry sessions in different languages, webinars on history and culture, including dance and music. Listening to and interacting with renowned authors, historians, and social figures of national and international repute, particularly those from across the border, whom I would have never met otherwise, has come as a boon. All this keeps me busy day-in and day-out, so much so that on a few occasions, I have attended two sessions simultaneously, shuttling between the two.At times, I wonder if I would have been able to attend such sessions physically, during the normal days, without Covid and its restrictions. Perhaps not.First of all, being an ordinary person, a part of Hoi Polloi, I would have never got the invitation to rub shoulders with the literary elite that usually forms the audience of these festivals. But here I am, attending all these without the hassle of getting ready, driving down to the venue or flying to another city. Even if I were privileged to get the invitation, I would not have been able to attend them all. Thanks to the prevailing situation, I can attend these events comfortably and with such regularity. My husband, too, has a number of programmes of his choice lined up for himself, and we both have the advantage of being in our respective digital space, without disturbance or interference. Entertainment has also come right to our living rooms. The closure of movie theatres, and the emergence of a number of OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime, Max Player, Voot, and many others, have brought about a revolution in the entertainment industry. They have opened up new opportunities for in-home watching of web series and even feature films, thus bringing families together. As millions of people have subscribed to these portals, there is an overabundance of web series, so much so that sometimes the availability of multi-seasoned Indian, British, American, or Turkish dramas poses a problem of the plenty, making it difficult to pick up one. Here too, we are saved a lot of time and effort. We are spared of the exertion of going to the theatre, booking tickets, planning out lunch and dinner in advance, and then coming home tired, having spent more time in the process than the duration of the event itself. Covid conditions are easing out, yet people, particularly retired couples like us, are comfortable living in a virtual world than the real. Maybe soon people will revert back to the old ways of connecting with each other in physical gatherings and meetings; movie theatres may start working at full capacity; the number of these online activities may come down, but as long as they are here, we are enjoying them to the hilt.It may surprise many when I say that my platter is full, courtesy the coronavirus; but life is not all doom and gloom, and we can always find little good in something bad.njkaur1953@gmail.com(The author is a Patiala-based retired associate professor of English)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-embracing-life-the-virtual-way-101636836231358.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | An ode to Jawaharlal Nehru – the light of Asia||The first Prime Minister of independent India and one of the greatest proponents of parliamentary democracy, Jawaharlal Nehru laid the foundation of our modern nation. Stressing on industrial development, science and technology, he was instrumental in reviving rural India. Under his able leadership, the different states of the country were woven into a Republic, and the Constitution was adopted on January 26, 1950. He oversaw Independent India’s tryst with democracy for 17 years and has always been highly respected and revered, not merely in India, but also globally, particularly for his efforts to ensure global peace. Writing to him on November 27, 1958, president Dwight Eisenhower said, “Universally you are recognised as one of the most powerful influences for peace and conciliation in the world. I believe that because you are a world leader for peace in your individual capacity, as well as a representative of the largest neutral nation.” Educated in England at Harrow School, Trinity College, Cambridge, he became a barrister and practiced at the Inner Temple. He could have had a flourishing legal practice, and yet he immersed himself fully in India’s freedom struggle. Nehru became the right-hand man, the “go-to man” for Mahatma Gandhi and led various non-violent agitations and satyagrahas (civil resistance) in cities, streets and villages. Nehru was imprisoned nine times by the British Government and spent 3,259 days in prison, which is almost 10 years of his life. However, he remained undaunted in his quest for India’s independence. He represented Gandhi and India in negotiations with the British, for the freedom of the country. After becoming the Prime Minister, Nehru laid a strong foundation for democratic institutions in the country. He realised that to propel the country forward, it would be necessary to modernise rapidly. Wisely he evolved the concept of a “mixed economy”, whereby the public and private sectors would play a parallel role in development. Infrastructure projects like electric power, dams, roadways, mining, which had long gestation periods, were spearheaded by the public sector. Indian agriculture underwent a metamorphosis during Nehru’s era. Agricultural universities researched high-yielding seeds and mechanisms to boost production. Punjab state ushered the green revolution in India, leading to a sharp increase in crop production. Nehru also evolved and advocated the policy of non-alignment and peaceful co-existence. After the end of World War II, the world was ruptured by the Cold War between the Western bloc-led by the USA and the Eastern bloc-led by the USSR. Nehru kept India away from global tensions and focused on economic development. Nehru knew that India was home to Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Buddhists and Jains. With his modern, western exposure in his youth, he realised it would be perilous to have a state religion. Thus, secularism was enshrined in the Constitution of India, to ensure that all religions coexist peacefully. Thus, temples, mosques and churches coexist next to each other in villages and towns. Citizens of all religions work in the government, armed forces, and police. Nehru was a learned and widely-read person, cultured and refined. His impeccable dressing was a pint of pride. His books - Glimpses of World History, An Autobiography, Letters from a Father to a Daughter, and Discovery of India - reveal his deep understanding of international cultures. Nehru was very cultured and refined. He was always dressed impeccably. The popular prime minister would be surrounded by flocks of people whenever he travelled to any town or village. His fan-following was bigger than that of any modern-day movie-star or a rock-star. Whenever Nehru visited Bombay (now Mumbai) in the 1950s, he invariably addressed a public meeting at the iconic Shivaji Park, in Dadar. I would accompany my father, to listen to Nehru’s speeches, even at the age of 10. Nehru would explain the policies of the government in simple language. I also remember his motorcade passing several times through Gokhale Road, where I lived. The footpaths were jammed with people, waiting to see and wave to him. Police held back the frenzied fans as Nehru travelled in an open-top car waving at the people. After he passed away, his ashes were scattered across India to merge with its soil and seas, according to his wishes. Winston Churchill said in 1955, “Nehru is the light of Asia, and a greater light than Gautama Buddha”. This was an exquisite tribute to a great believer of peaceful coexistence. (The author is a Mumbai-based freelance writer) rkaneja@anejamanagement.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-an-ode-to-jawaharlal-nehru-the-light-of-asia-101636835811075.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur violence: 8 key witnesses want their police security removed||As many as eight of the 90 key witnesses of the Lakhimpur Kheri case in which Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, is the main accused, want their police security removed. These witnesses have written to the local administration in this regard. A total of eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.Security was provided to each of the 90 key witnesses of the case by the police after recording their statement before a magistrate on the directions of the Supreme Court last month.“Eight key witnesses have submitted applications wanting their security to be withdrawn citing personal reasons. Their applications will be reviewed before removing security,” said additional superintendent of police, Arun Kumar Singh, who is also a member of the nine-member special investigation committee probing the incident.The local police declined to reveal the identity of the witnesses who want their security removed. On October 3, violence erupted after an SUV mowed down four farmers near Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri. Four other people, including two BJP workers Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sunder, journalist Raman Kashyap and a driver Hari Om Mishra, were also killed.Two FIRs—the first in connection with the mowing down of four farmers and the second regarding the killing of four others—were registered at Tikunia police station.The special investigation committee probing the case has arrested 13 accused, including Ashish Mishra, in connection with the first case and two accused in the second case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-violence-8-key-witnesses-want-their-police-security-removed-101636835755184.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdwara body’s annual polls: Jagir Kaur continuing as SGPC chief uncertain amid assembly poll shadow||AMRITSAR Uncertainty prevails over the continuation of Jagir Kaur as the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief after the gurdwara body’s annual polls, scheduled for November 29 this time. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) that controls the SGPC has declared its candidates for 81 assembly segments but not for Bholath, which Jagir Kaur had represented thrice. If she is fielded as the party candidate, it will be less likely that she gets another term as the SGPC chief. The SAD has already announced to appoint a Dalit deputy CM if it forms the government in Punjab, and the Congress has elevated a Dalit (Charanjit Singh Channi) as the chief minister. In this tug of war to woo the voters from the SC community by giving key posts of their ilk, there are speculations that the SAD president may choose the next SGPC chief from the community. Among the SGPC members belonging to the SC community, Sant Balbir Singh Ghunas’s name tops the list. The four-time MLA, Ghunas is head of Gurdwara Tap Asthan Baba Attar Singh at Ghunas village in Barnala district. Speculations regarding his elevation are stronger this time owing to the changed political scenario in the state, especially the move will counter the influence of Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa faction and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Malwa. Besides him, names of the SGPC incumbent chief secretary (honorary) advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami, who is also a SGPC member from Hoshiarpur district, and former gurdwara body chief Kirpal Singh Badungar are also making rounds for the post. The SGPC General House will elect president, senior vice-president, junior vice-president, general secretary of 11 executive committee members on November 29. Though the members are supposed to elect the office-bearers and executive members, but for some years, the SAD president names the gurdwara body president which is endorsed by the members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdwara-body-s-annual-polls-jagir-kaur-continuing-as-sgpc-chief-uncertain-amid-assembly-poll-shadow-101636835753890.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: 64 more cases surface in tricity||Amid a drop in temperature, dengue cases are also on a decline in the tricity, as only 64 people tested positive for the mosquito-borne viral disease on Saturday. Mohali district reported 34 cases, while 22 infections surfaced in Chandigarh and eight in Panchkula. However, no death was reported.Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,592 this year, with the death toll stands at 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,204 while three people have succumbed. Panchkula’s tally stands at 792 cases and one death.8 test +ve for Covid Even the Covid-19 pandemic seems to be under control with just eight people tested positive for the deadly virus in the tricity on Saturday. Mohali recorded four cases while two each surfaced in Chandigarh and Panchkula. No new fatality was reported. Meanwhile, tricity’s active caseload stands at 99, with 53 patients in Mohali, 24 in Chandigarh, and 11 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,380 cases and 820 deaths. Mohali is the worst-hit with 68,878 cases and 1,070. Panchkula has recorded 30,785 cases and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-64-more-cases-surface-in-tricity-101636835451320.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU receives MAKA trophy||Panjab University has received Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy for overall top performance in inter-varsity sports tournaments for the third year in a row. Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar received the trophy from President Ram Nath Kovind at a special function at Rashtrapati Bhavan. National sports awards are given every year to recognise and reward excellence in sports. In the National sports awards, overall top performing university in interuniversity tournaments is given the MAKA Trophy. In 2019 PU lifted the trophy after a gap of 13 years and the trophy still remains with the varsity. It is be the 16th time for varsity to get the MAKA Trophy.Fraud: 5 luxury vehicles impoundedPolice have impounded five luxury vehicles owned by Chandigarh-based property dealer and financier Ram Lal Chaudhary, who was arrested on Thursday for duping a Gurgaon resident of ₹5 crore. The vehicles impounded during searches include two Mercedes sedans besides Porche, Range Rover and BMW cars. As many as 520 cheques signed by different people have also been found. According to police, Chaudhary had amassed property worth more than ₹100 crore.PG fire: HC grants bail to two The high court has granted bail to two men in the PG fire incident of Sector 32, Chandigarh, which led to the death of three girls in February 2020. The court observed that the men— property owner Gaurav Aneja and Nitesh Bansal, who was running the PG — were in custody for 19 months and trial is likely to take some time in view of the Covid-19 situation. They have been asked to surrender their passports and not contact any prosecution witness. They were booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder.Two held with 100-gram heroinTwo men belonging to Himachal Pradesh were arrested after 100 grams of heroin was seized from their car at a naka in Kharar. They have been identified as Varinder Singh and Jatinder Singh. Police said they were taking the contraband from Mohali to supply it to their customers in Kharar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-receives-maka-trophy-101636835330922.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Supreme Court allows Punjab and Haryana high court to transfer judges trying cases against MPs, MLAs||The Supreme Court on Saturday permitted the high courts of Punjab & Haryana, Bombay and Allahabad to transfer some special judges trying criminal cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs to other courts in their respective states on grounds such as “administrative exigencies”, and asked them to find suitable substitutes quickly to ensure that such trials are not delayed. A bench headed by chief justice NV Ramana, hearing a 2016 PIL seeking life ban on contesting elections on lawmakers convicted of heinous crimes and speedy disposal of cases against them, had earlier directed all high courts not to transfer special judges without its prior nod. “To ensure expeditious disposal of pending cases, it is necessary for this court to direct the officers presiding over special courts or CBI courts involving prosecution of MPs or MLAs to continue in their present posts until further orders. “This direction, barring transfer of judicial officers, will be subject to their superannuation or death. If any further necessity or emergency arises, the registrar general of the high courts are at liberty to make an application before us for retention or to relieve those officers,” the top court had ordered on August 10 this year. The high court registries of Bombay, Allahabad and Punjab and Haryana moved separate pleas seeking the top court’s nod to transfer some special judges to some other courts under their territorial jurisdictions. The top court bench, also having justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, took into consideration the averments made in the pleas and allowed them subject to the condition that the “High Court/State shall provide suitable substitute” immediately so as to ensure expeditious disposal of the cases pending against sitting and former MPs and MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/supreme-court-allows-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-transfer-judges-trying-cases-against-mps-mlas-101636835210866.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Sangh Parivar’ to counter Punjab CM Channi’s ‘dushman jamaat’ remark against RSS||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s remarks in the assembly on Thursday wherein he termed the RSS as ‘Punjab di dushman jamaat’ (enemy of Punjab) has evoked a strong reaction from the ‘Sangh Parivar’ with the right-wing organisations deciding to launch a drive to counter him. A senior RSS functionary from Majha region, who wished not to be named, said: “From Sunday, we will launch a social media drive to counter the CM’s remarks. Hashtags will be created and cadres have been briefed accordingly.” RSS spokesperson for Punjab, Shashank, said Channi’s remark doesn’t behove a chief minister as contribution of the RSS for the wellbeing of society has time and again been appreciated by senior Congress leaders, including former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. “Channi is absolutely wrong in stating that the Sangh entered Punjab in 1966. The Sangh has been contributing in the development of Punjab and its communal harmony before Independence as well,” he said. The RSS spokesperson cited Gurbachan Singh Talib’s book — ‘Muslim League Attack on Sikhs and Hindus in Punjab 1947’ — which appreciated RSS for safeguarding Hindus and Sikhs during the Partition. He said how the Congress can forget that during the peak of terrorism in 1986 RSS parcharaks from across the country came to Punjab and stayed with Hindu families that were planning to leave the state. The BJP has already criticised Channi on the issue and is planning a statewide drive to show its resentment “The RSS has always worked for the communal harmony of the state and is the only organisation that kept the morale of the Hindu community high during the terrorism days. The RSS has always worked for Hindu-Sikh unity,” said BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangh-parivar-to-counter-punjab-cm-channi-s-dushman-jamaat-remark-against-rss-101636835152365.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMSH-16 all set to go digital; access services on phone||The Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 will soon be an ‘e-hospital ‘with the patients’ records being digitalised. With the facility, the unnecessary footfall at the hospital will significantly reduce as patients will be able to get their medical test reports, make OPD registrations, book tele-consultation and avail other facilities through their smartphones.In the digitalisation project, the hospital plans to provide 10 services to patients on thier mobile phones. These also include clinic facilities, diet consultation, laboratory works, patient’s admissions and discharge records, and billing of treatment.The hospital’s human resource department, store inventory and radiology department will also be digitised.Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “From medical tests reports to OPD registrations, every facility will be made available on patients’ smartphones. The hospital has already started some of these services online, but the hospital will be fully digitalised in a month. This is because online connectivity takes time.” On an average, 2,000 people visit GMSH-16’s OPDs daily and besides patients, their attendants also tend to crowd the hospital. This project will streamline the crowd management at the hospital and provide better healthcare facilities to patients at their homes. In June this year, the hospital had adopted the e-Sanjeevani OPD platform, wherein patients were connected to doctors through telephones for consultations. Besides the district hospital, the e-Sanjeevani model was also being followed in 29 health and wellness centres in Chandigarh. “Under the national telemedicine service project, we have already started a new initiative in which specialist doctors can be consulted during the tele-consultation. At UT’s health and wellness centres, a number of patients visit daily for consultation and the doctors attending them can connect with specialists from GMSH-16 to provide more accurate patient care,” Dr Singh said. She added, “For each day of a week, a roaster has been planned according to which specialist services are being provided to patients. The patients are getting services for eight specialities, including medicine, general surgery, skin, psychiatry, eye, orthopaedics, and paediatrics. In 15 days, 132 people have already taken specialist care through tele-consultations at health and wellness centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gmsh-16-all-set-to-go-digital-access-services-on-phone-101636835150976.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP legislators detained while trying to ‘gherao’ residence of Punjab CM Channi||Several Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs were detained by the police on Saturday as they tried to head towards Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence to barricade it and hold protest over the unemployment issue, officials said. They said Chandigarh Police had barricaded both the gates of the MLA hostel here to prevent the legislators from going towards Channi’s residence. When the MLAs tried to head towards the CM’s residence, they were detained and taken to a police station. AAP legislators who were detained included Harpal Singh Cheema, Saravjit Kaur Manuke and Manjit Singh Bilaspur. They were later released, police said. Cheema said the Congress had promised ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgar’ for the youth. But in the last over four-and-a-half years, not even 5,500 youths from 55 lakh families were given jobs, he alleged. The AAP leader alleged that no authentic survey had been conducted about the number of unemployed youth in the state in the last 20-25 years. It is estimated that more than 20 lakh qualified youth are unemployed in the state, he claimed. The AAP, as the opposition party, has the same questions to the government as the youth of Punjab, he said. “What has the Congress government done in the last over four-and-a-half years on the promise of ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgar?” Cheema posed. “Isn’t this a betrayal with the youth of Punjab? Will the Congress, especially the CM, apologise to the lakhs of youth who are struggling on the streets for jobs,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-legislators-detained-while-trying-to-gherao-residence-of-punjab-cm-channi-101636834671032.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ulterior motives behind arrest of my father: Sukhpal Khaira’s son||Former MLA Sukhpal Khaira’s son Mehtab Khaira on Saturday said the arrest of his father by Enforcement Directorate (ED) is illegal, unconstitutional and has been done with an ulterior motive, especially when the state assembly elections are near. In a statement, Mehtab denied any wrongdoing or any sort of criminal activity by his father as being alleged by the central investigating agency. “My father has been a whistleblower and a crusader for the people of Punjab his entire life. He is being wrongly and maliciously implicated in a 6-year-old drugs case registered at Jalalabad. The said FIR named nine people and Sukhpal Khaira was neither named in the FIR nor was he charge-sheeted in the said case,” he said. Mehtab said his father was elected as Leader of Opposition (LoP) in 2017, and he had raked up the sand mining scam which eventually led to the resignation of the then cabinet minister. “Suddenly two prosecution witnesses, who had already been examined and cross-examined were recalled under Section 311 of CrPC,” he said. Why these two (police) witnesses remained silent for two years and never mentioned the role of Khaira remains a mystery, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ulterior-motives-behind-arrest-of-my-father-sukhpal-khaira-s-son-101636834491863.html
14-11-2021||Other||Akali Dal women’s wing leader quits party; govt conspiracy, claims SAD||SANGRUR The chief adviser of Shiromani Akali Dal’s women’s wing Rajinder Kaur Meemsa resigned from the post and the primary membership of the party on Saturday. Meemsa announced this on her Facebook account and alleged that she “saw SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal holding meetings with Dera Sirsa followers” who were accused of conspiring sacrilege in state.Meemsa said she joined the SAD in May 2018 and worked wholeheartedly for the party in Bhadaur area of Barnala district. “In the honour of Sri Guru Granth Sahib and listening to the voice of my conscience, I resigned from party designation and primary membership,” she wrote in her resignation.The SAD senior vice-president and spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema alleged that they had already said that the Congress government was hatching a conspiracy to implicate SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal in a false case of sacrilege which stands vindicated with Meemsa’s allegations. “We have already exposed a criminal conspiracy against Sukhbir Singh Badal. Meemsa made a deal with the ruling party and her statement was also written by the government,” added Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akali-dal-women-s-wing-leader-quits-party-govt-conspiracy-claims-sad-101636832630620.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hurriyat terms additional CRPF deployment in Kashmir ‘worrisome’||Hurriyat Conference on Saturday termed the deployment of additional forces in Kashmir worrisome and disturbing.The Hurriyat statement came in the backdrop of reports that five additional companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) are being deployed in Srinagar in the wake of fresh targeted attacks in the city. Since October 1, 13 civilians, including five non-locals, have been killed by unidentified gunmen.Hurriyat Conference spokesperson said the prevailing political situation in Jammu and Kashmir is extremely worrying and disturbing and now that large-scale additional deployment of armed forces has been done, it has created an atmosphere of “panic and insecurity” among the people.“The continued policy of arrests, raids, killings and severe human rights violations continue unabated,” the spokesperson said.He added that subjecting people to additional checks and frisking, amid the rising cold weather condition, is leading to harassment. “Crackdowns are also routinely carried out in various areas and men and women are paraded indiscriminately and being subjected to harassment,” the spokesperson said.Hurriyat also criticised authorities for “forcibly preventing Muslims of valley from offering Friday prayers” at Jammu and Kashmir’s largest place of worship and spiritual centre – Jama Masjid Srinagar – from August 6, 2021. The alliance also demanded the release of its chairman Mirwaiz Moulvi Umar Farooq and other political leaders lodged in different jails outside the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurriyat-terms-additional-crpf-deployment-in-kashmir-worrisome-101636832510748.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: State records 123 fresh Covid cases, 9 deaths||Nine patients succumbed to Covid in Himachal even as 123 fresh cases surfaced in the state on Saturday. With this, the state’s caseload went to 2,25,712 while the death toll mounted to 3,795.The highest 45 cases were reported from Kangra, followed by 21 from Hamirpur, 12 each from Mandi, Solan and Una, six from Chamba, 11 from Shimla, and one Covid case each from Chamba, Kinnaur, Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti. The active Covid case count has come down to 1,100 while the recoveries reached 2,20,800 after 137 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst hit district with 51,401 Covid cases, followed by 31,777 in Mandi and 27,655 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-state-records-123-fresh-covid-cases-9-deaths-101636832270693.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram lays stones of projects worth ₹162 crore in Sirmaur||Himachal chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid foundation stones of 80 developmental projects worth ₹162 crore at Nohradhar in Renuka Vidhan Sabha area of Sirmaur district on Saturday. Addressing a public meeting at Nohradhar, the CM announced Government Degree College at Noradhar, HPSEB sub-division at Haripurdhar, opening of 33 KV sub-station at Haripurdhar, 132 KV sub-station at Charna, opening of Atal Adharsh Vidhyalaya at Charna, upgrade of Government Primary School at Sangrah Deverghat, upgrade of Government Middle School, Panyali, to Government High School (GHS), upgrade of GHS Nehswar to Government Senior Secondary School, upgrade of primary health centre (PHC) Haripurdhar to community health centre, opening of PHC at Bharari and upgrade of veterinary dispensary Charna to veterinary hospital. Jai Ram Thakur said the state government was about to complete four years of its tenure on 27th of next month. He said all these years have been full of achievements and accomplishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-jai-ram-lays-stones-of-projects-worth-162-crore-in-sirmaur-101636832030674.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Centre turns down Himachal’s request to declare monkeys vermin again||The Centre has turned down the Himachal Pradesh government’s request to declare rhesus macaque monkeys ‘vermin’ again. The state had requested the union ministry of environment, forests and climate change to declare monkeys vermin again, after an earlier notification in this regard, expired in April. Once the monkeys are put in the vermin category, the forest department can cull them so as to prevent crop depredation, conflict with humans, and loss of property. The Centre had declared monkeys vermin for the first time in 2016 in 93 tehsils of Himachal Pradesh by way of a notification. Since then, the Centre extended the permission to cull monkeys at least four times. Of the total 12 districts, monkeys menace is prevalent in 10. Of the 17,794 villages in the state, 2,300 are badly hit. In 2016, the agriculture department reported a crop loss of ₹184.28 crore due to wild animals, particularly monkeys. Following the latest request, the Centre asked the state how many monkeys were killed by farmers during the period in which they were put in the vermin category. It also sought to know whether there was an increase or decrease in monkey attacks on humans. “The government had to file a review petition before the ministry to declare monkeys vermin again. But it could not be done. The department has filed a fresh review petition and we are hopeful that the centre will declare monkeys vermin again,” said forest minister Rakesh Pathania. Principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF, wildlife) Ajay Srivastava said the central ministry had raised some queries and objections which are being removed. He said several instances of monkey-killing by farmers were not reported due to various reasons.“Some data from the field is still awaited and we will write to the MoEF again,” he said. As per the 2020 census, Himachal Pradesh has a monkey population of 1, 36,443. In 2004, their population was more than 3.17 lakh. The forest department attributes the reduction in monkey population to the sterilisation programme. The forest department has eight monkey sterilisation centres in Shimla, Hamirpur, Kangra, Una, Chamba, Sirmaur and Mandi, besides mobile units. Since 2006-07, more than 1.40 lakh monkeys have been sterilised at these centres.President of Himachal Kisan Sabha and former IFS Kuldeep Singh Tanwar, however, said the sterilisation programme has failed to achieve its objectives. He said more than 40,000 monkeys have been killed across the state since they were declared vermin but were not reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-turns-down-himachal-s-request-to-declare-monkeys-vermin-again-101636831670706.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Poor farmers can’t afford machinery for stubble management: SC judge||Supreme Court judge Justice Surya Kant on Saturday said he is a farmer and Chief Justice NV Ramana hails from a farmer family and they know that poor and marginalised peasants in northern states cannot afford to buy machinery for stubble management.“You are saying two lakh machines are available, but the poor farmers cannot afford these machines. After the agrarian laws, the landholding in UP, Punjab and Haryana is less than 3 acres. We can’t expect farmers to purchase those machines,” Justice Kant told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.“Why can’t the Centre and the state governments provide the machines? Take away the stubble for use in paper mills and various other purposes. In winters, the stubble can be used for fodder for goats, etc. in Rajasthan,” he said.The apex court was hearing a plea filed by environmental activist Aditya Dubey and law student Aman Banka, who sought directions to provide stubble-removing machines to small and marginal farmers for free.Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the top court that these machines are being made available at 80% subsidised rate.The top court judge asked Mehta, appearing for the Centre, can the officials assisting him point out the actual price after subsidy.“Can the farmer afford it? I am a farmer and I know it, the CJI is also from a farmer family he also knows it and my brother (judge) also knows it,” Justice Kant, who was sitting as part of a special bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and also having Justice D Y Chandrachud, said.Justice Kant also said it has become a fashion to blame the farmers for air pollution.He also demanded whether other measures such as firecracker ban and vehicular emission control were implemented.“Be the petitioners, the Delhi government or anybody else -- it has become a fashion to blame the farmers. Have you seen how crackers are being burnt in Delhi for the last seven days? What was the Delhi Police doing?” he asked.The observations came after senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, mentioned the issue of stubble burning.The apex court has asked the Centre to hold a meeting with stakeholders and revert on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poor-farmers-can-t-afford-machinery-for-stubble-management-sc-judge-101636831490967.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||Shah steps up attack on Akhilesh from SP citadel||Union home minister Amit Shah raised the pitch in election-bound Uttar Pradesh on Saturday by intensifying his attack against Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav in his bastion Azamgarh, and hailing chief minister Yogi Adityanath for ridding the Purvanchal region of “mosquitoes and mafia”.“Modiji brought ‘JAM’ - Jan Dhan bank accounts, Aadhaar cards and a mobile phone to every person - for a corruption-free system, but the SP people say they have also brought ‘JAM’ - Jinnah, Azam Khan and Mukhtar (don-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari),”  Shah said addressing a rally in Azamgarh, represented by SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lok Sabha.  “You should tell me whether you want BJP’s JAM or SP’s JAM. These people can never work for the welfare of Uttar Pradesh. They indulge in dividing people on the basis of caste, causing riots, appeasement and vote-bank politics,” he added.Shah was addressing the rally in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh after laying the foundation of a new state university in Azamgarh.Speaking at another public meeting in neighbouring Basti district, Shah lauded Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing all-round development of the state and sought another term for him with “record-breaking victory” for taking ‘vikas ki aandhi” (development wave) forward in the state.‘’You (Akhilesh Yadav) never cleaned this area. Mosquitoes were ruling and children were dying of brain fever. But Prime Minister Modi’s Swachhta campaign was implemented here by Adityanath and the region became mosquito-free,’’ he said.“This ‘vikas ki aandhi’ (by the BJP) has to be taken forward, a lot has been done by Modi ji and Yogi ji but a lot still needs to be done for which your blessings are required once again,” he added.The Union minister, who is on a two-day visit to the poll-bound state, also credited Adityanath for making UP a ‘’riot-free” state. “Development of a state is not possible if riots occur. Earlier, riots and curfews were frequent in Uttar Pradesh. Since the Yogi Adityanath government has come to power, no riots have taken place... Now, no mafias can be seen in Purvanchal (eastern UP). Those who came here to make people migrate, have now migrated themselves...,” he said.Taking a swipe at the recent controversy over Yadav’s comment linking Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, and Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Shah said: “There are so many people from the minority community here, is there anyone here who sees greatness in Jinnah.”Hitting back, Yadav on Saturday accused the BJP of pursuing the “politics of destruction”.“BJP is pursuing the politics of destruction instead of the politics of development. People in UP brought the party to the Centre. But BJP betrayed the farmers, youth, poor, labourers and traders in the state,” Yadav said while talking to news agency ANI.Azamgarh name change speculationAdityanath said the new state university in Azamgarh will make the district “Aryamgarh” in the real sense, leading to speculation that the district’s name could be changed.“This university will in the true sense make Azamgarh into Aryamgarh, and there should be no doubt about this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shah-steps-up-attack-on-akhilesh-from-sp-citadel-101636830971577.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||As fog engulfs Kashmir, health experts advise people to avoid morning walks||As Kashmir continues to witness low and sub-zero night temperature, which lead to foggy mornings, doctors have advised people to avoid going out for morning walks as it increases the risk of heart attack and stroke. Another concern is the increasing Covid cases.Jammu and Kashmir’s capital Srinagar recorded the coldest night of the season on Saturday at 0.1°C while the tourist resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded a night temperature of minus 3.5°C. In the ski resort of Gulmarg, it was -2°C. The mercury went down to -1.1°C in Kupwara and -1°C in Qazigund.For the past few days, the Valley has been witnessing foggy weather conditions in the mornings.“The foggy conditions are owing to sub-zero temperatures and air pollution caused by increased traffic and burning of stubble and tree foliage. Pollution is high here at this time of the year,” said Farooq Ahmad Bhat, meteorologist with Met department in Srinagar.He said temperatures will keep dipping till a western disturbance will change the dry weather condition.“We are expecting dry weather till November 20,” he said.‘Heart attack, stroke patients double during winter’Owing to chilly weather conditions, doctors association Kashmir (DAK) on Saturday said winter chill increases the risk of heart attack and stroke and issued an advisory as Covid was a ‘big factor’ this winter.DAK president and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan said the number of heart attack and stroke patients in Kashmir hospitals double in winter. “Not only elderly people, but young and healthy individuals come to hospitals with massive heart attacks and strokes and some of them are brought dead,” he said.Dr Hassan said frigid temperatures constrict blood vessels that increase blood pressure, which makes heart attack or stroke more likely.He said this winter Covid-19 is a big factor. “If you catch the virus, you are at an increased risk of having a heart attack or stroke,” he said.For the past three weeks, active cases in the union territory, particularly in Kashmir valley have been increasing. The active cases have been slowly going up, seeing a 70% increase in 23 days since October 20. What you must doThe DAK urged people to keep warm to prevent cold temperatures and perform a healthy workout inside. “If you move out, dress in layers, wear a hat, gloves and scarf. Avoid going out in the chill for a walk and move your workout inside,” said Dr Hassan.“Take healthy diet, rich in vegetables and fruits, and reduce your stress. If you already have cardiovascular disease, avoid strenuous activities, such as shoveling heavy snow. Get your annual flu shot, Covid-19 vaccine and don’t forget to take vitamin D,” he said.The weather is expected to change after November 20 as a western disturbance is expected to hit the region on November 21.“Weather will most likely remain dry till the 20th. A feeble Western Disturbance is likely to affect the region between November 21 and 23, which may cause light to moderate snow over higher reaches especially northern parts of Kashmir,” said director MeT, Sonam Lotus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-fog-engulfs-kashmir-health-experts-advise-people-to-avoid-morning-walks-101636831251113.html
14-11-2021||Other||47 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Chandigarh Punjab on Saturday witnessed 47 fresh cases with no death from the Covid-19 virus. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained .14%. With these fresh cases, the state’s total tally reached 6,02,778 cases, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases in the state has witnessed increase to 318. Among fresh cases, the maximum of 17 cases were detected in Gurdaspur. With 13 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,889, it said. To date, 16,571 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,57,67,650 have been collected for testing in the state, of which 33,277 were tested on Saturday. As many as 1,09,313 doses of the vaccines were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/47-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-101636831130590.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||‘100% vaccine first dose coverage is pivotal moment for Mumbai’||Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic began, every step forward has felt like the quote from Lewis Carroll’s Through the Looking-Glass: “It takes all the running you can do, to keep in the same place”. While this tenacity has been important for us to avoid complacency, we shouldn’t deny ourselves a celebration of achievements along the way, and Saturday marks one such for Mumbai — 100% of the city’s target adult population has now received its first dose of the Covid vaccine.Vaccinations achieve their intended goal when they prevent disease that warrants aggressive care. This is because the need for such care is commensurate with poor outcomes for patients as well as utilisation of resources in an overburdened healthcare system. We witnessed this during the first two waves in India, and all our efforts must be directed towards preventing this. Thus, it is reassuring to know that even a single dose of the vaccine administered to a majority in India (Covishield) can provide up to 91% effectiveness against hospitalisations or death for the Delta variant, and reasonably high levels for other variants of concern (VOCs). It must be noted that these estimates tend to be lower for individuals above 60 years of age. The four-month data released by our health ministry in September suggests an overall protection of 96.6% against death with a single dose,indicating that a single dose of Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), possibly does equally well at preventing death.What about preventing symptomatic milder infection, and thus arresting transmission? This is where a single dose of the vaccine isn’t as impressive, and effectiveness tends to be between 30-70%, varying by study and type of variant causing these infections. This effectiveness increases significantly after two doses. It is heartening to know that 65% of the city’s target adult population have received two doses of the Covid vaccine, and we are hopefully on our way to achieving a 100% coverage with 2 doses.What does this mean in the context of a possible third wave? Most experts agree that preventing it will depend on two factors: a) the evolution of newer variants of the virus which evade vaccine-induced and/or natural infection-conferred immunity and b) the incidence of breakthrough infections/reinfections with present variants. The first factor is a serious concern, although it is reassuring to know that the effectiveness of the present vaccines against severe disease has remained high, irrespective of the VOC. Whether this continues to be the case might depend on our ability to keep transmission (and thereby, the evolution of newer variants) in check. This is where we cannot afford to let our guard down: getting the second doses administered as soon as possible, using effective vaccines for those below 18 years of age, and continuing to engage in behaviours that prevent transmission, are critical. This is a pivotal moment in time when our embracing of masking, attention to indoor ventilation, and attitudes toward crowding might have far-reaching health benefits. The second factor might need the administration of booster doses in the future, but this has to be weighed in the context of vaccine shortages across the globe. Although evidence clearly points toward increased breakthrough infections with the passage of time, such infections appear to be consistently of a milder nature, especially among the non-elderly and those who are not immuno-compromised. The enthusiasm demonstrated by the city’s vaccination team, including frontline workers, administrators/planners in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and allied teams, backed by the government, has resulted in this achievement for the city. As a proud Mumbaikar, I do hope that we sustain this momentum, and not only prevent the third wave, but work towards enhancing the overall health of the city.(Dr Lancelot Pinto is a pulmonologist and epidemiologist at PD Hinduja Hospital)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/100-vaccine-first-dose-coverage-is-pivotal-moment-for-mumbai-101636830955128.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021: Shiv takes the centre stage with one-shot advantage||It was a packed leaderboard with multiple contenders in the fray even as Shiv Kapur enjoyed a slender one-shot advantage at 17-under 199 at the end of the penultimate round of the ₹1.5 crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021 being played at the Chandigarh Golf Club.The Dubai-based Kapur (64-68-67), a four-time winner on the Asian Tour and one of the pre-tournament favourites, built on his solid previous rounds with a determined five-under 67 on Saturday to be the leader for the third day running.Chandigarh lad Aadil Bedi (68-65-67), a winner on the PGTI in early 2020, kept local hopes alive as he went error-free for the second straight day during his 67 to move up one spot to second position at 16-under 200.Delhi’s Rashid Khan (65-67-69), a two-time Asian Tour winner, slipped out of the overnight joint lead and dropped to third place at 15-under 201 following his 69.Delhi’s Kshitij Naveed Kaul (69) occupied fourth place at 13-under 203.Gurugram-based Dhruv Sheoran carded the day’s best score of eight-under 64 to climb 10 places to tied fifth at 12-under 204. Olympian Udayan Mane (67) was also tied for fifth along with Sheoran.The 39-year-old Shiv Kapur, looking for his first title on the PGTI, had a brisk start as he made four birdies on the first eight holes which included three conversions from a range of 10 to 25 feet.Shiv, who was bogey-free through his first 44 holes of the tournament, then hit a rough patch dropping three bogeys in exchange for a lone birdie between the ninth and 12th holes. He missed a couple of par putts on that stretch including a two-footer on the 12th.Shiv, originally hailing from Delhi, rallied with three birdies thereafter as his accurate wedge shots set up short birdie putts on the 13th, 16th and 17th that gave him the sole lead for the first time this week.Shiv said, “I had a fantastic start and didn’t put a foot wrong till the eighth. Thereafter, I had a bad stretch where I didn’t really hit any bad shots but just made one or two mental errors and maybe had one bad break here or there. I went error-free for two days but made my mistakes in bunches today. However, I’m proud that I bounced back from there with some birdies at the end to put myself in contention once again.”Among Aadil Bedi’s five birdies, the ones that stood out were his 40-feet conversion on the ninth and his chip-in from the bunker on the 13th. Bedi has so far dropped just one double-bogey in the tournament and there are no bogeys on his card.“My hitting was great in round two and I didn’t need to save any pars. But today my short-game was better and that helped me get through the day without a bogey. The three good rounds this week have helped lift my confidence after my recovery from my wrist injury,” said Aadil, who will soon be playing on the Asian Tour as he has a country spot there.Rashid Khan made gains with two birdies on the first 10 holes followed by an eagle on the 13th. He conceded a bogey on the 16th but came back with a superb recovery from the trees to salvage a par on the 17th and keep himself in contention.Besides Aadil Bedi there were three other Chandigarh professionals in the top-10 as Yuvraj Singh Sandhu and Abhijit Singh Chadha were tied seventh at 11-under 205 while defending champion and PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar climbed 12 spots to tied ninth at nine-under 207 after his round of 65.Among the other marquee names in the field, former champion Ajeetesh Sandhu of Chandigarh and SSP Chawrasia were both in tied 11th at eight-under 208 while Jyoti Randhawa was another three shots back in tied 18th. Former champion Chikkarangappa of Bengaluru was tied 23rd at four-under 212. Gaganjeet Bhullar was tied 34th at two-under 214.The two amateurs to make the cut, US-based Varun Chopra (three-under 213) and Aryan Roopa Anand (even-par 216) of Bengaluru, were placed tied 26th and tied 49th respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-2021-shiv-takes-the-centre-stage-with-one-shot-advantage-101636830892683.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets its first fleet of electric buses||UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday flagged off the first set of environment friendly 11 electric buses. The entire fleet of 40 will be put on commercial operation by end of December. These buses are plying on Express Route 551E — ISBT-43 to PGI — with limited stops at ISBT-17, Sector-16 hospital and PGI’s new OPD. The express routes have been formulated keeping in view the minimum travel time for the commuters, an official said, adding that for second lot of electric buses, e-tender has been invited. UT plans to decrease diesel buses and as more electric buses arrive, the same will be added on two more routes l1E (ISBT-17 to Kharar via ISBT Mohali) and SU4E (PGI-ISBT17-railway station-ISBT Panchkula). These routes will be operated on 10-20 minutes frequency. A spokesperson said the ministry of heavy industries has sanctioned 80 electric buses for Chandigarh. The UT will get ₹45-lakh subsidy per bus. For first lot of 40 buses, agreement has been signed with Ashok Leyland amounting to ₹154.01 crore for 10 years, the official added. The new buses will have air conditioning system, seating capacity of 35 passengers and 20 standees, passenger information screens at front, rear, side and inside saloon area, pneumatically controlled doors, panic button in case of emergency, mobile charging points and rear air suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gets-its-first-fleet-of-electric-buses-101636830590717.html
14-11-2021||Other||At 62,863, Punjab farm fires 2nd highest in five years||Patiala With Punjab recording 3,742 cases on Saturday, the total number of farm fires in the state has reached 62,863, the second highest over the past five years. Almost 80% of total cases this season have recorded in November. This, coupled with the numbers, show that Punjab state machinery has miserably failed in implementing the law in place to stop stubble burning. Last year, Punjab recorded 76,590 cases; 2019 saw 55,210 cases. On Saturday (November 13), the satellite captured 3,742 events in the state; on the corresponding in 2020, there were 2,450 cases, and in 2019, there were only five active farm fires seen. The massive fires over the past week highlight that farm fires this year are delayed, and the number is only headed for further increase over the next few days. On Saturday, 515 cases was registered in Sangrur; Moga recorded 422; Bathinda 271; Barnala 201; Ferozepur 330; Muktsar 295 and Ludhiana recorded 302 cases. Experts say that it was clear that in view of the ongoing farmers protest in the Punjab, the state government was going soft on farmers and not registering any FIR against those indulging in burning of stubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-62-863-punjab-farm-fires-2nd-highest-in-five-years-101636830530618.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man shot dead in Industrial Area||A second-hand car dealer shot dead a 31-year-old man, to whom he owed money, before driving up to a police station to surrender near the railway station in Chandigarh on Saturday evening.Three shots were fired, leaving the victim, identified as Jaspreet Singh, aka Jassa, dead on the pavement near the Garcha light point in the Industrial Area. An agriculturalist belonging to Parol village in Mohali’s Mullanpur, he is survived by his wife and a five-month-old daughter. The accused has been identified as Jaspreet Sharma, aka Monty, who runs Milan Car Bazaar in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. His father works in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The family used to reside in Sector 19 and recently moved to Zirakpur, said police.After committing the murder, Monty sped his Skoda sedan to the police post in Daria. According to witnesses, he handed over the car key to a policeman and said that he has committed murder. However, police claimed he was arrested near the police post and the murder weapon was also recovered from him.Meanwhile, a friend rushed Jassa to the Manimajra civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. According to doctors, he sustained two gun wounds in the chest and one in the back. Monty has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides under the Arms Act. He will be produced in court on Sunday. Victim wanted his money backJassa and Monty were known to each other since 2008 and used to work together as bouncers till 2012.“Preliminary investigations revealed that Jassa had given a loan of ₹9 lakh to Monty, which he had invested in his second-hand car business. Jassa was asking him to return the money that led to the murder,” said Gurmukh Singh, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, east), Chandigarh. According to the victim’s family, he had been giving “friendly loans” to Monty as well as investing in his business since 2008, and the amount owed by the accused had climbed up to ₹55 lakh, including interest.Jassa reportedly went to Monty’s house in Zirakpur on Friday, and asked his family to return the amount. Monty asked for a day to arrange the money.Jassa’s brother Kulwinder said that Monty called his brother on Saturday to get the money. The two met at Sector 28, where Monty asked Jassa to accompany him to Daria village. Jassa sat in Monty’s car, while his friend Jagdeep followed them in another vehicle. “When they reached near the Garcha light point, the two had an argument during which Jassa slapped Monty,” said the DSP. In return, Monty shot at Jassa from close range. As the bullet hit him, Jassa tried to escape, but Monty pumped two more bullets into him. According to his friend Jagdeep, Jassa collapsed on the pavement. It was Jagdeep who then rushed him to hospital, but it was too late.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-shot-dead-in-industrial-area-101636830477104.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Dirty water, dangling wires pose danger in Ward 6||CHANDIGARH: Parking pangs, contaminated water supply, dangling electricity wires, poor sanitation, blocked sewers… the list of woes goes on at Ward No. 6 of the Chandigarh municipal corporation. Comprising Mari Wala Town, Shanti Nagar, Modern Housing Complex, Govindpura, Shivalik Enclave, Housing Board Duplex, Rajiv Vihar and Uppal’s Marble Arch, it is among the three wards that Manimajra has been split into.While Shanti Nagar, Mari Wala Town and Govindpura were earlier in Ward No. 25, Shivalik Enclave was in Ward No. 24.In commercial areas, such as Mari Wala Town and Shanti Nagar, the most common problems are inadequate parking space and contaminated drinking water. Residents also complain about sewers getting blocked during monsoons.Surjit Singh, a 70-year-old retired government employee residing in Mari Wala Town, said, “Drinking water is usually contaminated, and the dangling electricity wires pose a threat to the public in the narrow streets of the locality.”In Shantinagar, 26-year-old Prince Dhiman said that cleanliness and parking problems have been the main issues. “Garbage keeps accumulating on the roadside,” he said.Issues pending for longAt the Modern Housing Complex too, residents complained about drinking water problems. Col Gursewak Singh, president of its residents welfare association, said: “The underground water supply pipes are around 30-year old. We have raised the issue many times, but to no avail. Even the sanitation condition is not good, and there is a need for more safai karamcharis.”Meanwhile, the residents at Govindpura locality complain of parking problems and cleanliness issues.Councillor Jagtar Singh, who represents the area, said: “The problem of unhygienic water supply is due to the old water pipelines in the area. I have got 60% of the pipelines replaced and sewerage lines have been placed further from fresh water lines to prevent contamination. With 24x7 water supply project being launched in the city, all pipelines will be replaced.” The councilor said the sewerage lines are also being replaced and a new multi-level parking is also coming up in the area. On the problem of dangling electricity wires, he said it has been proposed to put them underground.KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Mari Wala Town, Shivalik Enclave, Govindpura, Housing Board Duplex, Shanti Nagar, Modern Housing Complex, Rajiv Vihar and Uppal’s Marble ArchReserved for women (general)Voters: 19,000 Key issuesDangling electricity wires, especially at Mari Wala TownContaminated water supply and poor sanitation Shortage of parking space and traffic woesLocal voicesWater lines are around 30-year old, and residents complain of contaminated supply. Also, more Sanitation workers are needed in the locality. -- Col Gursewak Singh, president, Residents Welfare Association, Modern Housing ComplexThe streets are narrow and dangling electricity wires pose a threat to the public. Many times, water is dirty and sewers get blocked during rains. -- Surjit Singh, 70, Mari Wala Town resident who retired from a central government jobSometimes, streetlights do not turn on at the right time, due to which residents face problems in the night. We are also irked by dirty water supply. -- Nisha Khurana, 34, a homemaker who resides at Modern Housing ComplexThe older water pipes should be replaced. All pending issues like cleanliness, parking problem and dangling wires should be resolved by new councillor. -- Sanjeev Gaba, 50, a businessman residing in Govindpura||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dirty-water-dangling-wires-pose-danger-in-ward-6-101636830475937.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Barista penalised ₹30,000 for billing ₹5 as packaging charges||When going to a cafe for a cup of latte, who would expect to shell out money to get it packed! This is what happened with a Mohali resident when he visited Barista in Phase 3 last year.Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Phase 6, had ordered a cup of latte at the cafe on September 15, 2020. Its price mentioned on the display counter was ₹160.When he got a bill for ₹173, he was surprised as the taxes did not amount to ₹13. When he objected, the person behind the counter told him that ₹5 have been added as packaging charges, and further ₹8 are taxed on the final amount of ₹165. Not satisfied, Singh moved the consumer court. Now, finding the cafe indulging in trade malpractice, the district consumer disputes redressal commission, Mohali, has imposed ₹25,000 punitive charges on Barista Coffee Company Limited, to be deposited in the legal aid fund.The firm has also been asked to refund ₹5 to the complainant and pay him a consolidated compensation of ₹5,000 for mental agony, harassment and litigation expenses.‘Charges not displayed’In his complaint, Singh had alleged that packaging charges were not mentioned in the advertisement or the menu card or the display board of cafe. He contended that the act and conduct of Barista in showing different rates on the display board and not disclosing the actual price exchange amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. Denying all allegations as “false and misconceived”, Barista said it serves food and beverages to its customers for consumption at the coffee shop only. “It is prominently declared/displayed at the coffee shop that packaging charges are separately chargeable for takeaway orders and intimation in this regard is also given to such customers before billing,” stated the reply.However, the consumer commission ruled that there was nothing on record to prove Barista’s claim. “We feel, that the customer cannot be given surprise once he orders one cup of coffee at a price of ₹160, which is also otherwise a highly exorbitant amount. We feel, that deficiency in service and malpractice on the part of the Barista is proved on the file.” Coming down heavily on the cafe, the commission stated: “(It) must have collected thousands of rupees from various customers in such a manner. In order to curb such malpractice, it is important to impose special cost on (it) so that correct message should go in the society and such traders will think a thousand times before adopting this practice again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barista-penalised-30-000-for-billing-5-as-packaging-charges-101636830474789.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity buzz: Orchid flower named after PU woman professor||Professor Promila Pathak, chairperson of Panjab University’s botany department, now has an orchid hybrid named after her. The honour has been bestowed upon her on the basis of significant contributions and achievements in the field of Indian orchidology. The flower named “Phalaenopsis Promila Pathak White” has been registered at Royal Horticultural Society, London. Orchidaceae, commonly called the orchid family, is a diverse and widespread family of flowering plants. Prof Pathak has been instrumental in developing strategies for sustainable development of these flowers. Congress councillors make U-turn, all praise for Mitra From brickbats to bouquets, there’s been a total transformation in the response of Congress councillors towards the working of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation commissioner Anindita Mitra. During the last MC house meet a fortnight ago, the Congress councillors, particularly Satish Kainth, gunned for Mitra on the parking problem. But on November 12, the Congress councillors were all praise for the commissioner, that too on the same issue. Kainth applauded the commissioner for ensuring improvement in parking lots, while his party colleague Devinder Singh Babla praised Mitra for the quick response in replacing a manhole cover. The change in the Congress councillors’ behaviour didn’t go unnoticed by the ruling BJP members. Taking a dig at Babla, BJP councillor Davesh Moudgil said, “Aap aise hi tareef karte rahiye, aur hum dhakan badalte rahenge.” Race against time, BJP on inauguration spree The BJP members of the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh are on a foundation stone laying and inauguration spree with the deadline of November 17 set for all such programmes. The ruling party wants to have as many achievements as possible to its credit in the run-up to the elections in December. The UT administration is also rushing to inaugurate its own projects, including the start of electric buses and the opening of the aviary before November 17. The state election commission can announce the code of conduct any day after that. UT district court website needs spell check When it comes to spellings of names, one should be accurate. The website of the Chandigarh district courts needs a spell check. The names of many an advocate has been spelt wrong. The name of senior advocate Rabindra Pandit is one such case in point. RWAs back residents, not party or candidate While some members of resident welfare associations (RWAs) have announced their candidacy for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections, people have raised questions about the neutrality of RWA bodies. The Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chief spokesperson Anish Garg said, “Whoever wants to stand for elections is free to do so but CRAWFED will not back any candidate or support any party. We will only highlight issues of residents.” Ward division leaves Manimajra confused With the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections approaching, residents of Manimajra that has been split into three wards are not clear yet about which ward they come under. A resident said, “Most people see Manimajra as the old township and the new one. It is tedious going over the notification to see which neighbourhood is under which ward.” All three wards are reserved for general category women candidates, adding to the confusion among political parties, too. A party insider said even if one ward had been open for men, it would have worked for the parties but the recent decision has only added to the confusion. Outsourced staff make up for shortage at hospitals The UT health department had on October 1 discontinued the services of 81 outsourced healthcare workers, who had been recruited to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. The department also planned to terminate the services of 150 more such employees as the coronavirus cases subsided. However, after the department terminated the services of 179 NHM employees for protesting against the revised working conditions for a salary hike, the health department didn’t terminate the services of the outsourced staff. Instead, they were hired in place of NHM employees to manage patient care facilities at government hospitals and dispensaries. “We are using their services to meet the manpower requirement in hospitals. The department will soon recruit new NHM employees by following the procedure,” says Dr Suman Singh, director of health services, Chandigarh. Elected senators await gazette notification The process of senate elections of Panjab University (PU) was completed last month, but the elected candidates are still awaiting the gazette notification. According to the PU Act, the senate election is subject to the approval of the PU chancellor, who is the vice-president of India. Though a gazette notification for nominated members has already been issued, it is pending for elected candidates, resulting in further delay in the constitution of the new senate. The senate elections were held after a delay of one year. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh, Mandeep Narula and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-orchid-flower-named-after-pu-woman-professor-101636830473299.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula court lets off murder accused suffering from psychotic disorder||A Panchkula court has acquitted a 23-year-old man of murdering his stepfather, as he is suffering from a psychotic disorder. The court has also directed the Haryana government to ensure that he gets proper medical treatment for his mental health.Sanjay Kumar had bludgeoned the victim, Budh Ram, to death with a stick at their home in Chandimandir’s Mau village on March 20, 2017. He had confessed to the crime, saying that he got irritated with his stepfather, who was pestering him to work fast while cleaning some dry grass.He also told police that his parents were living separately and he used to reside with his mother in Himachal Pradesh. Budh Ram had brought him to Mau just two months before the incident. During the court proceedings, legal aid counsel Manbir Singh Rathi threw light on Sanjay’s mental condition and moved the plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. Following this, a medical board was constituted and it found that Sanjay was suffering from schizophrenia-like psychotic disorder and was of unsound mind.Even his relatives stated that Sanjay used to show signs of some mental disorder as he used to talk to himself, laugh when he was sitting alone and consume meals again within a short interval.One of the doctors of the medical board said that in this psychotic disorder, the patient cannot distinguish between good or bad, and keeps having hallucinations and illusions. Stating that there is no permanent cure, the doctor recommended continuous treatment.Even the medical officer of the Ambala jail, where Sanjay was lodged during the trial, said: “Sanjay remains alright till he is under medication, but if even a single dose is missed, he becomes aggressive and starts attacking others.”After hearing all sides, the sessions court acquitted Sanjay of the murder charge, giving him benefit under Section 84 (act of a person of unsound mind) of the Indian Penal Code.Sessions judge Deepak Gupta observed: “Once it has been found that the accused has been of unsound mind/insane and there is no permanent cure for the disease and that he can be managed only by way of giving medicines, the duty of the court does not finish by merely recording his acquittal.”The court directed the state government to admit the accused in any of the mental hospitals or centers, where adequate facilities for his treatment are available. “Accused shall be released from any of such centre, as and when he is found fit to be released,” the judge observed.“Before parting with the judgment, this court will be failing its duty, in case it does not record its appreciation for the hard work put in by Manbir Singh Rathi, legal aid counsel, in bringing to the notice of the court the mental condition of the accused and then assisting the court in reaching to the right conclusion and for restoration of the mental health of accused,” the sessions judge mentioned in his ruling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-court-lets-off-murder-accused-suffering-from-psychotic-disorder-101636830472246.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Revenue records just a click away in Ambala||Finding a revenue record, which could take over a week earlier, is now available on a click, as nearly 73 lakh documents have been digitised at the newly developed Modern Record Room in Ambala.The new record room has been set up at the same place as the existing place at the deputy commissioner’s office, under a statewide project. The documents have been scanned, catalogued, and put in boxes, unlike the previous method of just placing them in large sacks. These village-wise bar-coded and tamperproof boxes are under round-the-clock CCTV surveillance, said in-charge Manmohan Sharma. District revenue officer (DRO) Rajbir Dhiman said: “Database of jamabandi, intekal, consolidation records, field books, etc, dating back to 1886 in Urdu and Hindi languages, as they existed, has been created under the project.”The DRO said the digitisation will not only save time of the employees engaged in finding the papers, but the records will also remain safe in case of fire or other disasters.Deputy commissioner Vikram said that an applicant will get a copy of the document required at the earliest, after paying the required charges and getting the patwari’s approval.“Later, we will also explore the option of providing online payment options to applicants, who will be able get the document digitally signed online,” he said.Officials have earlier raised the issue of unavailability of “original and authentic record” related to the excise land of Ambala Sadar in Cantonment that were burnt during the Mandal Commission Agitation in 1990. The then SDM (Cantt) had written to the directorate of urban local bodies asking for guidance to verify the revenue applications at his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/revenue-records-just-a-click-away-in-ambala-101636830471045.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Auto major Maruti Suzuki to get 900 acres in Sonepat||Automobile giant Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) will be allotted about 900 acres at Industrial Model Township (IMT) Kharkhauda in Sonepat for setting up car and motorcycle manufacturing units. The allotment, officials said, will entail an investment of 18,000 crore, one of the biggest in recent times.Officials said the 900 acres being allotted to the auto giant will fetch ₹2,500-2,700 crore for the state exchequer.A decision to this effect was taken during a meeting of the Haryana Enterprise Promotion Board (HEPB) headed by chief minister ML Khattar in Gurugram on Saturday. MSIL chairman RC Bhargava and top functionaries were also present during the meeting. The country’s largest car manufacturer plans to gradually shift its manufacturing operations from the Gurugram facility to IMT Kharkhauda once the new unit get commissioned. The relocation has been necessitated due to growing congestion and traffic snarls in Gurugram. Officials said the car manufacturing unit will come on 800 acres and the Suzuki motorcycle unit will be set up on 100 acres at IMT Kharkhauda.The finalisation of expansion and relocation plans at IMT Kharkhauda, officials said, were delayed due to issues pertaining to reimbursement of State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) and the newly enacted law providing for 75% reservation for locals in private sector jobs. “We have been able to iron out these issues and a broad agreement has been reached on the incentives to be provided to the company. The minutes are being prepared and will be shared with MSIL,’’ said an official.CM Khattar, in a statement, said the ongoing talks with Maruti were finalised. “If the company deposits the entire amount within 45 days, then it will be given 10% discount on the total amount as per the policy. Along with this, the company has been given State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) reimbursement for 15 years by the government,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-major-maruti-suzuki-to-get-900-acres-in-sonepat-101636830351862.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 100% first dose coverage; time to think about Covid booster shots||Vaccination is an intervention for specific purposes, which change over time. When the national Covid vaccination campaign was rolled out (January 16), the initial focus was the health and lives of frontline workers (healthcare, sanitation, police etc), so that they could work with safety and confidence. On March 1, the net was widened to cover citizens above 60 years, and those above 45 years with co-morbidities — the most vulnerable groups for severe disease and death. From April 1, all adults above 45 years were allowed to access vaccines. These policy choices were essentially to meet medical needs, to reduce numbers of Covid patients requiring hospitalisation and intensive care. The next phase was from May 1, when all adults (18 years and above) could get the vaccine. The purpose was now shifted to public health needs, for if the purpose was to reduce hospitalisations and deaths, then the age group of 18 to 45 years would not have been priority. This inclusive approach to mass vaccination for all adults was for us to reach “herd immunity threshold” (HIT) in an attempt to bring the epidemic on its knees, and at worst, allow it to crawl as endemic Covid — with low and steady numbers. Unrecognised by Covid watchers, India reached HIT, thanks to the second wave by the Delta variant. The epidemic peaked on May 6 (414,433 cases), dropped to 50,174 (seven-day moving average) on June 27 and since then the numbers had been steadily coming down — it was around 40,000 on September 9; 30,000 on September 24; 20,000 on October 8; 15,000 on October 27. This is the endemic phase of Covid lasting 20 consecutive weeks. Now there is no more need for universal coverage for reaching HIT. It is time to shift the strategy to meet our current needs. First, let’s recognise what an endemic phase means. Infections will continue. Covid cases will remain low in numbers. So, who are those sources of the virus who are responsible for continued transmission? They are: unvaccinated persons below 18; unvaccinated adults; and persons with breakthrough infections (due to waning immunity after the two-dose vaccination) and re-infections (with waning post-infection immunity). This is good news, but why has mortality gone up recently? The daily deaths reached its lowest of 160 on October 20, but increased step-wise to 803 on October 28, and have not yet returned to 160 — on November 12 it was 555. Information about those who die and why is not yet in public domain. What we do know: men above 60, all with co-morbidities, all on chronic medication that suppress immunity, and those with cancers and transplants respond to two vaccine doses with sub-optimal immunity. All of them deserve booster doses to better their chances of survival. Dampening the tempo of virus circulation will lead to fewer infections and lesser deaths. For that, breakthrough infections must be prevented by giving booster doses to all who come forward. There is apprehension, amplified by the World Health Organisation (WHO) that a booster dose deprives someone waiting for second dose. If vaccines were in short supply, that is reasonable. However, India has unused vaccine stocks in several states and institutions — thus, a policy shift allowing boosters will be a wise and ethical decision. When should booster jabs be given? The best time is six months to one year after the second dose — a standard practise being followed around the world. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) must monitor the effect of boosters. In a few weeks we will know if they are life-saving and protecting against severe Covid, in comparison with those who did not get booster doses.(Dr. T. Jacob John is a retired professor of Virology, Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-booster-shot-for-covid-the-next-step-101636830350570.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||2018 case: AAP’s ex-Haryana chief appears before police||Aam Aadmi Party’s former Haryana chief Navin Jaihind on Saturday appeared before the Panipat police to join investigation in a case registered against him three years ago.Jaihind and five others were booked under Sections 186, 332, 353, 417,420, 468 and 471 of the IPC when he carried out the party’s “Bhaichara Kanwar Yatra” against drugs from Rohtak to Haridwar in 2018. Accompanied by hundreds of followers carrying flags, Jaihind reached the Panipat city police station. Jaihind’s supporters created a ruckus outside the city police station fearing his arrest. The police pacified them and interrogated Jaihind before releasing him. Jaihind alleged that he had been falsely implicated in the case. Police said Jaihind’s was called to record his statement in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2018-case-aap-s-ex-haryana-chief-appears-before-police-101636830171720.html
14-11-2021||Pune||World Diabetes Day: Uncontrolled diabetes can cause joint and nerve damage, say doctors||Pune: Every year, November 14 is celebrated as World Diabetes Day to raise awareness regarding the non-communicable lifestyle disease. However, despite being a diabetic capital of the world for a while, Indians is now paying serious attention as Covid-19 has brought back the attention to comorbid patients they are highly vulnerable to the infection. City doctors have warned that if not controlled diabetes could lead to damages to other organs and body systems. Diabetes can cause various musculoskeletal diseases which gets neglected most commonly. A majority of type 2 diabetes patients, encounter joint pain, neuropathy pain, and muscle ache. It is essential for those having diabetes to keep blood sugar levels check frequently and keep diabetes in control with daily exercise and follow a well-balanced diet to keep their joint and muscles intact, according to medical experts. As per the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) last survey on comorbidity under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ scheme, during the Covid pandemic, 402,343 people were found to be comorbid of which 140,926 reported only diabetes and 63,407 reported diabetes and high blood pressure as well. The central government has estimated that Pune city’s population is 4,210,592 which mean that about 4.85% of the city’s population which has reported are diabetic. A city diabetologist said, “A large number of people are having diabetes that not only invites heart or kidney problems but even joint involvement. For example - A 64-year-old patient is diabetic since 12 years and having complaints of loss of balance and difficulty in walking. In another case, a patient who was teacher by profession was suffering through both shoulder pain radiating up to hand and diagnosed with high blood sugar levels. After several clinical examination and X-rays with nerve conduction test, was diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy and frozen shoulder respectively. There are many such patients who have joint and nerve problems due to diabetes. If diabetes is not managed in time there will be undiagnosed breakdown of musculoskeletal system causing joint pain and limited range of motion.” Dr Snehal Desai, diabetologist, Lokmanya Hospital Pune said, “Diabetes leads to unwanted changes in the musculoskeletal system, that is the muscles, bones, joints, ligaments, and tendons impacting the fingers, hands, wrists, shoulders, neck, spine, or feet. One with uncontrolled diabetes having joint pain will encounter symptoms like muscle pain, joint pain or stiffness, lessened ability to move your joints, joint swelling, deformities, and pricking sensation or loss of sensation in the arms or legs. Carpal tunnel syndrome is frequently seen in people with diabetes, as is trigger finger (a catching or locking of the fingers). The shoulder joint may also be affected by diabetes with cause of frozen shoulder. Thus, one will not be able to carry on daily activities with ease. Diabetic neuropathy can lead to numbness in the feet and ankles. Over time, one may feel little or no sensation in these areas. People with diabetes can also get arthritis which can leave them crippled for life.” Dr Vishwajeet Chavan, orthopaedic surgeon from Apollo Spectra hospital, Pune said, “Diabetes could lead to arthritis, but this chance is seen more in high-risk diabetes patients. While, the patients suffering from diabetes for many years may also have arthritis issue. However, not every diabetes patient suffers from arthritis. The cases of arthritis with diabetes patients are less. Due to osteroporosis or infection may cause damage to the spinal cord or knee joints. Besides, the patient may also experience lack of blood and could lead to joint pains. Therefore, diabetes patient should take utmost care of their health.” Dr CS Yajnik, director, diabetes unit, KEM said, “Despite malnutrition, India is the diabetes capital. Diabetes is brought on by unhealthy diet, sedentary lifestyle and stress in people who are predisposed. Predisposition can be partly genetic for which there is no treatment. Recent research has shown that predisposition can also come from undernutrition when growing in the mother’s womb or pregnancy diabetes. These two conditions are in plenty in India, and may be prevented or treated effectively. If we improve the nutrition and metabolism of the young, it will benefit not only them but also their children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/world-diabetes-day-uncontrolled-diabetes-can-cause-joint-nerve-damage-say-doctors-101636830111982.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body official: Initial phase and last mile are the most challenging||Mumbai: From storing vaccines to going all-digital were some of the big challenges faced by the city’s civic authorities in the adult vaccination drive against the Covid pandemic, Dr Sheela Jagtap, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) immunisation officer said. “When the drive began in Mumbai, storing the vaccines was a major challenge. The city had a small cold storage facility at BMC’s F-South ward office in Parel, where the Covid-19 vaccines were stored in the initial phase. In April, a central storage facility was opened at Kanjurmarg. Both Covishield and Covaxin have to be stored in two to eight degrees Celsius. The Kanjurmarg facility was equipped with two walk-in coolers which could store up to 10 million vaccine doses,” Jagtap said. This national vaccination programme was also unique in its all-digital approach. For civic authorities around the country, this meant collecting and entering information at a scale that they hadn’t done before. “The Centre had given us a template to update all data like mobile numbers, Aadhar number etc, which would then be uploaded on the CoWin portal. At a time, the system allowed us to enter details of 1000 beneficiaries only. And even if a digit was missed in any phone number, or any other incorrect information was entered, it would reject the upload entirely,” Jagtap said. To make things smoother, the civic body used master trainers “in data uploading processes”. “It also helped that beneficiaries could upload their own details at later stage of the drive,” she said. According to Jagtap, the last mile coverage is the biggest challenge the civic body faces now. “There could be some hesitancy. We now hope to reach up to the last vaccinated person by house-to-house drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-official-initial-phase-and-last-mile-are-the-most-challenging-101636830110681.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Jind, Dadri dists queue up for days to get DAP||Farmers in Jind and Dadri districts of Haryana have been queuing up for days to get a few sacks of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser for their lands for the rabi season. Authorities, however, say there is no dearth of the fertiliser in the state. Amarjeet Singh, a Jind farmer, said he prepared his three acres four days ago to sow wheat but he is yet to get a bag of the DAP.“We never imagined that we would have to spend days in queues to get a bag of the DAP. For the first time, the fertiliser is being given to farmers after verifying Aadhaar card amid police security. Farmers start queuing up outside fertiliser shops as early as 6am, but many of them had to return empty-handed after eight hours of wait,” he said.Similar situation prevails in Charkhi Dadri district where farmers say they had to return empty-handed after standing in queues for hours.Amandeep Sheoran, a farmer from Charkhi Dadri, said farmers struggle to get DAP for mustard cultivation and now they are facing a similar situation for wheat sowing.“If we do not get DAP on time, wheat sowing will be delayed. Many shopkeepers under the patronage of officials are transporting the DAP to neighbouring Rajasthan and the government has failed to take action against them,” he alleged.Uchana block agriculture officer Pawan Bhardwaj said each farmer was given a maximum of five bags of DAP after verifying their Aadhaar card.Haryana Agriculture minister JP Dalal said there is no dearth of DAP in the state.“During this rabi season, three lakh MT DAP has been allocated to the state, which is 20% more than the average of the last five years. The farmers should buy DAP and other fertilisers as per their requirements,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-in-jind-dadri-dists-queue-up-for-days-to-get-dap-101636829992173.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Vikram Kumar, dept heads review works in Kasba-Vishrambaug, other peth areas||Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar along with different department heads carried out inspection of various works in Kasba-Vishrambaug peth and other peths as it has been decided to develop these areas as a model to be replicated in other wards of the city.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar along with 40 officers visited all the main roads as well the ongoing water works in the area. The tour lasted for one-and-a-half hour. We raised various concerns.”“Elected members and citizens pointed out various errors in the existing works and appealed the administration to complete the road works in the next one-and-a-half months. It was also decided to increase coordination between departments and finish the digging works as there would then be no need to do these repeatedly,” Rasne said. “Kasba Vishrambaug will be the model on whose lines steps will be taken in all ward offices and wards, and works will be completed in the next one-and-a-half months,” he added.Kumar said, “Elected members gave various suggestions. The administration will study the same and chalk out a plan for execution.” With the condition of roads having worsened due to drainage and water pipeline works, resurfacing of all the main roads will be carried out.The civic body’s renewed focus on completing all works, especially road works, just ahead of the municipal elections, is seen as the Bhartiya Janta Party’s last-ditch attempt to make good on their election promise of planning and executing the development of all wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vikram-kumar-dept-heads-review-works-in-kasba-vishrambaug-other-peth-areas-101636829990631.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Everyone in Mumbai has not received the first vaccine dose’||Mumbai: While Mumbai may have statistically achieved the milestone of 100% full dose coverage, the city will have to administer many more doses to truly cover its entire adult population. Reason: an estimated 10% to 20% people who have got the Covid-19 vaccine in Mumbai are likely to be people from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) or rest of Maharashtra. “We are definitely accounting for this slight mismatch, and therefore, our vaccination drive will continue aggressively,” said Mumbai’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. “We will have to reach much beyond 100%,” she said. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16. While it was opened in phases starting with health care workers, frontline workers and then for the senior citizens and people above 45 years with comorbid conditions. By April, the city had started grappling with vaccine shortages. Similar shortages were felt in other parts of the MMR. “Since Mumbai had more vaccination centres, many people from other parts of MMR travelled to get a jab in Mumbai. At the same time, people from Mumbai also travelled outside to get the jabs as there were phases of severe shortages when people could not find vaccine slots here,” said Dr Gomare adding that it is hard to estimate the exact number of other residents who have taken the shots in Mumbai centres. Going by the rough estimates, the civic body plans to achieve an additional 10% to 20% coverage and continue to drive to expand the second dose coverage. FEBRUARY TARGET FOR 100% TWO DOSE COVERAGE Over six million second doses have been administered in the city, taking the full vaccination coverage to 65%. According to Dr Gomare, the civic body is hopeful to cover the entire target population with two doses by February. “We have already written to the Centre urging them to reduce the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield. Now that we have the vaccine doses as well as the capacity to administer them, we will be able to fully immunise our population much faster if the gap is reduced,” she said. A majority of the doses (over 13 million) administered in Mumbai were of Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. The Centre has mandated a 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield. More than 1.4 million doses were of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin which has 28 day gap between two doses. A little over 55,800 doses were of Sputnik V by Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute which had a 21 day gap between two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/everyone-in-mumbai-has-not-received-the-first-vaccine-dose-101636829870541.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sonepat wrestler’s murder: Main suspects sent to 3-day police remand||A day after Delhi Police arrested two prime suspects in the murder of 22-year-old university-level wrestler Nisha Dahiya and her brother Suraj Dahiya, the Sonepat police on Saturday produced them in a court in Kharkhauda, which sent them in a three-day police remand.The prime suspects, 25-year-old wrestling coach Pawan Barak and his associate Sachin Dahiya, 23, were apprehended by the Delhi Police from Dwarka on Friday.The court sent Pawan’s wife Sujata to judicial custody after her day’s remand ended. The fourth accused, Amit, has been sent to three-day police remand.Kharkhauda assistant superintendent of police Myank Gupta said they will interrogate the accused on their motive behind the crime. Barak and Dahiya were the prime suspects in the case and were absconding. The Haryana police had announces ₹1 lakh reward for information leading to their arrest.The reports of the murder triggered confusion as the university-level wrestler was a namesake of a bronze medal winner at the Under-23 World Championship.In her statement to Haryana Police, Dhanpati alleged the Barak, also the owner of the academy, fired at them after her daughter accused him of harassing her. “My daughter told me earlier too that Pawan often misbehaved with her. When we talked to the accused about this, he promised not to repeat such acts,” she added.She said on Wednesday, her daughter went to the academy for training and returned home. “At 1pm, she went to the academy again. We received a call from Pawan saying Nisha was not feeling well, and he asked us to take her home. When I and my son Suraj reached there, we saw Pawan, his wife Sujata, and two others rushing towards Nisha near the main gate of the academy. She told me that Pawan had misbehaved with her and threatened to kill her if she narrated the incident to anyone.”Barak then allegedly pulled out a gun and fired multiple shots. “She collapsed after receiving bullet wounds. Pawan then fired shots at me and chased my son Suraj, who was running towards the village. I saw them firing several bullets, which hit him and he too died on the spot.”Woman boxer’s body found in bathroom The body of a 21-year-old woman boxer was found in a bathroom at her rented accommodation at Sonepat’s Kharkhauda, police said on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Bhavna, 21, of Uttar Pradesh’s Mavikalan village of Baghpat district and she has been staying along with other women players at a rented accommodation at Kharkhauda for the past two-and-a-half months.A police spokesman said the incident took place when the woman player had gone inside a bathroom to take a bath on Friday night.“When she did not return, her friends sounded the alert. They broke open the door and found her lying on the floor of the bathroom. We have informed her parents about her death. The budding pugilist’s body was sent for the post-mortem examination at Sonepat civil hospital,” the Sonepat police spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonepat-wrestler-s-murder-main-suspects-sent-to-3-day-police-remand-101636829753134.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||Children’s Day: Students from marginalised families making a mark with hard work||As we celebrate Children’s Day on Sunday to mark the birth anniversary of first Prime Minister late Jawaharlal Nehru who said “Children are the future of our society,” here are some students who have made a mark while fighting against all odds. These students, who hail from marginal families, have fought hard to get into eminent educational institutions. They aspire to be the harbingers of change in the societies they come from. 
14-11-2021||Pune||Pune vax centres see less beneficiaries, non-Covid programmes hit by lack of staff||Pune: Post Diwali, the vaccine demands have further gone down as people are not turning out at vaccination centres. Despite the administration allocating manpower and infrastructure for inoculation, the demand from beneficiaries has gone down due to reasons like people going out of town for the festival celebration, decrease in need for vaccine as the number of cases drop and those who have taken the first dose do not seem to be enthusiast to get the second dose. However, this has left the civic body’s health programmes in a catch-22 situation as the staff is dedicated for only one job, vaccination, which is not getting much of a response. A senior doctor from PMC health department said, “The other national programmes have been stuck as the staff has been diverted towards the vaccination centres. Since the beginning of November, the demand for vaccines has gone down and fully staffed centres are seen empty the entire day. Keeping these centres for half a day, first or second half, will allow other programmes to run parallelly. But, now non-covid work is pending.” As of Saturday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has administered 5,195,980 of which 3,221,319 have got the first dose and 1,974,661 have got the second dose. Earlier, PMC had announced that the entire eligible population in Pune city had got the first dose which means that 1,246,658 people have yet to get their second dose. As per the PMC’s earlier claims, 100% of the city’s eligible population has got their first dose and now only second dose beneficiaries are pending to get the vaccine. Since November, despite the steady flow of vaccines and fully manned vaccination centres, the response from beneficiaries has been poor. However, due to the current guidelines in place, PMC has to keep all its centres manned for the entire day to ensure no beneficiary is forced to leave due to no vaccine or staff. The doctor said that insufficient staff is seen at maternity homes even as admissions have gone back to pre-Covid times. Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC chief health officer, said, “As of now, we are working as per the guidelines wherein we are required to man the vaccination centres. We have already restarted Dalvi Hospital, Bopodi hospital and Laigude hospital. Despite this, we have asked our staff to attend to the nearest OPDs in case there is no rush at the vaccination centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-vax-centres-see-less-beneficiaries-non-covid-programmes-hit-by-lack-of-staff-101636829750573.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Mumbai will be fully vaccinated by December’||Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, in an exclusive interview to HT, speaks of how the city reached the first-dose milestone. While expressing confidence that the city will be fully vaccinated by the end of the year, he also says the BMC is prepared for a third wave, if it comes. Excerpts: Mumbai achieved the milestone of 100% vaccination of the first dose, for the target population of the city. Your thoughts?I am very happy and proud of my team at BMC, who have excelled from Day One. We achieved 100% vaccination of eligible population, and we are the only city of a comparable size, in the country to achieve this milestone. Not only that, we have achieved 65% double dose vaccination also. We just have to vaccinate 3,30,000 more people. In the next 30-45 days, we can vaccinate the remaining population also. By the end of December, which is just 45 days away, we should be the first (globally comparable) city in the world to achieve 100% double dose vaccination of its eligible population. The results of our effort are already visible, as on Friday, we had only one Covid-related death in Mumbai, and today our positivity rate has gone down to 0.7%.What does this mean for the anticipated third wave? Does Mumbai have more immunity as a city?First and foremost, we are fully prepared for a third wave. We have enough oxygen storage and manufacturing capacity. We have also built four new jumbo facilities. We have already procured 5000 vials of monoclonal antibodies, which will be very important if a third wave comes. We have groomed thousands of doctors in the last four months.But I have to say, based on what experts tell me: when we are 100% vaccinated even for the first dose, the gravity of infection greatly reduces. Out of 1.5 crore vaccination, only 16,000 were infected, which is negligible.What interventions have helped Mumbai?A very streamlined system. We were the first municipality who asked the health ministry to let private hospitals come on board. We were the first who said students travelling to foreign countries should be allowed to get the second dose of Covishield in 28 days. We were the first to get pregnant women vaccinated.We continue to be the first and only city in India, to have a unique model - corporate houses, private hospitals, and BMC, signed an agreement, where 25% of the stocks of manufacturing companies like Serum Institute could be purchased by private hospitals. We asked corporates to fund private hospitals, who acquired the stock, and gave the vaccines to BMC. We pumped these vaccines to slum areas where we conducted free vaccination. It is unique to Mumbai, and we have achieved almost one million vaccinations like this. If we had not adopted this model, we would not be where we are now.Due to some vaccine hesitancy, we went to celebrities like Salman Khan way back in July. He made a complimentary video for BMC, where he asked his 60 million followers to take the vaccine. Such videos went viral all over Mumbai. On August 15, when local trains started in Mumbai, we said only double vaccinated people could travel by train, or enter restaurants or shopping malls. This encouraged people to get vaccinated. Today, 6 million people travel by the local train, all double vaccinated. Thousands of people have taken the vaccine, not for Covid, but for a train pass, as their livelihood depends on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-will-be-fully-vaccinated-bydecember-101636829690773.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Seeking regular jobs, midday meal workers hold protest rally in Karnal||Midday meal workers from across the state on Saturday held a protest rally in Karnal demanding regular jobs and minimum wages.Protesting under the banner of the Haryana Midday Meal Workers’ Association, the agitators alleged that they were not paid by the government for the past one year as midday meal was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Most of the midday meal workers are from poor families and they were unable to feed their children”, said a protester.“We serve food to the school kids but we don’t have money to feed our own children due to government’s apathy,” alleged another worker.During their “Vishal Pradarshan”, the midday meal workers gathered at the Atal Park and later took out a protest march and reached the mini-secretariat.Their demands include release of salaries, resuming of midday meal services in schools, fixing of minimum wages and compensation for the lockdown period. The protesters said they should be paid for 12 months instead of 10 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seeking-regular-jobs-midday-meal-workers-hold-protest-rally-in-karnal-101636829571683.html
14-11-2021||Other||New Kheri SP takes charge, sets priorities||Lakhimpur Kheri Controlling and preventing crime, especially those against women, along with streamlining traffic are some of the key agendas of the new superintendent of police Sanjiv Suman, who took charge on Friday. A 2014-batch IPS, Sanjiv Suman, was appointed the new SP of Lakhimpur Kheri replacing Vijay Dhull who was transferred late Thursday evening and attached with the Uttar Pradesh state police headquarters in Lucknow. Talking to media persons on Saturday, Suman said a peculiar problem of traffic mismanagement in Lakhimpur city has drawn his attention. “Narrow roads and lack of parking places had compounded the problem. I would ensure that traffic on the roads runs smoothly while for some infrastructural issues I would coordinate with respective authorities,” he said. Suman, who has earlier served in Bulandsahr, Azamgarh, Kanpur, Hapur and Lucknow in different capacities, took note of the common grievance of communication gap between the media and the police particularly regarding Tikunia case and said he would look into the issue. Regarding the October 3 Tikunia violence in which eight people were killed, Suman said the special investigation team (SIT) was smoothly conducting the probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-kheri-sp-takes-charge-sets-priorities-101636829570445.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Commuters suffer as PMPML bus shelters continue to be in bad shape across Pune city||PUNE: At a time when commuters are increasing by the day, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal (PMPML) bus shelters are proving inadequate and causing a lot of inconvenience to citizens as most of them are in bad shape with no proper shade or place to sit. PMPML bus shelters in Hadapsar, Fatima nagar, (near) Sassoon hospital, Bhandarkar road, Kumthekar road, Dandekar pul and Yerawada are all in bad condition with roof covers missing or crooked seats or in many places, tilted pillars.Nilkanth Mandhare, member of the PMP Pravasi Manch, said, “The problem with PMPML is that even if they carry out repairs, they do so only in core areas such as Shivajinagar and Swargate but what about the other areas. The situation is so bad in the inner parts of the city that even if people have to wait for buses, they have to stand in the Sun as shade is completely missing and this problem has been there since months with no action taken by PMPML.”Popular perception is that PMPML has always been lackadaisical when it comes to repair work. Two people were injured after a bus shelter collapsed at Moledina road opposite SGS mall on August 13. Daily commuter and resident of M G road, Ishan Shinde, said, “No one has bothered to erect a bus shelter again. It has remained the same for months now. A majority of the bus shelters in the Camp area are crooked but no repair works have been carried out either by the Pune Cantonment Board or the PMPML.”On her part, Chetna Kerure, joint managing director, PMPML, said, “The depot development project is in process. Tenders are ready and will be shortly floated.”While PMPML now plans to extend its service to suburban areas, the move hasn’t gone down well with city commuters who feel that PMPML does not provide stress-free transport. “Why is PMPML not spending money on repair works instead of planning new routes? Firstly, they should take care of the city-based routes where daily footfalls are higher and people are still not getting basic facilities,” said Tuhin Deb, a commuter from Baner.In and around Pune, there are 5,419 bus shelters with PMPML buses operating along 413 bus routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/commuters-suffer-as-pmpml-bus-shelters-continue-to-be-in-bad-shape-across-pune-city-101636829512005.html
14-11-2021||Bangalore||Learnt coding in Class 4, says hacker Srikrishna at centre of Bitcoin row||The man at the centre of a political battle between the Karnataka’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Opposition over an alleged multi crore bitcoin scam has claimed that he began learning coding when he was in Class 4 and was part of a group of that hacked a cryptocurrency exchange five years ago.Srikrishna Ramesh, alias Sriki, was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of police on November 17, 2020, and during his interrogation, CCB found that he was involved in a series of online crimes. He confessed to hacking and stealing from three Bitcoin exchanges, 14 company websites, including 10 poker websites, and a government portal.A statement given by the hacker, which is part of the charge sheet against him and police claims was voluntary, gives a glimpse of the life of Srikrishna, who by his own account was a genius. These details are information provided by the hacker in his voluntary statement, which has not been corroborated by the police. Police are trying to verify the claims and HT cannot independently verify the them. His lawyers have opposed the claims in the charge sheet in a local Bengaluru court.In his statement, Srikrishna claims that he started learning technical skills when he was as young as 8-year-old. The hacker claimed he began learning the programming language Java when he was in Class 4.“In Class 4, I learned the basics of web exploitation, Java, Reverse engineering and wrote my first bot for a game called RuneScape. This was my first attempt at reverse engineering obfuscated games and binary exploitation,” he wrote in his statement to the police.In the coming years, he joined an Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channel used by a group of black hat hackers (unethical hackers). According to him, he learned hacking from the members of this channel.“Picking up skills slowly as a script kiddie, I learned the basics of databases, SQL injections, local file inclusions, remote file inclusions, remote code executions, shells, web application exploitation, and source code analysis,” the hacker wrote about his activities during school days.Starting as a rookie in hacking, over the years he learned sophisticated knowledge in illegal hacking of websites and others. Later, Srikrishna was promoted as the moderator of the channel’s forum and an administrator of the IRC network when he was in Class 9. During this time, he began making friends in the international hacking circles, with many of them mentoring him in financial hacking.By the time he finished schooling, he was earning hundreds of dollars every month, by hacking into an online game along with a hacker friend from Sydney. It was during this pre-university (10+2), he learned about Bitcoins. “When I learned about Bitcoins the price was around $100 (per coin),” he wrote in the statement.Srikrishna first used bitcoins to purchase drugs from the darknet market. “Due to the pseudo-anonymous nature of bitcoin, a person by the names of ‘Ross Ulbricht’ made the first darknet market from which I initially imported drugs to India for personal consumption. This market was called Silk Road 1.0. I ordered several packages in two years which all successfully cleared customs,” he wrote.The hacker claims that by the end of the two years of college, he was addicted to drugs and left home at the age of 17. “I ran away to the Himalayas at the age of 17 with my friend Rithvik and ended up in Badrinath. A case was registered at Siddapura police station (Missing persons) and Tilaknagar police station (By Rithvik’s mother). Eventually, due to a technical folly, the Tilaknagar Police found us at ISKCON in Mathura and brought us back to Bangalore,” wrote the hacker.On his return, after dropping out of engineering from Bengaluru college, he joined B.Sc. in Computer Science at the Eindhoven University of Technology in Amsterdam. It was here, he learned more about Bitcoins. In Amsterdam, two of his friends started a bitcoin exchange, and working with them, he learned about bitcoin trading, which he later used for hacking into bitcoin exchanges.Srikrishna returned to Bengaluru in 2015 and it was in 2018, he had his first brush with the law. On February 18, 2018, Shantinagar Congress MLA NA Haris’ son Nalapad was accused of brutally assaulting a man in a cafe in Bengaluru’s UB City mall. Srikrishna who was by then friends with the MLA’s son was accused number three in the case. While all other accused in the case were arrested, Srikrishna managed to evade arrest by changing cities multiple times, before he could get bail.In his statement, Srikrishna then listed out all hacking cases that he has been part of. According to police investigating the case, he told the police about these instances as though they were big achievements of his life. “He started by talking about how he hacked his college website to give proxy attendance to his friends. He emphasised the fact that he didn’t take any money for that. He also said that he hacked several websites to get movie tickets and IPL tickets for his friends. Once again he emphasised that he didn’t take any money for that,” said a senior Bengaluru police officer who didn’t want to be named.“Like most of the criminals he wants to be famous and he wants to be known as, in his own words, a cool hacker. The statement at one point began looking bragging. We are still unable to ascertain a lot of claims made by them, where he claims to have hacked into websites and servers. Even though he knows the consequences of admitting to hacking these sites, he can’t help himself,” the officer added.“Bitfinex was my first big bitcoin exchange hack; the exchange was hacked twice, and I was the first person to do so,” read his description of the 2016 hacking of the Bitcoin exchange. Around 120,000 bitcoins, which was about $72 million at the time, were stolen from Bitfinex in August 2016.“The second instance was a simple spear-phishing attack that led to two Israeli hackers working for the army getting access to the computers of one of the employees, which gave them access to the AWS cloud account,” he wrote about the hack.It was this hacking instance that has now made Srikrishna a person of interest in the political battle between the Congress and ruling BJP. The Congress has alleged a cover-up and a link between the hacker and BJP, alleging that Bengaluru police, who had information about his involvement in December 2020, didn’t reveal this information to central enforcement agencies until April 2021.Apart from questioning the police hiding information about Srikrishna to central agencies, the Opposition has also alleged that ₹9 crore worth of bitcoins seized from the Srikrishna following his arrest in November 2020, was not shown in the charge sheet or the evidence submitted before the court.But for Srikrishna, his downfall didn’t begin with the hacking or his involvement in the brawl in 2018. It was his drug addiction that got him behind the bars. In November 2020, officers of the Central Crime Branch were on the lookout for drug peddlers in the city, as part of the Home Minister’s orders to crack down on the drug mafia in the city.Based on a tip-off, police approached one Suneesh Hegde who was procuring hydro marijuana through dealers on the darknet. During the questioning Hedge admitted that it was Srikrishna who was helping him procure the drugs. Srikrishna who has been purchasing drugs from the darknet for several years had helped Hedge purchase as a favour.A senior CCB official said that when they got the custody of Srikrishna, they didn’t know they had an infamous hacker under arrest. “It was when we were trying to find out how he was using bitcoins to buy drugs, we came to know about all the hacking cases he was part of. If it wasn’t for that drug case, we would have never found this hacker,” said the police.Prior to his arrest, as per the statement of Robin Khandelwal, an associate of the hacker who converted the bitcoins to cash, Srikrishna used to spend most of his time in five-star hotels. According to Khandelwal, most of the money he transferred to Srikrishna was spent on hotel bills, which often ran into a few lakhs.According to the charge sheet, he also hacked online game sites, including PokerDangal, PokerBaazi, GGpoker, PPpoker, SwC Poker, BitStarz and Spartan Poker. He used to make his friends play poker on these sites, while Srikrishna would hack the sites to see Opponent’s cards. During these hacks, he had lived in a five-star hotel in Goa for over a month, said Khandelwal in his statement.Similarly, when he was on the run after the assault case in Bengaluru, Srikrishna spent ₹11.80 lakh on a private jet for his travel, read the statement.But as the bitcoin scandal is becoming a political tug of war, the concerns for the hacker are increasing. In a petition filed before the court, the hacker’s father Gopal Ramesh has claimed that his son was drugged by police while he was in custody.HT accessed the petition filed by the Srikrishna’s father, which read: “…application was filed by the petitioner being the father of the accused that he has credible and reliable information that the respondents (police) at the behest and unlawful orders have been administering the Petitioner’s son Srikrishna with excessive mind-altering drugs specifically Alprazolam which is a prohibited drug and therefore, sought cognizance be taken against all officials who have committed various offenses under the NDPS Act as also under the IPC.”He further claimed that even though the magistrate ordered a scientific examination of the hacker’s blood and urine samples, police conducted a stomach wash done on him, defying the order. The opposition also produced a document from Victoria Medical College that read that stomach cleaning performed “to rule out poisoning”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/learnt-coding-in-class-4-says-hacker-srikrishna-at-centre-of-bitcoin-row-101636829510504.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 24x7 water supply project launched in Manimajra||UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday laid the foundation stone of 24x7 water supply project at Manimajra. As per the municipal corporation (MC), the project is aimed at switching from intermittent supply to 24x7 continuous pressurised supply system. This project will involve new waterworks with four million gallon of additional storage, 13,700 smart meters, 20km of new lines, and automated monitoring of system. The existing 37 tubewells will be phased out.The project is to be carried out at ₹162 crore, including cost of 15 years’ operation and maintenance. The work is expected to be completed by August 2023.To cover the entire city, the French firm, Agence Française de Développement (AFD) is to provide ₹413 crore for the project in the form of a loan, which is to be repaid in 15 years. In addition to it, the European Union (EU) is also giving a grant of ₹98 crore to the project. In his address, the governor said that residents of Manimajra will highly benefit from this project as the continuous supply system would provide better water quality and households will get better pressure of water sufficient to fill tanks up to third storey, thus lowering the pumping costs. He appreciated the MC for taking various steps to improve the basic upkeep besides ensuring the availability of civic amenities in each sector. He said that public participation is must in understanding the issues, recognising the areas requiring improvement and evolving strategies for future planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-24x7-water-supply-project-launched-in-manimajra-101636829211997.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 100% first vaccine dose coverage||Ten months after the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme was rolled out on January 16,Mumbai achieved 100% first dose coverage on Saturday. As of 9.30 pm on November 13, 9,253,624 persons had received the first dose of the vaccine that helps guard against severe infection and death by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that has infected 253,436,774 people worldwide. The city’s target adult population is officially 9,236,546. According to the government-run CoWin platform, more than six million (nearly 65% of the target population) had received the second dose in Mumbai as of Saturday night.There are currently two vaccines that form part of the national vaccination programme, and which are being rolled out in the city: Covidshield, manufactured by the Serum India Institute (SII) in Pune and developed by Astra-Zeneca and Oxford University; and Covaxin, an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Apart from this, Sputnik produced by Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute is also available in private centres. There are three other vaccines that have received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA), but these are not available in the market at present.Mumbai launched the first phase with just 10 vaccinations centres. The city gradually increased the centres — it now has 462 public and private vaccination centres with a capacity to conduct 23,000 vaccinations every day. Getting here was not easy. One of the main challenges that the civic body faced was supply crunch. In the initial days of the national vaccination programme, when it opened up to include all adults above the age of 45 (starting April 1), the supply of vaccines from SII and Bharat Biotech could not match the demand that surged around the country. At the same time, the city also began to experience a deadlier second wave of the pandemic, forcing the state into another partial lockdown between April and August. As a result several vaccine centres remained shut for days on end.The civic body developed a communication strategy that informed people of which centres were open on any given day, and the number of doses available. Even so, many centres ran out of supply leaving citizens stranded. “No other district in the country has managed to reach the 100% target in such short time,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. “It has been a collective effort. We achieved it because of the sincere contribution of all municipal workers, private hospitals, NGOs and people on the ground,” he said. To be sure, the city’s statistical milestone though significant does not imply that every person in Mumbai has received one dose of the vaccine. The civic body estimates that nearly 20% of the population which has received the vaccine came from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) or other districts. Besides, a small percentage of the population are still choosing to remain unvaccinated due to hesitancy. For instance, a door to door vaccination drive conducted by the Thane Municipal Corporation in the past four days reached out to around 20,000 unvaccinated adults. The BMC has also started a similar exercise to enumerate the number of people who are as yet unvaccinated — BMC field staff are making residential visits around the city to ask Mumbaiites whether they have been vaccinated or not. Their job also entails convincing these persons to get vaccinated and to follow up with residents. Reaching the milestoneAccording to Kakani, decentralising vaccination centres played a crucial role in achieving the target. As the city moves to increase its first dose coverage beyond 100% and achieve the second dose target, new, micro strategies are being designed. “In the coming days, we will implement newer, vigorous strategies to get every single person in the city vaccinated. There will be door to door campaigns, mobile vaccination drives, camps in slums pockets with lower coverage and targets to achieve 100% vaccinations in housing societies. These strategies will help reach us to every single person,” he said. Infectious disease expert and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force Dr Om Srivastava said, “It definitely means that the city has is more protected, but this should not be taken as an excuse to let our guards down. The virus is unpredictable, and there are countries that are seeing large number of cases even now. France, for instance has now announced that they are experiencing the fifth wave,” he said. According to Srivastava, Russia, which has high vaccination coverage is also going through a similar surge. “It is difficult to predict how the virus will behave in different countries, despite vaccination,” he said. On Friday, World Health Organization’s director general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus highlighted that Covid cases were not only surging in countries in Eastern Europe with lower vaccination rates, but also in countries with some of the world’s highest vaccination rates in Western Europe. ”Mumbai’s has shown us that 100% vaccination is achievable. Other districts in the country should follow suit,” Dr Naveen Thacker, a former representative to GAVI, the vaccine alliance said that coverage offers hope at a time when schools and colleges are reopening and lockdown restrictions have been lifted. “This wide coverage should be a good barrier between the city and the anticipated third wave,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-100-first-vaccine-dose-coverage-101636829210734.html
14-11-2021||Noida||Noida most polluted for second day in a row, no respite in sight||There seems to be no respite from ‘severe’ air for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida as pollution levels spiked for the second time this season starting from Friday--the first being around the time of Diwali (November 4)--and led to a rise in PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations. The air quality index (AQI) bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) indicated that with an AQI of 464, Noida was the most polluted city in the country for the second consecutive day on Saturday. While Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 441, the AQI of Greater Noida showed a marginal improvement and was at the lower end of the ‘severe’ category at 408 compared to 478 on Friday. An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Ghaziabad has been reeling under ‘severe’ pollution levels for 10 days since November 4, the day Diwali was celebrated. Noida too has been under the ‘severe’ category for all days, barring November 10. The four monitoring stations in Ghaziabad and two in Greater Noida recorded PM2.5 as the primary pollutant while all the four stations in Noida had PM10 and PM2.5 as the primary pollutants.There has been a major spike in PM10 and PM2.5 levels in Noida and Ghaziabad. According to CPCB data, the first spike in pollution levels lasted from November 4 to 6 and the second spike started on Friday (November 12) and is continuing. According to official figures of the CPCB, the PM2.5 levels ranged between 297.45 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) to 691.18 mpcm in Ghaziabad between November 10 to 12. Likewise, the PM10 levels stood in the range of 511.74 mpcm to 840.68mpcm during the period. The standard limit for PM10 is 100 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) while that for PM2.5 is 60 mpcm. Likewise in Noida, the PM2.5 ranged from 223.09 mpcm to 585.17mpcm while the PM10 levels were between 394.49 mpcm and 920.95 mpcm. According to official figures of the CPCB, Delhi NCR this season had the worst PM10 levels as the concentration peaked to as high as 551.2 mpcm between November 5 to 6. The PM 2.5 concentration spiked to 424 mpcm . During the second spike in pollution levels, the PM10 concentrations have shot beyond the permissible limit of 500 mpcm and spiked to 574.1 mpcm while the PM2.5 concentration spiked to 372.2 mpcm. “There is spike in PM concentration levels and it is due to the unfavourable meteorological conditions, which also includes slow wind speed. The Ghaziabad/Noida region is still under ’severe’ category as the pollutants are trapped and will disperse only if the wind speed increases or if there is rainfall,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board. Experts said there is no likelihood of rain till November 19, which would help wash away the trapped pollutants. “The wind speed has marginally increased from 7kmph to 9kmph since Friday. On Saturday, the scenario was more or less to what it was on November 10 and 11. The visibility has also improved in the range of 1500-1800 metres, while it was about 500 meters on Friday. Overall, there is a marginal improvement but conditions will remain more or less same for the next couple of days,” said an officer from the Indian Meteorological Department. “The pollution levels are in the ‘severe’ category in most places in NCR. It is also due to the impact of stubble burning and accumulation of local pollutants. A depression over Odisha and Chattisgarh was present with easterly winds blocking the north-westerly winds. Since the depression has moved out, it is likely that the wind speed in NCR will pick up in the next two to three days and is expected to be in the range of 10-15kmph,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. “The rise in PM concentrations indicates the collective failure of agencies in mitigating the local sources of pollution, which is a contributing factor to the deteriorating air quality, besides external factors such as stubble burning and meteorological conditions,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. The forecast by System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar) said on Saturday that the AQI is likely to improve for the next two days as winds at transport level (925 mb) are slowing down, resulting in lesser intrusion of pollutants from farm fires into Delhi. “However, as local winds are becoming calm and minimum temperature is decreasing further, preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants leading to improvement of air quality to upper end of very poor category or lower end of severe category,” said the Safar forecast. As a result of the deteriorating air quality and the prevailing weather conditions, residents staying in the flats on the higher floors of buildings are complaining of different complications. “I stay on the 10th floor and have to keep my doors and windows closed and also ensure my children are indoors. There is poor visibility in the morning. Hardly any measures are being taken at the ground level to control local sources of pollution,” said Sanjeev Sethi, a resident of Sector 107 in Noida. “I stay on the 18th floor. The high pollution levels have triggered burning sensation in my eyes and allergic reactions in the respiratory tract. There is a thick blanket of pollutants, which can be easily seen in the morning hours,” said Kamiya Arora, a resident of Crossings Republik Township. The sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), after a meeting on November 12, directed the concerned states and implementing agencies to be ready to implement measures listed under the “emergency’ category of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-most-polluted-for-second-day-in-a-row-no-respite-in-sight-101636829151930.html
14-11-2021||Noida||Mock drill at paediatric units in Gautam Budh Nagar to check Covid preparedness||A mock drill was carried out at the paediatric intensive care units (PICU) of government health centres on Saturday to check the preparedness of the facilities in the district for the anticipated third wave of Covid-19 that is said to affect children more than adults . The mock drills were carried out at five Covid-19 paediatric ICU facilities at Noida Covid Hospital (NCH) in Sector 39 and at the community health centres (CHC) at Bisrakh, Bhangel, Dadri and Jewar.“The drill was carried out keeping in mind the anticipated third wave of Covid-19 which may affect children,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Dr Sachin Vaish, joint director of medical health services, Uttar Pradesh, inspected the drill at NCH and the community centre at Bhagel. “In the last two mock drills, we have already checked the status of medical equipment, including oxygen supply and paediatric facilities, as well as training of medical staff. In today’s inspection, the focus was on fire safety in hospitals and power back up,” said Dr Vaish, who is the nodal officer deputed by the government to oversee the drills. In the light of fire accidents reported recently at hospitals in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, Dr Vaish said fire preparedness is an essential component that needs inspection. “We checked the fire extinguishers at NCH, that were in working condition, and also inspected the sprinklers. Apart from this, we also carried out a mock drill to see if all the oxygen plants at the hospital can run on the generator lest there is a blackout,” he said. Dr Yatendra Singh, medical superintendent of CHC Bhangel,said, “The nodal officer inspected all the arrangements for oxygen supply through concentrators in the paediatric ward. The high dependency unit (HDU) beds, especially the ones which have BiPap machines to provide oxygen, were also inspected. As paediatric patients always have their guardians or parents who stay over during their treatment, arrangements at the separate ward for attendants of patients were also checked.” According to official data, the district has total 440 beds reserved for paediatric care--- 10 each at the four CHCs and 100 each at Noida Covid Hospital, Government Institute Medical Science,s Postgraduate Institute of Child Health (Child PGI) and Sharda Hospital.Talking about medical staff, Dr Vaish admitted that Gautam Budh Nagar does not have sufficient paediatricians. “The district health department only has two paediatricians - one under the CMO and one under the chief medical superintendent of the district Hospital. However, we need at least 10 paediatricians. In a meeting with ACS health, we have requested that the state health department provide the district with the required number of medical experts,” said Dr Vaish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mock-drill-at-paediatric-units-in-gautam-budh-nagar-to-check-covid-preparedness-101636828850386.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||UP board: Students who took exam in ‘21 can apply in ‘22 for improvement||Uttar Pradesh Board students who passed the Class 10th and 12th board exams in 2021 can also appear in the 2022 board exams to improve their marks. The board will not charge any exam fee from such students, said deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Saturday.The date of applying for advance registration for institutional and individual students of class 10 and 12 and students of class 9 and class 11 is until November 20.“For the convenience of all categories of students who have registered in the year 2021 examination, they will once again be given an opportunity to sit in board exam in 2022 without examination fee,” said Dinesh Sharma.In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the UP Board exam of 2021 was cancelled and students were allotted marks based on their previous academic performance. “The students of last year, who will appear in the 2022 board exam, will get an updated passing certificate-cum-mark sheet for the year 2021 only,” said Sharma.However, the candidates who passed the improvement examination held between September 18 and October 6, 2021, will not get the opportunity to reappear in the 2022 board examination, added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-board-students-who-took-exam-in-21-can-apply-in-22-for-improvement-101636828613201.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools shut but CBSE board exams as per schedule||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Saturday said that the Term 1 board exams for Classes 10 and 12, slated to begin from Tuesday, will be held according to the schedule even as the Delhi government announced suspension of in-person classes for a week from Monday in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution in the national capital.The first of a two-part system of board examinations this year will be held in-person, starting Tuesday. There are over 2,100 CBSE-affiliated schools in Delhi. Sanyam Bhardwaj, controller of examinations of CBSE, said, “The closure directive is for other classes and not board exams. Board exams for classes 10 and 12 will take place as scheduled. There is no change.”Schools were shut in March last year when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). While in-person classes for students in grades 9-12 restarted in September, schools reopened for physical classes for students in all grades on November 1.School administrators said they will comply with the government’s order but raised concerns about the adverse impact on the learning gap that school closure might cause. “If the government has directed schools to suspend physical classes, we will have to comply with the orders. We are yet to receive the written order but have informed parents. Switching back to online classes will not be very difficult since online classes are already taking place in a hybrid manner,” said Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference which has over 120 top Delhi schools as its members.She said that the need of the hour was to find sustainable solutions since the closure of schools were not conducive. “Closure of schools over pollution is now becoming an annual affair. This is not sustainable. One cannot keep schools closed for three months starting from November. The impact of the learning gap created through school closures will heavily impact children in the long run. We must take steps to counter pollution,” she said.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said the school informed the parents, but was waiting for a written directive and clarity on board exams scheduled for next week. “We have a board exam on November 19. Now, we are waiting for instructions and clarity on how the exam will be conducted. Teachers will have to be in school for the mock exam as well. We will have to work out the logistics based on what the board tells us,” said Joshi.She said the school will have to rework its schedule in view of the closure of in-person classes. The school had planned children’s day celebrations on Monday which will now take place online. “There is a little disappointment among students now. There is uncertainty over the board practical exams as well that we had planned for next week. The only silver lining is that teaching will not be affected since we are used to online classes due to covid,” said Joshi.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said that the school will revert to its old timeline based on online classes once written orders from the department of education are issued. Arora said that most schools were in the process of conducting board practicals and will need to tweak the exam schedule once written orders are issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-shut-but-cbse-board-exams-as-per-schedule-101636827890579.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Construction ban may delay key infra projects||Senior engineers and project managers overseeing key infrastructure projects such as the work on an underpass and extension of the flyover at Ashram and the revamp of Pragati Maidan said that the four-day ban on construction activities between November 14 and 17 announced by the Delhi government on Saturday in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution in the city is likely to delay work, leading to missed deadlines.The Public Works Department is currently working on several projects such as Pragati Maidan integrated transit corridor development, Ashram underpass, Benito Juarez Road-San Martin Road underpass, the streetscaping of eleven arterial stretches and others. The Pragati Maidan and Ashram underpass projects are in advanced stages with more than 95% work being completed.A senior PWD official who asked not to be named said that some of these projects are specifically aimed at decongesting arterial stretches and thereby cutting vehicular emissions, adding that the government should grant exemption to such projects.Hours after the Supreme Court ordered the Centre and Delhi government to take “emergent measures” to curb dangerous air pollution levels in the national Capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced several measures such as shutting of schools for in-person classes for a week, banning construction between November 14 and 17, and work for home for government employees for a week from Monday.Officials associated with infrastructure projects said that monsoon has already led to delays, and the current ban may further hit objectives to meet deadline. “In 2019-2020, the construction ban continued for several months and then it was followed by the national lockdown which led to complete derailment of many projects aimed at decongesting the city. We are planning to deploy the existing labour in cleaning and dust control measures so that we don’t face labour shortage once the ban is lifted,” a senior PWD official said.The municipal corporations that are also working on road improvement projects across the city said the ban will hit work progress, but it was necessary at the moment. East Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said projects such as Shahdara lake revamp, Karkardooma zonal headquarters, road and school development projects will be impacted. “Unlike previous construction bans, the Delhi government should ensure that food and sustenance for labourers and their families is ensured. Most of these households are on hand to mouth basis and daily earnings. We do not have enough financial resources to take care of them but some relief should be provided,” Aggarwal said.A 2018 study conducted by The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri), a Delhi-based research institute, showed that vehicle emissions account for 24%-28% of the city’s pollution. Dust, on the other hand, contributed only 18%-38% to the city’s overall pollution.A senior municipal official from the north corporation said, “Many projects were delayed due to heavy monsoon rain this year, and an extended ban can further derail them. We can take care of workers for a week but if the ban runs for an extended period, we will have to relieve some of them. It is government’s order and we cannot do much in this regard,” the official said, adding that the situation will be reviewed on November 18.According to the Supreme Court mandated Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), a ban on construction activities has to be implemented if the air quality index -- on a scale of 0 to 500 -- touches ‘‘severe plus (500+)’ or emergency category.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which has been working on three corridors of its Phase 4 expansion plans, said it will follow the government directions. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication DMRC said, “The DMRC will follow the government instructions . We are awaiting the detailed directions. Accordingly, necessary actions will be taken to ensure compliance. It is too early to assess what impact it will have on the progress of construction work.”Dr. S Velmurugan, chief scientist, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said the agencies should not leave the sites unattended. “The agencies should not leave the open construction sites unattended in places such as Ashram underpass or Central Vista project. A section labourers should be used to sprinkle water at the sites and in implementing anti-dust measures,” he said.He added that if the government decides to further extend the ban, it may consider exempting a few projects that will prove critical in decongesting major stretches, albeit with stringent dust control measures.Delhi’s recorded its worst air quality on Friday with the city recording an AQI of 471, the worst recorded so far this year. On Saturday, it improved a bit to reach 437.Public health experts have warned that even short-term exposure to such high pollution levels may cause damage to several key organs such as lungs, heart and brain, even among healthy individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-construction-ban-may-delay-key-infra-projects-101636827830429.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi air pollution: SC slams Delhi govt, Centre; orders emergent measures||The Supreme Court on Saturday urged the Centre and the Delhi government to take “emergent measures”, including imposition of a lockdown in the national capital, to “immediately” control rising levels of air pollution as it also lamented that “bashing farmers” over stubble burning has become a fashion even though there are several other major contributors to the hazardous air quality.“We don’t want lengthy arguments or hearing but everyone can see how bad the situation is. Even inside houses, we are forced to wear masks. The situation is very serious...We have a burning situation. How do we control this? Tell us what are the immediate steps that can be taken,” a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union government.While seeking a report on the countermeasures on Monday, the bench, which also included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, also questioned the Delhi government over the steps they have taken to keep the children out of harm’s way when the schools have also opened.“Look at problem. Schools have opened as the pandemic has subsided. At 7 in the morning, little children are on the streets, exposing themselves to this kind of pollution. We are witnessing children’s lungs getting exposed to such bad quality of air. And this has nothing to do with the central government. Has Delhi government responded to the situation? Have you said anything to the schools? What have you done?” the court asked senior counsel Rahul Mehra, who represented the city government.Both the S-G and Mehra sought to point out that crop residue burning in the states adjoining Delhi is one of the chief contributors of the worsening air quality in the national capital region (NCR) in the pre-winter weeks but the bench dismissed their suggestion outrightly.“You are projecting as if farmers are responsible for everything. The stubble burning could be responsible for 30% of pollution but where is the effective mechanism to control firecrackers, vehicular pollution, dust and industrial pollution?” the court asked Mehta, who clarified repeatedly that the Centre is not blaming farmers in any manner but is enumerating various issues that have led to the present situation.As S-G added that the court’s remarks on Centre blaming farmers may pose difficulties, the bench replied: “For the sake of clarity, we want to say that we have nothing to do with governments or any political party. We will say that you said there are various reasons for this pollution...Everyone has to look at this issue beyond politics or government. It affects everyone. Take immediate urgent measures. Impose two days lockdown, if required. How will people live otherwise?”When Delhi government’s counsel Mehra submitted that it is “probably” the stubble burning that has made the air quality index and PM10 and PM2.5 pollutants shoot up by several hundred points, the bench retorted: “What is this? Now, it has become a fashion to bash farmers, whether its Delhi government or someone else. You had imposed a ban on firecrackers in Delhi. But see what has been happening in the last 7-8 days. What are you doing? What are Delhi Police doing?”Addressing the S-G and Mehra, the bench added: “It is an emergency situation and emergent measures are required. Various emergent measures are to be taken. This is not a time to conduct research on stubble burning etc. Why don’t you consider stopping vehicles? Sit with the Central government and see how you can bring down the pollution levels down in the next two or three days. Take some short-term urgent measures. First control Delhi which is in a very bad situation. Then we can look at some other states.”Air pollution reached the season’s worst levels on Friday as the toxic smog that has persisted for over a week thickened and emissions breached “emergency” level thresholds that would have normally led to a host of curbs like a ban on construction work, the entry of heavy vehicles, and odd-even car use limits. This year has also seen the number of farm fires reaching a new high for this late in November with the enforcement of a ban on the practice collapsing.Between November 1 and November 13 this year, Punjab and Haryana have recorded the most number of stubble fires since 2012, satellite data from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shows. According to the data accessed by HT from SUOMI VIIRS C2, FIRMS-NASA resource, between November 1 and November 13, the cumulative fire count reported from the two states was 57,263, exceeding 52,719 incidents recorded in 2016.Meanwhile, the S-G told the bench that the Union government is convening a meeting with representatives of state governments of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on Saturday afternoon, and all the suggestions mooted by the court shall be considered during the deliberation. Mehta added that a report will be presented before the court on Monday when the case is heard next.The bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed by a 17-year-old Delhi student, Aditya Dubey, who has alleged that authorities have failed to protect his fundamental right to clean air and health by not controlling air pollution in the NCR.During the proceedings, the S-G referred to the measures taken by various authorities, including the commission for air quality management in NCR, to control stubble burning and added that there has been a spurt in farm fires in Punjab in the last 5-6 days which the state needs to control. Mehta also mentioned about the use of crop residue as a biomass in power plants and availability of 200,000 machines to manage stubble.To this, the bench asked Mehta to give out details of where these machines are and how they are being used. It added: “The problem with the farmers is with incentivisation. Why will a farmer do this (burn crop residue) if he has avenues of being incentivised? You talked about machines. Can you tell us how may cooperative societies have been set up? How many machines are supplied? What’s the cost? What is the arrangement put in place to ensure stubble is transported from the farms? What is the economic arrangement? The problem is with the fine prints.”Justice Surya Kant, at this point, underscored that the average land holding in states like Haryana and UP is less than 3 acres. “You cannot expect these farmers to purchase such machines. Why can’t Central government lift the stubble and take it to various points? I am a farmer. Honourable CJI is a farmer. We belong to these states. We know the issues.”The court further asked Mehta: “This was a year of late monsoon. Farmers had a smaller number of days to clear their fields. Farmers were in an anxiety to sow kharif crops to take the benefit of the ensuing winter. Did you take any steps in the window of that 15 days to reach out to the farmers and take out stubble? It is good that the commission now has a policy but the problem is how are you implementing it. How did you ensure the stubble is actually removed and taken to the plants and (that) farmers have some economic benefits in this process? Give us some sample figures for some sample districts.”Mehta replied that he would need a couple of days to revert with all the specific queries of the bench, requesting that the case could be taken up on Monday.The bench accepted Mehta’s suggestions. It, however, added: “Impose some strict measures. Improve the situation in next two or three days. Why don’t you ask Punjab and Haryana to stop stubble burning completely for the next three days. Let the levels come down. It is a problem for all. We will adjourn it to Monday. In the meantime, you take some immediate steps. The ultimate point is that pollution levels should come down.”Hours later, the Delhi government announced a ban on construction activities between November 14 and 17, ordered schools to close in-person classes for a week and asked government office staff to work from home for a week.“This concerns our life, and health. We are being forced to take these tough measures, I hope the residents of Delhi will understand, and cooperate with us,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said while announcing the measures after chairing an emergency meeting on the unprecedented spike in air pollution.About the Supreme Court’s suggestion to impose two-day lockdown, Kejriwal said no decision was taken on it, but the government will prepare a detailed proposal and put it before the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-pollution-sc-slams-delhi-centre-orders-emergent-measures-101636827411755.html
14-11-2021||Delhi||Customs arrest 2 women from Uganda with 12.9kg heroin||Two Ugandan women have been arrested at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport with 12.9 kg of heroine, worth around ₹90 crores in the International market, customs officials said on Saturday.The women, who arrived in Delhi from Nairobi (Kenya) via Abu Dhabi, had concealed the seized narcotic substance in false bottom cavities of their check-in luggage, through which they were able to safely get past security at other airports.The incident occurred between Friday night and the early hours of Saturday, with one of the two women first taken in for a physical check and inspection, following an earlier tip-off. The use of canines from the dog squad was made while carrying out a physical check, with the dogs indicating the presence of a possible narcotic substance, officials said.“We then carried out a detailed baggage search and questioned the first woman, who admitted to have heroine in her check-in baggage. Upon inspecting the bag, it was found to be ingeniously concealed in a specially-made cavity underneath the fibre-plastic base of her suitcase. Around 5.4 kgs had been vacuum-packed in plastic and paper bags,” a senior customs official said, on condition of anonymity.Officials said the second woman passenger, who exited the flight much later, was apprehended shortly after and was found to be carrying 7.5 kgs of heroin in a similarly designed cavity in her suitcase.“The women said they had been offered money by a Kenyan national to bring certain goods to Delhi. They were handed over the drugs in Nairobi, along with the flight tickets and certain documents to cover their visit as medical tourists. They were to hand over the heroin soon after exiting the airport,” the official said, stating the two women will be probed further.The customs had earlier seized around three kgs of heroin from a Kenyan national on October 29, who too had come to Delhi from Nairobi. Just prior to that, 2 kgs of heroin had been seized from two Indian nationals coming from Uganda. So far this year, over 100 kg of heroin has been seized and 26 people arrested by customs at the Delhi airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-ugandan-nationals-held-iwth-12-9kg-heroin-at-delhi-s-igi-airport-101636827110904.html
14-11-2021||Pune||Raza Academy in focus as protest rallies turn violent in Amravati, Nanded, Malegaon||PUNE In the backdrop of rumours of vandalization of mosque in Tripura, members of Islamic organisation Raza Academy staged protest rallies at various cities in Maharashtra on Friday.According to Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil, it was Raza Academy that had organised protest march at various places to submit a memorandum to authorities though it turned violent later.“The protests were organised by Raza Academy. But our department is also looking if others were involved in this,” said Wales Patil during a press conference in Mumbai.The march turned violent in Nanded, Malegaon and Amravati with mob pelting stones on shops in which two policemen were also injured in the incident. In Nanded, stones were pelted at police vans and two police personnel sustained injuries at Deglur Naka and Shivaji Nagar. Protestors were also seen torching shops and police vehicles in Malegaon and Amravati, following which the riot squad was called in to quell the protests.In response to the violent march, BJP called Amravati bandh on Saturday which also turned violent with stones pelted at various shops as a large mob gathered at Rajkamal chowk and some old parts of the city.Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut termed Raza Academy as BJP promoted outfit. “We know what Raza Academy is. For years, it has been working to help BJP,” said Raut in Aurangabad.The BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil refuted allegations saying Shiv Sena should focus on maintaining law and order rather than making political comments.Raza Academy denounced the violence at rallies. “Today the bandh call given in Mumbai and parts of Maharashtra to protest against blasphemous utterances against the holy Prophet was very successful. But some people from Malegaon are indulging in disturbing the peace of the area. I request that Muslims will not indulge in rioting in the name of the Prophet and refrain from violent and illegal acts. The Muslim community must go back home and ensure that peace is maintained. Malegaon has a good image and Muslims must protect their image by spreading peace and harmony,” said Saeed Noorie, general secretary of Raza Academy, in a video message released on Twitter.A group of like-minded Sunni Muslims, under the leadership of founder president Saeed Noori, established Raza Academy in 1978 at Null Bazar in south Mumbai to print and publish books written by 17th-century Muslim scholar Aalahazrat Imam Ahmed Raza.Academy’s reputation suffered a setback in 2012 after violence left two people dead and some policemen injured during a protest March in Mumbai.In over five decades, the academy set up more than 30 centres across India and became a voice of the country’s Sunni community. While the academy has participated in multiple protest marches in the past, most of them were largely peaceful with black flags, badges, banners and ribbons have been characteristic of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/raza-academy-in-focus-as-protest-rallies-turn-violent-in-amravati-nanded-malegaon-101636821050116.html
14-11-2021||Lucknow||Containment zones to be created in Zika affected areas of Lucknow||The Lucknow district administration on Saturday ordered to make a 400-metre containment zone around the house of zika virus patients to check its spread, even as the city reported its third infection on the day.The decision to make a zika containment zone was taken during a meeting of the district administration and the health department.“Once again we have to gear up and fight back Zika virus the way we fought Covid-19. Hence, we have decided to make zika containment zones similar to Covid-19 and have constituted around 500 surveillance teams, and allocated eight hospitals for the treatment of zika patients,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate in the meeting.The surveillance teams would comprise members of ASHA, Aganwadi and Civil defence community. There are 19 community healthcare centres (CHCs) in the district. There would be 25 teams on every CHC.At present, there are three Zika cases in Lucknow, of which one is admitted to a hospital.“Containment zone has been successful in checking spread of Covid infection as it restricts movement of infected persons, who can spread infection to others. It will certainly help control spread of the Zika too,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/containment-zones-to-be-created-in-zika-affected-areas-of-lucknow-101636820209796.html
14-11-2021||Mumbai||After fresh violence, curfew imposed, internet suspended in Amravati||The district administration in Amravati imposed an indefinite curfew and suspended the internet services after at least 15 people, including three police personnel, were left injured on Saturday, following a protest. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had called for a bandh against the violent clashes that had occurred during another protest which was called by some Muslim organisations on Friday over reports of a mosque in Tripura being vandalised. Tension prevailed in many parts of the area since Saturday morning after some unidentified persons pelted stones at shops during the protest. Violence broke out in Cotton Market, Raj Kamal Chowk, Rajapeth, Namuna and Jawahar Gate areas when a massive morcha (march) was taken out by BJP workers. Police have imposed section 144 in the city, prohibiting people from gathering at a place. Amravati’s acting commissioner of police Sandip Patil said that essential services would be exempted during the curfew. Patil was prompted to announce the indefinite curfew after a fresh spell of violence rocked the city on Saturday afternoon when several shops were set afire in Rajapeth and Namuna areas and crowds damaged public and private properties. At least four battalions of the State Reserve Police Force were deployed to maintain law and order in the city. Commissioner of police Aarati Singh, who was on a long leave, is returning on duty due to the incident. The situation turned volatile after massive crowds, shouting slogans and carrying banners and saffron flags surged onto the roads. Shortly later, some sections resorted to stone pelting at private and government vehicles, shops and establishments, forcing the police to resort to mild caning and tear gas shells to disperse the crowd and control the situation. Former Maharashtra minister and senior BJP leader Dr Anil Bonde, who was leading the march, said, “It was a completely peaceful march and the police deliberately resorted to lathi charge. At least 20 party workers were injured in the police lathi charge.” Senior police officer Shashikant Satav said the situation is tense but under control. Amravati district guardian minister Yashomati Thakur, who is camping in the district, said the incident was “unfortunate”. “Everyone has the right to protest. But violence in the name of protest is not right. We appeal to people to maintain peace. Some malicious elements are working to spread violence in the city and the police are working to maintain law and order,” she said. Meanwhile, leader of the Opposition and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis urged the state government to ensure law and order in Amravati and condemned Friday’s violence in Pusad, Amravati and Nanded. Shiv Sena leader and state Agriculture Mission chairman Kishore Tiwari has slammed BJP for organising the counter-march in Amravati on Saturday. “BJP is resorting to such communal tactics to polarise voters, with an eye on next year’s civic elections in Maharashtra as well as the 2022 elections in some states, including Uttar Pradesh,” alleged Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-fresh-violence-curfew-imposed-internet-suspended-in-amravati-101636820089893.html
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ramban road accident: 3 dead, 11 injured as SUV plunges into gorge||Three persons died and 11 others were injured when a Tata Sumo plunged into a gorge in Ramban district on Saturday, said officials. “About 10 am , a Tata sumo vehicle (JK03 A /6391), on way to Banihal from Jammu, lost control and fell into a gorge at Samadhi Morh in Digdole area of Ramban,” said a police officer. He said two passengers died on the spot while a critically injured passenger succumbed to his injuries later. The deceased were identified as Gulzar, 19, son of Irfan, Sameer, 24, son of Tahir, and Ashu, 34 son of Zakir. They all hailed from Alam in Uttar Pradesh. Two critically injured passengers, identified as Khaleeda and Ashu, were referred to Government Medical College, Jammu, where the latter died after sometime. The police officer said that the Tata Sumo was ferrying vendors, mostly from Uttar Pradesh, when it plunged into a deep gorge. The vehicle was being driven negligently and that led to the accident, he added. Eleven injured have been hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ramban-road-accident-3-dead-11-injured-as-suv-plunges-into-gorge-101636808269473.html
