15-11-2021||Pune||Pune’s Covid positivity rate higher than state average||Pune: Despite a fall in Covid-19 cases, Pune, at 2.1%, continues to report a higher positivity rate than the state average, which is also highest for the week between November 6 and November 12, when the state reported 1.1%. Pune district with over a crore population has reported over 75,000 tests while capital city Mumbai has reported over 2.32 lakh tests and a positivity rate of 1%. Both the districts have a population of over one crore, but the difference in Covid testing figures is significantly disproportionate. As per the state weekly positivity report, Pune district tested 75,549 Covid tests, both RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests, of which 1,624 were found positive while its counterpart Mumbai saw 232,923 Covid tests conducted of which 2,299 tested positive which means that the combined positivity went down to 1%. The state average for the said time period (November 6-12) was 1.1% as 671,154 Covid tests were conducted of which 7,541 positives were reported. Pune has also reported the highest positivity rate for the week among all the districts in the state. After Mumbai, island and suburban districts, Thane has reported the highest number of Covid tests between November 6 and November 12 as 99,971 Covid tests were conducted of which 1,179 positives were reported which took the positivity rate to 1.2%. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh, however, defended the fall in the number of tests that has been higher than the number of Covid tests conducted during the second wave peak. He said, “We are conducting more tests than what we were conducting during the second wave peak as a result the overall positivity rate of the district is at its lowest since the beginning of the pandemic. Mumbai is also a very densely populated city and so that could be the reason why the number of tests are much higher. However, our focus and priority will also remain testing when it comes to fighting against Covid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-covid-positivity-rate-higher-than-state-average-101637000964598.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Explained: Delhi’s air pollution spikes year-round||Factors in play (to be plotted in a graphic)January and February: Extremely low temperatures and low mixing height, with moderate to dense fog in the morning. Low temperature and moisture in the air traps pollutants close to the surface. Both months witness ‘severe’ air days.March and April: Wind direction changes from north-westerly to south-westerly, and temperature begins to rise. The mixing height increases, allowing pollutants to disperse freely. May and June: Temperatures peak during this period, which is good for dispersal of pollutants. But, a combination of local winds and south-westerly transport-level winds bring large quantities of dust from Rajasthan. July, August and September: South-easterly and easterly winds start blowing from the Bay of Bengal as precursor to monsoon winds, and bring moisture and rain to Delhi. Rain settles pollutants, as pollution levels stay at their lowest.October, November and December: Monsoon withdraws, and wind direction changes to north-westerly that bring emissions from stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana. This coincides with a drop in temperature. December generally sees the first ‘very dense’ fog spell of the year, with temperatures dipping below 5 degrees Celsius. This makes it difficult for pollutants to disperse.What conditions generally lead to smog in late October and early November?The south-west monsoon withdraws by the first week of October. This triggers a change in wind direction and north-westerly winds start blowing from Punjab and Haryana through the Indo-Gangetic Plains, all the way up to West Bengal. These winds are colder and dryer as compared to the south-easterly winds blowing earlier, leading to a drop in temperature by the end of October. The winds also bring pollutants from stubble burning towards Delhi. Farm fires start to pick up pace October 15 onwards. Firecracker burning on Diwali, celebrated during late October or early November, combined with stubble emissions lead to a smog.Why it spikes in the end of December?Stubble burning has completely stopped by this time of the year. Pollution spikes largely becauses temperatures dip to 1-3 degrees Celsius. Colder air slows down dispersal of pollutants and brings down the mixing height, trapping pollutants close to the ground. Delhi also sees fog spells at this time, as the moisture also traps pollutants in the air.What is behind the third pollution spike?In summers, dust is the most prominent pollutant, characterised by high PM 10 concentration in the air. A third spike is generally observed towards the end of May and early June, when south-westerly winds from Rajasthan bring coarser particles towards Delhi, while farm fires in the neighbouring Haryana and Punjab during the Rabi harvest season, towards the end of May also brings a stubble emissions. Finer pollutants disperse easily due to high temperatures but dust can still stay in the air. Instances of trans-boundary dust pollution, coming all the way from the West Asia have also been reported across NCR in the past, leading to ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ air in the summer.What is the role of temperature?Low temperatures not only make the air heavier and slows down pollutants, but it also brings down the mixing height -- an invisible layer of the atmosphere within which pollutants mix. The closer this layer drops to the surface, the lesser the space for pollutants to mix freely.How does fog causes spike in pollution?Moisture in the air traps pollutants and makes them heavier, not allowing them to disperse easily. This can lead to a constant haze in the air that dissipates only when there is adequate sunlight leading to warmer air. How far can stubble emissions travel?Satellite data shows stubble emissions can travel all the way across the Indo-Gangetic plains. However, they start dispersing after a few hundred kilometres, and generally lose their potency after crossing Delhi-NCR. The longer the distance they travel, the lesser their impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/explained-delhi-s-air-pollution-spikes-yearround-101637000903417.html
15-11-2021||Other||Odisha to give 10 decimals of homestead land to 2000 families displaced by Hirakud dam||Odisha government on Monday announced to provide homestead land to 2000 families in western Odisha district of Jharsuguda who were ousted from their homes for the multipurpose Hirakud dam project which was built over six decades ago in 1957.While distributing smart health cards under Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana in Jharsuguda district on Monday, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said the state government will provide homestead land to nearly 2000 families displaced for the Hirakud project. “The decision will resolve the long-standing issue of these families,” said Patnaik.Jharsuguda district collector Saroj Kumar Samal said work is already on to give homestead land, up to a maximum of 10 decimals, to around 2000 families of the district who lost their homes to the dam that was inaugurated by then PM Jawaharlal Nehru in January 1957. “Around 2700 families displaced by the dam in Jharsuguda are yet to be rehabilitated. In the next 7 days, we would start giving the RoR documents to around 2000 people. The rest 700 families would get the land in the coming few months as the process to establish their genealogy is taking time,” the collector said.Built at a cost of a little over ₹100 crore, the multi-purpose Hirakud dam, with an overall length of 4.8 km across river Mahanadi, was constructed for flood control, irrigation and power generation. Though the dam managed to irrigate over 24280 hectares of farmland, 26,561 families of Sambalpur, Bargarh and Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Sonepur districts were displaced from their homes in 1955-56 during construction of the dam.So far 13,470 families have been rehabilitated and given compensation which in some cases ranged between ₹200 and ₹600 per acre, much lower than the market value back then. Despite people’s resistance, they were ousted with the assurance of immediate rehabilitation and adequate compensation. However, proper compensation and rehabilitation continued to elude them forcing the displaced people to move to different places to settle themselves.Secretary of Hirakud Budi Anchal Sangram Samiti, an outfit fighting for the rights of the displaced people of Hirakud project, Gopinath Majhi said the government’s decision has come very late.“Even those who received compensation for losing their homes did not receive compensation towards loss of trees, wells, temples and other damages. Farming was a major source of livelihood for the people prior to their displacement. In the present situation, the next generation doesn’t even possess the ownership of even a marginal piece of land for a sustainable source of livelihood. The dam oustees have been grossly neglected and deprived of their legitimate rights by the state government,” alleged Majhi....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-to-give-10-decimals-of-homestead-land-to-2000-families-displaced-by-hirakud-dam-101637000785835.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 91 new Covid cases on Monday||Pune: As of Monday, Pune district has reported 91 new Covid-19 cases. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,993 deaths and 2,902 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 45,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 39 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 366,684 and the death toll stood at 6,934. Pune city reported 49 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 521,923 and the death toll stood at 9,205. PCMC reported 31 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 269,224 and the toll stood at 3,505 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district saw 45,858 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Monday and in total 12,448,019. Of which 7,930,614 are first doses and 4,517,405 are second doses. A total of 647 sites saw vaccination of which 502 were government centres and 145 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-91-new-covid-cases-on-monday-101637000723292.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Shiv Chhatrapati awardees stage protest in Pune, demand job||Pune: Recipients of Shiv Chhatrapati Award have started a fast protest in front of the state sports commissioner office in Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex in Balewadi seeking job opportunities as per their educational qualification. On Monday, the protesting athletes wrote to state sports commissioner Om Prakash Bakoria, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and police commissioner Amitabh Gupta. A letter was also sent to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and state sports and youth affairs minister Sunil Kedar. According to the sportspersons, their demand for job opportunities has not been met since last four years. The police gave permission for only five athletes to protest in rural Pune as Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) is in place. “In states like Punjab and Haryana, along with state recognition awards, jobs are also offered to players,” said Vikas Kale, national kabaddi player who has represented Haryana Steelers in Pro Kabaddi League. There are around 120 Shiv Chhatrapati awardees who are asking for job opportunities. “Earlier the prize money amount given to athletes was ₹50,000, and the amount was increased to ₹1 lakh since 2015-16. We are asking for job opportunities that fit our education criteria. We are not demanding Class 1 jobs straightaway. Those who are eligible for Class 4 job should get an opportunity in that category, but the government should take steps to secure the future of athletes,” said Sagar Gulhane, national atya-patya (traditional game) player. Om Prakash Bakoria, commissioner of sports, Maharashtra, said, “We are following the general resolution (GR) and there is no mention that Shiv Chhatrapati Sports awardees will also get a job. The award is given for appreciation to players and it does not assure a job guarantee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shiv-chhatrapati-awardees-stage-protest-in-pune-demand-job-101637000483409.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Tyre puncture racket in Pune: Citizens’ forum seeks registration, monitoring of tyre repair shops||Pune: The arrest of tyre repair shop owner Francis Sunny Amolik (50) and his associate Prashant Raju Waghmare (28) on Saturday in connection with cheating motorcyclist Sandip Shinde for Rs3,000 on the pretext that his tyre had 26 punctures has brought to the fore the organised racket of looting car drivers and bike riders in the name of puncture repairs. The NIBM annexe forum had petitioned the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune police in 2018 seeking a uniform rate policy across the city and the district for puncture repairs. According to the Khadki police, two youth on motorcycle told Shinde, who was riding two-wheeler, that there was less air in the tyre and pointed him to go towards a tyre repair shop on the old Mumbai-Pune highway and sped. A similar modus operandi was adopted by unidentified biker on October 12, 2017, when gynaecologist Dr Meenakshi Yelvantge and her husband Somnath, who were on their way to see patients at Nanded city in their Honda City, were looted of Rs3,200 for repair 32 punctures at a tyre repair shop on Sinhgad road. On September 22, 2020, Chirag Nimbare of Thane resident, who travelled on his bike from Mumbai to Pune, was robbed of Rs6, 500 for 60 punctures at a tyre repair set up on the highway. In March 2018, Ajay Mahajan, a victim of the racket, captured the crime on camera and lodged a police complaint against tyre repair shop owners. Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Ravindra Shisve said, “I will look into the matter.” NIBM annexe forum director Daljeet Goraya said, “This is daylight looting of vehicle users in the name of tyre repairs. We demand that these shops be registered and their operations monitored by authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tyre-puncture-racket-in-pune-citizens-forum-seeks-registration-monitoring-of-tyre-repair-shops-101637000243238.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The veteran mask hawker||The mask hawker isn’t pushy at all. He quietly follows a passerby, and upon catching the attention, politely asks if the person would be interested in buying a mask. He never badgers, whatever be the response.Among the city’s mask sellers, Arman is a veteran. Like most of them, he has been hawking masks since the coronavirus pandemic weaved into the fabric of our life.Arman is 12.“I want to join the army when I grow up,” he says. Agreeing to a brief chit-chat this cold evening, he sits outside a shuttered storefront, here in central Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti. Arman lives in the neighbourhood. “Papa isn’t well, so he stays at home. Ammi works in a kothi (bungalow),” he informs matter-of-factly, but his voice is full of urgency and cheer, like a happy, excitable kid in a garden imploring his parents to let him play for a few more minutes. Arman’s world comprises four siblings. The two sisters divide their time between school and home. He also goes to school, and so does his brother - but they both also spend a part of their day selling masks. Arman confines himself within the Basti, while his brother goes about in nearby Bhogal.The seventh standard student gives a breakdown of his daily life: “I get up at seven. Ammi gives me a nashta of chai and roti. I study for one hour and 30 minutes. I step out of the house only after lunch at 1pm, and then I sell the masks, which Ammi gets from the supplier. I go back home by seven in the evening. After finishing my dinner, I play games on Ammi’s mobile.”The Basti remains crowded due to its many shrines and monuments, and Arman often finds the lanes teeming with visitors. Boys of his age are often led protectively by their guardians. Arman realises his life is different from theirs. “We have problems at home. My brother and I want to help Ammi as much as we can. Our Ammi works very hard.”It’s almost 7pm. Arman poses for a portrait, but only after carefully adjusting the mask on his face. Then he gets up to leave for home. Ammi’s dinner awaits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-veteran-mask-hawker-101636999674898.html
15-11-2021||Other||Delhi govt has failed to control pollution: Kotli||Chandigarh Punjab industries and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli on Monday said Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Delhi government has indulged in a blame game to save it’s own skin as it has failed to control pollution in the national capital Kotli, the chief guest at the Punjab Day Function, held during the ongoing India International Trade Fair 2021 at Pragati Maidan at New Delhi, also appealed to the Centre to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor, closed since March 2020 due to Covid19 pandemic. “My Congress party government in Punjab has sought an investment of over ₹1 lakh crore in the state, and recently organised a two-day Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit,” he told the gathering. The minister took a round of Punjab Pavilion which has been designed and decorated in consonance with the theme of “Atmanirbhar Bharat- Self Reliant India”. The façade concept, grand entrance, attraction of theme area of display depicted the measures taken by Punjab government for Ease of Doing Business. Verka products are on display at the Milkfed stall with Punjabi Phulkari donning the pride of place at the stall of the Punjab State Industries Export Corporation; Markfed also had a stall. Folk singers Lakhwinder Wadali and Kulwinder Billa entertained the audience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-has-failed-to-control-pollution-kotli-101636999765721.html
15-11-2021||Pune||54-year-old driver booked in Pune under Pocso||Pune: The Kondhwa police have booked a bus driver for allegedly sexually assaulting a twelve-year-old disabled girl from 2019 till November 10, 2021. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. According to the police, the 54-year-old accused used to pick and drop the girl to school in the bus. The accused used to stop the vehicle and indulge in sexual assault of the victim. The girl narrated her ordeal to her school teacher who approached the police and a case was lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/54yearold-driver-booked-in-pune-under-pocso-101636999764734.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Former minister held for Amravati violence||Former Maharashtra agriculture minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Anil Bonde, Amravati mayor Chetan Gawande and district BJP chief Nivedita Chaudhary were among 14 persons arrested on Monday and booked for illegal gathering and allegedly inciting violence during a large-scale protest in Amravati city that resulted in arson and destruction of property and left 15 people injured on Saturday. A lower court granted bail to all arrested persons on Monday evening. Additionally, 46 persons were detained on Monday for participating in the protests but were let off. The BJP had called a bandh in Amravati on Saturday to protest against the shutdown called by groups including Muslim organisation Raza Academy the previous day. Friday’s rallies in some districts, including Amravati, Nashik and Nanded, turned violent as crowds resorted to stone-pelting in communally sensitive Malegaon and three policemen were injured in Nanded.“The home minister has directed police to keep a close watch on the people and outfits with notorious background and take action against those indulging in disturbing the social harmony ahead of the forthcoming local body elections. Police need to be extra vigilant anticipating a reaction to the police action against Naxalite in Gadchiroli last week, the home minister told the senior officials,” a statement issued by Dilip Walse Patil’s office read.A political war of words also broke out on Monday after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik accused BJP of trying to instigate riots in Maharashtra and alleged that Bonde had distributed cash and liquor to incite Saturday’s violence. “There were no riots between two communities in Amravati. Instead a former BJP minister Anil Bonde and other leaders conspired to incite communal riots. Cash and liquor were distributed in order to incite riots in Amravati, following which stones were pelted and shops were burnt. All this has come in the police probe and action has been initiated,” Malik told reporters on Monday.“It has also come to light that a large amount of cash was sent from Mumbai to Amravati that was distributed through MLAs and a probe is going on into this. BJP comes out with the weapon of riots to do their politics as a last resort after all its other weapons have failed. But we believe the people of Maharashtra are wise and will not accept such conspiracies and destructive politics. They have thwarted their plans,” Malik said.Bonde, who is a practising doctor called his arrest “illegal” and said that the BJP’s morcha was “peaceful” and that miscreants attacked people in Saturday’s protests, following which the police had to fire tear gas to dispel crowds. “I have not incited anyone during my speech. The Saturday protest march against the vandalism by a certain group on shops and establishments in different parts in the city was totally spontaneous. Unfortunately, the city police arrested BJP workers for organising the morcha. However, no proper action was taken against those who had taken out morcha and indulged in stone pelting on several shops and establishments on Friday,” he said.“Nawab Malik made baseless allegations of distributing cash and liquor against me. I will file a defamation case against him,” Bonde said.NCP chief Sharad Pawar said the BJP incited violence with an eye on the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls early next year. Pawar also slammed organizations like Raza Academy for organizing protests in Maharashtra.Shiv Sena leader Kishore Tiwari said the BJP resorted to “communal tactics” to polarise voters, eyeing the next year’s civic elections in Maharashtra as well as 2022 elections in some states.BJP legislator Nitesh Rane however accused the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of “shielding” Raza Academy.“The protests organised on November 12 (Friday) were planned by Raza Academy days ahead of the rallies by distributing pamphlets, through other forms of communication by instigating people. Despite this, there was permission given to them to organise protest rallies. Is it not the failure of intelligence? Why action was not taken against the Raza Academy? You have been raising questions over Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Anil Bonde, but the question is why are you shielding [them?],” Rane asked.On Saturday, violence broke out in parts of Amravati city, including Cotton Market, Raj Kamal Chowk, Rajapeth, Namuna, Jawahar Gate areas. Several shops were set on fire in Rajapeth and Namuna areas and protestors damaged public and private property, including government vehicles. At least four battalions of the State Reserve Police Force were deployed to maintain law and order in the city.Several persons were also detained on Saturday following the BJP-called bandh, and the authorities imposed an indefinite curfew and suspended internet services. Section 144 was also imposed in Nashik, Nanded, Nagpur and Pune. Acting Commissioner of Police, Amravati, Sandip Patil, stated that essential services would be exempt from curfew in Amravati.Those injured on Saturday’s protests are admitted in Amravati’s Irwin civil hospital, and two other private hospitals.Amravati district guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said the violence was unfortunate. “Everyone has a right to protest. But violence in the name of protest is not right. We appeal to the people to maintain peace. Some malicious elements are working to spread violence in the city and police are working to maintain law and order,” she said. On Friday, religious and political outfits had called for a peaceful bandh — to shut local establishments and shops — following which memorandums were to be submitted to the collectors of the various districts. The call was supported by the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Samajwadi party. The bandh was to protest against the treatment of the Muslim community in Tripura, where on October 26, a mosque, a few houses and shops were reportedly vandalised by members of the right-wing group, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), during a rally. Though four people were arrested in the purported incident in Tripura, the police said that no mosque was burnt and photographs showing the same were not from Tripura. The Tripura police arrested two journalists and booked several others under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.Raza Academy had handed over a memorandum to the Maharashtra governor. Those affected by the violence in Tripura should be given compensation and the mosques which were damaged should be reconstructed, it had demanded.A day after Saturday’s protestors hurled stones at shops and set establishments on fire, the VHP on Sunday demanded a ban on Raza Academy. Addressing a press conference at the VHP office in the Dhantoli area of Nagpur in Maharashtra, VHP general secretary Milind Parande said the right-wing body will lodge FIRs in various police stations against the rioters.On Friday, protestors pelted stones at police vans and police personnel sustained injuries at Deglur Naka and Shivaji Nagar in Nanded. Protestors were also seen torching shops and police vehicles in Malegaon and Amravati, following which the riot squad was called in to quell the protests. In Amravati’s Kotwali police station First Information Reports (FIR) have been lodged naming hundreds of protesters. “No permission was given to the protest rally. We are registering a case against the protesters and action would be taken accordingly,” said Vikram Sali, DCP, Amravati.Malik on Monday also released a photograph of BJP leader and legislator Ashish Shelar with Saeed Noori, the head of Raza Academy along with other community leaders.Shelar responded saying that the photograph shown by Malik was an old one and he had nothing to do with Saturday’s violence in Amravati. “The meeting in which I am seen in the photo with Raza Academy office bearers was taken back in 2016-17 and that too not in their office. What is the relevance between the violence and the photograph? BJP can release hundreds of such photographs if the NCP and Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi allies want to do the politics over it. They (MVA leaders) would not be in position to roam around openly if we did this,” Shelar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/former-minister-held-for-amravati-violence-101636999763348.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||HC coaxes MSRTC employees, state to resolve strike amicably in public interest||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday urged the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), its employees who have been on strike since October 28, and the state government to resolve their concerns amicably in the wider interest of the public and restrained them from making statements on contentious issues. The HC while finding nothing objectionable in the union members raising peaceful slogans during the strike also urged the union to co-operate if some drivers and conductors were willing to resume duty. It also sought a progress report from the court-appointed committee, slated to meet on November 16.“We have requested the employees to come back to work and discuss and will have discussions on each of their demands. We will comply with whatever decision is made by the court,” transport minister Anil Parab said.On October 28, a group of MSRTC workers started an indefinite strike to demand the merger of the cash-strapped body with the Maharashtra government. The following day, the industrial court passed order restraining the employees from striking. However, 28 unions announced a strike. On November 3, based on a petition filed by the MSRTC, the HC restrained the unions from going on strike till further orders. On November 8, the court ordered the state to form a committee to resolve employee grievances following which a three-member committee was duly formed. However, the strike continued following which MSRTC filed a contempt petition against 340 employees and workers unions, and started suspending some employees.The division bench of Justice Prasanna Varale and Justice Shriram Modak said on Monday that it would not hear arguments on the maintainability of the petition if a solution to the contentions of the MSRTC employees could be reached by the committee. The committee consists of the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary finance Manoj Sainik and additional chief secretary transport department Ashish Kumar Singh, and held its first hearing on November 8 itself. On Monday, advocate Gunaratan Sadavarte, the counsel for Maharashtra Rajya Kanishth Vetanshreni ST Karmachari Sanghatana, one of the unions of MSRTC (and representing the members of other unions as well) objected to the members and other authorities, but later submitted that the unions would submit a memorandum of demands before the committee on November 16. Sadavarte also submitted that the union members had been conducting a peaceful agitation by raising slogans hailing great personalities like Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj and Mahatma Jyotiba Phule which was not causing any disturbance in the public, but the transport minister and other authorities involved had been making contentious statements. On November 10, transport minister Anil Parab had said that the employees will face repercussions of the strike. “I appeal to the MSRTC workers to not get provoked by the political parties. Finally, the damage will be faced by the workers as we have already suspended some protestors. Political parties are capitalising on the strike but workers will have to face loss of pay for not coming to work. Will political parties take responsibility of salary lost?” The counsel for MSRTC senior advocate S U Kamdar informed the bench that some of the issues raised by the striking employees had been met with. They had been given 14% increment and were paid salaries till October along with Diwali gifts. However the issue of merger of the union members in the ranks of State government employees was of a complex nature and had to be decided after following due procedure, hence it was pending. Kamdar also informed the bench that some 111 drivers and 79 conductors had shown willingness to resume duties and hence no hindrances should be created by anyone. He added that 2000 commuters had travelled on the buses run by some of these drivers and conductorssince Friday.After hearing the submissions the bench observed, “Difficulty is faced by general public on account of non-availability of transport facilities. This can be taken care of by permitting those employees showing their willingness to join duties. The Corporation in turn is at liberty to permit these employees to ply the buses so that the general public is not put to any suffering or difficulties.” The court further added that it did not find any problem in striking employees raising slogans as mentioned by their counsel but said, “We expect that in the view of the November 8 order and fitness of the things that the parties or their representatives to avoid making public statements about the contentious issues.” The court also remarked that it was conscious of the situation of MSRTC employees and did not want loss of lives (due to suicides) as it would affect entire families. “It is our earnest appeal that none should take extreme step of losing life. Please look at this matter with logical approach. Let there be an exchange of thoughts and a beginning. It is a democratic process and let us participate in that. It shouldn’t happen that common traveller is put to suffer either by non-plying of MSRTC buses or even through overcharging by private buses,” said the court. The organisation started operating few buses in the state from Friday after employees started returning. On Monday by afternoon the organisation operated 41 buses including Shivneri and Shivshahi buses across Maharashtra. Since November 8, 5,187 employees (drivers and conductors) have resumed work. The petition will next be heard on November 22.Meanwhile, the Jagrut Kamgar Sanghatna (BJKS), one of the labour unions of BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) on Monday wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to merge BEST with BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). In the letter signed by union leader Suhas Nalawade the union stated that the duty to ply bus and electricity services for the citizen of the city is by BMC under the section 63 of the Mumbai Municipal Act 1988. Thereby the union has demanded for the merger of the BEST with the city’s municipal corporation.(With inputs from Aroosa Ahmed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-coaxes-msrtc-employees-state-to-resolve-strike-amicably-in-public-interest-101636999704536.html
15-11-2021||Other||Odisha tribal boatman mortgages his land to build 100-metre long bridge||Moved by the plight of at least 30,000 people having to negotiate the mighty Indravati river, a 55-year-old tribal boatman of Odisha’s Koraput district has built a 100-metre long bamboo bridge over the river after mortgaging his sugarcane plantation.On November 7, Jaydev Bhatra of Basuli village under Kotpad block of Koraput district, who rows his country boat on Indravati river for a living, completed the bamboo bridge, a task he had undertaken around 3 years ago. The bridge connecting Kantasaraguda village of Nabarangpur district and Basuli village of Koraput district could become a reality only after Bhatra mortgaged 3 acres of his sugarcane plantation for ₹1 lakh.“I had grown tired of government assurances of construction of a bridge over Indravati. Though I made a livelihood out of making hundreds of people cross the river, it was getting difficult. My country boat had become old and used to wobble a lot when I rowed it across Indravati during heavy monsoon. So I started constructing the bamboo bridge across the river 3 years ago,” said Bhatra. He even invited the local MLA Sasashiv Padhani for the inauguration but the MLA did not turn up.In the first year, the villagers of Kantasaraguda and Basuli chipped in but the next year everyone forgot all about it. Then Bhatra decided to do it all on his own. Earlier this year, he decided to mortgage his sugarcane plantation to raise ₹1 lakh for the bridge. “It was a difficult decision for me. But there was no other option,” said Bhatra, who, along with his 32-year-old son Banamali, sourced bamboo from the local market. Bhatra even paid wages to the villagers who helped him in the bridge.Though a little wobbly, the 4-ft wide bridge is able to withstand the weight of motorcyclists. Though Bhatra is not charging any toll for it, he accepts money if users give anything between ₹5 and 10.Sonaru Pujari, sarpanch of Gumuda panchayat, said the bamboo bridge would cut down the distance between inhabitants of Kosagumuda block and Kotpad block by over 25 km and help them in getting access to healthcare and education. “Though the villagers have been demanding construction of a bridge over Indravati for more than a decade, Bhatra made it a reality. His sheer commitment is unparalleled. I don’t know if anyone would spare so much time and money to help out people,” said Pujari.Pujari said the foundation stone for a bridge over the river was laid by chief minister Naveen Patnaik in 2016 at Chirma village of Nabarangpur which was supposed to be completed by 2018. “The deadline for the project estimated at ₹16.30 crore was first extended to 2019 and then February 2021. But in five years, not a single pillar of the bridge could be completed,” said Pujari.Nabarngpur district collector Kamal Lochan Mishra said he has called for a report from the rural development department about the status of the bridge that was supposed to be completed this year. “The report of a boatman mortgaging his land to build a bamboo bridge is an insult to government,” he said.In June 2019, a retired livestock inspector of Keonjhar district had come into prominence after he dipped into his retirement savings to build a 270 ft long concrete bridge over river Salandi to connect two villages. Gangadhar Rout of Kanpur village in Hatadihi block of Keonjhar district spent ₹16 lakh from his savings to build the bridge that was completed in August this year. Though the Keonjhar district administration had promised to build approach roads to the bridge, it project remains uncompleted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-tribal-boatman-mortgages-his-land-to-build-100-metre-long-bridge-101636999703140.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow veggie vendor’s girl aims to put India on podium at hockey Jr World Cup||Selling vegetables on the roadside in Topkhana Bazar, here, in Lucknow, along with her parents, is still the “free time fun” for Mumtaz Khan, 18, and her six sisters. Whenever she comes home and gets time, she helps her parents with the vend.“I enjoy doing this even now as this business has been taking care of my family of 10, and I feel proud to have learnt the art of fighting against odds because of this,” said Mumtaz, on Monday, soon after getting selected for India for the upcoming Women’s Junior World Cup, scheduled to be played in South Africa from December 5.“My struggle keeps reminding me of the tough days, and I am thankful to my parents, who did everything for me to become a hockey player. Now, it’s my time to give them back some pride so I will try to help the team finish on the podium in South Africa, because a medal around my neck will be the biggest gift to my parents,” said Mumtaz (her name means excellent).Forward Mumtaz was forced to play hockey in 2014 by coaching couple Neelam Siddiqui and Rashid Siddiqui at the KD Singh ‘Babu’ Stadium. While running at the stadium one fine evening, Neelam asked Mumtaz to play hockey and she refused flatly. But after being “forced” on the following day she held the hockey stick and tried some hits. “It changed my life forever. Madam and her husband literally compelled me to continue playing and they even filled my form for the admission in the hockey hostel in 2014,” recalled Mumtaz. “I was scolded and slapped several times to play correctly, and those lessons are still the best education to me in the game.”Mumtaz, who scored 10 goals to help India win the silver medal at the Buenos Aires Youth Olympics in 2018, was so good at dribbling and hitting that she made it to the junior India camp within a year, in 2015, and thereafter, she didn’t look back before being seriously injured in 2019 during junior India tour to Ireland.She also won a bronze medal at the girls’ under-18 Asia Cup in 2016, silver at the Six-Nations Invitational Tournament in 2018, and the coveted gold medal at the Cantor Fitzgerald under-21 International Four-Nations tournament last year. “While tackling a ball between the goalposts, I twisted my right knee and it forced me into rehabilitation for almost seven months. I had lost hope but Hockey India took good care of me at Bengaluru,” said Mumtaz, who said the success of the Indian men’s and women’s teams at the Tokyo Olympics has been a great inspiration to her.“Now everyone talks about hockey. Both men and women teams did great at Tokyo and we all draw inspiration from their success,” she said, adding, “Now it’s time for the junior men and women to win medals for the country at the upcoming World Cups. That would be the real tribute to the success of our seniors.”Mumtaz’s father Hafeez was over the moon when came to know about his daughter’s selection for the World Cup. “It’s all God’s grace and Mumtaz’s hard work. I am really proud of her,” he said on Monday.His family had to stay without food for some time to support Mumtaz’s dream of playing hockey, Hafeez reminisced. “We are hoping for ‘acche din’ (good days) soon as Mumtaz’s success at the junior level will help her make it into the senior side,” said her sister, Farah, who is the brain behind Mumtaz’s entry into the game. “Her (Mumtaz’s) passion for sport is something different. She doesn’t skip her training even today when she is in Lucknow on a vacation,” said her coach Neelam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-veggie-vendor-s-girl-aims-to-put-india-on-podium-at-hockey-jr-world-cup-101636999643607.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Trio arrested for killing friend over gambling in Pune||PUNE: The Talegaon MIDC police on Monday arrested three persons for stabbing a friend, 21, to death after a quarrel broke out during a gambling session Sunday night at Indori village in the Maval taluka of Pune district. The deceased was identified as one Shahbuddin Ansari from Uttar Pradesh.According to the Talegaon MIDC police, Ansari worked as a painter and stayed in a rented accommodation at Indori village. Ansari and his friend were busy gambling inside the room Sunday night when a war of words broke out between them over the rules of the game. The argument took a turn for the worse, ending with the attack on Ansari.Ansari’s friend, who stays in the neighbourhood, allegedly rushed to his house and brought back sharp weapons. He was accompanied by two of his relatives. The trio brutally assaulted Ansari even as his friend’s relatives held him by his hands so that he could not move. Ansari’s friend and the main accused then stabbed him in the stomach, chest and also near his left eye leading to severe bleeding. Ansari was taken to hospital only to be declared dead on arrival by the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/trio-arrested-for-killing-friend-over-gambling-in-pune-101636999343530.html
15-11-2021||Other||{50% reservation to Valmiki, Mazhabi Sikhs among SCs} MP Manish Tewari writes to Channi to reiterate Punjab’s stand||Chandigarh Anandpur Sahib Member Parliament (MP) Manish Tewari on Monday wrote to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to endorse and reiterate the Punjab government’s stand to allot 50% reservation to Valmiki and Mazhabi Sikhs of seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SCs). In the letter, the MP adds on May 5, 1975, the Punjab government had issued a circular that of the reserved seats reserved for the SCs, 50% of vacancies would be offered to Valmiki and Mazhabi Sikhs. He added that the Punjab and Haryana high court had struck down the circular on July 25, 2006. A special petition against the order was also quashed by the Supreme Court on March 10, 2008. “Thereafter, the legislative assembly of Punjab, to surmount the legal basis of these two judgements enacted ‘The Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation in Services) Act 2006. The said act was notified by the Punjab government as envisaged in a May 5, 1975 circular,” Tewari adds in the letter.He adds that the clause stipulated that 50% of vacancies of the quota reserved for the SCs in indirect recruitment shall be offered to Valmiki and Mazhabi Sikhs, subject to their availability, by providing first preference from among the SC candidates. The MP, while narrating the legality of the issue, says that on March 29, 2010, a division bench of the Punjab and Haryana struck down the provision contained in Section 4 (5) of the act passed in 2006, after which it was challenged by state on August 20, 2014. Following this, a three-judge bench comprising the then chief justice of India (CJI) RM Lodha referred the matter for consideration to a larger bench. On August 27, 2020, a five-judge bench of the apex court in a detailed order said, “We endorse the opinion of three judges and request the CJI to place the matter before a bench comprising seven judges or more, as appropriate.” The MP said the matter was now pending before the Supreme Court and the stay against high court’s August 30, 2010 judgment continues to hold. “Now, some eminent scholars flagged the issue with me and discussed some apprehensions, substantiated or otherwise, that the government of Punjab is being advised to reconsider its consistent stand going back to May 5, 1975,” he said, adding that he was not sure of the trepidations of these scholars are well-founded or not. “Given the importance of the issue, I urge you to ensure that all legal and political will must be brought to bear to continue supporting the stand enunciated by the Punjab government on May 5, 1975,” the MP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-reservation-to-valmiki-mazhabi-sikhs-among-scs-mp-manish-tewari-writes-to-channi-to-reiterate-punjab-s-stand-101636999103035.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Two in custody for stalking young girls in Pune||Pune: The Market Yard police have arrested Aniket Lahu Bhagat (23) and Mayuresh Nitin Nanaware (23) on the charge of stalking three girls, aged between 11 years and 13 years, of a residential housing society for the last three days. The arrest was made on Sunday. Bhagat is unemployed and stays at Market Yard while Nanaware, of Erandwane, is a waiter, according to the police. The girls, who had noticed the two men consistently following them and trying to approach them for the last three days, alerted their parents. The parents of the girls held a meeting with the residential society members and approached the police. The police arrested the duo after the father (35) of one of the victims lodged a complaint. Police assistant inspector Ranadas Mundhe of Market Yard and investigating officer of the case said, “Bhagat and his classmate Nanaware used to frequent the residential society premises in the evening, and apparently followed the girls. The girls after noticing their advances alerted their parents.” Besides stalking, the police have invoked charges of common intention and Pocso Act provisions against the accused who have been remanded in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-in-custody-for-stalking-young-girls-in-pune-101636998924319.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||After Diwali break, students make their way to classrooms||The otherwise quiet corridors of city colleges witnessed a fresh change on Monday morning as students from various batches made their way back to classrooms. While officially colleges reopened for undergraduate and postgraduate students on October 20 this year, most colleges witnessed a better turnout on Monday, a day after the Diwali holidays ended. A handful of colleges, including some autonomous institutes, however, have decided to push the reopening of the regular class by another few days, in order to give teachers who are currently busily proctoring the ongoing online exams, some break. “We were quite surprised to see 15-16 students in almost every classroom on Monday morning. Most students who attended college were fully vaccinated, and travelled either by train or were those who stay close to the institute,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of UPG College, Vile Parle. She added that along with students from the city, many outstation students also attended a physical class on Monday. “Those who had gone back to their hometowns in different states during the lockdown have also started making their way back to the city. They surprised us by showing up for a class today,” she added. Hemant Chitte, principal, Dnyansadhna College, Thane, said, “We are currently following the same model as we did before the Diwali vacations began. Except for the third-year batch, who is currently busy preparing for their end of semester exams, the others (those vaccinated) are attending physical lectures on a regular basis following the hybrid model.” Hybrid model a challenge for teachers As per the last notification shared by the state government as well as the University of Mumbai, colleges have to continue classes in the hybrid mode—which means while the physical class is on for fully vaccinated students, teachers will also continue online classes for those are yet to get immunised. While on paper this decision sounds easy, teachers are finding the task extremely difficult. Many teachers on Monday struggled to maintain a balance between online and offline batches. “The network got a little sketchy because many classes were on at the same time in the college, straining the network connection. I spent more time reconnecting the online class instead of teaching and because of this, students physically present in the classroom were getting frustrated and distracted. We need a solution to this hybrid mode teaching method,” said a senior teacher from a south Mumbai college. Colleges are also worried that hybrid teaching will not be possible for all classes, especially in the self-financed courses where a large number of teachers are visiting faculty. “We cannot force visiting faculty to conduct physical classes, so there will be days when students will be sitting in the classroom but attending a lecture conducted by visiting faculty online,” said another college principal of condition of anonymity. In the second week of October, minister for state higher and technical education Uday Samant announced the reopening of degree colleges only for fully vaccinated students starting October 20. In a statement made on October 13, Samant suggested that colleges should implement the physical reopening of campuses in a phased manner and should continue online classes for those students who are not yet fully vaccinated. Most colleges, on October 20, the first day of college reopening, wore a deserted look. While undergraduate students were busy with online exams, postgraduate students could not attend lectures, either because they were not fully vaccinated or because they were attending lectures from different cities and states in the country. While colleges were busy conducting exams for second-year students before Diwali vacation, final year UG exams are scheduled to take place from November 15 to mid-December. “My teachers are already busy with online proctoring and cannot manage classes at the same time. We have therefore suggested starting classes in the hybrid mode starting November 22,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. “In the hybrid model, teachers have to simultaneously pay attention to students online and offline, this is not only a distraction for students but becomes quite hectic for the teachers as well. We, therefore, plan to adopt either of the two patterns soon, instead of the hybrid model. Taking into consideration the current situation and change in rules, we hope to start classes completely in offline mode soon,” said Suchitra Naik, Principal, KG Joshi of Arts and N G Bedekar of Commerce College, Thane. Several city colleges managed to conduct vaccination drives for their staff and students in the last few weeks and many hope to see a larger number of fully vaccinated students attending college in the near future. “We conducted a vaccination camp just before Diwali vacations on campus for staff and students due for their second dose. Those who had not taken their first dose also got vaccinated in this same drive and we are encouraging others to get immunised soon too,” added Naik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-diwali-break-students-make-their-way-to-classrooms-101636998923082.html
15-11-2021||Other||Injured women complainants to receive first aid from UP help desk cops||The police will now give first aid to women complainants at police stations, in case of emergency, and personnel manning the women’s help desk at police stations will be trained to do this. Police officials said that under phase three of Mission Shakti, the duties of women cops will be updated to empower women.IG, range, Rakesh Singh said women injured due to violence or mishaps often reach police stations. In many cases, it takes time to take them to nearby CHC or hospital for treatment. In a bid to provide immediate medical treatment to injured women, women personnel deployed at women’s help desks will be trained to give primary treatment, before the injured women can be taken to a hospital for proper treatment, he added.Singh further said that under Mission Shakti, women personnel are approaching women and girls in the city and rural areas and are imparting knowledge about their rights and different helpline numbers for them including 1090 women’s powerline and 112. As they are being approached at their doorstep, women are feeling free to inform women personnel about their problems and receive appropriate solutions too. For taking feedback about the work of women personnel, village heads are being called. They are being asked if policewomen have visited their village and how they interacted with the women and girls. The feedback revealed that the team of policewomen in the district is working hard to make women aware of their rights and helpline numbers and empowering them.Women personnel at some help desks have played important roles in reuniting estranged couples and reuniting families, besides sorting out other problems of women complainants. Such personnel will be honoured for their good work, the IG added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/injured-women-complainants-to-receive-first-aid-from-up-help-desk-cops-101636998743288.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans to pump in ₹600 crore for roads, bridges, stormwater drains||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) administration has proposed to transfer ₹600 crore from its emergency infrastructure requirement fund to boost the three civic departments - Roads, Bridges, and Storm Water Drains. This will help meet expenses toward infrastructure work planned for the financial year 2021-22. This comes as the budgetary allocation for these three departments for 2021 is almost exhausted, and more funds are required to carry on development work.The proposal to transfer additional funds to these three departments will be tabled before the BMC standing committee meeting this week. The civic administration has utilised 97.7% of the funds alloted to the roads and traffic department in budget 2021, utilised 83.2% of funds allotted to the bridges department, and utilised 96.4% of the funds allotted to the Storm Water Drains department. Of the ₹600 crore in the emergency fund, ₹200 crore will be given to each of the three departments respectively.The roads and traffic department was allotted ₹1,178.14 crore in the BMC budget 2021, of which ₹1,152.76 crore has been utilised, and 25.38 crore is left; of the 444.93 crore allotted to the bridges department, ₹370.33 crore has been utilised and ₹74.6 crore is left over; and of the ₹505.14 crore allotted to the Storm Water Drains department, ₹487.36 has been utilised, and ₹17.78 crore is left.The decision to use funds from the emergency infrastructure requirement has been met with a mixed response from corporators in the BMC. Asif Zakaria, Congress corporator from Bandra said, “There are a lot of pending infrastructure work across these three departments and if additional funds are needed to complete them, they have to be disbursed. But evidently, the administration did not plan the expenses of these departments efficiently, and allot the realistically required amount during the Budget 2021 itself. What will happen now if we are faced with an infrastructure emergency?”Prabhakar Shinde, BJP corporator said, “We want some clarifications about this proposal. First, how many projects where budgetary allocation is utilised have actually been completed? Second, if they had projects targeted for this fiscal year, estimated cost for each project and then made a demand during the budget, then why did the cost increase through the year? We will demand answers to these questions during the committee meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-to-pump-in-600-crore-for-roads-bridges-stormwater-drains-101636998503221.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Railways’ first pod hotel to be inaugurated at Mumbai Central||Those looking for a comfortable place to unwind after a long train journey can now stay over at Indian Railways’ first pod hotel, to be inaugurated at Mumbai Central railway station tomorrow. The pod hotel will be available for passengers for 12 and 24 hours for ₹999 and ₹1,999 respectively. A private pod for 12 and 24 hours is priced at Rs1,249 and ₹2,499 respectively.A pod hotel has a number of small bed-sized capsules and provide affordable overnight accommodation. The pod hotel is located on the first floor of the station building at Mumbai Central. The hotel will have 48 capsule-like rooms including classic pods, private pods and separate pods for women and the differently abled. The hotel will also have free Wi-Fi, washrooms, luggage and shower rooms in the common area in the hotel premises. Inside the air-conditioned pod capsules in the hotel, passengers will have access to televisions, mobile charging points and reading light. Minister of State for Railways Raosaheb Danve is expected to inaugurate the pod hotel along with the British-era Frere Road Over Bridge (ROB) between Charni Road and Grant Road railway stations on Wednesday. Hindustan Times had first reported in December 2018 about the IRCTC’s plan on the construction of the hotel. The Railways will construct similar pod hotels at other stations in the city if the hotel at Mumbai Central station is successful. Though India’s first pod hotel, developed by a private firm, had come up in at Andheri in 2017, it is no more functional. The concept of pod hotels was started in Japan, where space is at a premium and the population is high. The idea is to give people just enough space to feel comfortable and get a good night’s rest, without any of the extra frills associated with a traditional hotel room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-first-pod-hotel-to-be-inaugurated-at-mumbai-central-101636998083196.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police EOW files 8th FIR against Cox and Kings for duping NBFC of ₹110 crore||The economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police has registered a fresh first information report (FIR) against global tour and travels company Cox and Kings, its promotor, directors and other employees for allegedly duping the Tourism Finance Corporation of India (TFCI) of ₹110.48 crore. The accused had allegedly availed a loan from the non-banking finance company and later defaulted in repayment. EOW is investigating seven FIRs against the travel firm for alleged financial frauds collectively involving around ₹2,500 crore. The latest FIR against Cox and Kings was registered on November 11 at NM Joshi Marg police station and was recently transferred to the banking (fraud) unit-2 of EOW. “It appears that Cox and King has presented its incorrect/falsified financial statements for the period 2017-2019 to justify high creditworthiness for availing financial assistance from TFCI and other banks/institutions (sic),” stated Bishwaroop Tiwari, assistant vice-president (legal), TFCI limited, in the FIR, a copy of which is with HT. The audit committee of board of TFCI, in its meeting held on August 10, had inferred that “prima-facie, a fraud has been committed by Cox and Kings on account of submission of incorrect/falsified audited/provisional financial statements to illegally avail financial assistance from TFCI and potentially divert funds in with the objective of making them irrecoverable to the borrower i.e. TFCI”, the complainant further stated in the FIR. In its statement to EOW, Tiwari stated that Cox and Kings along with its promoter Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, his wife Urshila, chief finance officer Anil Khandelwal and two others “deliberately and with malafide intention to defraud TFCI” took a loan from it based on “fabricated and false statement of accounts” and subsequently have usurped the said loan amount, and hence, have committed fraud.” The police have booked the accused under sections under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. EOW sources said various financial irregularities surfaced during the forensic audit of accounts of Cox and Kings groups, following which details of loan defaults have also emerged. The last FIR against Cox and Kings was registered by EOW in June by Yes Bank for an alleged ₹523-crore loan default. Previous FIRs against Cox and Kings were lodged on the basis of complaints by Axis, Kotak Mahindra, IndusInd, HDFC and Laxmi Vilas banks as well as a private investment firm. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is probing the money laundering aspect pertaining to the purported irregularities of the company. Kerkar, Khandelwal, and others have already been arrested and are in judicial custody. Kerker, too, has filed two counter FIRs against some complainant banks and senior executives of his company for allegedly conspiring and cheating his firm. EOW is investigating these two complaints as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-eow-files-8th-fir-against-cox-and-kings-for-duping-nbfc-of-110-crore-101636997903185.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC sets the ball rolling for first desalination plant||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has set the ball rolling for the construction of the city’s first desalination plant, which will convert sea water to drinking water. The civic body has decided to appoint consultants for vetting of designs for the 200 million litres per day (MLD) desalination plant in the western suburbs. Construction should start next year and the plant is expected to be functional in the next 4 years. The BMC anticipates the construction cost to be ₹18,000 crore.In October 2020, the BMC had decided to revive the decade-old plan of setting up a desalination plant in the city amid the growing need for an alternative potable water source due to changing patterns of rainfall.Environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had in October 2020 given a go-ahead to the project and had directed the BMC to prepare a feasibility report by reviving the civic body’s 2007 plan.The 2007 desalination proposal was meant to provide an alternative water source owing to poor rainfall in the catchment areas of the dams that supply water to Mumbai.Later in 2016-17, BMC had initiated the process to set up two desalination plants – one in south Mumbai and another either in the suburbs or anywhere in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The plants were supposed to have a capacity of processing 100 MLD of seawater into potable water. The project was later put on hold due to high cost but was finally revived in October 2020.According to BMC officials, the plan is to float tenders for construction of the desalination plant by June 2022. A BMC official from the water supply department said, “We have floated tenders for appointing a consultant who will vet the designs prepared for the desalination plant. In June 2021, we signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with an Israeli technology firm whose work is to prepare a detailed project report for the project. If all goes as per plan, the first desalination plant will be ready by 2025.”At present, seven lakes, Bhatsa, Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tulsi, Tansa and Vehar, supply drinking water to Mumbai. The lakes are located in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts. The civic body supplies 3,750 million (m) litres (l) of water daily, as compared to the demand of 4,200 ml. Dubai is the first city in the world to construct a desalination plant. Chennai, which has three such plants, had constructed its first project in 2003 that supplies 90 MLD of water to the city.Meanwhile, the BMC has maintained that it is simultaneously also working on the proposed Gargai and Pinjal dam in Palghar district, which will supply around 1,200 million litres of water a day (MLD) to the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-first-desalination-plant-101636997603030.html
15-11-2021||Other||Priyanka Gandhi skips Moradabad party meeting due to high fever||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi couldn’t attend the ‘Samvaad Sammelan’ of party leaders and workers, in Moradabad, on Monday, due to a high fever.Instead, the party’s state president, Ajay Kumar’ Lallu’ and Deependra Hudda of Haryana interacted with party leaders and workers from different districts of Saharanpur, Moradabad and Bareilly divisions at Ramleela ground, Moradabad.Leaders and workers waited patiently for Priyanka Gandhi but later in the afternoon Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ announced that Gandhi was down with high fever therefore she would not attend the Sammelan.News of Gandhi’s illness disheartened leaders and workers but the Sammelan continued for over four hours as per the schedule.Lallu and Hudda, along with the party’s minority cell head, Imran Pratapgarhi, interacted with the gathering and took the feedback of leaders and workers on how to strengthen the party and how to reach out to the public ahead of the assembly elections in the state. They said that their views and feedback would be shared with Priyanka Gandhi. They said that Gandhi had a fever during the Sammelan in Bulandshahar on Sunday but she decided to continue with the scheduled programme, and on Monday, she developed a high fever.They also told the gathering that Gandhi will address a public meeting in Moradabad soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/priyanka-gandhi-skips-moradabad-party-meeting-due-to-high-fever-101636997184418.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Congress “Pratigya Padyatras” continue across UP||Uttar Pradesh Congress’ “Pratigya Padyatras” focusing on rising inflation continued in all the 403-assembly constituencies of the state for the second day on Monday. The aim of these yatras is to take to the people various promises made by the party ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in the state. “Yes, the Congress ‘Pratigya Padyatras’ continued in all the 403 assembly constituencies of the state. The padyatra will continue till November 24,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) spokesman Krishna Kant Pandey.Following directives from the party high command, the UPCC had asked the party workers to take the padyatras focusing on rising inflation in all the assembly constituencies.The party proposes to cover a total distance of 32,240 km and hold 24,180 village level and 5,000 roadside public meetings during the period across the state. The party workers raised slogans focusing on rising inflation and distributed the “pratigya patra” (pamphlets listing Congress promises) in different districts.Meanwhile, Congress leaders led by UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu addressed a “pratigya sammelan” in Moradabad on Monday. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was scheduled to address the convention there but her programme was cancelled as she was not in good health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-pratigya-padyatras-continue-across-up-101636997182875.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Kairana ‘exodus’ : Shamli admin starts exercise to collect info about those who are back||A week after chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Kairana town in Shamli district and promised security to some Hindus who claimed to have been forced out of their homes between 2014 and 2016, Shamli district administration and police have started an exercise to collect information about the families who had left the town and have returned now. “A survey will be carried out to collect details about such families. I have asked staff of the revenue department to collect inputs regarding it,” said district magistrate, Shamli, Jasjit Kaur.The DM said the chief minister had directed the district administration to collect information about these families. She, however, clarified that the district administration had not passed any order in this regard. “We want to provide an authentic report to the government that’s why we wish to verify all details about these families before sending it to the government,” Kaur added. She further said the CM had also directed to prepare a list of those families whose members lost their lives or suffered financial losses in the process of shifting their base.On November 8, the chief minister, along with his cabinet ministers Suresh Rana, Sidharth Nath Singh and western UP BJP president Mohit Beniwal, had met families of traders allegedly killed by gangsters, Muqeem Kala and Furqan (who goes by one name) gang, and those who allegedly left the town between 2014 and 2016. At the time, the state was ruled by the Samajwadi Party.“I have sought a report from the district administration about the families which were harmed and their members killed here in the previous Samajwadi Party regime,” Yogi had said in Kairana. “After 2017, due to our government’s policy of zero tolerance towards crime and criminals, many families have returned,” the CM said. “The government will give some compensation to the victim families so that they can again carry out business and economic activities,” he had said. The meetings were held at the house of local resident Vijay Mittal, whose grandfather Moolchand left his native place Kairana in 2016.The families of three traders -- Vinod, Raju and Shankar (all of whom go by one name), who were killed in 2014-- were also invited to interact with the CM.Raising the issue of the alleged exodus in June 2016, then BJP MP Hukum Singh had claimed that close to 350 Hindus left Kairana over alleged threats and extortion. Later, Kairana police had said that a spot verification of 150 addresses revealed several reasons for the migration, including better business and job prospects.The then ruling Samajwadi Party had sent a delegation under Congress leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam to verify the charges. Later, the Bharatiya Janata Party had also sent a delegation of their MPs and leaders to enquire about the issue.On being asked about the number of families who had left the town and have returned now, western UP BJP president Mohit Beniwal said, “We don’t have the exact number but can say that a substantial number of families have returned because of better law and order situation in the area and in state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kairana-exodus-shamli-admin-starts-exercise-to-collect-info-about-those-who-are-back-101636996763310.html
15-11-2021||Jaipur||Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM to set up base in Rajasthan, contest 2023 assembly polls||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) party chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday announced his party’s decision to expand its base in Rajasthan. He also said that his party would contest in the next assembly elections to be held in 2023, which would be his debut elections in the state.“We have decided to launch our party in Rajasthan in the next 1 to -1.5 months. Since we are launching the party in the state, we will definitely contest the next Assembly elections,” he told reporters in Jaipur, news agency ANI reported. However, he did not mention the number of seats from which AIMIM would contest.Owaisi, who is currently on his second visit to Rajasthan’s capital city Jaipur, said that he would also visit other cities in the state to hear from the people, according to a report by news agency PTI. “I have held fruitful discussions with some people in Jaipur during my two visits. Our focus is to introduce the party and strengthen its base. We will be working with full preparations,” he said.Also read | 'Fake history factory': Owaisi on Yogi's ‘Alexander lost to Chandragupta Maurya’ remarkHe said that there was scope for a third front in Rajasthan because the minorities were disappointed with the two national parties, the BJP and the Congress. He also said that his party would focus on Dalit and Muslim population in the state. “It will be our endeavour to provide a voice and political platform to the Muslim minority,” he added.When asked about alliances for the 2023 assembly polls in the state, he said that it was too early to say anything about partnerships and his party was currently focusing on establishing the state unit.Meanwhile, Rajasthan is not the only state where the AIMIM is trying to foray into, as the party had already announced that it would contest from 100 seats in the upcoming 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Earlier in September, Owaisi launched the party’s poll campaign in UP from Ayodhya and said that he had arrived at UP to defeat the BJP. “Our first effort is that the Muslim leadership should be developed in the country's biggest state Uttar Pradesh,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.In the 2020 state assembly elections in Bihar, AIMIM contested in 20 seats and won five of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/asaduddin-owaisi-s-aimim-to-set-up-base-in-rajasthan-contest-2023-assembly-polls-101636996153187.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Air pollution: LMC recovers fine of ₹44,000 from builders for violating norms||As part of its efforts to control air pollution, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has initiated a campaign against uncovered construction sites in the state capital and realised a fine of ₹44,000 from such builders for flouting pollution norms, said an official. So far, the civic body has identified 61 hotspots of pollution where construction activities are going on without any checks.Presently, most of the builders are not covering the construction sites and also not spraying water on building material to control pollution.“The LMC has identified major sources of air pollution like construction work, building material, road dust, pollution in industrial areas, traffic jams and burning of garbage etc. The pollution can only be controlled with the coordination and cooperation of residents, that’s why drives to control pollution are important,” said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi.He said: “For monitoring pollution, LMC is analysing data received from Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) daily.”On Sunday, LMC also rolled out 8 anti-smog guns with advanced sprinklers, 40 tractor mounted sprinklers, 8 mechanical sweeping machines in the field to control air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/air-pollution-lmc-recovers-fine-of-rs-44-000-from-builders-for-violating-norms-101636996343873.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Recruitment scam: SP leader Azam Khan appears before CBI court||Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan appeared before the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court here on Monday in connection with the Jal Nigam recruitment scam where the court also gave a copy of the chargesheet to the former minister. With Khan receiving the copy of the chargesheet, trial in the said scam has begun. Manoj Pandey, special judge, CBI court, had ordered Azam Khan, who is lodged in Sitapur jail, to personally appear before the court. While fixing November 29 as the date of next hearing in the case, the court exempted Khan from personal appearance and directed him to appear through videoconferencing. After his appearance before the court, Khan was taken back to Sitapur jail. Anomalies were reported in the recruitments that took place in large numbers during the previous Samajwadi Party government. Among those recruited then included 122 assistant engineers, 853 junior engineers, 335 clerks and 32 stenographers. The incumbent state government has terminated 122 assistant engineers. The Yogi government had constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the scam. On the basis of the SIT report, an FIR was lodged against Azam Khan and others on April 25, 2018. The CBI court had denied bail to Azam Khan on September 10 this year.Khan has been lodged in Sitapur jail since February 27, 2020. His wife Tanzeen Fatma, who was also lodged in Sitapur jail, got bail on December 22 last year in a forgery case. She is a Samajwadi Party MLA from Rampur. However, his son Abdullah Azam continues to be in jail in connection with a fake passport case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/recruitment-scam-sp-leader-azam-khan-appears-before-cbi-court-101636996043139.html
15-11-2021||Other||PAU’s latest modified wheat variety gets nod for cultivation||Ludhiana A popular wheat variety HD 3086 that the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) developed and released in 2015, has got even better. Varsity scientists have developed a modified version of the seed, named PBW 803, that is much more resistant to Yellow Rust attack than the original variety, removing the major shortcoming. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has approved PBW 803 for cultivation through a central sub-committee that its deputy director general TR Sharma chaired. It can withstand brown rust completely and yellow rust moderately and takes 151 days to mature. In research and adaptive experiments, PBW 803 also gave 5% higher yield than HD 3086. This type is suitable for areas cultivating long-duration paddy varieties as due to high temperature during ripening of wheat in these areas, the yield of other varieties is low. “This variety forms a coarse grain,” stated NS Bains, director, research, PAU.This variety is suitable for general conditions as well as for saline/brackish water and calcareous soils and is available at PAU’s Research Centres, Krishi Vikas Kendras, Farm Advisory Service Centres and seed farms across districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paus-latest-modified-wheat-variety-gets-nod-for-cultivation-101636995802970.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government to launch cow ambulance service, minister says it will be for all animals||The Uttar Pradesh government is all set to launch an emergency cow ambulance service on the pattern of the 108 emergency ambulance service for humans, said Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary, the state’s dairy development, animal husbandry and fisheries minister, on Monday.“These ambulances will be bigger than the 108 ambulances and will be linked to a centralised call centre based in Lucknow. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate the cow ambulance service sometime in December,” he said.The minister also said 515 ambulances are ready for the novel scheme of the Uttar Pradesh government, perhaps the first in the country.“Each ambulance will have a veterinary doctor, a veterinary paramedic, and a driver. The target response time of the cow ambulance service will be 15 to 20 minutes,” he said speaking over the phone from Mathura. Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary is an MLA from Chhata assembly constituency in Mathura district of western Uttar Pradesh.“Just like the 108 emergency service number, the new service would pave the way for the speedy treatment of seriously ill cows or those who meet with an accident on the roads. The name and the emergency helpline number have not been decided yet,” the minister said.He, however, clarified though it will be known as the cow ambulance service, essentially it is meant for all animals — cows, buffaloes, horses, or goats. “They will be available to anyone who calls and for any animal. But generally, we assume, it will be of utility more to the cows as it is the cows that people generally abandon and they are the ones who meet with accidents more on the roads. People don’t abandon goats, buffaloes, or horses”, he said.Chaudhary said that the ambulance will pick up seriously ill or injured animals and take them to the nearest veterinary hospital for treatment.The minister also said the state government has already taken several steps for cow protection and conservation, including the checking of cow smuggling and illegal slaughterhouses and the government was also running a cow adoption scheme in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-government-to-launch-cow-ambulance-service-minister-says-it-will-be-for-all-animals-101636994902817.html
15-11-2021||Other||Rajputs to be accorded back general status, as per demand, says Punjab CM Channi||Jalandhar Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced on Monday that the Rajput community, 15-lakh strong, will be made part of the general category again, from the backward class that they were turned into by the previous SAD-BJP regime in 2016. Channi was in Adampur in the district to lay foundation stones of development projects worth around ₹158 crore; the announcement regarding the Rajputs was made while addressing a gathering at a private resort. Punjab’s Rajputs have, several times in the past, said that they don’t want to be considered backward.“A delegation of Rajputs (Kshatriyas) had met me and demanded that they be reverted to their status of general category. Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh had also requested the same,” he said, adding that the notification on the issue would be issued soon. “The previous SAD-BJP regime accorded our community with the backward class tag, even as we did not seek it. We are a martial class and of our 15 lakh population in state (10 lakh Hindu and 5 lakh Sikh Rajputs) is settled from Lalru (SAS Nagar) to Pathankot district and plains of Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur districts,” Rana KP Singh, MLA from Anandpur Sahib, told HT over phone. In an attempt to woo Scheduled Castes (SCs) too, Channi announced that criminal cases against members of the community, who are accused of violence that broke out in the Austrian city of Vienna after the assassination of Ravidassia sect preacher Sant Rama Nand in 2009 would also be withdrawn. In September this year, however, an additional and district sessions court had turned down the withdrawal plea when Capt Amarinder was the CM. Taking on the SAD, the CM said, “The Akalis have now aligned with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BJP), but the BSP is just a pawn on their political chessboard. In 1996 too, the SAD-BSP were in alliance; the very next year, the SAD ditched the BSP.” “After getting a taste of their own medicine from the BJP, the Akalis have again joined hands with the BSP; but have given them seats like Hoshiarpur and Pathankot, where the Akalis themselves have never won. Secretly, the SAD is still hand in glove with the BJP,” Channi claimed. The CM added that the road leading to the Adampur airport would be named after Guru Ravidass, and a proposal to name the airport after Guru Ravidass would be sent to the Centre. On former MP Mohinder Singh Kaypee’s demand on subdivision status to Adampur, Channi said a survey would be launched to study viability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajputs-to-be-accorded-back-general-status-as-per-demand-says-punjab-cmchanni-101636994782914.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||SC refuses to hear Centre’s plea challenging HC order on Delhi Ration scheme||The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain the Centre's plea against the Delhi high court order directing the Aam Aadmi Party-led government not to stop or curtail the supply of foodgrains or flour to fair price shops.A bench of Justices LN Rao and BR Gavai said the September 27 order under challenge is interim and the matter is listed before the high court on November 22 and, therefore, it would not like to entertain it, news agency PTI reported.“We are not inclined to entertain this matter as it is still pending before the high court,” the bench said and urged the high court to dispose of the matter on November 22 itself with no parties taking any adjournment.Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the matter has “wide ramifications” and is against the provisions of the National Food Security Act (NFSA).He said the Act provides a mechanism for the distribution of foodgrains to the beneficiaries but the question arises that can a state government deviate from the mode of distribution prescribed under the federal law.The Centre submitted before the apex court that the Delhi government’s doorstep ration scheme will create an “opaque” public distribution system and put at risk numerous beneficiaries, especially migrant workers, covered under the NFSA in the national capital.As per the law, the foodgrains are allotted by the Centre to the fair price shops which in turn are distributed among the beneficiaries. “What the Delhi government is proposing to do under the scheme is to select private agents to deliver foodgrains to the door steps of the beneficiaries,” Mehta said, adding that the Delhi government says that the grains will be converted to flour and distributed to the people.The bench said that these arguments can very well be raised before the Delhi high court.Mehta sought stay of the high court order and said that it would have a devastating effect as the Delhi government scheme can disrupt the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card Scheme’ launched last year as it cannot be verified by any means how much quantity is given to whom.He added that doorstep delivery is not permitted under the law and can only be allowed by an amendment to its provisions.“The Fair Price Shops are registered with a Central electronic network and statutory authorities monitor their functioning. Delhi's scheme will disrupt this mechanism,” he said, adding that there will be no accountability as to what quantity and quality these private parties will give to the people.The bench said that nothing is going to change in a week and it will be appropriate if parties make their arguments before the high court.Mehta pointed out that the High Court has permitted something which is not allowed under the Act.“We are not concerned with fair price shops dealers. The Act only provides doorstep delivery to people with disabilities. We are on a larger question. There are people from marginalised sections. There are rickshaw pullers, migrant workers, slum dwellers who do not have any permanent addresses. How will they get ration? We represent them,” the Solicitor General said.Senior advocate AM Singhvi, appearing for the AAP government, said that arrangements are being made for implementation of the scheme.He said the plea before the high court was filed by the fair price shop dealers association and not by the Centre and no one from the central government had objected when the high court order was passed.Singhvi said that a similar scheme was approved in West Bengal by the Calcutta high court and even the Delhi high court can very well hear it and around 90% of beneficiaries in Delhi have opted for doorstep delivery scheme, which is an optional one.He said this scheme will stop any leakages and would benefit the beneficiaries.“If the liquor can be sold through home delivery then why can’t the ration be delivered,” he said, adding that a strong lobby was in play to stall the scheme.The top court also disposed of another plea filed by ‘Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh’ against the same order on the same ground.On November 12, the Centre had alleged that the AAP government is trying to run a parallel distribution scheme.The Centre in it's plea has said that the high court, without affording an opportunity to it, reversed its order of March 22 allowing the Delhi government to curtail the supply of food grain under the National Food Security Act 2013 to the fair price shops.The high court by its order dated March 22 had directed the Delhi government not to curtail or stop the supply of the existing PDS distributors while implementing the Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana.However the high court on September 27 modified, reversed the same without considering that the scheme promulgated by the Delhi government "is an attempt to run a parallel distribution scheme utilising the resources...served under the NFSA 2013 and the same shall have adverse impact upon the beneficiaries of the NFSA, 2013", the Centre said.The petition stated that the high court has passed the interim order placing sole reliance on the submissions and statements by the counsel for the Delhi government and has erred in not appreciating the provisions of the NFSA, 2013 and the adverse effect that shall be caused by the implementation of the Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar ration Yojana.The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme was launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the NFSA, and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament. The term “mukhyamantri” was later dropped from the scheme’s name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-refuses-to-hear-centre-s-plea-challenging-hc-order-on-delhi-ration-scheme-101636992112544.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Return to campus life: Students express excitement||Zikra Masalawala, first year Bachelor of management studies student at KC College, Churchgate, was towards the end of her Class 11 when the lockdown was imposed last year in March. She completed the rest of her junior college via online classes. So when college reopened on Monday after the Diwali break, she was excited at the thought of meeting her friends in college. “I was hoping to sit in the canteen with my friends, sharing stories of the last few months, while munching sandwiches. But the actual experience was not as exciting as I had expected,” said 17-year-old Masalawala. Like most city colleges, students at KC College sat on alternate benches in class. “We were not allowed to sit on the same bench. Even after classes were over, we were not allowed to spend time inside the campus. This experience was very new for all of us,” added Masalawala. The excitement of coming back to college after vacations is replete with sharing stories of the holiday gone by. Only this time, the break lasted nearly 19 months, and students, while sitting in the same classroom, had masks on and observed socially distancing rules. “Last year, we had not met our batchmates at all since everything was online, which made it difficult to have any kind of interaction with fellow classmates. We got introduced to many of our batchmates when colleges reopened before the Diwali break, hence meeting everyone again after the vacations was a different kind of excitement,” said 19-year-old Ashwin Mule, second year commerce student at BK Birla College, Kalyan. Staff welcomes students The staff at KC College had sent welcome banners to all their students and was anticipating very few students to show up on Monday, especially, with final year exams and practical sessions currently ongoing. “We were surprised to see how many first year students made it for class on Monday and how happy they were to sit in their classrooms again, instead of staring at a computer screen,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of the institute. While not more than 15-20 students physically attended lectures in every class on Monday, the principal hopes that the numbers will increase in the coming days. “The rule that only fully vaccinated staff and students can attend physical lectures is keeping more students from attending physical lectures. So in the coming weeks we are sure the student attendance will see an upward trend,” added Bagla. In June, the Centre announced that anyone born in 2003 (turning 18 by the end of 2021) will be allowed to book appointments for vaccination. Although the turnout at BK Birla College in Kalyan was fewer compared to when colleges reopened in October, the excitement among teachers and students remained at peak. At the entry gate, school staff welcomed students, conducted temperature checks and provided basic Covid protocols to be followed. “The circumstances under which we met on Monday was completely different, we could not let ourselves at ease and had to be alert to maintain social distance at all times. But to meet teachers and the school staff who had the same enthusiasm as us was very exciting,” said Rudra Pratap Singh, 20-year-old student of vocational course, BK Birla College. Students were excited to return to offline mode, as during this period, the colleges organise various intercollegiate competitions and festivals. “We hope at least these are conducted on a small scale. We were deprived of such activities amid the pandemic,” said Vartika Sharma, a third year Arts student. Birla College is currently following the hybrid model and students who have practicals are attending batch wise. “During online sessions or in the hybrid mode, often there is a lag in response due to connectivity problems. This makes it difficult to comprehend if the student has understood or they have any doubts. After 19 months of conducting lectures online, this was a welcome change,” said Nitin Barve, professor, BK Birla College, Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/return-to-campus-life-students-express-excitement-101636993424060.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Union power ministry to study Haryana model to reduce line losses||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said that the measures taken by Haryana government to reduce line losses of power distribution companies will be studied by the Central government. Sitharaman, who chaired a high-level meeting with chief ministers, said the Union power secretary will be asked to study Haryana’s model to get a better understanding of the blueprint followed by state, according to an official statement. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said under the structural reforms in power sector, the state government is making dedicated efforts to reduce the gross distribution and commercial deficit of distribution companies under Ujjawal Discom Assuarnce Yojana (UDAY). “During the last five years, the gross distribution and commercial deficit declined from 30.02% in 2015-16 to 16.22% in 2020-21. Further, during 2017-18, Discoms have achieved operating/net profit of Rs. 412 crore by achieving a financial turnaround two years ahead of the target year. This profit was ₹291 crore in the year 2018-19 and ₹331 crore in the year 2019-20,” the chief minister said. Khattar said that Haryana’s power distribution companies have signed MoU with Energy Efficient Services Limited to install 10 lakh smart meters in the next three years. As many as 2.15 lakh smart meters have been installed by December 2020. Smart-metering project by Discoms includes several citizen-centric features such as prepaid facility, trust reading-based billing, missed call facility to view electricity bill online, making bill payment through post offices, consumer satisfaction rate for new connection and average time of delivery services, he said. Khattar said the successful implementation of the state government’s ambitious Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) scheme will pave the way for paperless, faceless service delivery to citizens and also play a pivotal role in improving the ease of living index of the families identified under PPP. The scheme aims to reach out to those at the bottom of the pyramid while upholding the spirit of Antyodaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/union-power-ministry-to-study-haryana-model-to-reduce-line-losses-101636993103000.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Covid deaths in Maharashtra dip from 667 to 386 in 1st 15 days of November||With 19 deaths reported in Maharashtra on Monday, November 15, the first fortnight of the month witnessed a decline of 57% in the fatalities as compared to the corresponding period in October.The state has recorded 386 deaths in the past 15 days as compared to 667 fatalities during the first 15 days of October. Despite the festival season, cases and deaths have declined this month.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll since March 2020 stands at 140,602, while its case tally surged to 6,624,986 after 686 new infections were reported.Pune has recorded the most number of deaths – 19,644 – followed by Mumbai (16,296) and Thane (11,521).State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate attributed the decline in the deaths to the low case count. “The deaths are directly correlated to the number of new cases, and the decline in the daily caseload has resulted in the reduction in fatalities. This is the natural course of the pandemic and it is now coming down after reaching its peak,” he said.Between November 1 and 15, the state reported 14,038 cases, way below the 36,434 infections recorded during the same period in October. The state has witnessed 38.52% decline in the number of new cases recorded in the first 15 days of the month.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said that vaccination has played a major role in the declining number of deaths. “Vaccination has blunted the Covid-19 virus and we are seeing less severity, which has resulted in lower hospitalisation. This has also helped in reducing the deaths. As many people have been infected, they have developed antibodies and in turn, herd immunity has been developed,” he added.Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 182 new cases and four deaths, taking its case tally to 760,511.The state reported positivity rate of 0.84% on Monday as 686 of the 81,631 tests were positive. Maharashtra also clocked 912 recoveries on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-deaths-in-maharashtra-dip-from-667-to-386-in-1st-15-days-of-november-101636992802684.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest outside Hansi SP office enters Day 7||Farmers continued their dharna outside the office of Hansi superintendent of police (SP) Nitika Gahlaut, on the seventh consecutive day on Monday, demanding the registration of an FIR against Bharatiya Janara Party (BJP) MP Ram Chander Jangra and his associates in connection with the November 5 Narnaund incident.Police have booked several farmers, including three by name, on charges of rioting and other sections of the Indian Penal Code, for allegedly breaking the windshield of Jangra’s car during his visit to a dharmshala in Narnaund.The farmers allege that Jangra and his associates had also assaulted the farmers during the protest. Farmers have been sitting on dharna outside the Hansi SP’s office since November 8 after their talks with the administration for withdrawal of FIR against farmers remained inconclusive.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) state youth president Ravi Azad said a mahapanchayat has been called in Jind on Tuesday to decide the further course of action.“Farm leaders will also decide on the roadmap for the Delhi march. We will continue our protest outside Hansi SP office till our demands are met,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-outside-hansi-sp-office-enters-day-7-101636991062416.html
15-11-2021||Other||‘Congress’ Lourenço emerges as top-performing Goa MLA’: ADR report||Three-time Congress legislator Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenço emerged as the top-performing legislator in the Goa Legislative Assembly since the beginning of the current term of the assembly until March this year with a 100% attendance record besides also having asked the most questions, an analysis of the performance of Goa’s 40 legislators across the last four and a half years has revealed. According to the data, Lourenço attended all 80 sittings of the legislative assembly held over the past five years and tabled a total of 1202 questions making him the top ‘performer’ among the MLAs. He is among 11 MLAs spread across political parties with a 100% attendance record. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat was in the second spot in terms of questions asked with 1137 starred and unstarred questions tabled. He, however, attended only 45 of the 80 sittings that the house held over the last four and a half years. According to the ADR report, the Goa Legislative Assembly sat for an average of 16 days per year during which 93 bills were passed, of which roughly half (44) were passed on the same day they were introduced while 19 others were passed within a day of their introduction.“On average, an MLA (including MLAs elected through by-elections) from Goa Assembly has asked 205 questions, including starred questions and unstarred questions and has attended 43 out of 80 sittings held in the assembly,” the report stated. Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), a non-profit public policy advocacy group and Goa Election Watch (GEW) had filed RTIs to the Goa Assembly Secretariat asking for the information pertaining to the performance of the MLAs and the Legislative Assembly to draw up their report.Goa has seen a tumultuous four and a half years with the capital city Panaji witnessing two by-elections after the initial 2017 election. First was when chief minister Manohar Parrikar, who was the defence minister at the time of the 2017 elections, made elected BJP MLA Siddharth Kuncalienkar resign so that he could continue as the chief minister. After Parrikar’s passing away in 2019, a by-election was held to fill the vacancy in which Congress candidate Atanasio Monserrate won. He later moved to the BJP along with nine others a few months after his election.Besides Parrikar, BJP MLA Francis D’Souza also passed away while in office and his seat was offered to his son Joshua D’Souza. The state also saw three Congress legislators resign and get reelected on BJP tickets while ten Congress MLAs switched sides claiming a 2/3rd majority and hence did not incur disqualification under the 10th schedule of the constitution. The session which began with 17 MLAs of the Congress, 13 of the BJP, three of the Goa Forward and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, three independents and one NCP MLA ended with 27 MLA of the BJP, five of the Congress (one has resigned and joined the TMC), three of the Goa Forward, one each of the NCP and the MGP and three independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-louren-o-emerges-as-top-performing-goa-mla-adr-report-101636990944598.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||KGMU employees in Lucknow call for strike over wage revision||LUCKNOW Healthcare services may be hampered at the KGMU as the employees’ council has given a call for an indefinite strike from Tuesday in protest over the delay in cadre restructuring. “For the past five years, we are waiting for cadre restructuring at par with the PGI and wage revision. The state government had promised it, but it was not implemented despite several meetings and assurances at the highest level. We are now bound to call for an indefinite strike,” said Pradip Gangwar, president of the KGMU Employees’ Council. However, the emergency services at Trauma Centre and other departments will not be stopped, he said. Doctors and residents are not part of the strike. There are roughly 9,000 staff at KGMU including paramedics, technicians, nurses, and the strike can hamper work at OPD, diagnostic facilities and even OTs. KGMU officials said they were trying to convince staff members not to go on strike and also preparing contractual staff to work extra to manage services. “We are prepared to serve patients and continue all services. Contractual staff has been asked to work to sustain services and ensure no work gets hampered,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. The medical university gets over 5,000 patients and at least 200 major and minor surgical procedures are conducted every day. Patients come here from different cities of the state. “Our agitation will include both regular and contractual staff apart from nurses and ward boys. At least 5,000 staff members will join us, while approximately 4,000 will do emergency duty and many are already on leave for personal reasons,” said Gangwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kgmu-employees-in-lucknow-call-for-strike-over-wage-revision-101636990823833.html
15-11-2021||Other||Patiala MC rift in open; councillors don’t attend meeting with mayor||Patiala The rift in the Patiala municipal corporation is wide open now with key meetings being postponed, as councillors are refusing to work with mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu. A close protégé of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Bittu has been facing rebellion, with over 40 councillors meeting Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, seeking his removal from the post on Sunday. On Monday too, Mohindra met councillors for the second day in a row. Of 60 seats in MC House, 32 are in Captain’s constituency, 26 in Mohindra’s Patiala (rural) constituency and two in Sanaur.On Monday, the scheduled meeting of Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC), which was to issue work orders for development work worth ₹17 crore, was postponed after three of its key members refused to attend it. These members, senior deputy mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi; Harvinder Shukla and Anil Moudgil submitted in writing to the MC commissioner that they could not attend the meeting, due to unavoidable circumstances. Harvinder Singh Nippy, who is a special invitee to the F&CC meeting, refused to attend it. Nippy was a close associate of Bittu, but has now turned into a foe. They are among councillors who submitted a signed written document, seeking mayor’s removal to Mohindra on Sunday. “We can’t hold any meeting in such an atmosphere when the mayor is openly indulging in anti-party activities,” said Nippy, adding, “We have already authorised cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra to take up the issue of mayor’s removal with state leadership. Resentment among councillors has led them to submit signed documents for immediate expulsion of Bittu.”Mayor Bittu said councillors were stalling development of the city by not attending key meetings. “The F&CC meeting was important as work orders worth ₹17 crore were to be issued. It is strange that councillors, who are members of the finance committee, could come to the corporation premises to submit the application for postponement of the meeting, but did not have enough time to attend the meeting itself,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-mc-rift-in-open-councillors-don-t-attend-meeting-with-mayor-101636990822476.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: All-women police squad start statewide cycle rally for women’s safety||Sixteen women police personnel of Haryana embarked on a 1,194 km bicycle journey on Monday, to spread awareness on women’s safety. Set to last 25 days and cover 23 police districts of the state, the rally has been christened ‘Jagriti Yatra’.Flagging off the journey on Monday, director general of police (DGP) PK Agrawal said the all-women squad will interact with girls and women, including at schools and colleges, to spread awareness about the various crimes against women, ways to prevent these crimes and the roles of various state agencies. Led by assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Panchkula) Mamta Sodha, the 16 police women cyclists will cover a distance of 1,194 km, including rural and urban areas, and organise social awareness events to maximise the outreach.The yatra will culminate on December 10 with a closing ceremony to be conducted at police headquarters, Panchkula, police said in a release. With the slogan ‘Jagruk Naari, Shakti Humari’, the objective of the expedition is to sensitise people and make women aware of their rights and facilities available to them. Haryana DGP PK Agrawal said providing security to women, children, and the elderly is one of the top priorities of the state police. “In some areas of Haryana, women still hesitate to report a crime,” the DGP said. ADGP (telecom & IT) AS Chawla, ADGP (law & order) Navdeep Singh Virk, principal secretary (Haryana transport)-cum-ADGP (SVB) Kala Ramachandran, IGP (modernisation) Amitabh Singh Dhillon, IGP (women safety cell) Bharti Arora, AIG (welfare) Hamid Akhtar, and other officers were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-all-women-police-squad-start-statewide-cycle-rally-for-women-s-safety-101636990702475.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||At 245, Mumbai records season’s worst AQI||The city’s air quality index (AQI) touched a season high of 245 on Monday, settling in the ‘poor’ quality of the AQI, as per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research’s (SAFAR) network of 10 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) across the city. As per the Central Pollution Control Board’s classification, ‘poor’ air quality can cause “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.”Air quality had previously dipped to the ‘poor’ category this month on November 5, a day after Diwali, when AQI touched 215. However, the overall AQI is an average of a network of individual monitors across the city, which shows wide geographic variation in the concentration of pollutants.Of the 10 monitoring locations operated by SAFAR across Mumbai, four of them showed significantly worse air quality than the city’s average on Monday. Colaba registered the city’s most polluted air with an AQI of 345. This was in the ‘very poor’ category, which, as per the Central Pollution Control Board, can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.” Other locations with ‘very poor’ air on Monday included Mazagaon (325), Bandra-Kurla Complex (314) and Malad (306).Experts attributed the spike in pollution, particularly particulate matter (PM) pollutants, to an incursion of moisture after the formation of a low-pressure area (LPA) in the Arabian Sea off Maharashtra’s coast. “Because of the low-pressure area, moisture laden winds have started blowing over the city, pushing up humidity levels,” said Gufran Beig, meteorologist and project director, SAFAR. “When this happens, the air becomes heavier and is able to hold pollutants, especially PM2.5 and PM10, to a greater capacity. This is why one might notice a haze accumulating over some parts. At the moment, winds are not strong enough to disperse this haze but there may be some relief on Tuesday because rains have been forecast.” An AQI of 100 to 199 is considered ‘moderate’, while 50 to 99 is considered ‘satisfactory’ and below 50 is considered ‘good’. AQI in excess of 200 is considered ‘poor’, above 300 ‘very poor’, above 400 ‘severe’ and above 500 is considered ‘severe+’. Andheri registered ‘poor’ air quality, with an AQI of 259, while Chembur (149), Borivali (149), Worli (115), Bhandup (111) and Navi Mumbai (130) all recorded ‘moderate’ air, which can cause “breathing discomfort to people with lung disease such as asthma, and discomfort to people with heart disease, children and older adults,” as per the CPCB’s health advisory. Dr Lancelot Pinto, consultant pulmonologist at Mahim’s PD Hinduja Hospital, said he has seen, over the past month, an uptick in patients coming in with exacerbation of chronic respiratory illnesses. “It’s something all chest physicians are used to at this time of the year. I’d advise people suffering from respiratory issues to check the air quality before leaving their homes, and to remain regular with their medical regimen. Most masks that are used for protection against Covid can also help stave off air pollutants, but during this season they should be regularly replaced as they tend to collect more dust.” Mumbai has also witnessed an uptick in temperature over the past four days, with Monday’s daytime maximum settling at 35.2 degrees Celsius (which is two degrees above normal). This was after maximum daytime temperature dropped to a monthly low of 32.8 degrees Celsius on November 7. “The increasing heat and humidity both are due to a fluctuation in wind directions due to the formation of the LPA over the Arabian Sea. Why the LPA has formed is not clear. It is a very unusual phenomenon in November. It will cause rain bearing winds to strengthen over Mumbai in next 48 hours, and light to moderate showers are very likely over Mumbai and also Thane,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. The highest daytime maximum temperature recorded this month in Mumbai was on November 14, when the mercury touched 36.6 degrees Celsius. Last year, the highest temperature recorded in November was 36 degrees Celsius (on November 15 and 18).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-245-mumbai-records-season-s-worst-aqi-101636990402353.html
15-11-2021||Patna||CISF jawan’s wife shot dead in Munger, had survived bid in 2017||Wife of a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawan, who has survived a murder bid in 2017, was shot dead inside her house by unknown assailants in Bihar’s Munger district early Monday morning, police said. The 28-year-old woman, identified as Deepika Sharma, was married to Ravi Kumar Kundan, a CISF jawan currently posted at Dhanbad in Jharkhand. Police have recovered three live bullets and four empty cartridges from the spot. According to police, the incident occurred at Aamgachhi Tola under Kasim Bazar police station limits around 5 am when the woman stepped out of her room to go to the washroom.Munger superintendent of police Jagunatharaddi Jalaraddi told HT that the woman sustained bullet injuries on her head and chest. She was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared her dead on arrival. He said police are scanning CCTV footages to identify the accused. Meanwhile, the victim’s brother, Sanu Kumar, alleged that her in-laws regularly tortured her while Kundan was in a relationship with another woman. Refuting the allegation, Kundan’s brother Chhotu Kumar told HT that his younger brother has been informed about the incident. “When I tried to come out after hearing the gun shot, I found my room bolted from outside,” said Chhotu, adding that the motive behind the murder is not yet clear. Dharmendra Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of the Kasim Bazar police station, said Deepika lived with her five-year-old daughter, mother-in-law Jayshree Devi and two brother-in-laws. According to the SHO, she got married to the CISF jawan in 2014. After three years of her marriage, armed assailants allegedly attacked Deepika at her mother’s house in Bahadurpur Lohachi on July 28, 2017. In the incident, she received two bullet injuries while her mother died. She and her father are eye-witnesses in the case, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cisf-jawan-s-wife-shot-dead-in-munger-had-survived-bid-in-2017-101636989807143.html
15-11-2021||Patna||Show respect to MPs, MLAs, Bihar tells officials||The Bihar government on Monday reminded its top officials about the need to be respectful to the members of Parliament and state Legislature as they hold important positions in a democratic system. In a letter to all the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, department heads, district police chiefs, divisional commissioners and district magistrates, Chanchal Kumar, principal secretary to the general administrative department, has written that all officers need to cooperate with elected representatives in discharge of their constitutional duties and in case of helplessness, the reasons need to be politely explained. “The officers should stand up to welcome the elected representatives and must see them off with respect as they leave. Polite behaviour has great symbolic value and the officers need to maintain decorum while dealing with them. They must be given priority if they go to meet them and if it is not possible due to lack of prior appointment, that also needs to be politely explained and a suitable time fixed at the earliest. If they have to wait, they must be provided convenient place for that,” says the letter, issued on Sunday. The letter says that despite issuing guidelines from time to time for officers’ conduct with members of Parliament and state legislature, complaints have been received regarding lack of action on their correspondence as per laid down provisions. “If the guidelines are not followed, proper investigation on complaints should be carried out for action against the erring officials, as per rules,” says the letter. Such complaints have also been raised in the Bihar Legislature in the past by the elected representatives, especially from the Opposition. With the winter session set to begin later this month, the government has come up with detailed guidelines once again. It cites the “warrant of precedence” to underline that the members of Parliament are above department secretaries in hierarchy. “If they are invited to any state function, they must be provided place to sit next to the Governor, Chief Justice and ahead of secretaries. If members of both Parliament and state legislature have been invited to any function, the MLAs should find place just after MPs,” it adds. The letter says that the MPs, MLAs or MLCs should approach the department ministers for any information, but if they directly approach the department secretaries or district officials, their correspondence should be promptly addressed in writing. “If any information sought by the leaders is confidential or cannot be provided, it should be politely informed to them. Upon receiving any correspondence from the elected leaders, an acknowledgement or interim reply must be sent immediately,” the letter says. As per the letter, the elected representatives may be provided oral information, provided they have no policy implications or government commitment and are general in nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/show-respect-to-mps-mlas-bihar-tells-officials-101636989803975.html
15-11-2021||Ranchi||J’khand Foundation Day: Birsa memorial park, universal pension scheme launch mark day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated Bhagwan Birsa Munda Smriti Udyan cum Freedom Fighters Museum in Ranchi via video conferencing while Chief Minister Hemant Soren launched a universal pension scheme for vulnerable sections, including the elderly, widows and differently-abled, to mark the state’s foundation day. Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar on the birth anniversary of 19th-century freedom fighter and tribal leader Birsa Munda on November 15, 2000.Virtually addressing the event in Ranchi that was attended by Governor Ramesh Bais, chief minister Hemant Soren and other dignitaries, the Prime Minister said that the museum will demonstrate the contribution of tribal leaders in the freedom struggle and will become a living establishment of the tribal culture. “On this day, due to the strong will of our revered Atal Ji (Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee), the state of Jharkhand came into existence. It was Atal Ji who was the first to form a separate Ministry for Tribal Affairs in the country and linked the tribal interests with the policies of the nation. On Jharkhand foundation day today, I also pay tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee.”Recalling the contribution of tribal leaders in history, Modi said that the country has decided that it will confer a more grand identity to its tribal traditions and valour stories. “In this sequence, a historic decision has been taken that from today every year the country will celebrate November 15 that is the birthday of Birsa Munda as ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas,” he added. Meanwhile, chief minister Hemant Soren launched a universal pension scheme, which would expand the scope of an already existing scheme that already provides a monthly pension to vulnerable groups under below poverty line. As per the new scheme, even APL families would be eligible for the scheme, barring those whose family pays income tax or are in government jobs. At the main statehood day event at the state Secretariat, which was also attended by Governor Ramesh Bais, chief minister Hemant Soren also distributed appointment letters to teachers, agriculture loan disbursement certificate, besides felicitating Padma award winners, translators of storybooks in regional languages on verge of extinction and women who have successfully started alternative business under government scheme after doing their previous trade of selling countrymade liquor. Addressing the event, Soren underlined that his government was taking all measures to mainstream the tribal population that has long been struggling for its share in development. “Today the Prime Minister announced to celebrate Birsa Jayanati as Janjatiya Utsav. It has taken 150 years for such a day to be observed for a tribal leader. We have put in place Birsa Smriti Park that would let future generations know the tribal history and culture,” Soren said. The chief minister said the state failed to achieve what it could after its creation two decades back. “In past 20 years, we don’t even have had an employment regulation in many departments. We are now making and amending rules to ensure locals get jobs. Earlier it could not be done because the soul of formation of this state was never understood,” Soren said. The chief minister also announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for eight individuals who have translated books in regional languages published by the national book trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-foundation-day-birsa-memorial-park-universal-pension-scheme-launch-mark-day-101636989802528.html
15-11-2021||Kolkata||CBI gets complaint for attempted rape during Bengal post-poll violence||KOLKATA: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing complaints of post-poll violence in Bengal following orders of the Calcutta high court, on Monday received a complaint alleging attempted rape in the Nabagram area of Murshidabad district on May 10 during post-poll violence.The family of the woman alleged the local police refused to accept the complaint, a CBI officer said on condition of anonymity. The crime was allegedly committed on May 10, a week after the assembly election results were announced on May 2.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which heads the Union government, hoped to wrest the state from the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress but it was the TMC that won by a landslide. Since then, the BJP has accused the TMC of unleashing violence on the former’s supporters and driving them out of their homes, something the latter has denied, but which is now being investigated by the CBI on court orders. The BJP has alleged that more than 50 of its party workers were killed in the violence.In Murshidabad, where Muslims account for two-thirds population according to the 2011 census, the BJP could not win a single seat.Reacting to the allegation of attempted rape, Murshidabad superintendent of police (SP) K S Rajkumar, said no such complaint was received on May 10 or later. “There was an incident of rape in the district on May 9. The police recorded the statement of the victim and arrested three men. They were produced before a local court. This was not linked to any post-poll violence. No complaint about any attempted rape was received by the police on May 10 or after that date,” Rajkumar told the local media on Monday. BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar took a swipe at the state administration. “Mamata Banerjee’s government has set a record in underreporting crime and not accepting complaints. Nobody listened to the victim at Nabagram. The CBI will unearth the truth,” said Majumdar.TMC secretary-general and cabinet minister Partha Chatterjee said, “The CBI has filed so many cases. This is one more. Let it investigate.”Multiple CBI teams are probing allegations of post-poll killings and rapes following an August 19 order of the Calcutta high court. A special investigation team (SIT) comprising state police officers is investigating other alleged incidents such as assault and arson. On September 2, CBI filed its first charge sheet in the post-poll violence cases against two men, who were earlier held by the Birbhum district police for the murder of BJP worker Manoj Jaiswal. The charge sheet was filed at the Rampurhat sub-divisional civil and criminal court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-gets-attempted-rape-case-during-bengal-post-poll-violence-101636988483868.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Wrong to say Opposition has no face to pit against PM Modi: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar on Monday said that it is wrong to state that the Opposition does not have a face to pit opposite Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. “It is not right to say that the Opposition parties do not have a face [as a PM candidate opposite Modi]. The Opposition had no face when then PM Indira Gandhi had imposed Emergency in the country back in 1975. But Morarji Desai’s leadership emerged after the powers [Opposition parties] stood united behind him,” said Pawar, while speaking to reporters in Nashik.Pawar was commenting on the argument often made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and party’s supporters that there is no alternative to PM Modi’s leadership.NCP is one of the three ruling parties in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government (MVA). Pawar has been a proponent of a united front against BJP, which is ruling at the Centre. On June 25, Pawar had said that a third front was the “need of the hour”, however, it cannot be formed without the Congress. He has also claimed that people wanted an alternative to BJP and it was the responsibility of the political leadership to fulfil their expectations. Pawar had made the statement in the backdrop of a meeting with leaders from many political parties and civil society members that was organised by former Union minister Yashwant Sinha-led Rashtra Manch, at the NCP chief’s Delhi residence early this week.On Monday, Pawar also said that there is no need to give importance to the statement made by Marathi veteran actor Vikram Gokhale, who had supported Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut’s objectionable remarks. Ranaut recently stoked a controversy after she said that India became free only in 2014. “It was not freedom but bheek (alms). We got real freedom in 2014,” she said.“I don’t think statements of such people should be taken into account. Every society has such a type of people,” Pawar said in response.On Sunday, Gokhale, in support of Ranaut’s remarks, said, “I agree with Ranaut’s statement. We were given freedom. Many people were just mute spectators when freedom fighters were hanged [during by the British government]. These mute spectators included many senior [political] leaders. They didn’t save freedom fighters who were fighting against the British.”The NCP chief also expressed his grief on the death of historian and writer Balwant Moreshwar, popularly known as Babasaheb Purandare, who died in Pune on Monday. “Babasaheb Purandare ensured that the younger generations of Maharashtra know their history in a simple language. He made efforts by holding lectures so that awareness can be made created about history. Babasaheb Purandare, who made this contribution, is no longer with us. He preserved the history of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, which became controversial, but I am not a history expert to comment on it. The one who has dedicated his entire life for this work was insulted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wrong-to-say-opposition-has-no-face-opposite-pm-modi-sharad-pawar-101636987702393.html
15-11-2021||Other||Tarn Taran cops who let off drug smugglers continue evading arrest||Tarn Taran Nine days after two head-constables were booked for letting off two drug smugglers by taking ₹40 lakh bribe, they are yet to be arrested. Punjab Police have also failed to recover 21-kg opium that was seized from the smugglers that was not brought on record. On November 6, head constables Sukhwinder Singh and Malkiat Singh, and constables Arpinderjit Singh and Arshdeep Singh were booked at Tarn Taran City police station for releasing Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, and Jaspal Singh of Bhitewind village in Amritsar. Rana and Jaspal were caught with 21-kg opium in Ranjit Avenue area of Amritsar on August 20.Instead of registering a case, the four cops allegedly took ₹40 lakh bribe and the contraband was not confiscated. The accused constables have been arrested. All four cops have been dismissed. The cops were booked after Ranjit was arrested in October by the State Special Operations Cell (SSOC) wing of Punjab Police in Amritsar for allegedly smuggling opium into Punjab. During the interrogation, Ranjit revealed to the SSOC about the August 20 incident. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP-city) Barjinder Singh said, “Our teams are working to nab the accused. Investigation is on.” Sources said some more police officials’ names had cropped up during investigation, but there had been no action in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-cops-who-let-off-drug-smugglers-continue-evading-arrest-101636987582297.html
15-11-2021||Other||Apologise for defaming Punjabis on pollution issue: SAD to Kejriwal||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday asked Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to seek an apology from Punjabis for defaming them by holding them responsible for pollution in Delhi. “Kejriwal’s blame cost the farmers dearly as they were heavily penalised and were charged with criminal cases by the Congress government in state following his allegations,” SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, adding that now it had become clear that most air pollution in Delhi was caused by the industrial and transport within the national capital and that stubble burning only contributed 4-10%. The air quality index (AQI) has reached 1,000 in some parts of the region, while the current index itself is capable of measuring 500, which is classified as hazardous. The Haryana government has ordered closure of schools in four districts in the national capital region; office-goers have also been told work from home to cut 30% pollution caused due to the vehicular traffic. “The Congress government also owes an apology for taking the lead from Kejriwal and victimising farmers instead of providing alternatives to reduce air pollution, a fact which was also pointed out in the Supreme Court on Monday,” added Cheema. He added that Kejriwal has been exposed by the Supreme Court for his lie that farmers are responsible for Delhi’s air pollution. Cheema also asked Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to take notice of the Supreme Court proceedings in the stubble burning case and withdraw cases registered against farmers in the state with immediate effect. “The Congress government should also follow the policy of providing alternatives to farmers instead of going in for heavy penalties,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/apologise-for-defaming-punjabis-on-pollution-issue-sad-to-kejriwal-101636986262124.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Restoration of Maratha Memorial in Pune Camp ahead of event on November 19||A 5,000 square feet Maratha Memorial located at a junction on Coyaji road in Camp is currently being beautified by the public works department (PWD), ahead of the forthcoming celebrations scheduled to take place on November 19.On November 19, 35 ex-servicemen will be felicitated at the venue. The British-era stone monument was constructed to commemorate those who had laid down their lives in World-War I (1914-18). Nearly 1.8 million Indian soldiers fought for the British Indian Army in World War I, and,000 lost their lives. Of them 5,000 came from those areas which are a part of the state of Maharashtra.The memorial mentions every infantry division from the region that fought in the war. The foundation stone was laid in 1921 by the Prince of Wales. The troops and veterans of the Maratha Light Infantry (MLI) of the Indian Army observe the ‘regimental day’ at the memorial on February 4 every year. The memorial houses three cannons belonging to the Mughal era. Farsi language expert Nikhil Paranjpe says that a name of one of the cannons is “Fatte Kusha”. “The cannon is from the artillery of Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb and his name and ranks have been inscribed on the cannon which was moulded in 1667 by Muhammad Ali Arab. Also mentioned is the total weight and usage of gunpowder on the cannon,” Paranjpe says.The board has the name of Sakal Maratha Samaj which has played a central role in the preservation and commemoration of monuments.MLC Anant Gadgil sanctioned Rs7 lakh towards the beautification of the project. Currently, masons are busy fixing granite flooring around the monument and the black stone structure has been painted. Social worker Rajabhau Chavan said, “This national memorial has been ignored by the PCB and is of heritage value which reminds us of the sacrifices made by our soldiers. There is no security guard at the premises which makes it easy for anti-social elements to gain entry into the memorial complex. We demand that the board administration take strong and effective steps for preservation and protection of the historic monument.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restoration-of-maratha-memorial-in-pune-camp-ahead-of-event-on-november-19-101636985902177.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Cruise drug raid case: Mumbai Police SIT records statement of Sam D’Souza||A special investigation team (SIT) of the Mumbai Police, formed to inquire into extortion allegations levelled by witness Prabhakar Sail, against the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede and controversial witness Kiran Gosavi, on Monday recorded the statement of Sam D’Souza, a middleman that purportedly helped Gosavi and team get in touch with actor Shah Rukh Khan’s manager Pooja Dadlani. Under the pretext of shielding Aryan Khan from the cruise drugs bust case, Gosavi and others allegedly extorted ₹50 lakh from Dadlani, but later returned the same, as things didn’t go according to their plan, D’Souza has claimed. D’Souza visited the office of assistant commissioner of police Milind Khetle, the head of the SIT, at around 1pm. He was questioned for more than five hours and his detailed account was recorded by the SIT officers. D’Souza earlier claimed before media that he only facilitated the meeting between panch witness Gosavi and Dadlani. He had also approached the Bombay high court (HC), apprehending arrest by the SIT. The high court, however, had rejected his anticipatory bail application. While seeking anticipatory bail, D’Souza had claimed that one Sunil Patil had called and informed him that two persons — Gosavi and Manish Bhanushali — would call him for NCB contacts. D’Souza further stated that on October 2, he was at a hotel at Fort when Patil called him and informed him that some influential person had been arrested for drugs and wanted D’Souza to verify the name of the person. His application stated that he then went to Green Gate with an associate in a Toyota Innova Crysta car, but did not know who the influential person was. There Gosavi and Bhanushali thanked him for helping them connect to NCB officials and also informed him that the influential person arrested was Aryan Khan. According to D’Souza, Gosavi informed him that Aryan was innocent and was not found in possession of any drugs. Thereafter, D’souza contacted Dadlani through a mutual friend, a hotelier, and met her at Lower Parel in the early hours of October 3. When Dadlani, who was with her husband, said she was the decision-maker, D’Souza introduced Gosavi and Dadlani. “Kiran Gosavi showed her a list, in which Aryan Khan’s name was not present. Gosavi said that he can help Aryan get out of this situation. Thereafter, Gosavi and Dadlani had a discussion and we were asked to stay away. They said the conversation was confidential,” claimed D’Souza’s application. On October 3, when he saw the viral photo of Gosavi with Aryan and news reports about the case, he realised that Gosavi was a fraud. He called Patil, who in turn told him that Gosavi had taken ₹50 lakh from Dadlani through Sail. D’Souza claimed that he, thereafter, connected to Patil and Gosavi and recovered the money and returned it to Dadlani, through her husband. SIT had, in the past, summoned Dadlani, but she didn’t appear before the police citing health issues. D’Souza was earlier questioned by the five-member special enquiry team (SET), headed by NCB deputy director-general of the northern region, Gyaneshwar Singh. The NCB SET is also probing the allegations of payoffs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-drug-raid-case-mumbai-police-sit-records-statement-of-sam-dsouza-101636984582387.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Maharashtra unlikely to be able to cut taxes on fuel: Ajit Pawar||While the Union government has slashed taxes on petrol and diesel, deputy chief minister and finance minister of Maharashtra, Ajit Pawar, expressed hesitation to cut down state taxes to bring down fuel prices further.After performing the Kartiki Ekadashi puja in Pandharpur, Ajit Pawar said that taxes are the only source of income for the state and that cyclones, unseasonal rain and the pandemic have already added to the burden on state finances. He also took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the opposition party in the state, saying that it makes demands that put the state government in trouble.“The state doesn’t have any other source of income apart from taxes. On a daily basis, we spend Rs450 crore on salaries and pensions. It can’t be avoided and it has to be done. Some things we cannot stop and expenses have to be incurred. In addition to this, a lot of funds had to be provided for rehabilitation work after calamities such as cyclones and unseasonal rain. We have also provided farmers a package of ₹10,000 crore. The climate is changing and it has created many problems. We have to pave our way through various difficulties,” Ajit Pawar said while interacting with reporters in Pandharpur.Following the Union government’s slashing of taxes on petrol and diesel which resulted in reduction in record high prices of fuel, the state unit of the BJP demanded that the Maharashtra government, too, cut taxes on fuel to provide relief to the common people. Nana Patole, a Congress leader and ally in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, too, made a similar demand.“Be it any government - state or Centre – it has to run the show depending upon funds collected from taxes. The Centre at least has the option to print currency. The state does not have that option. The opposition party in Maharashtra demands such things so that the state government is in trouble,” Ajit Pawar said.However, Ajit Pawar added that a middle way will have to be found to provide relief to people while not allowing the state’s income to dwindle. “The assembly session is coming up. We will see how a midway can be found to provide relief to common people while not letting the state resources get affected. We will gather information on how fuel prices have reduced in other states from Kashmir to Kerala,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-cannot-cut-taxes-on-fuel-ajit-pawar-101636984461952.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Maharashtra among states with lowest piped water supply||The department of drinking water and sanitation of the ministry of Jal Shakti of the central government has written to the state government, lamenting that despite 13 months into the campaign to provide piped water supply to all public institutions, Maharashtra, regrettably, has among the lowest water supply coverage. The letter comes after the central government’s announcement that since the launch of the campaign on October 2, 2020, 15 states and union territories have achieved 100% coverage of schools and anganwadi centres even as more than 14,000 schools and 19,000 anganwadi centres in Maharashtra are yet to receive piped water supply.As per the Centre’s letter to the state government dated November 12, 2021, as of November 9 this year, over 14,255 schools; 19,897 anganwadi centres; 144 ashramshalas (tribal residential schools); 2,938 gram panchayat buildings; and 8,893 rural health centres are yet to receive piped water supply.The letter from Arunkumar Kembhavi, deputy secretary, ministry of Jal Shakti, reads, “In the post Covid-19 pandemic scenario, the importance of safe drinking water and hand-washing practices especially for children does not need any further emphasis.”However, the letter also draws attention to the under-reporting of these numbers by virtue of certain inconsistencies in the data reported. For instance, while 71,062 schools are reported to have been provided tap water connections; 72,522 schools are reported to have the provision of piped water for hand-washing.The Centre has also set a deadline of November 20 for reporting to the Centre what action will be taken to ensure piped water supply connections to all public institutions. The Centre has directed the state to provide piped water supply to the remaining schools, anganwadi centres, ashramshalas and other public buildings on a war footing and report the same accurately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-among-states-with-lowest-piped-water-supply-101636984282081.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case: Sachin Vaze in judicial custody till Nov 29, sent back to Taloja jail||A metropolitan magistrate court on Monday remanded dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to 14-day judicial custody in connection with the extortion case probe based on the complaint of a Goregaon hotelier. Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh is also an accused in the case. Special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap said the 37th court sent Vaze to judicial custody till November 29, after which he has been taken to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where he was previously lodged following his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases. In August, Goregaon police had registered a first information report (FIR) against Vaze, Singh and others on the basis of a complaint lodged by Bimal Agarwal, who alleged that the accused had extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him. The court has issued a non-bailable warrant against Singh and two other accused in this case. After being sacked from the Mumbai Police chief’s post earlier this year, Singh had alleged that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other officers to collect ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai’s restaurants and bars. Following this, the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate officials have registered cases against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-sachin-vaze-in-judicial-custody-till-nov-29-sent-back-to-taloja-jail-101636984162057.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jind road accident: 2 killed, 9 injured as SUV rams into truck||Two persons were killed and nine others injured after an SUV rammed into a truck near Jind’s Ikkas village on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, police said.The deceased have been identified as Ram Prasad and Dholu Ram of Hisar’s Masudpur village.Jind Sadar police station in-charge Manish said the incident took place when the SUV occupants were returning from a wedding in Jind. “When their SUV reached near Ikkas village, it rammed into a speeding truck. The unidentified truck driver fled the spot after the mishap. We have booked him for rash driving and death due to negligence. As many as nine, of the total 13 occupants, got injured. They are undergoing treatment at a Hisar hospital,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jind-road-accident-2-killed-9-injured-as-suv-rams-into-truck-101636983801985.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri: Bail pleas of Ashish Mishra, two others rejected||The Lakhimpur Kheri district and sessions court on Monday rejected the bail pleas of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra and two others in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, senior prosecution officials said.Ashish Mishra is the key accused in the violence that claimed eight lives on October 3 under the Tikunia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri. He was arrested on October 9 and is in jail.They said the court rejected the bail pleas after hearing arguments by the defence as well as the prosecution.District government counsel (DGC) Arvind Tripathi confirmed that the bail applications of Ashish Mishra and two others, Luv Kush Rana and Ashish Pandey, were rejected. He said district and sessions judge Mukesh Mishra stated in the order that the investigation is still on in the incident of mowing down of farmers by a vehicle and so the court did not find any genuine reason to release the key accused on bail.The prosecution stated that the statements of 60 eyewitnesses have confirmed the presence of Ashish Mishra at the violence site, he said. The prosecution also mentioned the ballistic report confirming firing from Ashish Mishra’s firearm.Last week, a forensic report confirmed that firing was done from the licensed weapons of three accused —Ashish Mishra, his friend Ankit Das and his private gunner Latif alias Kaale —in recent times but there was no clarity as to when and where the firing was done. An official had said the report was not sufficient to say that the firing was done by the same weapons at the violence site as no one suffered a bullet injury in the incident.DGC Arvind Tripathi said defence counsel Salil Srivastava, Chandra Mohan and Awadhesh Dubey maintained that Ashish Mishra was not present at the site of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. He said the defence counsel denied Mishra’s involvement in firing at the incident. The ballistic report did not confirm firing from Mishra’s firearm at the incident site, they said.He said the district and sessions court had earlier deferred the hearing on Ashish Mishra’s bail plea on the prosecution’s request to consider the ballistics report, which was awaited then, on November 2. Earlier, Ashish Mishra’s bail application was rejected by the chief judicial magistrate’s court on October 13.Ashish Mishra, Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana are among the 13 accused, identified and arrested during investigation of the first FIR regarding the mowing down of four farmers by a vehicle after which the violence erupted near Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limits on October 3. In the same FIR, the other accused include Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti, Latif alias Kale, Mohit Trivedi, Rinku Rana, Dharmendra, Nandan Singh Bisht, Sishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam. All the 13 accused are in judicial custody.The second FIR was lodged in connection with the violence during which four others, including two BJP workers, a journalist and the driver of the car, which allegedly mowed down the farmers, were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-bail-pleas-of-ashish-mishra-two-others-rejected-101636983621926.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Homeward bound: Making it through the gate at Gibraltar||Join the sea and see the world, an old adage luring the landlubber doesn’t hold much water these days as naval ships rarely venture out of coastal waters that too to some of our own ports or a couple of nearby countries, such as Sri Lanka, Malaysia and Singapore. But service in Merchant Navy ships does afford many chances to see the wonderful world, not only to the serving crew but also to the families of officers on board. Life on ship no doubt is a monotonous one but there are still moments of adventure now and then. The sea passage from India to the east coast of the US through the Suez Canal and Mediterranean Sea is an enjoyable experience. On one of these ships where I was the chief engineer, my wife joined me for a voyage, leaving behind our children with my parents. We made a much sought after voyage to the Great Lakes which covers North American ports of the US and Canada near the lakes of Ontario, Erie, Michigan and fresh water lake Superior. By the time the ship reached this last named lake, we were 600 feet higher than the sea. This is an engineering marvel when a ship is lifted in steps through different level locks; where water levels are maintained by gravity from the next higher level for raising the ship and by pumps while lowering the ships returning to sea level. The enthusiasm witnessed when a wife joins her husband on board before the onset of the voyage to see foreign places gradually wanes and gives way to boredom, nostalgia, and longing to return home. For my wife too, reaching back home to our children at the earliest became an obsession and our ship’s agonising slow progress towards India across the hostile Atlantic came under her criticism. Even the reading material at her disposal was not helpful in curbing her longing to be home. In one of the old National Geographic magazines on our ship, my wife read an article in which geologists postulate that due to the continuous though imperceptible drift of the African continent towards Eurasia, the passage at Gibraltar between these two continents is getting narrower, imperceptibly, of course. And this would, one day, result in making our present day Mediterranean Sea land-locked and a dry valley once the passage at Gibraltar closes completely, as has happened many times in the past billion years or so. So, after a long passage from Montreal port in Canada across the vast stretch of the Atlantic Ocean, braving one storm after another, we were finally in sight of Gibraltar, the gateway to the East and Mediterranean Sea and further on to Suez Canal. The entry through Gibraltar, when returning from the West is always a relief as it gives the feeling of being almost on land. You see land on both sides, Europe on the North and Africa in the South, when your ship is transiting through Mediterranean Sea. When our ship was approaching the passage to Gibraltar on one sunny afternoon, my wife came on the deck where I was having my usual stroll, and without any preamble, asked, rather told, me to increase the speed of our ship. A request for increasing the ship’s speed is not unusual, but coming from my wife left me puzzled, till she added with a mock concern, “Let’s get through faster before the gate at Gibraltar closes in our face and delays us for many days in case we have to go via the Cape of Good Hope, a longer and stormy passage to India.” It was quite a compliment to the chief engineer of the ship on the performance and speed of his ship, coming, especially as it did from his wife. lalsingh1936@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based retired merchant navy chief engineer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/homeward-bound-making-it-through-the-gate-at-gibraltar-101636982841926.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana will not face shortage of fertilisers, assures Khattar||Assuring farmers that there will not be any shortage of fertilisers during wheat and mustard sowing, Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said eight racks of DAP (diammonium phosphate) manure have been received from the Central government in last three days and at least nine racks will be ordered in next three days. “The supply of fertilisers is being ensured in the entire state by holding regular talks with the Central government. The Centre is providing 7,000 to 8,000 metric tonne DAP and NPK fertilisers everyday. Haryana government will not let the farmers face any kind of trouble,” Khattar said in a statement. Haryana has so far received 2.10 lakh metric tonne DAP out of which, 1.82 lakh MT has been purchased by farmers. Khattar said 3.84 lakh MT urea manure, 93,000 metric tonnes SSP manure and 37,000 metric tonne of NPK manure are available in the state. ‘Don’t pay attention to rumours’ The CM said farmers should not pay attention to the rumours as there is availability of fertiliser in adequate quantity in the state. Farmers should buy fertilisers according to the need, he said. Khattar said farmers can use SSP manure for mustard and NPK manure for wheat and potato in place of DAP. The agriculture department is also continuously making the farmers aware of this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-will-not-face-shortage-of-fertilisers-assures-khattar-101636980861900.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Will inaugurate ‘Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway’ in symbolic way: Akhilesh||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said when Prime minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the Purvanchal expressway on Tuesday, the party cadre will also “symbolically inaugurate the expressway at different locations and might even ride bicycles at these places” as the Ghazipur district administration denied permission for his Rath Yatra.Akhilesh said the foundation of the Samajwadi Purvanchal expressway was laid during his party’s tenure and charged the BJP government with compromising on the quality of the Purvanchal Expressway in a bid to cut down the project cost and inaugurate it before the assembly polls to claim credit.He also claimed that the BJP was five years behind the SP as during the SP regime, fighter jets had landed on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway and now a similar exercise would be undertaken on the Purvanchal Expressway.“They have copied our government’s event. What they are doing, we were done and dusted with it five years ago when our government inaugurated the Agra-Lucknow expressway and touchdowns by IAF combat jets on the expressway had marked the event. They are copying us five years after that,” he said.Amid the government’s denial for permission to his Vijay Yatra from Ghazipur to Azamgarh on Tuesday, the former chief minister called a press conference in Lucknow where, among other things, Akhilesh also raised doubts over the quality of construction of the Purvanchal expressway.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the 340-km expressway connecting the state capital with the eastern districts including Mau, Azamgarh, Barabanki with links to major cities of Prayagraj and Varanasi. The event is scheduled in Sultanpur on the 3.3-km stretch of the expressway, which has been developed as an emergency landing facility for the Indian Air Force. An air show by the Air Force, including touchdown by fighter jets at the airstrip, will mark the occasion.On Ghazipur administration’s denial of permission to his Vijay Yatra, Akhilesh said: “What kind of threat they face from me. Azamgarh is nearly 100 km from Sultanpur, where the PM is going to inaugurate the Samajwadi government’s project. Yet they denied permission for my rath yatra.”“I have heard that boulders have been placed at different points on the Purvanchal expressway to block it. In Sultanpur, SP leaders are being restricted to their homes by the police,” quipped Akhilesh.He said: “It is a government of Ram naam japna, paraya maal apna (A Hindi idiom that means calling someone else’s work as one’s own). The government first changed the name of the Samajwadi expressway to Purvanchal expressway, and then called the expressway theirs. They also compromised on its quality, so much so that during recent rains, the expressway caved in at several places.”Akhilesh claimed that the government, instead of using normal bitumen, used rubber mixed bitumen in the construction of the Purvanchal expressway.“They are calling it mixed polymers. If you drive on the Agra-Lucknow expressway at a speed over 100 kmph, with a tea cup on the car’s dashboard, the tea won’t spill even at that speed. But if you ride the Purvanchal expressway at the same speed, the tea will spill on your clothes and you would also end up with bodyache and backache. The quality of the expressway was compromised,” he alleged. When asked how the SP cadre intends riding bicycles on the expressway (on Tuesday) when the road will be blocked, Akhilesh said: “The Yamuna expressway from Noida was blocked when the SP cadres, including me, had to ride on it. We carried our bicycles on our shoulders and then entered the expressway. After that our government came to power in 2012. Who will be able to stop them (on Tuesday) if they carry their bicycles on their shoulders and then ride the expressway.”He said in the days to come the bicycle’s speed will increase (bicycle is SP’s poll symbol) and people will also cure BJP’s fever (of arrogance). Recalling the inauguration of the Agra-Lucknow expressway, Akhilesh said: “When we had invited Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) to lay the foundation stone for the expressway, he said that he will not do it unless the date of inauguration too is fixed beforehand. He laid the foundation stone, and then inaugurated it 21 months after that.” ON ‘NAME CHANGE’ OF AZAMGARHWhen asked that the BJP government might change the name of his Lok Sabha constituency Azamgarh, the SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said: “We will again change the name. If this government changes the name, then by the time the paint on the signboard dries up, our government will come in.”On Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in the presence of union home minister Amit Shah, had hinted at changing the name of Azamgarh to Aryamgarh. While laying the foundation stone of a state university in Azamgarh, Adityanath said the educational institute will truly turn the district into Aryamgarh. Pankaj Jaiswal9838521535||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/will-inaugurate-samajwadi-purvanchal-expressway-in-symbolic-way-akhilesh-101636980441848.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Woman arrested for stealing phone from civil hospital ward||A 28-year-old woman was arrested after she stole the mobile phone of another woman from the mother and child ward of the Ludhiana civil hospital on Sunday. The accused was identified as Manpreet Kaur of Khud Mohalla. She later told the police that her husband is unemployed and suffers from multiple health problems, including diabetes. She stole the phone so that she would arrange medicines for her husband by selling it. The FIR has been registered on the complaint of Jatinder Singh, who along with his wife, had come to the hospital to see his friend’s newborn child. Jatinder said that his wife had left her phone in the ward, while taking the baby on a round. A few minutes later, she realised that her phone was missing and they informed the police. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balwinder Singh, the investigating officer, said police immediately swung into action and caught the woman with the phone. The ASI added that the accused had come to the hospital with the intention of stealing valuables from patients and their attendants. A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against her. On Monday, the court sent her to one-day police custody. The incident has once again raised questions over the security inside the mother and child ward. On November 6, a woman had taken away a newborn girl from the ward. It was later found that she was suffering from mental health problems, so the newborn’s kin had withdrawn the case after being reunited with the infant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-arrested-for-stealing-phone-from-civil-hospital-ward-101636979901827.html
15-11-2021||Other||Kerala HC quashes plea against former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan||The Kerala High Court on Monday dismissed a plea filed by former police officer S Vijayan wherein he accused former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan of influencing senior officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by gifting them land in Tamil Nadu. Vijayan is one of the 16 accused facing a CBI probe for falsely implicating Narayanan in the ISRO spy case of 1994. After the CBI filed a case against him following the judicial commission’s recommendation, he moved the court with a fresh plea in July this year seeking a probe into alleged land deals between Narayanan and CBI officials who investigated the case. In his petition filed with land records of some properties in Tamil Nadu, Vijayan contended that Narayanan and his son owned large tracts of land and they later handed over them to CBI officials to weaken the case against him. He said materials with him were sufficient to book Narayanan and officials under the prevention of corruption act.The single bench of Justice Narayana Pisharadi told him that mere encumbrance certificates were not enough and sale deeds and other records were required to prove his charges. Later the court quashed his plea with a suggestion that he can move the trial court after furnishing sufficient documents. Two months back the High Court granted bail to Vijayan and other officials facing the fresh trial. Reacting to the latest decision of the court Narayanan said, “the truth will always succeed”. The ISRO spy case surfaced in 1994 after two women from the Maldives were arrested in the state capital on charges of overstaying in the country. Later, police arrested ISRO scientists Nambi Narayanan and Sasikumaran Nair after their numbers figured in their dairies. Heading the cryogenic division of the ISRO, Narayanan and Nair were charged with espionage and other sections. But in 1995, both were acquitted after the CBI inquiry and the case was dismissed. Though the state government filed an appeal in the apex court, it was also rejected in 1998. Later, Narayanan fought a long legal battle and last year the Supreme Court ordered a compensation of ₹1.30 crore and appointed a one-man DJ Jain commission to inquire fake case against him. Following the commission report in June this year, the CBI filed a new case against many including former Kerala police chief Sibi Mathew, former deputy director of Intelligence Bureau RB Sreekumar and a host of former Kerala police and IB officials for falsely implicating him in the case. ends...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-hc-quashes-plea-against-former-isro-scientist-nambi-narayanan-101636977562839.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||What Supreme Court said on Delhi pollution||The Supreme Court on Monday took up the petition filed by a group of concerned citizens as the air quality index in Delhi stood at 343 on a scale of 500.The apex court’s action comes a day after the national capital and neighbouring state of Haryana announced measures to curb pollution.Also Read: Delhi pollution: Govt to hold meetings with DTC and metro officials to increase frequency of public transportEnlisted below are what the Supreme Court said during the hearing1. The Supreme Court expressed displeasure over the executive meeting that was held earlier. "This is not the way we expected an executive emergency meeting to be held. It is unfortunate that we have to set the agenda. The sum and substance is construction, power, transport, dust and stubble burning are the issues. Ask the committee created and decide how to implement the action plan by tomorrow evening," the court said.2. The Supreme Court raised the issue of stubble burning once again reiterating that it is not a major issue. "In the last hearing (on Saturday), we mentioned stubble burning is not a major issue, city related issues are there. So if you take steps on them, the situation will improve," the court said.3. Chief Justice NV Ramana, who was a part of the panel of three judges considering a petition, urged centre and state to impose work from home measures for employees. "We direct the centre and states of the national capital region to impose work from home for the meantime," he said.4. The Supreme Court also ordered for the halting of vehicular traffic that is not essential, and to cut industrial pollution, limit dust.5. The apex court also asked for bringing in steps to control crop waste burning in the neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/what-supreme-court-said-on-delhi-pollution-101636975445795.html
15-11-2021||Patna||Bihar CM rules out review of liquor law, says it has no lacuna||In an apparent rebuff to state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Sanjay Jaiswal’s demand for a review of the prohibition law, Bihar minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that there was no lacuna in the act and those questioning it were free to do so. Talking to media persons after the customary Janata Darbar—a weekly event where people interact with the CM and seek a solution to their issues—Kumar said he hardly cared about what others say about the law. “There is no flaw in the prohibition act. People strongly protested the government’s bid to allow the sale of Indian foreign-made liquor (IMFL) through certain corporations after banning the country liquor and did not let the shops of foreign liquors be open, forcing the government to announce the complete ban in the next four days,” Kumar recalled. Jaiswal had questioned the efficiency of the liquor law and asked for a thorough review of the act, alleging that the condition of his constituency in West Champaran was miserable owing to rampant availability of liquor in connivance with the police and administrative officials. Jaiswal expressed his anguish over blatant breach of the law and deaths of over 40 persons due to consumption of spurious liquor in five districts recently. The CM said, “some people” were indulging in creating a wrong impression about Bihar. The Majority of people are good here and are in favour of continuing with the ban. There are certain elements, who can’t be corrected. “Mahatma Gandhi came to Champaran in Bihar and launched the freedom movement, which spread across the country with great intensity and saw the country attaining its Independence in 30 years,” said Kumar, underlining the importance of Bihar for being a pioneer state for social reforms. To buttress his argument in support of the law, the CM claimed that crime had come down after the liquor ban. “Law and order have improved after 2016 since the prohibition law came into force. Road accidents and casualty came down outstandingly,” said Kumar, adding that every act of the administration would be reviewed concerning the instructions passed from time to time to the police to enforce the ban on Tuesday. In a veiled remark against Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s frequent attack on him, Kumar said some people were in the habit of remaining in the news by criticising him. He also refused to comment on actor Kangana Ranaut’s assertion that the country got real freedom post-2014 and the one attained in 1947 was begged and said such people needed to be mocked at.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-rules-out-review-of-liquor-law-says-it-has-no-lacuna-101636975822727.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Poor AQI in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi drives tourists to Himachal||With the air quality index (AQI) in the plains of North India at dangerous levels, visitors from neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Delhi are headed uphill to Himachal Pradesh for a breather from the pollution. Also read: SC on Delhi-NCR pollution: Emergency meet, work-from-home, an appeal to farmersTourist resorts in the hill state are seeing an unusual rush and those associated with the travel and hospitality sectors are upbeat with the rise in footfall, particularly after a lean patch due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Hotel occupancy in Shimla and its outskirts was up to 80% over the weekend, while during weekdays it was a considerable 40%. “The occupancy during the week is encouraging. The AQI is worsening in cities and people want to enjoy the pleasant weather so they are headed to the hills. For us, it is like a fresh start of our business post the pandemic that crippled operations for two years,” said Rashit Malhotra, a Shimla-based hotelier. Visitors were happy to be amid lush hills and dense forests far from the pollution in the plains. “It’s been a refreshing experience. We are fortunate to be in Shimla to be able to enjoy the fresh air,” said Mumbai-based Sirda, a tourist who goes by one name. Another tourist, Themmung Mangkung from Manipur, said the clean environment reminded him of his native state. “However, I live in Chandigarh, which is a clean city but the AQI has dipped there too in recent days. I was in Delhi during Diwali festival and it was suffocating. I had difficulty breathing, but here all is well,” he said. Charanjeet Singh from Ambala, who was in Shimla along with his family, said: “The weather and air quality in Ambala are poor nowadays. It’s a relief to be in the hills”. According to the state tourism department, nearly 1.8 crore domestic and foreign tourists visit Himachal Pradesh annually. The tourism industry is the backbone of the state’s economy. In 2019, nearly 1.7 crore tourists, including more than 3.82 lakh foreign tourists, visited the state with a jump of nearly 5% in comparison to 2018. For the last two years, the tourism sector has been closed due to the pandemic and tourism activities have now started to pick up again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poor-aqi-in-punjab-haryana-delhi-drives-tourists-to-himachal-101636974741314.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze remanded in 14-day police custody in extortion case||A local court in Mumbai on Monday sent former encounter specialist Sachin Vaze to 14-day police custody in connection with an extortion case.A case of extortion was registered on July 23 against Sachin Vaze, former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, and others at Goregaon police station, and the investigation was handed over to the Mumbai Crime Branch, news agency ANI reported.Singh had alleged that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who had been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate, had indulged in "malpractices" and asked suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month.Deshmukh has accused Singh of making false allegations against him.ALSO READ | Extortion case: Police ask court to declare Param Bir Singh ‘proclaimed absconder’The National Investigation Agency arrested Vaze in March in connection with the investigation into the recovery of explosives from a car parked near Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai. Vaze is the prime accused of placing an explosives-laden vehicle near Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani's house Antilia in Mumbai on February 25.Vaze was also accused of the murder of Mansukh Hiren, the owner of the vehicle that was found containing explosives materials outside Antilia. Hiren was found dead on March 5 in Thane. He was dismissed from service in May 2021.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachina-vaze-remanded-in-14-day-police-custody-in-extortion-case-101636971915664.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Can killing of Milind Teltumbde put an end to urban network of Maoists?||For over 25 years, the security forces of Maharashtra and the other parts of the country were chasing him. But Milind Baburao Teltumbde often eluded them. Finally, on Saturday, Teltumbde, a central committee member of the CPI (Maoist), was among 26 persons killed in the operation carried out by C-60 wing of Maharashtra police.Teltumbde is among others charged in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case in which agencies have invoked over a dozen charges including the dreaded Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). If the top Maoist commander was instrumental for the growth of the Maoist movement in Gadchiroli, Rajnandgaon and Gondia, Teltumbde was also among the key members of the CPI (Maoist) group coordinating expansion of activities of the banned outfit, according to senior police officials involved in various anti-Naxal operations.His killing, many in security forces in Maharashtra say, will put breaks on activities of the banned outfit.Teltumbde, as per National Investigating Agency (NIA), was in touch with some of the other arrested accused in the Elgar Parishad case about the urban network of CPI (Maoist). The NIA also claimed that as per the evidence on record that in June 2018 Teltumbde discussed the Elgar Parishad programme (with other members) which was organised at Pune and the subsequent in-roads made by the CPI (Maoist) in the organisation and execution through the members of Kabir Kala Munch and other frontal organisations.With a reward of ₹50 lakh on his head, Teltumbde orchestrated many attacks on security forces. Milind’s brother Anand Teltumbde, a noted academic and writer, is also one of the accused in the Elgar case and is lodged in Mumbai’s Taloja jail awaiting trial.For his involvement in various violent activities, state police forces were constantly on his lookout. In one of the documents presented by Pune police to the court during the Elgar hearing, Teltumbde appeared thanking advocate Surendra Gadling (another Elgar accused) for providing legal aid to the Maoists. “With the support of Gadling and comrade Varavara Rao, various activities could be possible in various parties of the country,” the letter stated.The man believed to be in his late 50s joined the Maoist movement in 1980 after a quarrel with the then manager of Western Coalfields Limited in Chandrapur. Hailing from Rajir village of Wani tehsil of Yavatmal district of Vidarbha in Maharashtra, Teltumbde completed his ITI and joined Western Coalfields Limited as a junior technician when he became active in its workers’ union.After becoming active in the Maoist movement, Teltumbde married Angela Sontakke, who was arrested in 2011 for her alleged association with CPI (Maoist) and was later released on bail, at Chandrapur in 1994. For many years, Teltumbde had hitherto been operating under the aliases ‘Jeeva’ and ‘Deepak’ in the forested regions of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh, was the secretary of Maharashtra unit of CPI(Maoist). Over the last few years, he has been working as in-charge of the CPI(Maoist) Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-can-killing-of-milind-teltumbde-put-an-end-to-urban-network-of-maoists-101636974381488.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Countdown to PMC polls:Poorly developed SRA schemes, parking issues irk residents in Pune Cantonment||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-controlled localities under the Pune Cantonment assembly segment captures the dichotomy of rich and poor, with problems of local population varying according to areas under it. Pune Cantonment is a mixture of areas falling in the Pune Cantonment and Pune Municipal Corporation. Most parts falling in these areas are old with a very limited scope to introduce major civic projects, although mass transport project like the Metro rail will benefit residents from some of the areas like Bund garden road and DP road. The irony is that in last five years there has been no upgradation or redevelopment done of existing residential buildings. The ward offices that cover Camp are Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil ward, as well as a section of the Kasba-Vishrambaug wada ward office. On the one hand, areas like Boat Club and Koregaon Park are upmarket, Bhavani peth hosts a wholesale market, while Tadiwalla road has major slums, which were in focus during Covid as cases rose sharply there. The traffic at Bhavani peth, encroachments and poorly developed SRA schemes are major issues, along with a water scarcity. “The parking issue is grave here with many offices coming in. Although the river is a blessing for us, hyacinth cropping up every year leads to a mosquito menace and the PMC has not done anything,” said Sanjay Lalvani, a 55-year-old businessman residing on Boat Club road. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has edged its way into what has always been a Congress bastion and currently, both have an equal number of elected members from these areas. The Bhavani Peth ward office has been in focus for various alleged civic malpractices. The opposition parties have claimed that “scams” are being carried out in this ward, with bills being issued for works not done. In May this year, a contractor submitted bills without even carrying works related to drainage pipelines . In another instance, funds were allocated for a specific work though it was used for elsewhere.During the Covid surges, slums like on Tadiwala road or at Kashewadi in Bhavani peth, reported highest number of fatalities during the first wave. PMC had to take measures on a war footing. Incidentally, PMC’s health facility for contagious diseases, the Naidu Hospital, along with private hospitals like Ruby Hall and Jehangir are also in the same area. The city’s traditional educational powerhouses – minority-aided and private English medium- are all situated here. Rajesh Shah, a 41-year-old businessman said, “As a resident living on Bund Garden road we face various problems like traffic jams encroached footpaths. Given that there are important hospitals in the area, people park their vehicles anywhere. Even garbage management is not effective.” Asmita Nair, who works for a bank in the area, says, “There are many issues like road digging and poor garbage management. Traffic jams and hawkers are an issue. It is difficult to walk on the roads.” Yashodeep Kamble, 33, who works with a food delivery company said, “We voted for change in 2017. We were hoping to get a boost for slum development projects, but no such project has happened. If PMC carries out slum development, it would help.” Staff from the Bhavani peth ward office, speaking anonymously said , “The political war is intense in this area. If administration wishes to do any work, the other party opposes it.” For the ruling BJP the effective governance of the Naidu hospital in handling the Covid crisis and the now upcoming civic-run medical college are the two bright spots in an otherwise murky could over the Camp areas. Congress leader and corporator from the Pune station area Arvind Shinde blamed the BJP for not doing much to improve civic facilities in this area. “This is an old part of the city so there is very little scope to bring new projects here. However, it was expected that the BJP will upgrade existing infrastructure to offer better services to people. Instead, this area became infamous due to BJP-controlled PMC releasing payment to contractors without doing works on the ground. Except the proposed medical college at Naidu Hospital, there has been no major work carried out by BJP.” With the PMC planning to start a medical college in the name of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee from this academic year, the standing committee of the civic body has approved ₹1.97 crore for furniture, and over ₹62 lakh for buying various books as part of the initial purchase Earlier on October 16, the central government gave its clearance for the PMC-run Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College to begin from this academic year. The medical college will be located at and attached to the Kamala Nehru hospital and Naidu hospital in the city. This year, a total 100 students will get admission and constitute the first batch. The ruling BJP claimed that various civic projects were pending and were completed during the past five years. “We upgraded the Naidu Hospital and even the civic body run medical college is coming there from this academic year. The water pipeline and drainage lines were old and were replaced,” said Archana Patil (BJP). BJP leaders also claim credit over approving river beautification project, which will benefit most areas under Bhavani peth. Earlier last month, the civic body approved river beautification project under Pune River Rejuvenation project. The PMC has also invited bids worth Rs360 crore for the first phase of the riverfront development project for development of Mula-Mutha River from Sangamwadi to Bund Garden Bridge (Stretch-9).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/countdown-to-pmc-polls-poorly-developed-sra-schemes-parking-issues-irk-residents-in-pune-cantonment-101636974201674.html
15-11-2021||Patna||‘Evidence of Britain’s bonding with Bihar and its people still preserved’: UK-based art lover||While the influences of the colonial rule in the country have often been discussed and debated, many might not be aware of Bihar’s connections with Britain. Few may be aware that the first restaurant of Indian cuisines, Hindoostane Coffee House in George Street in Central London was launched by a man from Patna, Sheikh Din Mohammad, or Sake Dean Mahomed as he was popularly known there. Stoke Row village near Reading in Oxfordshire is mainly famous for the Maharaja’s Well which was commissioned by Maharaja Isree Prasad Narayan Singh in the 1860s. Even Mohammad Yunus, the first premier of the Bihar province under the British, as a chief minister was called in those days, rests in peace at Brookwood cemetery in Woking, London while the house in London where Raja Ram Mohan Roy, the Indian scholar and reformer, once stayed, still carries his nameplate and the objects he used at this house have also been well preserved. This bonding of Bihar and other parts of the country with Britain came alive when Bihar origin surgeon-turned-art lover, Dr Mohammad S Siddiqui, presented over 100 pictures of these places and structures at the Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library (KBPL) on Saturday. The art enthusiast, who is now based in the UK, was discussing the ‘Legacy of India in Britain’ at a session. “It’s not that Bihar and other parts of our country have remained dotted with the remains of colonial rules. Bihar and its people have left behind a rich legacy in Britain and the country still have evidence of contributions made by other Indians there. The most important thing is that most of these remains of the old world bonding with Bihar and India have been well preserved and are still in good condition,” Siddiqui said. The Victorian era Maharaja’s Well in Stoke Row village is still in good condition. Even the ‘Well Cottage’ that the Maharaja got built at the Cherry Orchard near the well is now a tourist spot, he added. Even the centenary year of the Maharaja’s Well was celebrated by the locals in 1964, he said.“Bihar’s connection with Britain is still fresh in the life in Britain. The herbs of medicinal use which are still used there were introduced by Dean Mahomed of Patna. He had also introduced ‘shampooing’. Then there‘s the grave of the first Premier of Bihar, Mohammad Yunus. Many Indians go there to pay tributes,” he said. In fact, most of these places have turned into tourist spots, he added. Dr Shaista Bedar, director of the KBPL, said the connections between Bihar or other parts of the country and Britain have been a part of history now. “It represents different phases of cultural exchange and bonding between the two countries. We must feel happy that the contributions that our countrymen made in Britain are respected and have been given due dignity,” she said. Importantly, these remains of bonding are still intact and in good shape, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/evidence-of-britain-s-bonding-with-bihar-and-its-people-still-preserved-uk-based-art-lover-101636973002953.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||With 2,569 Dengue cases last week, Delhi sees over 5,200 cases, 9 deaths this year, says civic body||More than 5,200 cases of Dengue disease were reported from the national capital in 2021, the south Delhi municipal corporation (SDMC) said. This also included the 2,569 infections logged in the past week alone. Also, nine people have succumbed to the disease so far.According to a bulletin from the Anti Malarial Operations (HQ), 5,277 Delhi saw 5,277 Dengue cases as of November 13 (Saturday). Of the total cases, 3,740 have been reported in November alone, with half the month remaining, the data showed. Also, 1,196 cases in October and 217 cases in September have been reported.Also read | HC seeks responses from Delhi govt, North MCD over steps to control dengueThe city saw 4,431 cases in 2016, 4,726 cases in 2017, 2,798 cases in 2018, 2,036 cases in 2019, 1,072 cases in 2020. The 5,277 cases this year is already higher than the total confirmed infections per year in the last five years.In the last five years, the number of cases could be seen spiking in the month of October and declining in November. However, this year, in November, the city saw more than twice the number of infections in October.Meanwhile, experts have suggested that the Dengue cases in the city might decline after mid-November because of the dip in temperatures. Suresh Kumar, the medical director at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) in Delhi, said on Saturday that the Dengue cases in the city had stabilised and would reduce in the coming days. “Dengue cases in Delhi have stabilised and will decrease in two to three days as the temperature is dipping and mosquito breeding reduces in this season,” news agency ANI quoted the expert as saying.Rajni Kherwal, medical superintendent at Swami Dayanand Hospital, also made similar comments and had earlier said, “There were many dengue patients who were admitted to ICU wards with signs of bleeding, platelets going down, DHF among others. We believe that the cases will be reduced by mid-November.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-2-569-dengue-cases-last-week-delhi-sees-over-5-200-cases-9-deaths-this-year-says-civic-body-101636970911139.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 2,569 dengue cases, highest since 2015 outbreak||Dengue infection tally in Delhi almost doubled to 5,277 with over 2,500 new cases added in just one week ending November 13, according to the report released by the municipal corporations of Delhi. This is the highest number of cases since Delhi’s largest outbreak in 2015 that affected almost 16,000 people and killed 60. In comparison, 4,431 cases were reported in the Capital a year later in 2016 and 4,726 cases in 2017, which continued to drop sharply to reach 2,798 cases in 2018 and 2,036 cases in 2019; which dropped further by nearly 50% in 2020, when only 1,072 infections were recorded. Of the total cases this year, 3,740 cases were reported in November alone. Delhi usually sees dengue cases peak in October with the numbers falling by November as the temperature goes down. This year, however, due to the erratic and intermittent rainfall, hospitals are still reporting a large number of dengue cases. The 100-bed fever ward at Lok Nayak hospital is always 80 to 90% full, with the hospital admitting 20 to 30 dengue patients every day, a senior doctor said on November 13. No new dengue deaths were added to the toll in the last week. So far, the infection has killed nine city residents – six of who were children, according to data provided by the corporations, which are the nodal agencies for collecting data from city hospitals. Also Read | Air pollution: Tips to protect yourself from toxic airThe toll is the highest since 2017 when 10 deaths due to the infection were recorded in the city. So far, the expert death audit committee has examined 34 deaths reported by city hospitals in September and October, of which, nine were confirmed to have been caused due to dengue contracted in Delhi. In October, Delhi government made it mandatory for all hospitals, clinics, and diagnostic centres to report every case of dengue, malaria, chikungunya, and any other vector-borne disease under the epidemic diseases act. This is likely to have added to the numbers since many health institutions didn’t use to report their cases earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-2-569-dengue-cases-highest-since-2015-outbreak-101636970189220.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Last rites of Babasaheb Purandare held with state honours in Pune||The last rites of historian and author Babasaheb Purandare was conducted with state honours in Pune on Monday.The historian passed away early this morning at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital of Pune around 5 am after a brief illnessBabasaheb Purandare was honoured with Padma Vibhushan in 2019.The Maharashtra government honoured him with Maharashtra Bhushan Award in 2015 and Madhya Pradesh government has awarded him the Kalidas award.Babasaheb Purandare was a celebrated author and historian and was known for his work on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.He wrote several books on Shivaji, his administration and the forts from the king's era. As a theatre enthusiast, Purandare had directed 'Jaanta Raja', a play on Shivaji's life.Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in August, attended a function to mark Baba Saheb Purandare entering the 100th year of his life.In a series of tweets, the Prime Minister on Monday said that Babasaheb Purandare left a major void in the world of history and culture."I am pained beyond words. The demise of Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare leaves a major void in the world of history and culture. It is thanks to him that the coming generations will get further connected to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. His other works will also be remembered," he said.PM Modi further said that Babasaheb Purandare was witty, wise and had a rich knowledge of Indian history and he had interacted with him very closely over the years."Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare was witty, wise and had a rich knowledge of Indian history. I had the honour of interacting with him very closely over the years. A few months back had addressed his centenary year programme," the Prime Minister wrote."Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare will live on due to his extensive works. In this sad hour, my thoughts are with his family and countless admirers. Om Shanti," PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/last-rites-of-babasaheb-purandare-held-with-state-honours-in-pune-101636967624840.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi pollution: AAP blames Punjab farmers to hide its failures, says Congress||The Congress party on Monday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government of blaming farmers in Punjab to hide its failures to tackle the rising air pollution in the national capital. The Congress' attack comes in the context of the Supreme Court pulling up the Delhi government over its affidavit regarding air pollution in Delhi.Taking to Twitter, the Punjab unit of the Congress party said on Monday that the Arvind Kejriwal government stood “naked in public” as the Supreme Court took off its “anti-farmer robes”. “AAP has so long blamed farmers of Punjab to hide its failures in Delhi but today the apex court discredited these claims, slamming the state govt,” the Congress further said.Also Read| Smog chokes Capital: Supreme Court pulls up Delhi govt, Centre, NCR statesEarlier in the day, the Supreme Court hit out at the Delhi government over its affidavit by saying that the document was all about farmer bashing and how the entire cause of pollution in the city is stubble burning. Pointing out that the Kejriwal government is passing the buck to the municipal commissioner, the top court said, "This kind of lame excuse will force us to hold an audit of the revenue you are earning and spending on popularity slogans."The Delhi Govt stands naked in public today as Supreme Court takes off its anti-farmers' robes.@AamAadmiParty has so long blamed farmers of Punjab to hide its failures in Delhi but today the apex court discredited these claims, slamming the state govt.#KejriwalAgainstFarmers https://t.co/qtUtXzYsxuBoth the Congress and the AAP have been at loggerheads over several issues, including employment and debt waiver for farmers, ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab. Two weeks ago, AAP's national convener and Delhi chief minister Kejriwal promised a dedicated farm policy to boost the state's agriculture sector.The Delhi government, on many occasions, has blamed stubble burning from neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh as a major reason for the worsening air quality in the national capital. Previously, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai urged the Centre to hold a joint meeting of Delhi and neighbouring states on the issue of stubble burning.Hindustan Times reported last week that farm fires in the second week of November have been at a record high.Meanwhile, farmers in Punjab have alleged that the Congress government has done nothing to provide machinery and compensation for controlling stubble burning in the state.“We are helpless. The government has not provided us with compensation of ₹7,000 and machinery needed to control stubble burning. If we would not burn the stubble, our next crop will be late,” Gopi, a farmer from Punjab, told news agency ANI.Another farmer told the news agency that the government has done nothing on ground and all promises only exist on paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-pollution-aap-blames-punjab-farmers-to-hide-its-failures-says-congress-101636962072582.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Smog chokes Capital: Supreme Court pulls up Delhi govt, Centre, NCR states||The Supreme Court on Monday lamented that it was being “forced to set the agenda” on the pollution crisis in the National Capital Region (NCR) as it pulled up the Delhi government for “passing the buck”, the Centre for not proposing “drastic measures”, and NCR states for not doing enough to control what has become an annual public health crisis.In a hearing on Monday, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, gave the Centre and state governments of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh 24 hours to hold an emergency meeting and prepare a list of urgent steps that can be put in place immediately to bring down the levels of pollution in the “forseeable future”. The bench, which also included justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant, listed out the areas of concern, including work-from-home for all offices in Delhi, and dissuading farmers from burning stubble for two weeks in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Also Read: Delhi’s AQI improves marginally, still in ‘very poor’ categoryThe focus of the court, however, was clearly on emergency mitigation to control local sources of pollution, asking the Centre and the states to focus on curtailing activities such as construction, traffic, industries, and power plants.The court said it wanted a report by Wednesday morning, and would pass appropriate directives based on the submissions.“It is very unfortunate we have to set an agenda for the governments. When we heard this matter on Friday, we thought you will conduct a meeting and come up with something concrete. But nothing is there... tell us about the drastic steps that you must take to bring down the levels of pollution in the next two-three days,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre.The court’s directions come at the time when pollution in the region has oscillated between “severe” and “very poor” - hazardous levels on the Air Quality Index (AQI) scale - as they do every year in the first few weeks of November, and none of the measures put in place by administrations at various levels seem to have worked. FARM FIRESWhen the hearing commenced on Monday, senior counsel Vikas Singh, appearing for the 17-year-old petitioner Aditya Dubey, blamed politics for not taking action against farmers even though stubble burning has been a major contributor to air pollution in the pre-winter weeks. He said that because Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will hold assembly polls next year, no steps are being taken. “We don’t want any politics. We only want pollution to come down. We are not concerned with election or politics. Let us see how pollution can be brought down,” retorted the bench.On his part, the SG read out from the affidavits filed by the Union government regarding the steps taken by various authorities, and conceded that stubble burning is not a chief contributor to the worsening air quality. He said that farm fires contributed a meagre 10% to the bad air a day ago and they are problematic only during the two months in the pre-winter and winter weeks.“Are you agreeing in principle that farm fires are not a chief reason for rise in pollution? So, all the hue and cry over farm fires actually had no legal, scientific or rational basis... your own affidavit shows that stubble burning contributes only 4% annually. So, we are trying to target something which is an insignificant source of pollution,” said the bench.It pointed out that the Centre’s own submissions showed that 75% of the pollution is due to three factors - industries, road dust, and vehicles. “If we have to reduce the pollution drastically, you will have to focus on these three factors to see the effect in the next few days. So, you have to tell us what the steps are that you plan to take immediately. Why don’t you stop plying of vehicles in Delhi for two days? This is a decision you have to take,” said the bench.LOCKDOWN IN DELHIMehta responded that certain drastic measures in contemplation included imposing a lockdown in the Capital, besides completely stopping the entry of trucks in Delhi. However, the SG added, experts have advised that these steps could wait.Senior counsel Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said that the city government was willing to impose a lockdown, but this will have to be implemented through the NCR, including the cities in Delhi’s adjoining states of UP and Haryana. “We are only concerned about bringing down the pollution levels. You need to decide what steps are to be taken,” replied the court.The Delhi government was also reproached by the bench when he could not give out details of the road-cleaning machines that were deployed in the national capital. Instead, Mehra submitted that BJP-headed municipal corporations should apprise the court of these details.“You are only passing the buck. Your lame excuses will force us to hold an audit of revenue you are earning and spending on popularity slogans. People are suffering and you are not bothered,” the bench told Mehra.Mehra said that the city government is willing to take all possible steps and would also release more funds for the machines immediately.The court then adjourned the hearing to Wednesday, asking the Centre and the states to enumerate the steps to be taken immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/smog-chokes-capital-supreme-court-pulls-up-delhi-govt-centre-ncr-states-101636964000500.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||'Bharat Varsh lost one of the brightest stars on horizon': Maharashtra Governor||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday expressed grief over the demise of notable historian, author and Padma Vibhushan awardee Balwant Moreshwar Purandare who was popularly known as Babasaheb Purandare.Purandare, 99, passed away at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital in Pune, Maharashtra around 5 am today.In a condolence message, Governor Koshyari wrote, "The news of the demise of Shiv Shahir Babasaheb Purandare who dedicated his entire life to narrate the saga of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj to generations of people is extremely saddening. A person of extraordinary flair, Shiv Shahir Purandare lived in the era of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj through his thoughts and ideals. He breathed history of that period and narrated the same to the common people through his writings, orations and mega plays like 'Jaanta Raja'." "In his demise, Bharat Varsh has lost one of the brightest stars on the horizon. Fulfilling his vision Shiv Srushti and spreading the history of Shivaji Maharaj to the nook and corner of the world will be a real tribute to him. I consider it an honour to have known Shiv Shahir Babasaheb intimately and received his affection. His demise is therefore as much a personal loss for me. I offer prayers for the departed soul and convey my deepest condolences to the members of the bereaved family," added the Governor.Babasaheb Purandare was honoured with Padma Vibhushan, the country's second-highest civilian award in 2019. The Maharashtra Government honoured him with Maharashtra Bhushan Award in 2015 and Madhya Pradesh Government has awarded him the Kalidas award.Purandare was a celebrated author and historian and was known for his works on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.He wrote several books on Shivaji, his administration and the forts from the king's era. As a theatre enthusiast, Purandare had directed the theatrical extravaganza titled 'Jaanta Raja', based on Shivaji's life.Born on July 29, 1922, Purandare is survived by two sons and a daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bharat-varsh-lost-one-of-the-brightest-stars-on-horizon-maharashtra-governor-101636962320016.html
15-11-2021||Bhopal||Ahead of PM Modi’s MP visit, Shivraj Singh Chouhan takes stock of situation||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is keeping an eye on all the arrangements made by the state government to welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will visit the capital city of Bhopal on Monday. PM Modi will be holding a rally at Jambori Maidan in Bhopal and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members have gone all out to ensure at least 2.50 lakh tribals are able to participate in it.PM Modi will be in MP to mark the occasion of 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’ in remembrance of legendary tribal leader and freedom fighter Birsa Munda. He is also all set to inaugurate the revamped Rani Kamalapati railway station, which was earlier known as Habibanj, and will also launch various other welfare initiatives.The state government has made arrangements to ferry people to the rally ground in buses, with mechanics onboard to help repair any technical snag that might occur during their travel, reported PTI. Vehicles travelling to Bhopal for this purpose have been exempted from paying the toll.At the inauguration of the redeveloped Rani Kamalapati railway station, the Prime Minister will also flag off two new MEMU trains between Ujjain-Indore and Indore-Ujjain routes. MP Governor Mangubhai Patel, Chouhan, Union ministers Virendra Kumar, Narendra Singh Tomar, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Prahlad Patel, Faggan Singh Kulaste, and L Murugan will also be present for the occasion.Around 350 people, all of whom are expected to come in contact with the Prime Minister during his visit, have been tested for Covid-19, news agency PTI reported. Besides the governor, the chief minister, ministers, MLAs, security personnel, and other government officials, many other people will also be undergoing the RT-PCR tests before the Prime Minister’s arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/ahead-of-pm-modi-s-mp-visit-shivraj-singh-chouhan-takes-stock-of-situation-101636958009471.html
15-11-2021||Kolkata||Man found dead in Bengal's Purba Medinipur district , BJP blames TMC||A 35-year-old man was found dead in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, police said on Monday.The body of Bhaskar Bera was found on the side of a road in Bhagabanpur area of the district on Sunday morning, they said.The BJP claimed him to be a party worker who was allegedly beaten to death by TMC supporters, a charge rubbished by the ruling side.Bera was last seen in a procession for the immersion of Jagaddhatri idol in the area on Saturday night, police said.An investigation is underway to piece together the chain of events that led to the death, a police officer said.BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh alleged that Bera was beaten to death by TMC supporters."TMC is yet to come to terms with the BJP's win in the Bhagabanpur assembly seat. It wants to ensure that BJP stops its political activities in the area," he said.Ghosh claimed that 80 BJP workers were killed in political violence after the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2.TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh claimed that his party was in no way involved with the death."We want a thorough probe into the incident," he said.A district TMC leader claimed Bera was drunk during the procession, and may have died due to complications arising out of consuming too much liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/man-found-dead-in-bengal-s-purba-medinipur-district-bjp-blames-tmc-101636952814798.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||‘All about bashing farmers': SC on Delhi govt's affidavit on air pollution||The Supreme Court on Monday slammed the Delhi government over its affidavit, detailing immediate measures to improve the air quality of the city. While perusing the affidavit the Top court said it was "all about bashing farmers and how the entire cause ( of pollution) is stubble burning."Giving an earful to the city government led by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Apex also said that it is "passing the buck to Municipal Commissioner." "This kind of lame excuse will force us to hold an audit of the revenue you are earning and spend on popularity slogans," the court also said.The court has now asked the central government and the state to prepare a report on which industries can be stopped, which vehicles can be prevented from plying and which power plants can be stopped. The report should also carry information on the government will provide alternative power by then.The court has asked the Centre and state to submit the report by Wednesday (November 17).Also read | 'We are helpless': Punjab farmers continue to burn stubbleIn its order, the Supreme Court also asked the state governments to persuade the farmers to stop stubble burning for the next two weeks. It also asked the central government to consider work-from-home for its employees. The court then concluded that major culprits of air pollution are transport, industries, vehicular traffic apart from stubble burning in some areas. “If timely steps taken by the government, pollution can be kept to manageable levels," it said.The AAP government on Monday told the Supreme Court that it was ready to take steps like complete lockdown to control air pollution as immediate measuree. However, it would have very limited impact if it not implemented across the NCR areas in neighbouring states. “Given Delhi's compact size, a lockdown would have limited impact on the air quality regime," the Delhi government said in the affidavit.Every year after Diwali, air quality in Delhi starts to deteriorate and plunged into ‘poor', ‘very poor’ categories, making it unbeathable for its residents. On Sunday, the Delhi government issued a noitification, banning construction activities  to reduce the dust particles in the air. The government has also shut school till November 20 and asked all government offices in Delhi to work from home, starting from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-about-bashing-farmers-sc-on-delhi-govt-s-affidavit-on-air-pollution-101636956307354.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||‘Ready for full lockdown in Delhi to curb pollution, however...’: AAP govt to SC||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government told the Supreme Court on Monday that it is ready to implement a complete lockdown in the national capital to control the rising levels of air pollution. However, the Delhi government said that the step will be meaningful if a lockdown is also imposed in the entire National Capital Region (NCR).In an affidavit on Monday, the Delhi government said, “Such a step (complete lockdown) will be meaningful if it is implemented across the NCR areas in neighbouring states.”“Given Delhi's compact size, a lockdown would have limited impact on the air quality regime. This issue would need to be addressed at the level of air shed involving NCR areas,” the AAP government said.Also Read| ‘All about bashing farmers': SC on Delhi govt's affidavit on air pollutionIt reiterated its point that Delhi will impose a lockdown if it is mandated for the entire NCR either by the Centre or by the commission for air quality management in the Capital and adjoining areas.Just two days ago, the top court instructed the Centre and the Delhi government to take urgent steps to monitor pollution in the city including the imposition of a lockdown for two days.Given the deteriorating air quality, the Delhi government already ordered the closure of schools, colleges and other educational institutions for a week starting Monday."All schools, colleges and educational institutes in Delhi to remain shut next week as pollution levels hit emergency level," deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said last week.Government offices in Delhi have been asked to operate from Work From Home (WFH) at 100% capacity till Wednesday (November 17) while private offices have also been advised to switch to this form of work as much as possible to avoid vehicular traffic.Also Read| Get ready for air emergency, CAQM advises NCR statesAll construction and demolition activities have also been shut in the city till Wednesday.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court observed on Monday that the major causes of air pollution in Delhi are dust, heavy vehicular traffic and industries, adding pollution can be kept to manageable levels if timely steps are taken by the Arvind Kejriwal government.As the Delhi government has pointed out several times that stubble burning is a major cause of pollution, the top court said on Monday that the government's latest affidavit is "all about bashing farmers and how the entire cause ( of pollution) is stubble burning."Delhi's air quality on Monday remained in the 'very poor' category for a second consecutive day and the air quality index 342. On Sunday, the AQI was at 330 while it was 473 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ready-for-full-lockdown-in-delhi-to-curb-pollution-however-aap-govt-to-sc-101636953232630.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||AISA, ABVP students clash in JNU, several injured||Several students injured in Sunday's clashes inside Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), are being treated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, news agency ANI has reported.Meanwhile, the police have launched an inquiry into the clashes between the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and the All India Students Association (AISA) inside the JNU campus. The altercation broke out on Sunday at reportedly around 9:45pm.According to Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (southwest), a heated argument over organising a seminar in a student union hall led to the clashes.According to the ANI report, the police received information regarding slogans being shouted and apprehension of a quarrel in Vasant Kunj Police Station. "On enquiry, it was learnt that heated arguments took place between two groups of students on account of organising a seminar in a student union hall," a police official said.Students from both organisations have lodged a written complaint about the clashes. "Both the sides are levelling allegations against each other of disrupting their meeting and initiating quarrel by another side," the official also said.However, the Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) has not lodged any complaint so far.Further inquiry into the clashes is underway and police have assured of legal action to be taken according to the findings.The ABVP is affiliated with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), while AISA is a left-wing student organisation of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation.Both groups have a rivalry in student-level politics and have clashed with each other a number of times.In 2020, an activist of the AISA at JNU alleged that he was attacked by 16 people, including activists of the ABVP, in his hostel room late at night. The ABVP rejected the allegations by calling them "baseless" and said it had nothing to do with the incident.In 2018 as well, the members of ABVP and AISA clashed and accused each other of attacking their supporters, hours after the JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) poll results were announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aisa-abvp-students-clash-in-jnu-several-injured-101636952748924.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi's AQI improves marginally, still in 'very poor' category||Delhi's air quality on Monday saw marginal improvement as it reached the lower end of the 'very poor' category with Air Quality Index (AQI) at 318, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).The improvement comes on a day the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will submit a lockdown proposal to the Supreme Court to reduce the rising air pollution further. The top court on Saturday said the rise in pollution levels in Delhi was an "emergency situation" and suggested clamping a lockdown in the national capital.Also read | Delhi govt to submit proposal on lockdown to SC today to tackle air pollutionThe Delhi government has announced the closure of physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions, except those where exams are being conducted, for a week from Monday.All government offices, agencies and autonomous bodies, except those involved in essential services, have been directed to ask employees to work from home. No construction and demolition activity will be allowed in the capital till November 17, the AAP government has also said.The bulletin by SAFAR, The Union ministry of earth sciences' air quality forecasting agency, said that the AQI is likely to improve by Tuesday "as winds at transport level are slowing down resulting in lesser intrusion of farm fires related pollutants into Delhi."in photos | Delhi's Air Pollution Index remains in 'very poor' categoryHowever, calm local winds reduce the dispersion of pollutants, the net effect of which is likely to make air quality remain very poor category, the agency said.The effective farm fire count for Sunday was 3445, contributing to 12 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5."Implementation of lockdown for the two days with restrictions in anthropogenic activity emitting pollutants, air quality may improve a little but likely to remain in the very poor category if stubble burning share does not increase," SAFAR's bulletin said.Also read | 'We are helpless': Punjab farmers continue to burn stubbleSAFAR said that AQI is likely to deteriorate from November 16 night onwards due to calm wind conditions, as predicted. "On November 17, it is likely to be in the upper end of the very poor category," they added.The pollution level in the National Capital Region (NCR), especially Noida and Gurugram, has also shown slight improvement.Noida reported AQI in the upper end of the 'very poor category at 387 and Gurugram’s air quality saw a significant improvement and has now reached the lower end of the 'very poor' category at 317.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-aqi-improves-marginally-still-in-very-poor-category-101636950242643.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out in Delhi's Nangloi, four injured||At least four persons were injured after a gas cylinder caught fire at a house in Delhi’s Nangloi area on Monday. The fire department said three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The incident happened at B- 65, Laxmi Park in Nangloi, a tweet from news agency ANI quoted the fire department.Delhi | Fire breaks out at B- 65, Laxmi Park in Nangloi, due to an LPG cylinder. 3 fire tenders rushed to the site. Four persons sustained burn injuries: Fire DepartmentThe Delhi Fire Service received a call about the fire at 7.26 am and three fire tenders were rushed to the spot, its director Atul Garg said.The four persons who received burn injuries rushed to a nearby hospital, he said.The blaze has been doused and a search operation is underway, Garg added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-delhi-s-nangloi-four-hurt-101636946853104.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||UP to start cow ambulance service, the first in the country, says minister||The Uttar Pradesh government is all set to start an ambulance service for seriously ill cows, state dairy development, animal husbandry and fisheries minister Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary has said."Akin to the 112 emergency service number, the new service would pave the way for the speedy treatment of seriously ill cows," Chaudhary told reporters in Mathura, according to news agency PTI.The minister said 515 ambulances are ready for the novel scheme, probably the first in the country. He said that an ambulance with a veterinary doctor and two assistants would arrive within 15 to 20 minutes of requesting the service.A call centre will be set up at Lucknow for receiving complaints, under the scheme which will begin by December, the minister said.Chaudhary said the state's breed improvement programme will get a boost with the provision of free high-quality semen and embryo transplant technology. He added that the technology will virtually be a revolution in the state as it would convert even sterile cows into high milk yielding animals.Chaudhary said the scheme would start as a pilot project in eight districts of the state, including Mathura.(With PTI input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-start-cow-ambulance-service-the-first-in-the-country-says-minister-101636943809502.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||'We are helpless': Punjab farmers continue to burn stubble||Amid the rising levels of pollution in Delhi, stubble burning continues in various parts of Amritsar, with farmers alleging that the government has done nothing in regards to providing machinery and compensation for controlling the burning of stubble.Gopi, a farmer said while talking to ANI, "We are helpless. The government has not provided us with compensation of ₹7,000 and machinery needed to control stubble burning. If we would not burn the stubble, our next crop will be late. Our crops are not being brought at MSP rates. Even the Supreme Court has said that farmers only cannot be blamed for pollution as industries and vehicles cause pollution in Delhi."Another farmer named Kanwar added, "It is not the stubble which is burning, it is also the 'arthi' (corpse) of the promises of the government. Nothing is being done on the ground and everything exists only on paper. We are helpless. If we think about not burning stubble and the promises of the government, we will not be able to go ahead with our next crops."Stubble burning is a process of setting on fire the straw stubble, left after the harvesting of grains, like paddy, wheat, etc. The process of burning farm residue is one of the major causes of air pollution in parts of north India, deteriorating the air quality around this time of the year. Combing with vehicular emission, it adversely affects the Air Quality Index (AQI) in the national capital.As of 10:40 PM on Sunday, the Air Quality Index is in 'Very Poor' Category. According to the government agencies, an AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 are marked as severe/hazardous.To tackle increasing air pollution levels in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced a 'pollution lockdown' under which the schools would remain physically closed for a week from this Monday.All construction activity in the national capital has been shut down from November 14 to November 17, he added.Government office employees will be asked to operate from home (WFH) at 100 per cent capacity for a week, while private offices will be issued an advisory to go for WFH (work from home) option as much as possible, stated the Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/we-are-helpless-punjab-farmers-continue-to-burn-stubble-101636940599435.html
15-11-2021||Bhopal||PM Modi to visit MP today, launch multiple initiatives for tribals||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Madhya Pradesh and launch several initiatives for the welfare of the tribal community on Monday, on the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda, which the Centre is celebrating as Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas.During his visit to the city, the Prime Minister will also inaugurate the redeveloped Rani Kamlapati Railway Station and launch multiple initiatives of the Indian Railways in Madhya Pradesh.PM Modi will participate in the Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas Mahasammelan at Jambori Maidan in the state capital of Bhopal and launch the Ration Aapke Gram scheme in Madhya Pradesh, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said in a statement.Also read | Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas: Bhopal decked up ahead of PM Modi’s visit"It is aimed at delivering the monthly quota of PDS Ration to beneficiaries from janjatiya community in their own villages every month so that they don't have to travel to the Fair Price Shop to collect their ration," said PMO.He will also hand over genetic counselling cards to beneficiaries, marking the launch of the Madhya Pradesh Sickle Cell (Hemoglobinopathy) Mission, which has been developed to screen and manage patients with sickle cell anaemia, Thalassemia and other Hemoglobinopathies. The mission also aims to increase public awareness about these diseases, whose impact is seen to be more profound on the tribal community of Madhya Pradesh.Also read | Recognising the role of tribal communities in Indian IndependenceThe Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of 50 Eklavya Model Residential Schools across the country in states and UT including Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tripura and Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu."Prime Minister will also walk through the exhibition of products made by janjatiya self-help groups and a photo exhibition of martyrs and heroes of the freedom struggle from the Janjatiya community of Madhya Pradesh. He will also hand over appointment letters to newly appointed Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups teachers,” according to the PMO statement.Also read | Bhopal’s Habibganj station renamed after tribal queenDuring the event, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Governor Mangubhai C Patel, Union ministers Dr Virendra Kumar, Narendra Singh Tomar and Jyotiraditya M Scindia, Union ministers of state Prahlad S Patel, Faggan Singh Kulaste and L Murugan will also be present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/pm-modi-to-visit-mp-today-launch-multiple-initiatives-for-tribals-101636940146610.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Curfew in Maharashtra's Amravati expanded to four towns as BJP stages protest||The curfew in Maharashtra's Amravati city was expanded on Sunday to include four more towns in the district after local BJP leaders staged a protest during a bandh, police said. Meanwhile, a total of 50 people were arrested by the police in connection with back to back incidents of stone-pelting that took place in Amravati city on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday, the situation in Amravati remained peaceful as eight battalions of the SRPF (State Reserve Police Force) and additional number of police personnel from various districts were deployed in the city, district guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said. On Saturday, a curfew was clamped in Amravati city in east Maharashtra for four days and Internet services were shut down after a mob hurled stones at shops during a bandh (shut-down) allegedly organised by local BJP workers in protest against the rallies organised by Muslim organisations the day before to condemn the recent violence in Tripura, police had said. On Friday, stone-pelting was reported during rallies taken out by Muslim organisations in Amravati, Nanded, Malegaon (in Nashik district), Washim and Yavatmal. "The situation is under control in Amravati as eight battalions of the SRPF and extra police force from Jalna, Nagpur, Wardha and Buldhana districts remains deployed," she said, adding that a march was taken out by the police this evening in sensitive areas of Amravati city. Meanwhile, a bandh was observed by BJP in rural parts of Amravati. Police have detained former Maharashtra agriculture minister Anil Bonde, MLC Pravin Pote and Amravati rural BJP president Nivedita Chaudhari for taking out a rally in protest against Friday's stone-pelting. A total of eight BJP activists were detained in Warud and Shendurjanaghat villages for raising slogans. The curfew is now expanded to cover Morshi, Warud, Achalpur and Anjangaon Surji towns of the Amravati district, a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/curfew-in-maharashtra-s-amravati-expanded-to-four-towns-as-bjp-stages-protest-101636939440639.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to submit proposal on lockdown to SC today to tackle air pollution||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi will submit a proposal on imposing a lockdown and its modalities to the Supreme Court on Monday in view of the rising air pollution in the Capital.It comes days after the top court asked the central and city governments to take immediate steps to improve the air quality in Delhi and suggested measures such as stopping vehicles and clamping a lockdown in the national capital.With the onset of winters, Delhi's air quality plunges to hazardous levels every year due to stubble burnings, emissions from transport, coal-fired plants outside the city and other industries, as well as open garbage burning and dust.This year, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in and around the city has worsened to 470-499 on a scale of 500, according to federal pollution control board data. That level of pollution means the air will seriously impact people with existing diseases and even those who have healthier lungs.With the situation continuing to remain grim, the AAP government ordered the closure of schools till November 20 and asked all government offices in Delhi to work from home, starting from Monday. It has also banned construction activities till November 17."In the order issued on late Saturday night by the department, we have clarified that those schools or educational institutions where exams are already being conducted will remain open. All other educational institutions will be closed till November 20," Gopal Rai, Delhi's environment minister, said on Sunday as the department issued a notification for effective implementation of the emergency measures.The AAP government has also suggested shutting down diesel generator sets and coal kilns in Delhi, increasing parking fees, increasing the frequency of metro and bus etc to mitigate the pollution.Rai also said that the main motive behind all these emergency measures is to reduce vehicular and dust pollution in the city.Meanwhile, under the containing measures, 400 tankers will be sprinkling water to settle the dust in the city. The government will complete the work of spraying bio-decomposer solutions for stubble decomposition in 4,000 acres of fields by November 20.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-submit-proposal-on-lockdown-to-sc-today-to-tackle-air-pollution-101636937208408.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||VAT reduction on fuel: Haryana petrol pump owners to stage 1-day strike today||Petrol pump owners in Haryana will go on a 24-hour strike on Monday to protest the Centre’s move to reduce the value-added tax (VAT) on fuel prices, saying they have been facing loss due to the sudden decision. The strike from 6am on Monday till Tuesday 6am has been called by the Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association.On the eve of Diwali, the Centre announced a reduction in central levies on petrol by ₹5 a litre and diesel by ₹10 a litre, which was seen as a major relief for consumers amid the spike in fuel prices. Till now, 25 states and Union territories including Haryana, have undertaken a commensurate reduction of VAT.Also Read| BJP questions Opposition ruled states for not cutting excise on fuel pricesChief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that with the Centre's decision, petrol and diesel in Haryana will cheaper by ₹12.However, petrol pump owners in the state are not happy with the decision.“We demand the government to hike our commission and reimburse losses suffered due to sudden cut in excise duty,” Palwinder Singh, state vice president of the petroleum association, told news agency ANI on November 12.Singh added that because the Centre decided to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel, dealers have faced losses worth lakhs. “Therefore we demand our reimbursement on loss.”On the other hand, Anil Kumar, state president of the petroleum dealers association, alleged on November 12 that the association had been writing to the Haryana government about its concerns but has not got any response."If the government does not listen to us, we will hold a strike,” Kumar told ANI.Also Read| 25 states, UTs cut VAT on petrol, diesel after Centre's request. These haven'tAccording to the Union petroleum ministry last week, there are 11 states and UTs which are yet to reduce the VAT on fuel prices. These are Maharashtra, New Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan.The ministry said that following the cut in VAT, prices of petrol are the cheapest in Andaman and Nicobar at ₹82.96 per litre and ₹77.13 per litre respectively.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vat-reduction-on-fuel-haryana-petrol-pump-owners-to-stage-1-day-strike-today-101636933586404.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Party hopping on as MCD polls near||As the city approaches the crucial municipal elections, due in April next year, it is the season of shifting loyalties in the political parties.According to the records provided by the various political parties, at least 38 municipal councillors have left their parties and joined rival group. The Congress, according to the records, is the most affected with 23 members of the party switching over to the other side -- more than two-third of its 30 members elected to the three corporations in the last elections held in 2017.The next biggest group comes from the Bharatiya Janata Party that is ruling the municipal corporation in Delhi for the past three consecutive terms. Seven BJP councillors joined other parties.Despite the party’s poor showing in the 2015 assembly elections, when the BJP could manage only three seats, it retained power in the three municipal corporations.In 2017, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) replaced the Congress as the main opposition in all three municipal bodies, but the BJP had a comfortable majority in all three houses.The rest of the turncoats included three independents, four of the Bahujan Samaj Party and one of the Samajwadi Party.According to political pundits, the municipal corporation elections in Delhi are crucial for all the three main contenders -- for the BJP, it will be a big test if it could manage to hold on to power despite a huge anti-incumbency; for the AAP, it will be the last frontier in its bid for complete administrative control over Delhi after having humbled its political opponents in two consecutive assembly polls; and for the Congress it will be yet another elections where it has to fight to regain whatever space it could that it has ceded to rivals since 2013.Administratively, the municipal corporations play a very important role in the lives of the citizens touching almost every aspect from cradle to the grave. The three corporations in Delhi administer almost an equal area and similar number of services as the Delhi government.AAP remained the first choice for those who switched. According to the data, 15 of the 38 joined AAP -- these include seven from the Congress, four from the BJP, two from the BSP and one each from the SP and independents. Besides, at least 20 former councillors from other parties have also shifted to the AAP.Delhi BJP chief, Adesh Gupta, said turncoats will not make any impact in the coming MCD polls.“Many leaders from other parties are also willing to join the BJP. But, we are least bothered about poaching. Since the people of Delhi are aware of the corrupt practices followed by the AAP government, they will never vote for them. We will once again win the MCD polls, and with more seats this time,” he said.In 2017, the BJP won 181 of the total 272seats across the three municipal corporations.He said BJP councillors who joined AAP were “inactive in the organisation”, and were only hoping for lucrative positions. “This is not a family-run party like the Congress or regional parties. Many Congress and AAP people have joined the BJP, so these things happen,” he said.Senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge, Durgesh Pathak, said the leaders from other parties have been joining the AAP because of the high-headedness and corruption among the top leadership of their parties.“There are number of areas in which the BJP-ruled MCDs have failed to deliver. The heaps of garbage and mountain-like landfills are common sights in Delhi. In the past few years, the Kejriwal government has proved that it can provide better facilities to Delhiites as it has given free electricity and water to one and all. Even the unauthorised colonies have been given the basic necessities. On the other hand, the BJP and the Congress has made the civic bodies a white elephant. Since the workers’ voices in these parties have never been heard by their top leaders, they are shifting their sides to make the MCD pro-people, than being pro-BJP or pro-Congress,” he said.Pathak said many more councillors from both the Congress and the BJP, as well as former councillors, are in touch with AAP and willing to join the party ahead of MCD elections. “But before the entry, we are trying to ensure that they have a clean record, and the conviction to carry forward the pro-people agenda of the AAP,” he said.Senior Congress leader and councillor from Andrews Ganj, Abhishek Dutt, said turncoats make no impact in elections. “The main reason, for the leaders to change their sides before the polls, is the lure of the lucre. And, since the BJP and AAP always attract the leaders who want to make easy money through politics, they are always the better choice. Since Delhi people have realised the corrupt practices going on in the AAP government and BJP-led MCDs, they are now looking for options. We are sure that the Congress will wrest power,” he said.Experts, however, say that turncoats may not make much of a dent electorally, but they are a clear indication of “which way the wind is blowing”.Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, said, “It is a common phenomenon that leaders bet on the party having an edge over its rivals. But there are exceptions, too. We must not forget the recent West Bengal results, where many Trinamool leaders shifted their sides to the BJP before the polls. But, despite the side-shifting drama, Trinamool won by a thumping majority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/party-hopping-on-as-mcd-polls-near-101636932912762.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sensibilities from Lisbon||She reads poetry and makes her own dresses. The Lisbon-born Susana Zarco walks into her drawing room, looking like a woman in a Vermeer painting. She designed this white-and-blue gown from a cotton sari acquired during a trip to Kerala. “I only design for myself and for a few friends… I restrain from massification and quantity,” she murmurs, her headdress anointing her in a halo of the same colours as the rest of her dress. A former journalist who served for eight years as a press advisor to the Portuguese President, Ms Zarco, 57, has been in Delhi for three years. She is married to Portuguese Ambassador, Carlos Pereira Marques; they live in a sun-filled house in Rajokri designed by architect Satish Gujaral. Sitting for a portrait with dog, Egas, she gamely becomes a part of the Proust Questionnaire series in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore citizens’ distinct experiences.Your idea of happinessBeing barefoot by the sea picking up beautiful shells with my mother when I was a little girl, as I do now with my husband and sonYour idea of miseryBeing a prisoner inside yourselfYour favourite virtue or the principal aspect of your personalityStraight forwardness, sense of justice, generosityYour main faultImpatienceYour favourite occupationTo look for/at all kind of beautiful thingsWhere would you like to live?In a (comfortable) shack by the seasideYour favourite colour and flowerPink, PeonyYour favourite birdFlamingoYour favourite prose authorsFernando Pessoa, Jorge de Sena, Franz Kafka...Your favourite poetsFernando Pessoa, Sophia de Mello Breyner, Herberto Helder…Your favourite heroes and heroines in fictionLots of them accordingly with the different stages of my lifeYour favourite composersRachmaninoff, Caetano Veloso, Tom Jobim…Your favourite paintersAmadeu de Souza Cardoso, Almada Negreiros, Nicolas de Staël…Your heroes/heroines in real lifeThose who do not give up fighting against all kind of oppression and those who still have to fight every day to surviveYour heroes/heroines in World historyGandhi, Nelson Mandela, Madre Teresa… not only for what they did but also for what they left us to accomplish… still a long walk aheadYour favourite namesJoaquim, TeresaWhat do you hate the most?Being trapped and stupidityThe military event you admire the mostD-Day (6 June 1944)The reform you admire the mostThe one that is still to come: reverse our way of living and save the PlanetHow do you wish to die?Living! In the twink of an eye: no regrets, no fears. Near the sea, if possibleWhat is your present state of mind?ExpectantWhat characters in history do you most dislike?Those who persist to ignore and despise toleranceFaults for which you have the most toleranceLack of punctualityYour motto in lifeNever give up||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-sensibilities-from-lisbon-101636930629454.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s pollution action plan stuck in fine print and protocol, needs relook||Delhi’s ordeal in the grip of severe-plus air pollution extended over 30 consecutive hours Saturday morning, when the Supreme Court stepped in, suggesting a two-day lockdown for the choking city.While a call on lockdown is yet to be taken, curbs such as physically shutting schools (however, online classes will continue) and stopping construction activities that were announced by the Delhi government later on Saturday are already mandated in the Supreme Court-approved Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). But the administrative intervention remained stuck in protocols and the fine print.Delhi has been experiencing another seasonal chokehold since Diwali, and under the Grap protocol, authorities can declare an air emergency and impose these curbs mandated under the severe-plus band of air quality only when PM2.5 levels cross 300 µg/m3 or PM10 levels cross 500 µg/m3 (which is fivefold above the standard) and stay there for at least 48 hours.Experts said these protocols need a relook to make pollution control measures pre-emptive and not reactive as they are now. The mechanism for implementation as well as enforcement needs rapid capacity-building, not just in Delhi but also across the National Capital Region, backed equally by strong administrative and political will.Late interventionOfficials involved in the enforcement of pollution-control measures said they have been on track with the implementation of Grap. However, they agreed that the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), which is tasked with implementing Grap, and other agencies calling the shots could be more sensitive to the gravity of the pollution crisis in the national capital, rather than being stuck in the technicalities of the plan.“On November 6, the PM 2.5 levels and PM 10 levels slipped into the severe-plus levels. However, the very next day, it briefly came below that threshold. So, technically, the CAQM and CPCB were not liable to introduce the severe-plus measures, even though the pollution continued to be at hazardous levels and was forecast to get worse. How is PM 2.5 exposure of 299ug/m3 any better than 300ug/m3? But we are stuck in technicalities,” said an official who asked not to be named.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said Grap is only a guiding document and the agencies responsible to implement it are allowed to take additional measures to control the rising pollution.“Since after Diwali, apart from two days, Delhi has been recording severe days. What are the authorities waiting for? Grap is a guiding document and it also explicitly mentions under the severe-plus measures that the administration can call in any steps other than that mentioned in the action plan to control the dangerous pollution levels. The administration needs to use its discretion and not use Grap as an excuse to not do anything. Grap measures should be automatically enforced,” Roychowdhury said.Forecast-based responseExperts said that under Grap, the agencies need to respond to forecasted levels of air pollution as opposed to observing what happens over the course of two days and then taking a call.Delhi currently has two forecasting systems, the Decision Support System developed by Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and Union ministry of earth science’ Early Warning System, both of which provide air quality forecasts, which could be used to make advance decisions.“There are multiple sources of air pollution forecasts, including from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, available now. There is a clear case for Grap to rely on these forecasts to proactively initiate short-term emergency responses, instead of the current reactive approach,” said Santosh Harish, fellow at Centre for Policy Research.Beijing’s colour-coded emergency response system, for instance, is an air quality index (AQI) forecast-based action plan rather than a reactive action plan such as Delhi’s.The “particulate matter approach” taken by Grap itself needs a relook, said environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta. An an analysis of Grap by the Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE), an outfit founded by Dutta, states that Grap does not consider all air pollutants, but only particulate matters such as PM2.5 and PM10. Even if the level of pollutants such as SO2 or NOX increases – which are a part of AQI index monitoring -- Grap does not come into effect.“Even if Grap is implemented in full, it only looks at levels of PM 2.5 and PM 10, but does not look into quality of air as such. So you can have very high levels of other pollutants (in the air) and still have very good grap implementation. Therefore, by nature, Grap is faulty,” Dutta said.Weak, haphazard enforcementThe post-Diwali smog over northern India is a well-established phenomenon. Yet, each season, pollution mitigation is conducted haphazardly even as Grap marks out each step of enforcement and responsibilities of the agencies involved.But compliance cannot be ensured without capacity building and administrative will. A case in point is the recent directions to municipal agencies to increase the parking fee, and to transport agencies to implement differential rates in public transport to encourage off-peak travel. Both directions have not been enforced.“Grap says deploy extra buses when pollution levels peak. But where are the extra buses? Where are the extra drivers? It is not like a fire service where we have vehicles waiting on standby. Similarly, parking rates have to go up four times when pollution peaks to very poor levels. But where is the mechanism to charge more? Traffic congestion has to be reduced, but are instructions given to Delhi Police that they are not supposed to put barricades during peak pollution times?” asked Dutta.Need year-round approachDelhi’s baseline pollution -- from vehicle emissions, construction activities, waste burning -- is high all through the year. During the non-winter months, Delhi sees some relatively cleaner days due to the favourable weather conditions, although freak build-ups such as the dust storm in summer lead to pollution spikes. After monsoon withdrawal, when the wind patterns change and the temperature starts to dip, stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, coupled with local emissions, lead to a massive pollution spike. On Diwali, blatant violation of government’s ban on burning of firecrackers pushed air quality into severe zone a day after the festival.Recognising this, Grap was designed to be a year-long exercise to check polluting activities even when the air is moderately clean. For instance, for ‘moderate to poor’ days, Grap directs municipal and road-owning agencies to stop garbage burning, impose heavy fines for non-compliance, conduct mechanised sweeping on busy streets, sprinkle water on unpaved roads every two days and stringently enforce rules for dust control at construction sites.Unfortunately, much of this exercise has been reduced to a calendar event to be observed when winter pollution peaks. Making efforts to control particulate matter during the onset of winter serves no effective purpose, said Dutta.Santosh Harish said, “Ultimately, emergency responses are only a last-ditch effort to reduce exposures to a small extent. Several of these wintertime local actions on waste burning and construction dust need to be implemented year-round to be well understood and complied with, instead of being episodic actions.”Time to upgrade GrapNotified in 2017, Grap was to end the problem of multiplicity of agencies in Delhi and NCR towns so that they could be made answerable to an overarching body— then, the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority that was assigned the task of implementing the Grap and submit action-taken reports to the Supreme Court. Through a Union government ordinance last year, the Epca was dissolved and replaced by the 20-member Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas, which is now in charge of Grap.“What we knew back then about Delhi’s pollution sources is not what we know now. After 2017, we had a detailed source apportionment study by TERI, which gave us clarity on local and external sources. So, we cannot brace this document blindly and say that we are only going to enforce what is written in black and white because the scenario has changed and we must also revise the document accordingly,” said a senior government official who was formerly deputed with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee.Dutta stresses the need to take pollution action plans beyond cities. “We blame stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana for pollution peaks in Delhi. The reason for that is that the focus is on cities, not states. Today, only 122 cities have been counted as non-attainment cities and their pollution action plans are limited to them. The National Clean Air Programme very clearly requires each state to prepare its own state action plan by 2020. Not a single state has done that,” he said.“The non-attainment cities have been identified based on a study of 370 cities, not 4,000 cities that we have in India. According to us, the data should be of 4,000 cities, plus rural areas. Only then you will come to know the extent of pollution levels and what needs to be done,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-pollution-action-plan-stuck-in-fine-print-and-protocol-needs-relook-101636929594153.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 21-year-old stabbed to death at birthday party||Birthday celebrations at a chicken corner in Hans Kalan village, Jagraon , took a deadly turn after a 21-year-old attendee was stabbed to death over a mobile phone. Two others suffered injuries and have been hospitalised. The accused, Mandeep Singh Dashmesh Nagar of Jagraon and Harpreet Singh of Changna village, are on the run.The victim, Randeep Singh of Pudain village of Jagraon had been invited to the party by one Harpreet Singh of Hans Kalan village. Liquor was also served at the party. Later, an argument broke out over an I-Phone with Mandeep claiming that he had given his phone to Harpreet Singh Changna. However, Randeep reminded him that he had promised to give his phone to the man of the hour, Harpreet of Hans Kalan village. The victim’s brothers Ravinderjit Singh and Lakhbir Singh said they came to the chicken corner upon learning that Randeep had been involved in a fight and saw Mandeep Singh and Harpreet Singh Changna stabbing Randeep, repeatedly. When they tried to intervene, the accused injured them too and fled.The victims were rushed to hospital, where the doctors declared Randeep dead. Inspector Jaspal Singh said a murder case had been registered. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-21-year-old-stabbed-to-death-at-birthday-party-101636925414743.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana ATM shooting: Day after failed robbery bid, co-accused arrested||A day after two robbers shot a man in the leg in a failed robbery bid at an ATM kiosk, the police arrested the arrested accused’s nephew on Sunday. The accused, Gaurav, 28, of Jassian village, was arrested while he was trying to flee the city to evade arrest. The motorcycle used to commit the crime has also been found. After fleeing the spot after locals caught his uncle, Ashwani Kumar, 42, and handed him over to the police, Gaurav had parked his motorcycle near the Jalandhar Bypass and had taken a three-wheeler home. He had packed his clothes to leave the city, but was arrested before he could leave. Kumar had been arrested with an illegal countrymade pistol and four bullets.He had hurt himself while firing at the locals who had cornered him. Police say the accused are drug addicts who tried to rob the man to fund their habit. Sub-inspector Ravinderpal Singh, Division 8 station house officer, said the accused were primarily unemployed and sometimes sold clothes in the streets to earn money. This is not their first brush with law. The accused are already facing trial for being found in possession of fake currency notes. They had been arrested for the same by the Jalandhar Rural Police two years ago and had been bailed out three months ago.Bought pistol from Bihar The SHO said that the accused had bought the pistol for ₹19,000 from Bihar and had bought the motorcycle from a Sangrur resident. However, as they were yet to make a full payment, the bike’s former owner had not handed over the registration certificate of the vehicle to him. A case has been registered under sections under sections 392 (robbery), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-atm-shooting-day-after-failed-robbery-bid-co-accused-arrested-101636924994669.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dowry allegations: Man, kin booked for thrashing, sexually assaulting his wife in Ludhiana||A Delhi-based man and his kin were booked for harassing, beating and sexually assaulting his wife for dowry on Saturday. It is alleged that the accused were demanding an S-Class Mercedes in dowry and when she refused, the accused chucked her and their two sons out of the house. Later, when they met to resolve the matter, the accused allegedly asked for ₹50 lakh and tried to strangle her with her duppatta and also locked her in a room. She said her husband and his relative sexually assaulted her, after which she lost consciousness and was rushed to the hospital bt her parents. An FIR was registered on September 20 and the case was registered after a probe. The 38-year-old victim had gotten married in 2003 through a marriage bureau. She alleged that soon after marriage her husband and his family started harassing her for dowry. Her parents gave them expensive gifts of gold and silver on different occasions, but the accused kept on harassing her. The woman’s parents live in Ludhiana. Sub-inspector Amritpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police have booked the accused under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 354-A (sexual harassment), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 506 (Criminal intimidation), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dowry-allegations-man-kin-booked-for-thrashing-sexually-assaulting-his-wife-in-ludhiana-101636924334429.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||PCA president, Bharat Bhushan Ashu disagree over cricket app||Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) president Rajinder Gupta and Punjab minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday had a public disagreement over the launch of the “Leader Board” app for players in the state.While addressing a gathering during the inauguration of nine new cricket pitches at SCD Government College, Gupta introduced the app, through which coaches and selectors will be able to find the achievements and the performance card of the players which will help them in transparent selection.However, Ashu, who was the chief guest on the occasion, expressed displeasure over the application stating that PCA should have faith in their coaches and the selectors and said that there is no need for the app.Initially welcoming the minister’s advice, Gupta contended that the application would bring more transparency in the selection process. He added, “A few players across the state shared videos with me of them undergoing physical exploitation and it becomes our responsibility to motivate them. Corruption is prevalent in the districts”.Ashu further expressed his disappointment over some players from Ludhiana district representing other districts in the state.He said that coaches put in enormous efforts to groom players, but a few undisciplined students misbehave with their coaches, knowing the fact that they will get a chance to represent some other district. “Coaches also invest a lot emotionally and financially to groom a player, but such players betray their coaches eventually and play for other districts,” stated Ashu.The minister promised to uplift cricket in Ludhiana with the help from PCA authorities.He announced that the district will soon get a new cricket stadium. “We would have done it long back and the budget had also been passed. But, the soil testing report of the marked site for the stadium was poor. The government, with the help of PCA, will construct the stadium after the elections,” added the minister.Many former national and Ranji players from Ludhiana participated in the event including Gagandeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pca-president-bharat-bhushan-ashu-disagree-over-cricket-app-101636924154278.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury in Srinagar dips below zero for first time this season||Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital Srinagar recorded sub-zero night temperature on Sunday for the first time this season. The meteorological department said that the city witnessed minus 0.9 degree Celsius on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. All weather stations of the valley recorded below zero night temperatures.The mercury plunged the lowest in the mountainous resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir at minus 3.5 degrees while it was minus 3 degrees in Khanbal.The ski resort of Gulmarg recorded minus 1.8 degrees and the temperature of minus 1.3 degrees was witnessed in Kupwara. For the past few days, the valley has been witnessing foggy conditions in the morning.Officials said that the foggy conditions were due to to sub-zero temperatures and air pollution caused by increased traffic and burning of stubble and tree foliage. The temperatures will keep dipping till a western disturbance changes the dry weather condition. “Weather will most likely remain dry till November 20. A feeble western disturbance is likely to affect the region between November 21 and 23, which may cause light to moderate snow over the higher reaches, especially northern parts of Kashmir,” said Sonam Lotus, director, Srinagar meteorological centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-in-srinagar-dips-below-zero-for-first-time-this-season-101636923974230.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-induced darkness yet to dispel for the blind in Ludhiana||In the heart of the city stands a stately building, which at first glance appears to be an educational institute like any other. It is only when one parks the car and the guard objects saying “the students will not be able to gauge the presence of a vehicle at this point” does the realisation dawn that for the 100 students housed in the institute life is littered with unseen hurdles. The coronavirus pandemic only amplified their struggles as the Vocational Rehabilitation Training Centre (VRTC) For The Blind remained closed for eight months. When the institute’s doors finally opened in January this year the strength of students had halved. “We have only retained 40-50% of our pre-Covid strength. Parents are still wary to send their wards to school,” says, director emeritus Sara Johnson. “From 130, we are down to 65 students and are also facing an acute financial crisis. It is primarily younger students who have discontinued classes,” she adds. The centre runs with the help of funds allocated by the Centre and donations. However, Johnson said that the donations dried up after the lockdown was announced. “With people taking a pay cut, how will they donate?” she says. The Centre, which also houses a hostel, was established in 1971 in a small room at Christian Medical College And Hospital, and shifted to its present location on Haibowal Road opposite Kitchlu Nagar soon after. Around 3,000 visually impaired students have graduated from the school, which offers classes till Class 12, over the last four decades, while 25,000 others have availed vocational training. The centre’s alumni have been gainfully employed as professors in government colleges, assistant workers, clerks and at government-run banks among other avenues. Vocational courses bear the brunt Before Covid gripped the world, the Centre would run three one-year diplomas in computer training, telephone training and stenography, which were highly sought after as they helped the visually impaired get employed.“With the advent of mobile phones, the course in telephone training was discontinued, but computer training and stenography courses were quite in vogue, but sincethe centre reopened this year we have been unable to restart the courses due to lack of funds.” Johnson says 50 students had been studying computers, while another 20 were learning stenography and short hand before the lockdown.”We still get several enquiries, but we need qualified staff and special equipment for the visually challenged, which is not possible under the current circumstances as we have barely managed to pay our staff with the grant we received from the Centre Once donations pick up, perhaps we can resume the courses.” ‘Was tough social distancing’ “When the lockdown was imposed last year, the school relied on online classes but it was not the same in the absence of Braille and teachers mostly took verbal classes. Hostellers from other districts and states such as Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, UP, Uttarakhand and New Delhi had to vacate the hostels. However, a couple of orphaned children had nowhere to go and special arrangements were made for them to stay on,” said a teacher. With a staff of 11, the centre is understaffed. However, hope soars in the form of a sweet melody as a Class-5 student, Keshav, sings a classical song, leaving everyone awed. “He wants to become a singer,” says his teacher, Maya, a former student of the Centre herself. Strength of deaf, dumb students dwindlesA few metres away from the centre for the blind is the school for deaf students. However, it too is complaining of a reduced student strength. “Of the 145 students on roll, only 40 have resumed classes since we reopened after the lockdown,” says general secretary of the school Promod Dada. He blames the increased cost of transportation for the low attendance. “We are no longer able to provide bus services. Earlier, students from far-flung areas would avail of the service. However, the rising price of fuel has made it untenable to run the service,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidinduced-darkness-yet-to-dispel-for-the-blind-in-ludhiana-101636923735017.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||WWI team to visit Shimla to prepare plan to capture man-eater leopard||A team of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) experts will visit Shimla to formulate a strategy to capture the man-eater leopard that mauled a seven-year-old child to death on Diwali night on November 4. All the efforts of the forest department to capture the animal have yielded no results. “Teams of the state forest department are patrolling the localities situated close to forest areas. The leopard, which is constantly on the prowl, has been sighted repeatedly,” said Shimla wildlife divisional forest officer Ravi Shankar.The department is also exploring options to chemically immobilise the animal, he said, adding “Our priority is to trap the leopard safely, for which cages have been installed in different areas.” The leopard lifted a seven-year-old Yog Raj from outside his house on Diwali night. In an order passed on November 10, the commission had declared the leopard a man-eater. It has been ordered to capture the feline alive and keep it in captivity till life or kill it if it could not be captured. The divisional forest officer-cum-wildlife warden (Shimla urban) has been directed to issue a death warrant of the leopard immediately. Further, it directed the state authority to pay ₹4 lakh compensation to the victim’s family within five months. It also recommended installing CCTV cameras/camera traps in the Shimla city in the settlements adjoining the forest areas within a month and also remove the bushes in these areas within the given deadline. The commission also ordered to create a protective buffer zone adjoining the wildlife areas and human residential areas in a month. All the leopards in the forests of the town will be tagged or collared within one month for immediate location tracing. The forest department has been directed to submit an action taken report to the commission after the expiry of the deadline.In August this year, the Himachal Pradesh Human Rights Commission had taken suo moto cognizance of the incident in which the leopard had killed a five-year-old girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wwi-team-to-visit-shimla-to-prepare-plan-to-capture-man-eater-leopard-101636923674099.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Saina Nehwal interacts with players at Katra sports complex||Ace badminton player Saina Nehwal on Sunday visited the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDSB) sports complex at Katra and interacted with sportspersons there. Nehwal, who earlier offered prayers at the holy cave shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi along with her family, was welcomed at the sports complex by Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board chief executive officer (CEO) Ramesh Kumar. She gave a call to budding sportspersons to work hard and chart their careers. The shuttler’s visit not only motivated girls but also inspired budding players to achieve new feats in sports, said an official spokesman.“The star player also had a word of advice for parents — nurture the sporting talent among young kids as parental support holds the key to the development of a player,” he said. Applauding her accomplishments, Kumar said she is a role model to everyone as “her hard work has taken her to great heights”.Paralympic archer Rakesh Kumar and coaches were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/saina-nehwal-interacts-with-players-at-katra-sports-complex-101636923373584.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana couple ends life after verbal spat||Five months after getting married, a labourer and his wife ended their lives by hanging themselves from a ceiling fan at their rented accommodation in Bhagwant Vihar in Meharban on Saturday, following a verbal spat. The woman’s sister discovered the bodies on Sunday when she came to check on them when they did not answer their phones nor turned up at the factory where the three of them worked. The woman was 28 years old and her husband was 30, said assistant commissioner of police (ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary. Both of them had separated from their first partners and had married for a second time. “Neighbours say the labourer was a habitual drinker, which led to frequent quarrels between the couple. It is suspected that the woman hung herself after a spat, and seeing her lifeless body, the labourer lay her on the floor and hung himself,” said the ACP, adding that no suicide note was recovered. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-couple-ends-life-after-verbal-spat-101636923193999.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||174 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on Sunday reported 174 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 150 cases were reported in the Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 24 infections. Two persons succumbed to the virus in the valley.Kashmir reported 68 cases in the summer capital Srinagar, 29 and 21 cases in northern districts of Baramulla and Kupwara. The rest of 17 districts saw either single digit or zero case.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 646, followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts at 254 and 132. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 107 with active positive cases reaching 1,515.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 41,470 vaccine doses were administered, taking the overall jabs administered in the UT to 1.579 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,28,215 with a recovery rate of 98.21%. Since the pandemic outbreak, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,34,180 and the death toll 4,450.The officials said that 53,364 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,147 fatalities followed by Srinagar at 856.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,34,180Total recovered patients: 3,28,215Total deaths: 4,450Active cases: 1,515||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/174-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-jk-101636922893991.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh logs 56 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths||Himachal Pradesh logged 56 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the state’s caseload to 2,25,768 while the death toll mounted to 3,798 after three patients succumbed to the infection. The highest 16 cases were reported from Kangra, followed by 14 from Hamirpur, eight from Bilaspur, six from Mandi, five each from Shimla and Solan and one each from Chamba and Una. Active case count has come down to 1,093 while the recoveries reached 2,20,860 after 60 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 51,417 cases, followed by 31,784 in Mandi and 27,6570 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-logs-56-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-101636922773762.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP MLA puts govt, organisation in the dock over bypoll debacle||Bharatiya Janata Party MLA and former minister Ramesh Dhawala has put his own party and the government in Himachal Pradesh in the dock over the humiliating defeat in the recently held bypoll.The BJP had all four seats, including the Mandi parliamentary constituency and Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments, in the October 30 byelections from Himachal Pradesh. Speaking to the media at Surani in Kangra district, the Jawalamukhi MLA said the lack of coordination between the government and the organisation was the primary reason behind the party’s defeat in the bypolls.“If the organization ignores senior leaders and workers this is bound to happen,” he said. Bringing new people forward in the organisation was a good thing, but the consequences will be disastrous if the old guard is sidelined, he claimed.“If the organisation bypasses the old workers and forms parallel organisations at many places, it demoralises the cadre who then sit at home instead of working in the field. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is a hardworking and honest man, but it is really humiliating to lose all the four seats despite record development works taking place in the state,” he added. No excuse is sufficient to justify the defeat and it is the time to introspect, Dhawala said. “If the real reasons for the defeat are not debated, then the road to the mission repeat in the 2022 assembly elections would be even worse,” he said.Dhawala said if the party learns from its mistakes and work accordingly, then the party will repeat the government in the next elections. It is not the first time that Dhawala has spoken against the functioning of the organisation. He has been locking horns with state general secretary (organisation) Pawan Rana for long.During a meeting of Kangra legislators with CM Jai Ram Thakur last year, Dhawala had openly expressed displeasure over interference by Rana in his constituency. Later, Dhawala and his supporters had lashed out at party over the appointments made in Jawalamukhi block unit without consulting the MLA and the local leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-mla-puts-govt-organisation-in-the-dock-over-bypoll-debacle-101636922473775.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP brass meets in Chandigarh today to take stock of Himachal bypoll debacle||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s senior leaders will meet in Chandigarh on Monday to ascertain the reasons behind the party’s dismal performance in the recently held bypolls for one parliamentary constituency the three assembly segments in Himachal Pradesh. BJP national vice president Saudan Singh, who is also in-charge for Punjab, Himachal, Haryana, Chandigarh; state president Suresh Kashyap; party in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, his deputy Sanjay Tandon and organising secretary Pawan Rana are among those participating in the meeting. But it is not yet confirmed whether chief minister Jai Ram Thakur will attend the meeting. Pawan Rana has already met the top party leaders in Delhi to apprise them of the circumstances that led to defeat. Inflation, infighting, mis-governance and increasing anti-incumbency were the major factors that cost the party dear in the byelections. Soon after the defeat in HP, the Narendra Modi-led central government was quick to reduce the fuel prices, followed by the state government’s move to slash value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. The party will also assess the performances of ministers and office-bearers assigned responsibility during the elections, it is learnt. Jal shakti minister Mahender Singh, who was in-charge of the Mandi parliamentary seat, caused ripples in the party circles as he had an unscheduled meeting with party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda in New Delhi on Saturday. He was accompanied by technical education and tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda. Markanda clarified his position though his meeting was brief, sources said. The ministers’ meeting with Nadda has also sparked speculations of a cabinet reshuffle. It is likely that after assessing the meeting, CM Thakur will effect a rejig in his council of ministers. Besides, party leaders from the Fatehpur segment have complained against a minister while BJP rebel Chetan Bragta, son of former horticulture minister Narinder Bragta and who contested as an independent candidate, has blamed a minister for shifting the BJP vote in favor of the Congress in Jubbal and Kotkhai. State president Suresh Kashyap has already sought a report from party in-charges assigned poll duties in different assembly segments. There is a strong possibility that as many as four vice-presidents of the party and two general secretaries could be divested of their responsibilities. What is concerning for the BJP the most is that a large number of voters opted for the NOTA (none of the above) option from the parliamentary seat. NOTA polled more than 12,000 votes in Mandi, which is more than the margin of the Congress candidate’s victory. Also, Brig (retd) Khushal Thakur, the BJP candidate from Mandi, trailed with a big margin in the three tribal assembly segments of Bharmaur, Kinnaur and Lahaul & Spiti. The election outcome is also a matter of concern for the CM as the party also lost from his home turf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-brass-meets-in-chandigarh-today-to-take-stock-of-himachal-bypoll-debacle-101636922115927.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Avian influenza threat: Forest officials raise a caution as migratory birds descend on Harike wetland||With the start of the arrival of winged guests from the different parts of Europe and North Asia to the India’s second largest wetland Harike, the state department of forests and wildlife preservation has started taking precautionary measures in view of the death of more than 170 birds in Rajasthan due to avian influenza. According to a rough estimate of the officials, around 10,000 birds, including rare species, have arrived at the wetland, also known as Hari-Ke-Pattan. Though no case of bird flu has been reported at the Harike Pattan Bird Sanctuary, the monitoring of birds has been intensified. The wetland and the lake were formed by constructing the headworks across the Sutlej river in 1953. Since then, the wetland spreading over 100 square miles has become a home to rare varieties of avifauna that arrive here from different countries. “So far, no case of bird flu has been reported at Harike, but our precautions are in place. Our teams are regularly monitoring all activities there. The birds have just started arriving and their arrival will increase in the coming days,” said Ferozepur divisional forest officer, wildlife, Nalin Yadav. The birds species that have reached Harike include bar-headed goose, greylag goose, ruddy shelduck, gulls, pintail duck, tufted duck, northern shoveller, wigeon, red-crested pochard, common teal, white-eyed pochard, knob-billed duck, black-headed ibis, marsh harrier etc. “More birds of these species will arrive in the coming months,” said Gitanjali Kanwar, coordinator, aquatic biodiversity, WWF India. She said, “We have also spotted rare species of water birds in Harike, like black-tailed godwit, golden plover, ferruginous pochard, greater flamingo, greater spotted eagle, etc.” “Due to extra precautionary measures keeping in view of the reports of bird flu in some parts of the country, including Rajasthan, there is no case of death of any bird at Harike. The department’s teams are working round the clock to ensure the safety of birds,” she added. When asked about the effect of smog on the migratory birds, she said, “During our recent years’ study, we have found that there is no major impact of smog on the avian guests visiting Harike. The water body at Harike is quite large and these birds can easily locate it while flying.” Gitanjali expects more than 1 lakh migratory birds at the wetland by January. The officials have also increased their security against the poaching activities. Every year, thousands of winged guests from low-temperature regions arrive at the world-famous bird sanctuary in the first week of November as lakes of those regions freeze in winter. They are expected to stay here till March. Last year, a total of 90 species were recorded, including three unidentified. Last year, nearly 75,000 migratory birds had arrived at the wetland, which was the lowest in over six years. The officials had cited ‘some undescribed issues in the low temperature regions’ for the low number. In 2019, the count of migratory birds that arrived at the wetland was around 1,23,000; and the number was 95,000 in 2018; 93,000 in 2017; and 1,05,000 in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/avian-influenza-threat-forest-officials-raise-a-caution-as-migratory-birds-descend-on-harike-wetland-101636922113756.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers force BJP to change venue of event in Bathinda||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) activists on Sunday laid siege to a resort in Bathinda city where Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders were to induct some people into the party fold.A large number of BKU volunteers, including women, blocked all three entry gates of the venue for over six hours. Led by the district general secretary of the union Harjinder Singh Baggi, the protesters said they would not allow the BJP to hold any event in the state.A large number of police personnel were deployed at the venue.However, state president of BJP Mahila Morcha Mona Jaiswal said the party changed the venue of the event. “A social activist from Bathinda Veenu Goyal had arranged today’s political programme. But it was disrupted by protesters. It is undemocratic to dissuade anyone from joining a political party. BJP supporters are being targeted with an ulterior political motive,” she said. State party chief Ashwani Sharma was scheduled to chair today’s event. “Owing to Sharma’s meeting with Prime Minister in Delhi, I was asked to convene the programme. We will soon hold an event where more people will join the party,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-force-bjp-to-change-venue-of-event-in-bathinda-101636921754514.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP leaders from Punjab meet PM Modi, seek Kartarpur corridor reopening||Chandigarh A 11-member delegation of BJP leaders from Punjab led by state unit chief Ashwani Sharma met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Sunday and requested him to reopen the Kartarpur corridor before Gurpurb, to be celebrated on November 19 this year. Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The 4.7km corridor that connects the historic gurdwara on Pakistan side was opened for pilgrims on November 9, 2019. The delegation comprised BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh, all-India general secretary and state in-charge Dushyant Guatum, who is also Rajya Sabha MP, national general secretary Tarun Chugh and Harjeet Singh Grewal. The corridor facilitated the pilgrims to travel without visa for paying obeisance at the shrine. “We requested the Prime Minister to allow the pilgrimage since the Covid situation has improved,” Ashwani Sharma said. He said it was due to the insensitivity of the Congress party that no negotiations were held to make the shrine a part of Indian territory during the Partition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-leaders-from-punjab-meet-pm-modi-seek-kartarpur-corridor-reopening-101636921453904.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protesting against DAP shortage disrupt OP Soni’s events in Faridkot district||Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni’s visit to Faridkot district on Sunday was marred by farmer unions’ protests against shortage of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser. Soni had reached Faridkot to pay tributes to first prime minister of India, Jawahar Lal Nehru, on his birth anniversary at Jaito. Nehru was arrested by the British government in Jaito on September 21, 1923, and kept in a cell, which is located adjacent to Jaito Sadar police station. Soni was accompanied by Faridkot MP Mohammad Sadiq, Punjab Congress acting president Pawan Goyal and deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia. Next on Soni’s schedule was a visit to Jaito community health centre (CHC) to announce its upgrade to a civil hospital. However, a large number of farmers belonging to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) carrying black flags thronged the road from the memorial up to CHC and locked both gates of the hospital. Soni cancelled the visit to CHC and went to Goyal’s residence. Farmers also tore down the billboards put up by the Congress party to welcome Soni. The deputy CM was also scheduled to attend a Children’s Day function at a private school in Jaito but farmers also staged protests in front of the school and his visit was cancelled. Later, Soni held a meeting with industrialists, traders and Congress workers at Kotkapura. BKU (Ugrahan) leader Gurpal Nangal said that the protest was held over the shortage of DAP. “We are also demanding adequate compensation for cotton crop damaged due to the pink bollworm attack,” he added. BKU (Ekta-Dakaunda) leader Jaspreet Singh said, “Farmers wait for hours daily in front of cooperative societies’ offices and private dealers’ shops for the fertiliser. We are also protesting against the delay in compensation to kin of farmers who died during their protest at Delhi borders. Five members of our union from Faridkot district died during the protest but the state government has not provided any compensation,” he added. 3,100 metric tonnes DAP to arrive today: Agri dept Faridkot chief agriculture officer Karanjit Singh Gill said an estimated 15,000 metric tonnes DAP is required in Faridkot district in November. “So far, 9,500 metric tonnes have been supplied, which is 62% of the total demand. Around 3,100 metric tonnes of DAP will reach Faridkot on Monday. But still, there will be a shortage of DAP, so we require another rake of DAP. Around 70% DAP is distributed to cooperative societies, while the remaining 30% is sold to farmers through authorised dealers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protesting-against-dap-shortage-disrupt-op-soni-s-events-in-faridkot-district-101636921213654.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Capt colluded with Akalis... govt now working for people’: Punjab CM Channi||Catapulted as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister after Captain Amarinder Singh’s unceremonious exit, Charanjit Singh Channi, 58, has come into his own sooner than many had expected. In his first sit-down interview on Sunday, Channi went ballistic on Amarinder, struck a conciliatory tone towards state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and spoke passionately about his humble background. Edited excerpts:What has changed in Punjab since you took over as chief minister on September 20?My basic focus is to fulfil the promises our party made in 2017. When Captain sahib (Amarinder Singh) was the CM, he had a tacit pact with Akalis. He would not touch the promises which hurt the Badals. Then, we had to fight against Amarinder. We told the high command that remove him, otherwise the Congress has no chance in Punjab. Finally, he was ousted, I got the chance. The biggest change since then is that people feel that our government has now started functioning.You are the first Dalit leader to head Punjab since 1947. What went in your favour?I don’t see my elevation through the Dalit prism. I represent the ‘aam lok’. In Punjab, the poor, irrespective of his or her caste, has lived with an inferiority complex. I have ended that complex.But some quarters have seen your elevation as political tokenism?When I took over, my rivals would say “ehne kya karna” (what can he do), and now they say “ehda ki kariye” (what do we do about him). They did not know that I am a grassroots man who understands the issues that really matter to common citizens, and can solve them. Now, when issues have started getting resolved, my opponents are baffled.How will you overcome the anti-incumbency of the Amarinder government ?People of Punjab are wise. They can forgive anything but not deception. Amarinder promised a lot of things, particularly on sacrilege and drugs. Had he tried to fulfil these promises and not succeeded, the public would have believed that he at least tried. Uhna di niyat vich badniyati aa gayee (his intent got vitiated). He colluded with the accused and did not take things forward.What kind of challenge do you expect from the SAD-BSP alliance which has done well before?It is not a pact, but a deception on BSP. On paper, they have left 20 seats to BSP. But many urban seats such as Pathankot, Hoshiarpur and Mohali have no BSP base. In reality, SAD has left them for BJP. Earlier, the Dalits were feeling powerless and inferior, and now when I am there to make them feel superior why would they go with Akalis or the BSP?How has your elevation changed the dynamic of Dalit politics in Punjab?The BJP was promising to usher ‘yug parivartan’ by making a Dalit their chief minister. But that has already happened. Where is the need for a new ‘yug parivartan’ now?You have announced a slew of populist decisions which will cost the state thousands of crores. How are you going to garner resources?I’m taking every step after thorough consultation and brainstorming. Take, for example, the power tariff. The previous governments had raised the tariff to a level that it was eating Punjab like a termite. That is why I have scrapped all the PPAs and we will re-determine the tariff all over again. We will procure cheap power to supply it cheap. We have slashed the petrol price by ₹10 per litre. We have not squandered the state exchequer, rather we are rebuilding it.But Sidhu is still coming down hard on your government on justice in sacrilege and police firing cases and for action against the big fish in drug rackets.The sacrilege case has progressed beyond what it was during the Captain government, which had almost derailed it. After we got the nod from the high court, the SIT has interrogated the Dera Sacha Sauda head in the Rohtak jail. As far as the drug issue goes, the 2018 report of the SIT remains in a sealed cover with the high court. Captain saab had got it buried due to his secret collusion with (Bikram Singh) Majithia. Now, the court has said we will open it on November 18.Another major irritant for Sidhu has been the appointment of APS Deol and Iqbal Preet Singh Sihota as the AG and DGP, respectively. You replaced Deol after the PCC chief asked you to choose between him or the officers?Look, we are in a war. We have to keep in mind the larger issues of Punjab and not get stuck on minor issues. Whether advocate general is A or B or C, it doesn’t matter much. What matters is the chief minister’s will. Capt Amarinder Singh did not want to act on the sacrilege and drug issues, so his legal and police officials kept them in limbo.How will Captain’s move to break away and form a separate party impact the Congress in the election?This is not the first time he has left the party. He did so in 1984 before returning to the Congress and was made state president. He always wants to stay on top and can’t work along with others. His exit will rather benefit Congress.If the Congress comes back to power, will you continue to be CM?No, I am not a candidate for the post of CM again. It is for the party to decide.Punjab passed a resolution rejecting the Centre’s notification on extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction. Some quarters see your anti-Centrism as related to the upcoming polls?They can assist in a 5km area; why 15km? After the abrogation of Article 370 in J&K, the Modi government has got emboldened and is trying to encroach on Punjab’s rights. It is an assault on the country’s federal structure.The farmer protest will be one year old next week. How will it resonate in the Punjab elections?It is difficult to predict how it will play out in the assemby polls. But the Centre’s intransigence is damaging Punjab. We are wholeheartedly standing with the farmers.This season, the Punjab stubble fires leapt to a new high, causing massive pollution. But your government has soft-pedalled and taken no penal action against violators?We have tried our best and even counselled farmers. They are already suffering a lot. How can we register FIRs and put them in the lock-up?Your comments in the assembly calling the RSS “an enemy of Punjab” have evoked a strong reaction from the right wing body.I didn’t say it in that sense. Any organisation has good and bad elements. RSS has certain ideologies which people don’t like and are not pro-Punjab. RSS on its own does good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-singh-colluded-with-badals-delayed-justice-in-sacrilege-drugs-cases-says-punjab-cm-channi-101636920613561.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh crosses 14 crore Covid vax milestone||Total number of Covid vaccine doses administered in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 14 crore mark on Sunday, according to the data shared by the health department.By 6 pm, UP had administered 140145120 doses, including over 10.18 crore first dose, and over 3.82 crore have received both doses.Among total doses, 66446394 have been administered to female beneficiaries, while 73639360 doses have been administered to men in the state.The state government has planned to vaccinate 100% eligible population in the state by at least the first dose by end of November. For achieving the target vaccination, timings have been extended till 10 pm in the night at all major centres from the earlier 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-crosses-14-crore-covid-vax-milestone-101636918696112.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 can impact the inner ear cells, affect hearing: Study||In October, a 38-year-old man walked into the civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital with tinnitus – a ringing noise – in both his ears. He also complained of hearing loss in his right ear. The doctors from the hospital’s ear, nose and throat (ENT) department put him on a five-day course of intravenous steroids. But his condition did not improve. The patient had to be eventually given a hearing aid for one ear. As the doctors probed further, one thing stood out in the patient’s case history – he had recovered from Covid-19 infection only a few weeks prior to his newly-developed ear condition.“Cases of decreased hearing or hearing loss are not unusual post viral infections,” said Dr Hetal Marfatia, head of the KEM Hospital’s ENT department. “We often see such cases in patients with mumps or rubella infections. Many patients we see now have a Covid-19 history, but it’s hard to link them to Covid until we conduct a proper study,” she said. However, a new study from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Massachusetts Eye and Ear (a Harvard teaching hospital based in Boston) has recorded evidence that the SARS-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – can infect the inner ear, including hair cells that are critical for hearing and balance. Hair cells are the sensory cells of the auditory system. For their study, the researchers used novel cellular models of the human inner ear that they developed and adult human inner ear tissue which is hard to obtain. The researchers examined the pattern of infection in their tissue samples and corresponded it to a group of 10 Covid-19 patients who had complained of ear-related symptoms such as tinnitus, vertigo, and mild to severe hearing loss. “Damage to cochlear hair cells, which can cause hearing loss, is usually evaluated by measuring otoacoustic emissions — sounds given off by sensory hair cells as they respond to auditory stimulation. Among the six Covid-19 patients in the study who underwent this testing, all had reduced or absent otoacoustic emissions,” a media statement said, further adding that even as the study strongly suggests that Covid-19 can cause auditory and balance problems, the overall percentage of Covid-19 patients who have experienced ear-related issues is not known. In October 2020, a study by the researchers from University College London and the Royal National Throat Nose and Ear Hospital in the UK also stated that Covid-19 may affect hearing in some patients. Many other studies have shown the impact of Covid-19 on the audio-vestibular system, but none is from India. “Due to a lack of scientific studies from India, Covid-19 induced hearing loss and tinnitus is getting ignored,” said Dr Milind Navalakhe, an ENT surgeon at Global Hospital in Parel. “We already had a high burden of cases of hearing loss and tinnitus. But I have seen a 50% jump in these cases since the pandemic began and all such patients have a history of Covid-19,” he said.According to Navalakhe, some patients coming with hearing loss or reduced hearing have had a Covid-19 history within a span of 12 months, while some have recovered from the infection in the recent weeks. “Many of the tinnitus patients I have seen were in the recent phase, with some of them developing the ringing noise while they were battling Covid-19,” said Dr Navalakhe. Tinnitus is often described as the ‘cry of a dying nerve’ and is extremely distressing for patients. It is common among older adults. Doctors link it to the weakness in the nerves but the exact cause is often unknown. “If patients seek help soon after developing the symptoms, most cases, especially of hearing issues, can be managed with medicines,” said Navalakhe adding that robust studies from India may help in understanding the exact impact of the SARS-CoV-2 on the ear. The SARS-CoV-2 is known to bind with the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor. The MIT researchers found that certain type of cells in the human inner ear samples and the stem-cell-derived cellular models express the proteins that are needed for the SARS-CoV-2 virus to enter the cells. These proteins include the ACE2 receptor. ENT specialist Dr Samir Bhargava who practices at the civic-run Cooper Hospital in Juhu said that he has not seen any increase in incidence so far. “There have been some anecdotal reports, but cases of hearing loss and tinnitus are anyway extremely common,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-can-impact-the-inner-ear-cells-affect-hearing-study-101636918152600.html
15-11-2021||Other||Dhadis launch hunger strike against SGPC for barring some of them||Amritsar Dhadis (traditional ballad singers) on Sunday launched a hunger strike at the Heritage Street that leads to Golden Temple in protest against the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) which is not allegedly addressing their demands and has barred some of them. Dhadis are traditional performers who sing ballads of war heroes with a sarangi, a stringed instrument, and a dhad, a small drum. In the Golden Temple Complex, they sing the ballads at Akal Takht, the highest Sikh temporal seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhadis-launch-hunger-strike-against-sgpc-for-barring-some-of-them-101636917673046.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Microbes, plants to treat polluted water in rivulets||After failing to plug all sewage leaking points into the seasonal rivulets, now plants and micro-organisms will be put to use to treat polluted water in several locations.The technique of phytoremediation will be employed at Faida village, where the untreated sewage water is flowing into the Faida choe which ultimately mixes into the N-choe. There is no sewer network in the village.The site was recently inspected by MC officials. It was found that the Faida colony is developed on private land at Faida village. There are a lot of points from where the sewage of the colony directly flows into the Faida Choe.“There is no space available to tap the sewage of this colony into the sewerage system. So, we will have to go in for phytoremediation at the site itself,” said an MC official.Phytoremediation technologies use living plants to clean up water contaminated with hazardous contaminants. “It is a cost-effective plant-based approach of environmental remediation that takes advantage of the ability of plants to concentrate elements and compounds from the environment and to detoxify various compounds,” said the official.In a bid to stop pollutants from entering the Ghaggar river, the NGT had directed the MC to stop the sewage from being discharged into seasonal rivulets. Polluted water from the Sukhna choe and the N-choe merge into the river near Zirakpur, which ultimately pollutes the river too.Notably, the NGT had even warned the administration of imposing financial environmental costs on it if it failed to plug all discharge points. It had also directed the Central Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) to make a fresh survey of such points. After the survey, it was discovered that discharges were still being allowed in the rivulets.Measures at other leakage pointsThe MC has issued notices against 132 residents of Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu and Sarangpur villages who don’t have an adequate sewerage system and the sullage from their residence is flowing to Patiala Ki Rao.The notices have been issued for making alterations in their internal sewerage network to stop the flow of sullage so that wastewater may not flow in the stormwater drainage system within 30 days. The SDE/JE have been directed to meet them personally for this work.“Strict action will be taken against residents who fail to rectify the problem within a month. This will include disconnection of their water supply,” said an MC official.On the Sukhna choe, Dhaka colony near Raipur Khurd is the only remaining outlet from where untreated water is entering the Sukhna Choe.The MC under the short-term measure diverted the sewage from the village to the sewage treatment plant, Raipur Khurd, after providing a gate in one of the manholes. The work is expected to be completed by year-end.Under a permanent solution, a sewer line will be laid outside the Dhaka colony which will be used for carrying the wastewater of the colony to the STP Raipur Khurd. The expenditure involved is about ₹1 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-microbes-plants-to-treat-polluted-water-in-rivulets-101636917612789.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||Six members of interstate looters’ gang held in Prayagraj||The district police arrested six members of an interstate gang, two of whom suffered bullet injuries, in two encounters with police teams late on Saturday night, police said. The police also claimed that the arrested members of the Bihar-based gang confessed to their involvement in a triple murder at Aandhi village in Manda area in Prayagraj’s trans-Yamuna last year. Moreover, they were also involved in some other incidents in trans-Ganga in which all family members were killed during last few years, officials said. Confirming it, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj, Sarvashreshtha Tripathi said joint teams of special operations group (SOG), trans-Yamuna, under in-charge Santosh Singh and Manda police under inspector Awan Kumar Dixit launched a checking drive on Prayagraj-Mirzapur border on Saturday night. On growing suspicious, the team tried to intercept two suspects near a shrine but they opened fire on the police team and tried to escape. In the retaliatory firing by the police team, one of the suspects suffered a bullet injury in his leg, Dixit added. He was arrested and was identified as Pradeep Kumar Joshi, 25, aka Joshi Kharwar. His aide identified as Anees Kharwar, 20, was also nabbed, he added. “The duo hail from Dehri Bazaar area of Rohtas district in Bihar. A country made firearm and some live and empty cartridges were recovered from Pradeep Joshi’s possession. The accused informed that their other members of the gang were present at Bankat in Soraon area” the SSP said. Acting on the information, three other gang members Sumit Kharwar, Sandol Kharwar, Amraj Kharwar of Dehri in Rohtas district of the same were nabbed by SOG trans-Ganga, Nawabganj and Soraon police. Police officials said police teams tried to nab another suspect but he opened fire on the police team. In retaliatory firing, the criminal identified as Baliram Kharwar of Dehri Bazaar of Rohtas district suffered an injury in the leg. He was arrested with a country made firearm and some ammunition. The SSP said Pradeep was the kingpin of the interstate gang and four other members Lawla Kharwar, Rohit Kharwar, Murgi Pankh Kharwar and Dohbi Kharwar were on the run. During questioning, the criminals confessed to have been involved in the brutal murders of one Nandlal Yadav, his wife and daughter at Aandhi village of Prayagraj district in May last year. The accused had also raped Nandlal’s daughter before killing her brutally, he added. The gang members visit villages on the pretext of selling honey and balloons etc to carry out a reconnaissance before targeting their victims. The gang moves from one state to another and commits loots and murders. The gang members never used mobiles and changed their hideout soon after committing the crimes. They confessed to have committed loots and murders in Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Chitrakoot and Pratapgarh districts. Their involvement has been established in multiple murders at Yusufpur , Jagdishpur, Mani Ka Pura in trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj. The looted jewellery was sold to jeweller Ballu Gupta of Badshahi Mandi area who was also arrested by police team. Two country made firearm, ammunition, two choppers, two sickles, a knife, an iron rod, a screw driver and some ornaments were recovered from the arrested criminals, he said. The gang members were wanted in cases registered, including those of murder, rape, under the Arms Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, against them at Soraon, Nawabganj, Manda, Kaundhiara, Tharwai, Ghoorpur ,Sarai Inayat and Soraon police station, the SSP said. Further investigation in this regard was under way, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/six-members-of-interstate-looters-gang-held-in-prayagraj-101636917553921.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Biker, friend looted on Bopdev ghat||PUNE: Four minors have been arrested in connection with looting the rider and pillion rider of a two-wheeler at Bopdev ghat on November 13. Vikrant Gargote, 27, a resident of Rajgurunagar, lodged a complaint in this regard at Kondhwa police station. The incident brought back memories of commuters being robbed by armed gangs on motorcycles in the recent past.According to the FIR, Gargote and his friend had left the ghat on their motorcycle when four minors on a two-wheeler started threatening Gargote who was riding the motorcycle. Gargote’s friend, who was riding pillion, was robbed of Rs2,000 in cash. Police sub-inspector Vaibhav Sonawane who is investigating the case said that the accused physically assaulted the duo, threatening them with choppers. “They forcibly took away the cash from the duo after threatening them with dire consequences,” he said.In another incident also on November 13, the Hadapsar police nabbed one Akshay Salgar, 20, a resident of Tilaknagar, Kondhwa, for looting a truck driver at the Mantarwadi-Katraj bypass. The truck driver, Raviraj Shinde, 35, lodged an FIR against the accused.Bopdev ghat has become notorious for similar such incidents in the recent past. In August this year, three motorcycle-borne youth attacked a woman with a sharp weapon and robbed her of her gold chain worth Rs25,000 in the Bopdev ghat area. The woman and her boyfriend were returning from Bopdev ghat when they were accosted by the trio on the turn towards Yevalewadi. While the woman was robbed and left injured, her boyfriend, too, was looted of Rs1,000 in cash. The assailants escaped from the spot on their motorcycle. The Kondhwa Residents Forum has demanded installation of CCTVs inside the ghat and requested the police to carry out drone patrolling of the area to make it safer for commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/biker-friend-looted-on-bopdev-ghat-101636916952450.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two women leaders back in Congress from AAP in 2 months||Chandigarh Mahila Aam Aadmi Party Wing president Anita Sharma and women general secretary Kamlesh Chaudhary returned to the Congress on Sunday. Both had left the Congress and joined the AAP around two months back.“There is no such thing as discipline and organisation in the Aam Aadmi Party. There is a tremendous race going on among four people to show themselves as superior to the other. The four leaders are fighting with each other to get tickets for their comrades. The day is not far when the AAP’s name will be erased from Chandigarh,” said Sharma.Chaudhary said: “It has been two months since we joined AAP. It has no policy. There we were forced to speak against Pawan Kumar Bansal and against senior leaders of the Congress party, which was their only agenda and was not acceptable to us at all.”Both leaders said they had returned to the Congress without any condition and would continue to promote and spread its policies among the people in the coming times.Subhash Chawla, city Congress chief, welcomed the two back. “If a former Congress worker wants to return to the party unconditionally, they are most welcome,” he said, while excluding his predecessor Pardeep Chawla and a few others from this offer. A number of Congress leaders, including Chawla, had left the Congress in the last couple of months and joined the AAP.However, all is not lost for the AAP, as former secretary of the Mahila Morcha, Rakhi Sharma, joined it on Sunday.AAP co-incharge Chhabra welcomed the Congress leader and her entire team and said, “With the joining of Rakhi, AAP has gained more strength in the city. People are joining AAP after getting impressed by the development works of the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-women-leaders-back-in-congress-from-aap-in-2-months-101636916723200.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Fire at Hadapsar godown: Corpse of disabled worker recovered||PUNE Pune fire brigade officials have traced recovered the corpse of a physically disabled worker from the debris of a storage unit in Hadapsar that caught fire early on Sunday morning.According to the Hadapsar police, a fire broke out at the 8,000 sq ft storage facility located at Sade Satra Nali in Hadapsar. The fire brigade received a call at 3.10 am and initially, two fire tenders from the Hadapsar fire station were sent. The fire was brought under control after three hours.Inspector Arvind Gokuke of the Hadapsar police station said, “The dead person was a staffer at the facility and was physically challenged. He had artificial legs and his body was recovered in the search operation carried out by the fire brigade officials and the police. A case related to accidental death has been lodged.” The PMC’s fire department chief Prashant Ranpise said, “One worker has died in the fire. Victims usually take shelter where they feel safe but end up as casualties . We have informed the police. Prima facie it looks like a short circuit could be the possible cause behind the fire.” Fire station officer Vijay Bhilare said, “All the decorative items stored in the unit were destroyed in the blaze. The site was a storage facility for various stage and event items like curtains, carpets, and various wooden and plastic items.” On November 9, a major fire gutted an entire furniture godown in Pisoli. Another major fire damaged a furniture storage facility in the Gangadham area on the night of October 24. On October 7, one person was rescued by the Pune fire brigade after he was trapped in a major fire that broke out at a storage facility in Market Yard.A major fire was reported at a 25,000 square feet godown of Big Basket in Bavdhan on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-at-hadapsar-godown-corpse-of-disabled-worker-recovered-101636916720224.html
15-11-2021||Other||Special religious congregation held in Talwandi Sabo||Bathinda A special gurmat samagam (religious congregation) of Malwa zone was held at Takht Sri Damdama Sahib in Bathinda’s Talwandi Sabo town on Sunday in which 1,247 persons got initiated as Sikhs. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) Bibi Jagir Kaur said the religious event was dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur under the ‘Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal’ (sacred shrine within every home) campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/special-religious-congregation-held-in-talwandi-sabo-101636916653075.html
15-11-2021||Patna||Apex liquor body writes to Bihar govt, asks for withdrawal of prohibition||Ahead of the November 16 meeting to review prohibition, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), the representative body of leading Indian alcohol companies, has written to the Bihar government and leaders from all the constituents of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to end prohibition, as its ill-effects were outstripping its benefits and hooch tragedies were pointing to flow of spurious liquor in the absence of quality alcohol.It has also suggested several steps to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to achieve the goals of helping women without adverse fallouts of prohibition in terms of revenue loss, spurt in spurious liquor manufacturing and sales of smuggled alcohol at an inflated price.“Bihar is paying a heavy price for its prohibition policy in the form of proliferation of unlawful and spurious liquor, hooch tragedies, rise of crime syndicates and loss of legitimate government revenues. The government can impose special cess on sale of liquor to fund alcohol de-addiction and rehabilitation centres and put liquor trade under state control,” reads the letter from CIABC director general Vinod Giri, citing three presentations it had made before the CM to underline how prohibition, despite its good intent, was going astray with the emergence of liquor mafiosi.Giri, who also hails from Patna, said that he has been consistently trying to bring the facts before the CM since 2019, as liquor mafiosi had managed to hamper whatever noble intentions the government had behind enforcing prohibition.“Since imposition of prohibition in 2016, over one-lakh crore of liquor has been seized in the state. Even if the seizure rate is considered 10%, it means around 10-crore-litre of illicit liquor reached Bihar. Besides, the entire police force is engaged in enforcing prohibition, which means lack of attention on other cognisable offences. Strong enforcement has also created fear psychosis in the private sector,” the letter said.Maintaining that the state is losing out on revenue from the legitimate liquor trade which is pegged at around ₹10,000 crore per annum, the CIABC has asked Kumar to direct liquor factories to hire 50% of their workforce as women which would lead to their economic self-reliance and empowerment.Citing the National Family Health Survey 2019-20 report, the letter said it clearly states that Bihar consumes more liquor than Maharashtra, which proves that prohibition has not worked. “The report also suggests that 90% of illegal sale of liquor is among the poor and backward people and Bihar’s loss has turned out to be its neighbour’s gain due to increase in liquor sales in border areas,” it added.The letter further says that prohibition is known to have not worked earlier in other states like Haryana, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. “Gujarat, by the way, does not have a complete ban as non-domiciles are permitted alcohol through licensed shops,” Giri added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/apex-liquor-body-writes-to-bihar-govt-asks-for-withdrawal-of-prohibition-101636916415831.html
15-11-2021||Pune||Babasaheb Purandare’s condition critical, say family members||PUNE Eminent author, historian and theatre personality, Balwant Moreshwar alias Babasaheb Purandare who recently celebrated his 100th birthday, is critical and admitted to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital in Kothrud. According to his family members, he was admitted early this week and has now been shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU).“Dr Dhananjay Kelkar is overseeing the treatment. My father’s health is critical at the moment and the doctors are trying their best,” said Amrut Purandare, his son.According to the public relations officer of the hospital, “The treatment is continuing on Babasaheb and he is critical and now being shifted on the ventilator.”In more than eight decades of his career in writing and theatre, Purandare delivered more than 12,000 lectures on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, and studied all the forts and the history of the Maratha Empire, making him an authority on the subject. He penned and directed a historical play titled “Jaanta Raja” in 1985, which became a theatrical magnum opus performed down the years by over 200 artistes, translated and enacted in five languages and clocking over 1,250 stage shows in Maharashtra, Goa, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and the USA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/babasaheb-purandare-s-condition-critical-say-family-members-101636916412565.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Indo-Pak War: 50 years on, veterans pay tribute to martyrs||With eyes numb and heads held high, war veterans paid tributes to martyrs at the wreath-laying ceremony organised at the War Memorial “Veer Smriti” by the Western Command. It was organised to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the 1971 War. Officers of the 39th NDA, 48th Reg course, the first course which participated in the 1971 War after passing out from the IMA, paid tribute to the martyrs. Lt Gen SR Ghosh, a 1971 Indo-Pak War veteran who retired as the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Western Command in 2012, was also present to lay the wreath. Gen Gosh, who passed out from the IMA on November 14, 1971, exactly 51 years ago, shared: “On November 14, 1971, we were commissioned and on December 3, the war started and all of us were sent to the war as officers were needed. But we were ready for the war.” He was 19 years old when he was posted as the Second Lieutenant in the Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir. Terming it a moving and emotional ceremony, the officer said: “Those who passed out from our batch are not even alive to see this day. They lost their lives within 2 days of the war.” Col LJS Gill from the 2 Para Unit said: “We were commissioned five weeks ahead of time. I was commissioned to the 2 Para Unit, Calcutta. So, anyone who joins the para unit has to undergo 28-day probation before he is considered a suitable candidate serving in the Parachute Regiment.” As the war broke out within a week of his joining, the officer was not allowed to take part in the airborne operation. “I had not undergone the 28-day probation period. Thereafter, you have to undergo a para basic course for 6 weeks in Agra, where you are trained as a paratrooper. But after a lot of discussions, the higher authorities did allow me to jump along with my unit. Of course, they were apprehensive whether I will be able to jump or not, but I did. So, that was my first jump,” he said. This airborne operation was later called the “trump card” of the war. “The Bangladesh Liberation War is termed as one of the most important wars fought by India. “It was a great victory, as we liberated one country. Bangladesh was created because of this war. We captured 93,000 prisoners and returned all safely,” Gen Ghosh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indopak-war-50-years-on-veterans-pay-tribute-to-martyrs-101636916239486.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh breathes easy, as IMD says no signs of smog yet||Even as smog has choked New Delhi and parts of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh continues to fare much better. The weatherman attributes it to the favourable wind direction.The Air Quality Index (AQI) is below 200 (moderate) at the monitoring station in Sector 22 while it has dropped below 100 (satisfactory) at the station in Sector 25. The air quality has remained moderate since Diwali night, when it had turned severe (AQI above 400) for a few hours.“Chandigarh is located at a unique place in the region, directly at the foothills of the Himalayas. With northwesterly winds blowing in the region, winds push all the pollutants away from the city,” said Manmohan Singh, director, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chandigarh. The AQI also has a tendency to rise as temperature drops. In Chandigarh, the mercury is dropping by around a notch or two per week as winters draw closer, according to the weatherman. “The temperature is still too high for fog to set in; so smog also remains unlikely in Chandigarh,” said Singh.Maximum temperature was recorded at 28.3°C on Sunday, going marginally up from Saturday’s 28°C. Meanwhile, minimum temperature remained unchanged at 10.5°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to come down to 27°C and minimum temperature might go up to 11°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-breathes-easy-as-imd-says-no-signs-of-smog-yet-101636916003618.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC serves ₹4.5-crore recovery notices on two parking contractors||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has served notices on two parking contractors for recovery of around ₹4.5 crore in unpaid licence fee. If they fail to clear the dues within a week, the civic body will initiate contract cancellation proceedings against them.The notices come just two days after the MC General House decided against granting any licence fee exemption to the two contractors. The MC had divided 89 parking lots into two zones and allotted their management to two firms for three years in January last year. The contract was extendable for up to five years.The notice issued by the MC commissioner on Sunday states: “You (contractor) are directed to deposit the licence fee within a week positively. Failing which your contract will be terminated, you will be blacklisted, your security amount (over ₹1.5 crore each) will be forfeited and the pending amount will be recovered as per due course of law (sic).”Even earlier, the MC had issued recovery notices (on October 19 and a reminder on November 10), but the matter was kept pending as the House was yet to decide on the contractor’s request for remission of fees.The Zone-1 contractor, Patna-based Ram Sundar Prasad Singh, has to pay ₹1.67 crore and Zone-2 contractor, Delhi-based Pashchatya Entertainment Pvt Ltd, has an outstanding amount of ₹2.88 crore, calculated till November 12.The Zone-1 contractor had sought a fee exemption of ₹1.02 crore and the Zone-2 contractor had sought ₹98.64 lakh exemption on account of losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown and free parking given to MC employees. However, both BJP and Congress councillors opposed the request in the House meeting held on Friday.The MC had scrapped the contract of the previous company running the parking lots over poor management. The working of the present contractors had also come under increased scrutiny in the MC House with councillors castigating the two firms for poor management.“As previously done, the MC will take over the parking lots if the current contractors fail to pay the outstanding amount. It could be done by this month end if the need arises,” said an MC official, on the condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, a parking contractor representative, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The last resort is to go to court, but we will still request the MC to reconsider its decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-serves-4-5-crore-recovery-notices-on-two-parking-contractors-101636916002190.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Golf: Shiv Kapur wins Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021||Shiv Kapur prevailed over Rashid Khan in a playoff at the ₹1.5-crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021 to register his first win at a PGTI event at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Sunday. The tournament was decided in a playoff for the fourth year in succession.A Dubai-based golfer who originally hails from Delhi, Shiv (64-68-67-70) was in a deadlock with Delhi’s Rashid (65-67-69-68) at 19-under 269 at the top of the leaderboard after regulation play, having shot final rounds of 70 and 68 respectively.Olympian Udayan Mane (69-68-67-67) took third place at 17-under 271 after returning a second straight 67. Chandigarh’s Aadil Bedi, who was overnight second and one off the lead, closed the week in fourth after his final round of 72 took his tally to 16-under 272.Shiv, a six-time international winner who also has two previous wins on the Indian domestic tour, came up with a brilliant second shot from the rough to make a two-putt for par on the playoff hole (18th hole) even as two-time Asian Tour winner Rashid hit his second shot into the water which effectively ended his challenge.Earlier in the day, 39-year-old Shiv, the overnight leader by one shot, struggled with his hitting and as a result dropped three bogeys on the front-nine with just one birdie in exchange. A monster 50-feet birdie conversion on the 11th seemed to be the defining moment of the day for him.Thereafter, Shiv kept landing it within six feet to pick up birdies on the 13th, 16th and 17th. He missed a four-footer for birdie and outright victory on the 18th but came back stronger in the playoff to lift the title at his close friend Jeev Milkha Singh’s event and take home the winning cheque worth ₹24,24,750.“It was not my prettiest round of golf. I had no rhythm and was all over the place to begin with. The first bit of good luck I had was with the long putt on the 11th. That’s when I told my caddie that this is like the fourth quarter of a basketball game and we can get back. I then had a good back nine and am proud of the way I came back and won despite not having my A game. I was pretty happy with the way I played the last three holes,” said Shiv, who last won at the Chandigarh Golf Club as a 15-year-old junior golfer.Staing that there could not have been any better preparation for the upcoming Asian Tour events, he said: “Winning Jeev’s event is also special since he’s like my elder brother and his family is like my second family. Without Jeev’s guidance I wouldn’t be half the player I am.”Rashid, a three-time PGTI Order of Merit champion who had earlier lost out in a marathon playoff to local lad Ajeetesh Sandhu at the 2019 edition of the event, took home a prize money cheque worth ₹16,74,750. He thus climbed from 16th to seventh position in the PGTI Order of Merit.The four Chandigarh golfers, other than Bedi, who finished inside the top-10 were Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (tied sixth at 12-under 276), Abhijit Singh Chadha (eighth at 11-under 277), former champion Ajeetesh Sandhu and last year’s champion Karandeep Kochhar (both tied 10th at nine-under 279). Kochhar continues as the PGTI Order of Merit leader with season’s earnings of ₹49,59,880. US-based Varun Chopra won the trophy for the best performing amateur as he closed the week in tied 26th at four-under 284.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/golfshiv-kapur-wins-jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-2021-101636916001019.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur ring road project hanging fire for eight years||The construction of a ring road, which was to decongest Zirakpur by providing an alternative route to the traffic moving between Delhi and Shimla, has been further delayed. Even though, two years back, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) transferred around 100 acres of land to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), but the latter is yet to give approval to the ₹800-crore project. The 14-kilometre road, which will be 200-foot wide with six lanes, will originate from McDonald’s on the Ambala-Zirakpur highway, will pass through Peer Muchalla, Sanoli, Gazipur, Nagla (all Mohali villages), and then join the Sector 26/27 dividing road in Panchkula. RP Singh, regional officer, NHAI, said: “We are yet to get the approval from the higher authorities for the project. Once, we get the approval, then only we will start the land acquisition process.” It was in 2013 that the work on the project had started, but it came to a halt in February 2014 when some of the landowners went to court seeking higher compensation. Once the road is complete, the Shimla-bound traffic can take this road, bypass the bottleneck met at Zirakpur, and join the Shimla highway at the Panchkula end. Similarly, Ambala or Delhi-bound traffic from Shimla can also avoid Zirakpur. The road will also open an alternative route from Panchkula to the airport and help avoid the Chandigarh traffic, but it will be much longer than the existing route via Chandigarh and Mohali. Chandigarh’s Master Plan also proposes this road to divert the interstate traffic around the city for better traffic management. According to the Master Plan committee, traffic between Mullanpur and Panchkula, and that from Kansal, Zirakpur and Panchkula, goes towards Chandigarh for “no reason”. Hence, the project will help significantly reduce traffic congestion on the arterial roads of Chandigarh — Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg. In August 2017, the then Union home minister Rajnath Singh had approved the project during a meeting of the Northern Zonal Council in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-ring-road-project-hanging-fire-for-eight-years-101636915999342.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Proctoring likely if PU holds online exams||With Panjab University (PU) yet to announce the mode of the upcoming semester examination, the university is also considering the use of online proctoring in case the exams had to be conducted online.A meeting of a university panel was held on Friday to deliberate on the matter. Members have recommended that the university should initiate the tendering process for companies who offer online proctoring services to academic institutions. According to the academic calendar, the odd semester exams of ongoing batches and first-year UG/PG students will start in December at PU as well as affiliated colleges. The classes for the ongoing batches had started in August.A member of the committee, who attended the meeting, on condition of anonymity, said, “The meeting of the panel was not convened to decide on the mode of examination but to finalise the requirements for the tendering process to be initiated for proctoring during exams.” Before the last semester exams which were held in online mode, the university was planning the use of image proctoring during exams to invigilate students, but the university did not go ahead with it at that time.Since the pandemic broke out last year, the university has conducted its semester examinations in online mode three times so far, without any invigilation. However, there was criticism over the sanctity of these online exams. A university official said, “We are gearing up for offline exams so far.”A former senator said, “When the university could hold the entrance examination, including CET-UG, why is there a difficulty in holding semester exams in physical mode given that many institutions have already conducted exams in physical mode since the last one year.”NSUI submits memorandumMembers of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) on Friday submitted a memorandum to the university demanding that exams be held in online mode. “if classes are conducted online then exams should be conducted online,” they said, adding that in most of the teaching departments, almost 90% of the syllabus has been covered till date and it would be unjust and irrational to conduct offline exams after teaching online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/proctoring-likely-if-pu-holds-online-exams-101636915997967.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: What a mess, cry residents in Ward 7||Poor sanitation is the key concern of people living in the City Beautiful’s Ward No. 7, as heaps of garbage can be spotted at its every nook and corner. Not just along main roads, garbage has been dumped in open drains, in parks, on vacant plots, and on various streets outside houses.The ward comprises three localities of Mauli Jagran: Ambedkar Colony, Charan Singh Colony and Vikas Nagar. These were earlier part of Ward No. 24. These densely populated colonies also lack basic amenities, including access to clean drinking water, uninterrupted power supply and paved roads. Residents also complain of encroachments. Among the three localities, the most affected is Charan Singh Colony, as it has no planned system for garbage collection and disposal. Though door-to-door collection of segregated waste has been implemented, this area is strewn with garbage. These heaps also invite stray cattle and dogs, adding to the woes of residents. “Around seven years ago, the MC had started developing a park in the area. Its boundary wall was completed, but nothing was done thereafter. Now, the park has turned into a virtual landfill. Situated in a residential area, it is an open invitation to diseases,” said 35-year-old Tillu, who resides in Charan Singh Colony.Similar conditions exist in Vikas Nagar, which has a huge dumping ground just outside the colony. “People usually throw garbage on the ground when MC vans do not come for door-to-door collection. We don’t have access to clean drinking water and 24-hour electricity, even when we are living in a planned city,” said Kalavati, 50, a resident of Vikas Nagar, adding that the new councillor must ensure basic facilities in the area. Ambedkar Colony is better in terms of sanitation, but lacks infrastructure. The 30-year-old sewerage system needs an upgrade to keep up with the rising population. Clogged drains with sewage and wastewater overflowing onto roads are a common sight. “The area is now overpopulated and the sewerage system needs immediate repairs. The clogged drains not only stink, but invite mosquitoes and diseases. Also, the area has an inadequate number of sweepers, adding to sanitation issues,” said Ved Parkash, 50, a resident of Ambedkar Colony. KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Ambedkar Colony, Charan Singh Colony and Vikas Nagar, all in Mauli JagranReserved for SC candidates Voters: 25,000Key IssuesPoor sanitation; garbage dumped on roads, vacant plots, open drainsNo access to clean drinking water, uninterrupted power supplyPoor infrastructure, including roads, parks, streetlightsLOCAL VOICESPeople usually throw garbage on the ground when MC vans do not come for door-to-door collection. We don’t have access to clean drinking water and 24-hour electricity. Kalavati, 50, Vikas NagarThe area is overpopulated and the sewerage system needs an upgrade. The clogged drains not only stink but invite mosquitoes and diseases. Even sanitation is very poor. Ved Parkash, 50, Ambedkar ColonyThe area lacks cleanliness. There are no parks. We don’t get clean drinking water. Despite all this, MC imposes skyrocketing taxes. We expect at least a garbage-free area. Shahzad Ali, 50, Charan Singh ColonyVikas Nagar is congested and lacks space for parking. People often park vehicles on roads, causing inconvenience to others. Besides parking facilities, we want road recarpeting. Pankaj Singh, 20, Vikas Nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-what-a-mess-cry-residents-in-ward-7-101636915996456.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Tricity records 76 new dengue, 9 Covid cases||With 39 fresh cases of dengue on Sunday, the total went up to 3,631 in Mohali. Chandigarh recorded 23 new cases, followed by 14 in Panchkula, taking the tricity’s daily tally to 76.Chandigarh has reported 1,227 cases so far, while Panchkula’s tally stands at 806 this year. Meanwhile, no death was reported for second consecutive day across the tricity. In terms of fatalities, Mohali leads with 37, followed by three in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula. The tricity also reported nine fresh Covid-19 cases, with four in Chandigarh, three in Mohali and two in Panchkula. The active caseload stands at 94, with 55 patients in Mohali, 27 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-records-76-new-dengue-9-covid-cases-101636915995102.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab RERA tells GMADA to protect real estate investors||The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Punjab, has written to the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to take corrective measures for protecting the rights of people who have invested into properties auctioned by it for setting up group housing societies and other commercial projects. The letter comes two months after the management of GBP Group fled the country, leaving in the lurch about 2,500 people who had invested nearly ₹1,500 crore in their various real estate projects in Mohali. In the past decade, Mohali, particularly its peripheral areas of Zirakpur, Kharar, and New Chandigarh (Mullanpur), has emerged as a real estate hub and accounts for around 60% projects across Punjab. Besides private builders, even GMADA is developing townships such as IT City and Aero City.According to figures available with RERA, it has received 1,572 complaints against builders from across the state since September 2017. Of these, around 1,000 came from just Mohali.Key concernRERA in its letter has mentioned that, at present, when GMADA auctions land for a group housing project, it takes only 25% advance and hands over the possession to builders, who can pay the remaining amount in instalments over eight years. Also, builders are getting their projects approved without any sale deed. The regulatory authority has asked GMADA to look into the matter to prevent a repeat of an episode such as that relating to GBP Group.Notably, RERA is giving a five-year registration period to builders, while GMADA is giving them eight years to pay for the land. In such a situation, it is not possible for the builder to give possession in five years, as neither the land title is in their name nor they can get a a completion certificate till they have cleared all the dues. Even the RERA number is being issued without land title, even as every builder is required to upload a copy of the sale deed on its website. In the case of Mohali, most builders are leaving this column blank.Stakeholders say Pawan Kumar, an allottee at Aerocity, said builders collect 90% of the sale value of a flat from buyers, and spend just 25% because they have not paid for the land and even the finishing work is pending. “These funds are usually diverted by builders to new projects and the present projects get stuck, as was the case in Noida,” he said.Harish Gupta, president of the Zirakpur Builders Associations, said: “When GMADA is approving the project without a sale deed, the rule should also apply on a project developed by builders on private land.”Sarvjeet Singh, principal secretary, housing and urban development, Punjab, said: “We will soon hold a meeting to discuss ways to streamline the process.”Recently, the Supreme Court had to intervene in Noida and ask various builders to clear their dues after many of them turned defaulters and left the investors in the lurch. In fact, the Noida authorities have now changed the rules and are taking 50% money upfront and the remaining 50% within four years from the builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-rera-tells-gmada-to-protect-real-estate-investors-101636915993890.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Morni accident: Woman killed, 4 family members battling for life||A woman has lost her life while her four family members are battling for their lives, two days after their car fell into a 200-foot-deep gorge in Morni on Friday night.The incident happened at one of the curves at Morni hills, as the driver lost control of the vehicle.Police said the family had gone to attend a birthday party in Nalagarh and was returning home to their village in Morni when the accident took place. Police received information from locals, after which rescue teams were rushed to the spot.While Promila, 40, died at the spot, four others were moved to hospitals. Promila’s husband, Mohan Singh, who was driving the car, is admitted to the PGIMER in a critical condition along with a relative identified as Ramesh. Two other injured persons, including a woman identified as Sunita, and undergoing treatment at a local hospital.“The valley has sharp curves and needs full attention of the driver. The moment your attention is diverted, you are likely to meet with an accident,” said the Morni police post in-charge, ruling out the possibility of any technical snag in the car.In August this year, a family was injured as a car turned turtle at one of the curves at Morni hills. In September last year, a woman was killed while two others sustained injuries in another accident in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/morni-accident-woman-killed-4-family-members-battling-for-life-101636915992501.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Bird count drops to five-year low in Chandigarh||With only 335 waterfowl birds identified at the Sukhna Lake and the Dhanas Lake, the lowest number of birds were counted during the annual Salim Ali Bird Species Count and Waterfowl Census conducted by the Chandigarh Bird Club (CBC) on Sunday.The survey is an annual feature conducted by them every year in memory of ‘India’s birdman’ Dr Salim Ali, who was born on November 12. The survey is carried out on the nearest Sunday. Six teams comprising 34 members conducted the survey at the Dhanas Lake and the Sukhna Lake, three teams went to the Ghaggar river beyond Chhatbir, Siswan Dam and Mirzapur Dam for the inter-state Chandigarh region (ISCR) that the CBC covers.This year 335 waterfowl birds were identified at the Sukhna Lake and the Dhanas Lake, the lowest ever since the first survey was conducted in 2017. The number of waterfowl birds has fallen ever since they started and has reduced by around 53% since then when 717 birds were identified. The total species of waterfowl and other birds identified was also the lowest since 2017 with 73 such birds identified. The bird count for six places falling in adjacent areas was also conducted and a total 2,040 waterfowl birds with 99 species were sighted across the ISCR region.Speaking about why the number of birds is lesser this year, the president of the CBC, Mitenderpal Singh Sekhon said, “There are no exact reasons for why the number has gone down, but we noticed that the water level of the Sukhna Lake is comparatively high for this time of the year. A higher water level makes it difficult for the birds to feed here. Further, rowing practice was also going on here on Sunday morning which could have frightened the birds away.”Saying that it’s too early to draw conclusions, UT chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said, “Winters still haven’t started in the city which is when maximum migration happens. We will wait for a few days to see if the number of migratory birds has actually gone down.” The CBC also conducts a census of the birds in February to determine how many migratory birds came to the city in the entire season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bird-count-drops-to-five-year-low-in-chandigarh-101636915932962.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Stubble burning: BJP govt harassing farmers, says Hooda||Former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday alleged that the government was harassing farmers for burning stubble.Interacting with reporters in Charkhi Dadri after unveiling the statue of former MP late Chandravati, , Hooda said the attitude of the government towards the stubble burning problem has always been negative. “The government should try to solve the problem by making a concrete plan and giving proper resources and financial help to the farmers,” the former CM said.Hooda said he has called a meeting of the Congress legislature party (CLP) on November 16 to discuss the farmers’ and other issues.“The way fertilisers are being distributed in police stations shows the failure of the government and its incompetence. The BJP government wants to eliminate MSP and the latest example of this has been avoiding the purchase of bajra and putting obstacles in the purchase of paddy,” he said.Hooda also visited Kitlana toll plaza at Bhiwani where farmers have been protesting against the centre’s three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stubble-burning-bjp-govt-harassing-farmers-says-hooda-101636915332554.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana nomadic tribes chief booked for rape||Chairman of the Haryana Denotified and Nomadic Tribes (DNT) Balwan Singh was on Sunday booked for rape and other charges on a complaint filed by a 37-year-old widow at Hisar women’s police station.A case under Sections 376 (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the woman filed a complaint against Singh to Haryana director general of police (DGP) PK Agarwal.In her complaint, the woman alleged that she met Singh at the Hansi police station two years ago when she had gone there to lodge a complaint related to a family dispute.“He assured me of helping in the case and we shared contact numbers. He took ₹1.5 lakh from me in the name of helping in the case and he raped me several times. He also tried to misbehave with my daughter. The chairman had gone with me to Agroha to meet my daughter, who was hospitalised in September last year. On the way back home, he raped me in a car. He also threatened me of facing dire consequences if I narrated the incident to anyone,” the complainant added.Hisar women’s police station SHO Sunita said they have booked Singh and started investigation.Singh, however, said the allegations levelled against him are false and baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-nomadic-tribes-chief-booked-for-rape-101636915213805.html
15-11-2021||Other||Pargat launches book on Olympian Randhawa||Chandigarh Punjab sports and higher education minister Pargat Singh on Sunday launched a book ‘Uddna Baaz’ a biography on Olympian Gurbachan Singh Randhawa. The book is written by the sports writer Navdeep Singh Gill an officer with the state public relations department. “The sporting life of first Arjuna Awardee athlete Gurbachan Singh Randhawa who made the country shine in the International athletics arena, would be a source of inspiration for the other Indian players till eternity,” said the minister at the launch. Randhawa was the flag-bearer of the Indian contingent at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics. He was conferred the Arjuna Award in 1961 and the Padma Shri in 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pargat-launches-book-on-olympian-randhawa-101636915101772.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Air pollution: Schools in Haryana’s four NCR districts shut till Nov 17||The Haryana government on Sunday ordered to close all government and private schools till November 17 in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar, the National Capital Region (NCR) districts, amid increasing pollution levels in Delhi-NCR, and also announced a slew of steps to curb air pollution. This order comes just a day after the Delhi government announced similar measures.The state government has “advised” all government and private offices to switch over to “work from home” as this steps is aimed at reducing 30% plying of vehicles on roads, which will impact vehicular emissions and also reduce dust in the air, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said in a two-page order issued on Sunday. These guidelines will come into force with immediate effect and remain operational till November 17. The state government has imposed complete ban on all types of construction and development activities in the four NCR districts, while mechanised stone crushers and hot mix plants used in construction activities will be closed. “No trash burning by municipal bodies to be allowed and stubble burning will be prohibited. No manual sweeping of roads will be allowed,” reads the order. While all government and private schools will remain shut till November 17, the government has directed to strictly check vehicles older than 10/15 years (diesel/petrol, respectively) with regard to emissions. In order to control dust pollution, water sprinkling on roads has been ordered and the deputy commissioners will constitute joint inspection teams for enforcing the directions while ensuring extensive checking, monitoring and action against the violators as per law. “The district administration will ensure wide publicity by munadi (beat of drums) within their jurisdiction,” the order says.On Sunday the air quality of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat was “poor” with index value 287, 298 and 288, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-pollution-schools-in-haryana-s-four-ncr-districts-shut-till-nov-17-101636915032348.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana plans to spend ₹14 cr on Saraswati Channel revamp||KARNALThe Haryana government plans to spend ₹14 crore on the beautification of Saraswati Channel in Kurukshetra, said Dhuman Singh Kirmach, deputy chairman of the Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board. He said that a proposal has been prepared and will be tabled before the chief minister and chairman of the board Manohar Lal Khattar for approval.Dhuman, who inspected the channel, said under the proposal the 8km stretch of the canal will be developed from Pipli to Mohan Nagar of Kurukshetra.He said focus will be on the construction of pathways along the canal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-plans-to-spend-rs-14-cr-on-saraswati-channel-revamp-101636914853075.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kaithal JJP leader booked for rape on woman ASI’s complaint||A local Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader has been booked for rape following a complaint by a woman assistant sub-inspector (ASI) posted at Kaithal. The woman also alleged that Sandeep Garhi and his wife forcibly gave her abortion pills in December last year. According to the FIR, the woman separated from her husband in January 2016 and came in contact with Garhi, who allegedly promised to marry her. Later, the FIR said, Garhi came to the woman’s residence and gave her juice laced with sedatives. She fell unconscious and he raped her, she alleged, adding that the accused also clicked her obscene pictures and videos and threatened to make them viral. When she got pregnant in 2020, Ghari refused to marry her saying he was already married and was a father of two children, the woman ASI alleged. She further alleged that Garhi stole 200gms of gold ornaments from her house in December 2018. A case under Sections 377, 506, 380, 313, 509, 34, 354 C and 37 of the IPC and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the city police station against Ghari, his wife Suman and friend Gaurav Kumar.Kaithal city police station in-charge Mukesh Kumar said the FIR has been registered and investigation is on.Garhi advocate Baljinder Malik termed the allegations baseless and accused the woman ASI was trying to extort money from his client. JJP spokesperson refused to comment on the issue saying it was not related to the party and let police investigate the case as per law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kaithal-jjp-leader-booked-for-rape-on-woman-asi-s-complaint-101636914732159.html
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sports infrastructure in Ludhiana to be upgraded: Punjab minister||: Punjab minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Punjab Cricket Association president Rajinder Gupta on Sunday inaugurated the Practice Wickets Cricket Centre at SCD Government College. The centre will be managed by the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA).Speaking on the occasion, Ashu said that all existing sports infrastructure in Ludhiana is being upgraded including the new athletics synthetic track at Guru Nanak Stadium. He added that work on the indoor swimming pool at Rakh Bagh will start shortly.He added that other sports infrastructure that will be upgraded include Shastri Hall, basketball stadium, table tennis stadium and hockey astroturf at PAU.The minister said that the state government has been going all out to promote sports across the state to channelise the energy of the youth positively.He said that Punjab’s sports policy is the best in the country, as it provides jobs and emphasises not only on enhancing the prize money of various national and international tournaments, but also on ensuring robust and top notch infrastructure.On the occasion, Ashu, who is a cricket player himself, played a few shots on the pitch.Gupta said that the Ludhiana District Cricket Association will supervise the cricket activities here, so that maximum players can avail the benefit of the centre.Those present on the occasion included MC councillor Sunny Bhalla, LDCA president Satish Mangal, general secretary Anupam Kamaria and national cricket player Gagandeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sports-infrastructure-in-ludhiana-to-be-upgraded-punjab-minister-101636914672112.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Plans to open primary classes in Delhi may be delayed, practicals rescheduled||A day after the Delhi government announced closure of all educational institutions due to severe air pollution in the national capital, the Directorate of Education on Sunday issued the order to close all public, private, government-aided schools from November 15 to 20. Students appearing for their board examinations would, however, be allowed to write their papers as per schedule.“..all the government, government aided, unaided recognised, New Delhi Municipal Council, Municipal Corporations of Delhi, and Delhi Cantonment Board Schools will remain closed from November 15 (Monday) to November 20 (Saturday) and online teaching-learning activities shall continue. However, the examinations for Board classes would be conducted as per CBSE schedule,” Additional Director Education (School) Rita Sharma said in a circular issued on Sunday.To avoid an unprecedented scenario arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic like last year when the board had to cancel all exams and allot marks based on previous exams, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) was slated to conduct the first of the two-term board examination beginning November.While the examination for major papers are slated to begin on November 30, practicals and other board exams including minor subjects were scheduled to begin next week.“All the Heads of Schools are hereby directed to complete all the preparations/ formalities (including mock tests by CBSE) for conduct of board examinations as per CBSE guidelines. The heads of schools are also directed to disseminate this information among students, staff members, school management committee members and parents,” Sharma said.Several parents said that the hazardous air quality has added to the stress as parents were already sceptical about allowing their children to attend in-person classes without any available Covid-19 vaccination for children.Explaining why he doesn’t want to send his children to school yet, Vikas Sharma, whose children study in class 6 and 2 in DAV Public School, Pushpanjali Enclave, said, “The main reason for not sending our children to school in Covid and the lack of vaccination for them. Those who are vaccinated are getting infected again, so how can we send our children to school?”“Pollution too has become an add-on reason. Some of the children in my family have had to use nebulizers because of pollution and it is very scary. We are not taking our children to parks or allowing any other outdoor activities as we cannot risk their life,” Sharma added.Schools such as Ahlcon International School had planned to reopen for the primary section from next week. However, they have now put their plans on hold.Headmaster Puneet Duggal said, “Everyone is used to this [the pollution levels] at this time of the year in Delhi and we had been anticipating it. However, since our online learning system was already in place due to the pandemic, we were able to adopt it during this week for all classes. The closure of schools would however cause an academic loss for board students as we had planned mock tests and remedial classes which have now been moved online. Coming to school gave them confidence and this week-long break will break the rhythm of the learning in classrooms.”Many principals have also rearranged their remaining practical examination papers accordingly as these are conducted internally and can be conducted within a stipulated time frame.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “Non-board students were looking forward to the reopening of the primary section but they are stuck again. As far as board students are concerned, they had a few practical papers left in our school but now we will put it on hold for two days and see if the air quality improves. But we have to hold the exams before the minor subject exams which begin from November 20 in our school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-plan-to-open-primary-classes-may-be-delayed-practicals-rescheduled-101636913411825.html
15-11-2021||Gurugram||Schools in Gurugram, 3 other Haryana districts closed||The Haryana government on Sunday directed closure of all schools, banned construction activities and advised government staff to work from home till November 17 in the four National Capital Region (NCR) districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar, according to an official order.The measures were announced in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution on the day when the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and adjoining areas advised states to get ready to implement measures mandated under the Graded Response Action Plan when air quality touches emergency levels.The Delhi government on Saturday announced closure of all educational institutions for a week, and imposed a four-day ban on construction activities.The Haryana government has “advised” all government and private offices to switch to work from home to reduce vehicles on road by 30% as well as road dust, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said in a two-page order issued on Sunday.These guidelines will come into force with immediate effect and remain operational till November 17.The state government has also imposed complete ban on all types of construction and development activities in the four NCR districts, while mechanised stone crushers and hot mix plants used in construction activities will be closed.“No trash burning by municipal bodies to be allowed and stubble burning will be prohibited. No manual sweeping of roads will be allowed,” reads the order.In order to control dust pollution, water sprinkling on roads has been ordered and the deputy commissioners will constitute joint inspection teams for enforcing the directions while ensuring extensive checking, monitoring and action against the violators as per law.“The district administration will ensure wide publicity by munadi (beat of drums) within their jurisdiction,” the order says.According to the Central Pollution Control board (CPCB), after two days of “severe” air, Gurugram’s air quality index (AQI) reading improved from 441 on Saturday and was recorded in the “poor” zone (287)-on Sunday, with PM2.5 and PM10 being the prominent pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-in-4-haryana-districts-closed-till-november-17-due-to-spike-in-pollution-101636913111822.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Get ready for air emergency, CAQM advises NCR states||The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) convened an urgent meeting on Sunday in wake of the high pollution levels prevailing in the region, and asked Delhi and other NCR states to be ready to implement ‘emergency’ measures listed under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).Delhi has already shut down construction activities, schools and asked government staff to work from home. The commission asked Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to look at the measures taken by Delhi, and consider taking similar measures to control air pollution levels.The Haryana government on Sunday ordered closure of all government and private schools till November 17 in the four NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar and “advised” all government and private offices to switch over to work from home.“While soliciting views from the state governments of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, the Commission advised the concerned departments to consider similar restrictions and regulations in the respective NCR districts as implemented by the Delhi government through its order on November 13, 2021, which includes, inter alia, closure of schools up to November 20, 2021 and closure of construction and demolition activities from November 14-17,” the CAQM said in a statement on Sunday.The Commission said the existing adverse air quality scenario in Delhi NCR was as a combined result of stubble burning, vehicular pollution, post-Diwali pollution, dip in temperature and other local factors. It also said the air had been impacted by a dust storm coming from the south-west direction, from the Thar desert, thus bringing large quantities of dust to Delhi.CAQM said Delhi and the NCR states and its agencies had been asked to focus on five key sources of pollution during this period, which includes controlling stubble burning instances, controlling dust from construction and demolition activities (C&D), controlling dust from roads and open areas, vehicular pollution and industrial pollution.“CAQM is of the view that there is a vital need for regular assessments by senior level management in the state Governments and the agencies concerned so as to be well aware of the visible impact of the efforts initiated on-ground towards improvement of air quality in Delhi-NCR,” the Commission added.It has also advised state governments and the district administrations across the NCR states to issue a citizen charter or advisory for the general public, which includes the various steps that will need to be taken during the various stages and categories of Grap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/get-ready-for-air-emergency-air-quality-committee-advises-ncr-states-101636912751747.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over salary, pension delays in Delhi’s civic bodies||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday blamed corruption in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations behind their financial crisis which has led to delays in disbursement of salaries and pensions to employees.The BJP, in turn, has stated that the AAP-led Delhi government is with holding municipal funds.AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said that the confederation of MCD employees’ unions have threatened the BJP-led MCDs that they will go on a strike if they do not get their salary and pension dues in three days. “If the MCD makes BJP leaders pay up for the hoardings they have put for free, then the salary and pension dues can be given to all the employees. The Delhi government has paid every penny due to the MCD,” he said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the workers know the salary delay is due to the Delhi government withholding funds. “If AAP leaders have any seriousness, they should ask the Delhi government to release municipal funds...which add up to around ₹13,000 crore,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-spar-over-salary-pension-delays-in-delhi-s-civic-bodies-101636912451558.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||17 injured in gas cylinder blast in northwest Delhi||Seventeen people, including four women, suffered burns after a cooking gas cylinder exploded in a slum dwelling in northwest Delhi’s Azadpur, leading to the collapse of at least four other nearby houses, and the roof and parts of the wall of a two-storey building.Of the injured persons, the conditions of at least five were serious as they had suffered between 20% and 40% burns all over their bodies. They were referred to Lok Nayak, Ram Manohar Lohoa and Babu Jagjivan Ram hospitals in central and outer Delhi, police and fire department officials said.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the fire control room received a call at 10am regarding a cooking gas cylinder blast at a house in Lalbagh slums in Azadpur, following which three fire tenders were rushed to the spot.“The fire was not big but some houses had collapsed because of the cylinder blast. Our teams controlled the blaze and the injured persons were rushed to nearby hospitals,” said Garg.Police said that during the preliminary enquiry, it was learnt that one Pappu Kumar was changing a gas cylinder at the third floor of his house when it exploded. The impact of the blast was such that the roof and walls of the house collapsed along with at least four other nearby houses, said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani. “Legal action is being taken,” she said.Locals said that some of the injured persons suffered burns while trying to rescue people trapped in the collapsed house. Aam Aadmi Party leaders, including environment minister Gopal Rai and Model Town legislator Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, visited the incident spot and assured help from the Delhi government to the injured persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/17-injured-in-gas-cylinder-blast-in-northwest-delhi-101636912031816.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt notifies anti-pollution steps||The Delhi government’s environment department on Sunday formally issued a notification, putting on hold all construction and demolition projects till November 17, and shutting all educational institutions till November 20, in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution in the national capital.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced these measures on Saturday after an emergency meeting to discuss immediate measures to curb rising air pollution. The chief minister’s announcement came hours after the Supreme Court directed the central and Delhi government’s to take “emergent steps” to check pollution, including imposing a two-day lockdown.All Delhi government offices, corporations and autonomous bodies will remain closed till November 17, the notification said, advising private offices to also allow their employees to work from home in order to reduce vehicular pollution.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said the directions were issued under the Environment Protection Act, 1986.“The severity of the pollution was quite high on Saturday, compared to which Sunday seems a bit of a relief. However, it has been estimated that the pollution levels are only going to escalate in the coming days and therefore, the Delhi government has decided that all schools, colleges, coaching institutes, skill development and training institutes and libraries will remain shut till November 20. Second, all construction projects and demolitions taking place in Delhi will be halted till November 17. Third, staff of all offices, corporations and autonomous agencies will be expected to work from home for the week,” said Rai on Sunday, adding that a review will be held after November 17, to decide continuation of these measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/day-after-cm-meeting-delhi-govt-notifies-anti-pollution-steps-in-city-101636911611205.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Winds help improve index, but Capital’s air stays very polluted||The smoke grey skies over Delhi opened up a little on Sunday with long-range transport level winds that bring stubble emissions slowing down, pushing the air quality back into very poor zone from the severe recorded on Saturday, even as the city registered the season’s coldest morning at 10.1 degrees Celsius.The national capital is in the grip of a severe pollution episode prompting the Supreme Court on Saturday to order the central and Delhi governments to take emergent steps, including a two-day lockdown.Hours later, the Delhi government announced shutting of schools for in-person classes, a four-day ban on construction and ordered its staff to work from home for a week.Delhi recorded an average air quality index (AQI) of 330 in the very poor category, down from 437 (severe) recorded on Saturday. According to the Centra Pollution Control Board data, the air quality on seven of the first 14 days in November was in the severe zone; it was very poor on six days and remained poor for one day.Forecasting agencies said the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s overall air pollution mix fell to 12% on Sunday from 31% on Saturday.Even at ‘very poor’, CPCB’s health advisory states the air quality can cause respiratory illnesses on prolonged exposure, indicating the improvement in the air quality index was only a temporary respite. Forecasts show the AQI is expected to stay in the ‘very poor’ category over the next two days, despite a slight deterioration.“The air quality over Delhi improved to ‘very poor’ from the ‘severe’ category and is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category for the rest of Sunday. It will deteriorate slightly, but will remain in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday and Tuesday,” the daily bulletin issued by the Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi said. The EWS is a part of the ministry of earth sciences’ forecasting model.According to the EWS, wind speeds from northwest of Delhi have slowed down and were blowing at 4 km/hr on Sunday. The wind speed expected to be remain similar on Monday as well. On Tuesday, the wind speed could reach up to 8 km/hr.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) says while the number of farm fires have increased in the last 24 hours, touching 3,445 fires as compared to 3,157 on Saturday, the stubble share has reduced, owing to a reduction in transport-level winds.While activities to prevent pollution from spiking further, such as the ban on construction activities in Delhi till November 17, kicked into action from Sunday onwards, other restrictive measures such as the ban on physical classes at schools and making government offices work from home will kick into place from Monday onwards.Karthik Ganesan, Fellow and Director - Research Coordination at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) says while the new measures are welcome, the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) needs to be rethought.“It must be implemented as an ex-ante emergency measure, by considering air quality forecasts and not waiting for the situation to worsen for 48 hours or longer. We have the science that gives us an indication of things to come, given how meteorology plays a significant role in the deterioration of air quality,” he said.Dr Col Vijay Dutta, Internal Medicine & Respiratory Medicine at the Indian Spinal Injuries Centre says ‘very poor’ may be a category slightly better than ‘severe’, but its impact remains quite similar. “Pollution levels are still very high and anyone going out needs to use masks to minimize inhalation of toxic air. Any form of physical activity also needs to be avoided. Even healthy people can develop breathing, lung problems and even cancer in the long run, if there is exposure to such air,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/winds-help-improve-air-quality-but-delhi-s-air-stays-very-polluted-101636911191058.html
15-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Munshi Premchand’s works relevant even today’||VARANASI Union minister of state for home Ajai Mishra ‘Teni’ said on Sunday that the works of Hindi litterateur Munshi Premchand were not only inspiring but relevant even today. On the second day of the all-India official language conference held in Varanasi under Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, Mishra visited Lamahi where he paid tributes to Munshi Premchand by offering a garland and flowers to his statue. Lamahi is the native village of Munshi Premchand. Mishra also visited the ancestral house of Premchand. The litterateur’s grandson Durga Prasad accompanied the minister. “I feel proud to visit Munshi Premchand ji’s village for the first time. It’s an honour. It is difficult to describe the joy I feel after coming here. The works of Munshi ji are still inspiring and relevant”, said Mishra, addressing a gathering of people there. “Munshi Premchand’s works represented every class. Glimpses of future events are clearly visible in his writings,” added Mishra. The two-day conference concluded in Varanasi on Sunday. Mishra, who is in-charge of the department of official language of the central government, addressed the concluding session of the conference organised outside Delhi for the first time. Kashi region BJP leader Ashok Pandey also attended the programme in Lamahi. He said serious efforts were being made by the government to promote Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/munshi-premchand-s-works-relevant-even-today-101636911131303.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Small steps needed for a pollution-free Delhi: Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday urged citizens to share the responsibility of reducing pollution in the Capital, as he took part in ‘Raahgiri Day’ in east Delhi’s West Vinod Nagar.“We can make our city a pollution free and healthy by taking small steps like switching off engines at traffic signals and switching to public transport,” he said, taking part in the event organised by the Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC), in association with the Raahgiri foundation.The event comes even as the sub-committee on the graded response action plan (Grap) has already issued several advisories, including limiting outdoor activities, amid the worsening air quality in the city.Delhi’s AQI was recorded at 334 (very poor) at 12 pm on Sunday and agencies forecast AQI to remain in the ‘very poor’ range for the next two day.A government official said that ‘Raahgiri’ event was held on the theme of ‘Yuddh Pradushan Ke Virudh’ to spread awareness about pollution in Patparganj area, and took place on the stretch of road between BSES office and Sarvodaya Kanya Bal Vidyalaya (West Vinod Nagar) in Patparganj. Raahgiri is an initiative to reclaim the city’s streets from vehicles and promote pedestrian and sustainable mobility options.Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of DDC, said, “This gives people an opportunity to reimagine their streets, to reflect on how we view our roads, and to understand how the creation of open roads and public spaces... promotes public health, wellness, fitness, solidarity and enjoyment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/small-steps-needed-for-a-pollution-free-delhi-manish-sisodia-101636910951560.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Retd sessions judge held for duping BJP MP, selling him mortgaged land||The Delhi Police on Sunday said that a 61-year-old former judicial officer, who retired as a sessions judge from a Delhi court, was arrested by the economic offences wing (EOW) for allegedly cheating Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) from Jhansi Anurag Sharma of ₹5.5 crore by selling him a mortgaged property in southwest Delhi’s Bijwasan.Retired judicial officer Vinod Kumar Sharma had mortgaged the property with a nationalised bank for a loan of ₹20.22 crore.However, he misled the MP and duped him of ₹5.5 crore.Sharma had also rented the property to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which continued to pay him nearly ₹9 lakh per month even after the sale because the retired judicial officer and his wife allegedly extended the lease agreement with the DMRC in their own names, said additional commissioner of police (EOW) RK Singh.“When the MP found out that he was cheated, he filed a complaint with the EOW, which was converted into a case of criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy under Indian Penal Code’s sections 406, 420 and 120B,” said a senior police officer privy to the case.During the investigation, additional CP Singh said they obtained documents related to the case from the bank and the DMRC apart from examining persons concerned.“On the basis of the investigation, our team on Saturday arrested the former judicial officer, who had retired as a sessions judge from Karkardooma court,” added additional CP Singh.In an advisory, the economic offences wing mentioned, “One should be very cautious while purchasing any property and should enquire about the property from local residents also, apart from enquiring about it from the local authorities concerned.”The BJP MP did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiretd-sessions-judge-held-for-duping-bjp-mp-selling-him-mortgaged-land-101636910651135.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Vending certificates in S Delhi: Councillors want ceremony, officials disagree||After years of delay, administrative hurdles and prolonged survey processes since the enactment of Street Vending Act 2014, the municipal corporations in Delhi have started issuing certificates of vending (COV) to street vendors last week, but the process has led to friction in South MCD between the councillors the executive wing.The point of contention is the civic body’s insistence on sending the COVs via post to the registered address, as mandated by the town vending committee rules, but many councillors insist on holding ceremonies to hand them out. According to sources, North and East MCDs have allowed councillors to distribute COVs in public ceremonies.Over 71,000 vendors have been identified in phase 1 of the survey that was completed on September 30 this year, but the number is expected to rise as the Delhi government has extended the survey by two months, till December 7.Keeping the upcoming municipal elections in sight, the senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) functionaries are pushing the executive wing to hold ceremonies to gain political mileage but the deputy commissioners have stated that as per regulations, the COVs can only be mailed to postal addresses of the vendors, noting that the process also helps in verification of the address.SDMC standing committee chairman Col (retd) BK Oberoi said that the certificates are being mailed through postal services and the deputy commissioner (west) has informed that this is as per orders of the town vending committee. “In many cases, the councillors and chairpersons in the East and North corporation are handing over the certificates so we are being deprived of the benefits at the councillors’ level. We have requested that the remaining certificates be issued through the councillors so that they can also identify the vendor of the area,” he said.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that vending certificates are being distributed by the chairmen at zonal level. “We have not faced any problem like SDMC,” he added.The chairman also suggested issuing two copies of the certificate -- the original to be sent by post and the copy to be handed over by the councillor.Sonal Swaroop, the deputy commissioner (south zone), said that the town vending scheme mentions that the COVs have to be sent to the vendor through a registered post to the address mentioned in the Aadhaar card.Commissioner Gyanesh Bharti said that the civic body is simply following rules. “I am unaware of the practice in North and East MCDs,” he said.Leader of the house Inderjeet Sehrawat said that councillors, being political representatives, should be able to reap the benefits. “It is all right that the certificate is being sent through post but a copy should be sent to the councillor to distribute at the ward level,” he added.Poonam Bhati, a standing committee member and councillor from Tughlaqabad extension, also supported the call for issuing two copies.QR code troubleMeanwhile, Arbind Singh, who heads NASVI, said that the politicians should attempt to seek only “genuine credit” and pointed out that the vendors are still facing a lot of hurdles.“The QR code on the vending certificate should lead to the location of vending as a detailed GIS mapping survey has been carried out but it is currently indicating the residential address of the street vendors. Delhi administration has taken seven long years to start issuing vending certificates after the street vending Act was passed in 2014 and still the process remains incomplete. We have decided to carry out protests on November 24 to highlight the problems being faced by street vendors in Delhi,” said Singh.The Delhi government had ordered the town vending committees to carry out a survey to identify all street vendors in the Capital in 2015, in line with the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. The survey, which aims at identifying eligible street vendors and giving them a legitimate status, began in January this year and concluded on September 30. The town vending committee is headed by the zonal deputy commissioner and has street vendors as its members.The North MCD has, so far, identified 5,912 vendors in City Sadar-Paharganj zone, 4,018 in Karol Bagh, 2,861 in Civil Lines zone, 5,334 in Keshav Puram zone, 5,080 in Rohini and 4,614 in Narela zone. Similarly, the South MCD has identified 8,140 street vendors in the Central zone, 7,789 in South zone, 4,350 in West zone and 3,672 in Najafgarh. The EDMC has found 10,039 vendors in Shahdara South zone and 9,604 in Shahdara North zone, said EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vending-certificates-in-s-delhi-councillors-want-ceremony-officials-disagree-101636910171285.html
15-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: DDA plans to re-allot 15,000 flats returned in past schemes||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is planning to launch a housing scheme in December to dispose of nearly 15,000 flats that were returned by allottees of past schemes. Senior DDA officials said that the flats are located in Narela, Jasola, Dwarka and Rohini.A senior DDA official, requesting anonymity, said, “We plan to launch the housing scheme in December. A majority of the flats are in the Lower Income Group (LIG) and Economically Weaker Section (EWS) categories and are located in Narela. A bulk of the flats were returned by allottees of the 2017 and 2019 schemes.”While new flats are ready in various parts of the city, a senior DDA official said that they will not be part of this scheme.The official said a proposal in this regard will be tabled in the authority meeting, which will be chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, and is likely to be held this week.In January this year, the DDA launched a housing scheme with 1,354 flats, mostly in the High Income Group (HIG) and Middle Income Group (MIG) categories.Of the 1,354 flats, 1,011 are part of the HIG and MIG categories. The 254 HIG flats are located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka, while the 757 two- and three-bedroom MIG flats are in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Janahgirpuri and Madipur. The HIG flats, which are 87.9 sqm to 177.3 sqm in size, are priced between ₹69.62 lakh and ₹2.14 crore.“All the flats were put on sale for the first time. A few flats in Jasola have been returned. We plan to put them on sale again in the new housing scheme,” said another senior official, who is aware of the development.The land-owning agency has been struggling to sell its flats since 2014, when it had put up close to 25,000 flats, mostly in the LIG, for sale. Close to 12,000 flats, mostly in Narela and Rohini, were returned by allottees citing the small size of bedrooms, lack of connectivity to the housing complexes etc. Since then, the DDA has been trying to clear its inventory.In 2019, the DDA launched a housing scheme with close to 18,000 flats (mostly for LIG and EWS categories). But due to the tepid response, it put up only 10,294 flats for sale, of which it could only sell 8,438. But close to 5,000 flats were returned by the allottees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dda-plans-to-re-allot-15-000-flats-returned-in-past-schemes-101636909150903.html
15-11-2021||Patna||RTI activist killed in Bihar: Six arrested||Police have arrested six persons, including a woman, in connection with the murder of RTI activist and journalist Buddhinath Jha alias Avinash Jha. Benipatti DSP Arun Kumar Singh, when contacted, stated that a press release has been issued by Madhubani police in this regard.According to the press release, the brother of the deceased had approached police for lodging a complaint about his missing brother. The police put the mobile number of Avinash on technical surveillance. It turned out that Avinash had last talked to Purnkala Devi (24), a native of Arer police station area in Madhubani around 10 pm on November 9. When police summoned Purnkala Devi for interrogation on November 11 she tried to mislead the investigation. However, later she revealed that Avinash had met her at Anurag healthcare, Benipatti. However, when they came outside, five persons pounced on Avinash and took him towards the nursing home of one Dr K K Choudhary.“My brother had filed many RTI applications against these illegal and unauthorised clinics and hospitals and healthcare establishments in his area running without licences,” said the deceased’s other elder brother Trilok Jha. “These illegal clinic and nursing centre operators had joined hands to eliminate Avinash,” he added.The police have arrested Purnkala Devi, along with five others identified as Roshan Kumar Sah, (23), Bittu Kumar Pandit (20), Dipak Kumar Pandit (24) and Manish Kumar ( 21). All are natives of Benipatti.Police had recovered the charred body of the RTI activist on Friday evening from a bush near Urain village under the Benipatti police station area in Madhubani district.Meanwhile, the founder of Mithila Students Union (MSU), Anup Maithil, has condemned the gruesome murder of the RTI activist. “He was kidnapped and burnt alive for showing courage to file petitions against medical mafias in the regime of Nitish Kumar government, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rti-activist-killed-six-arrested-101636906990363.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Economy looking up, IITs see a surge in pre-placement offers||Placements at Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are expected go back to pre-Covid (or 2019) levels, suggests data from the country’s premier chain of engineering schools. In 2020, pre-placement offers (PPOs) at IITs were affected by the Covid-19 lockdown and a slowdown in the economy, but most IITs this year are witnessing a surge in PPOs. “It is a welcome trend,” said Prof Vinay Sharma, professor in-charge of placement and internship at IIT Roorkee. IIT Delhi – ranked 45 in the benchmark Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) Asia University Rankings for 2022 – has received 179 PPOs so far, with more expected until the end of November when the deadline for PPOs ends. In 2020, IIT Delhi had received 150 PPOs at the start of the placement season, while in 2019, the number was 170. The first phase of campus placements at all the IITs (there are 23 across India) will begin on December 1. PPOs are jobs that companies offer to students directly, without or before participating in the campus placement session. Each year, the IITs admit students for 16,200 available seats at the entry level, but the number of students opting for placements every year differs from one IIT to another. Most of the older IITs, including Bombay, Delhi, Madras, Kharagpur, Roorkee, and Guwahati have managed 75-80% placement success rate of those who registered for placements. In some cases, IITs from Bombay, Delhi and Madras have reported nearly 85% success rate during placements. Those who don’t get placed through the placement process can wait for the second session of placements that begins in January onwards, or apply for jobs on their own. IITs have been refusing to share salary package information for some time. Like IIT Delhi, IIT Madras (2022 QS rank 54) recently announced a good start to the placement season with 227 PPOs this year compared to 186 and 171 in 2020 and 2019 respectively. Officials attributed this increase to better summer internship programmes achieved by their students in the current year. “The internship process provides a good opportunity for companies to evaluate our students over an extended period. It also helps our students to learn more about the company, the roles they may be offered and potential career prospects,” said Prof C S Shankar Ram, advisor (training and placement), IIT Madras. IIT-Bombay (2022 QS rank 42 – the highest for any Indian institute) did not share PPO data with HT.A statement released by IIT Madras said core engineering as well as research and development (R&D) sectors accounted for most of the PPOs. “Major recruiters this year include Qualcomm (a $23.5 billion US IT major) which has 18 PPOs, followed by other technology and financial giants such as Microsoft with 14 PPOs, and Honeywell, Texas Instruments and Goldman Sachs offering 13, 12 and 10 jobs respectively,” added Prof Shankar Ram.“The pandemic pushed several sectors to opt for digitisation for routine work and while the economy was hit initially, this year more and more companies in the IT, Technology, Robotics and other core engineering sectors are looking forward to hiring in big numbers to meet the demand and supply gap,” said Rituparna Chakraborty, co-founder, EVP at TeamLease Services, a people supply chain company.PPOs at IIT Roorkee (Uttarakhand) and IIT Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) also went up compared to last year, with more expected until the end of this month. Prof Sharma of IIT Roorkee said the institute has received 214 PPOs so far, and is awaiting confirmation on more before December 1. Last year, the institute had recorded 154 PPOs in all, while in 2019, the number was 146. “Companies offering PPOs include Amazon, American Express, Cisco, Google, JPMorgan Chase, Microsoft, Oracle, among others. A large number of public sector units (PSUs) have also shown interest in hiring this year and we are expecting many to show up during the placements session in December,” said Prof Sharma. Officials at IIT Mandi said the current batch has already attracted 49 PPOs and the numbers are bound to increase over the next two weeks. In 2020, this number stood at 39, whereas in 2019, the institute had recorded 34 PPOs. IIT Jodhpur students have received 30 PPOs so far plus four off-campus job offers, compared to 19 PPOs registered in 2019. “The number of companies registering for the placement season has doubled, which is a good sign,” said Dr Anuj Pal Kapoor, faculty in-charge, career development cell, IIT Jodhpur. “From 25 companies registered for placements in December 2020, we already have 50 companies registering this year.” For a second year in a row, placement interviews, group discussions and tests will be conducted online across IITs. The first phase of placements is scheduled to begin on December 1 and will last for seven or 15 days, depending on the number of students registered for placements in the respective institutes and the companies registered to offer jobs. “From 404 companies registered for the placement season last year, we have 548 companies registered so far for the placement season starting December 1, 2021. Most companies showing interest in hiring this year belong to engineering and technology, information technology, software development, data science/analytics and R&D,” added Prof C S Shankar Ram, from IIT Madras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/economy-looking-up-iits-see-a-surge-in-pre-placement-offers-101636897509404.html
15-11-2021||Mumbai||Plea in Bombay HC seeks govt guidelines on cryptocurrencies||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking directions to the central government to enact appropriate laws to address the growing threat of cryptocurrencies and the malpractices of trading platforms in the country due to a lack of appropriate legislation and statutory authority.The PIL states that it is critical to address this issue and frame appropriate regulation, legislation, and statutory enactment to address this growing problem; otherwise, a large financial scam on the scale of Karnataka’s recent bitcoin scam worth ₹10,000 crore could take place if left unchecked.The PIL, filed in the HC by advocate Aditya Kadam, highlighted the problems being faced by investors whose rights are being violated and investments are at risk due to the absence of a grievance redressal mechanism for the unregulated cryptocurrency business in the country.The application also pointed at the ease with which anyone can create a trading platform, cheat investors of their hard-earned savings and use the funds, thus gained fraudulently for committing frauds or even terror financing.The PIL states that the petitioner was also a victim of such a fraud in 2018.It adds that as the unregulated business is currently worth ₹6.6 billion, the quantum of loss by the frauds would have a direct impact on the revenue of the state as there are no tax protocols in place.While referring to a 2020 Supreme Court judgment, which set aside a circular of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) that barred dealing in cryptocurrencies as there were no laws to regulate the same, the PIL states that the central government failed to formulate laws.The petitioner stated that he had made representations to several authorities and parties in the PIL on September 30, 2021, pointing out the problems of the cryptocurrency market but he had not received any response to the representations.Stating that this “lackadaisical attitude” of the authorities prompted him to approach the HC, the PIL sought directions to the central government to protect the interests of citizens.The PIL is expected to come up for a hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/frame-laws-for-cryptocurrency-trading-pil-in-high-court-seeks-directions-to-centre-101636889708307.html
