16-11-2021||Other||Teenage girl found dead in Meerut||MEERUT A 17-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted and then strangulated to death during a wedding at a banquet hall under Bhawanpur police station in Meerut on Monday night. The girl’s body was found in a bathroom of the banquet hall, police said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Meerut, Prabhakar Choudhary said a case under section 302 of the IPC had been registered against an unidentified person on the complaint of the girl’s family. “The body has been sent for the postmortem examination and sections of rape will be added on the basis of the medical report,” said Choudhary while adding that investigation was being carried out keeping in mind every possible angle.Meanwhile, people attending the marriage party thrashed a constable, who was spotted in a room attached to the bathroom where the girl’s body was found. He was allegedly drunk. “The constable has been admitted to hospital and his condition was stated to be critical. He told police that he was invited to the marriage and resting in the room after consuming alcohol and didn’t know anything about the incident,” the SSP said. According to police, wedding ceremony of a girl was on in the banquet hall under Bhawanpur police station on Monday night. Family members noticed that the 17-year-old niece (girl) of the groom was missing from the ceremony. When they launched a search, her body was found in the bathroom. The cops later sealed the banquet hall after preliminary investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teenage-girl-found-dead-in-meerut-101637087371210.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC directs waqf, police to inspect Markaz building to decide on reopening||The Delhi high court on Tuesday directed the Delhi Police and members of Delhi Waqf board to conduct a joint inspection of the Nizamuddin Markaz building to ascertain if it can be reopened with strict adherence to Covid-19 norms.Justice Mukta Gupta instructed that five members each from the Delhi Police and the petitioners (Delhi Waqf Board) visit markaz complex and apprise the court of the various areas in the building and their purposes. The Markaz building comprises the Masjid Bangley Wali (the mosque), Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom (the madrasa) and an attached hostel.The court, while hearing a plea by the Delhi Waqf Board seeking to de-seal the Nizamuddin Markaz building, where a Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020, said it is undisputed that the entire building is divided into three parts and the protocols for each of part would be different.“Place on record the map that this is the area of worship, this is the area of congregation and this is the hostel area,” the court said.“Since the guidelines of the DDMA (Delhi Disaster Management Authority) in relation to these three areas are distinct, a joint inspection of by the Delhi Police, including the SHO of the station of concerned, and the authorised representatives of the petitioners will be carried out so as to demarcate the three areas and thereafter necessary directions on following the DDMA guidelines in each of these areas can be determined,” the court said in its oral order. During the proceedings, senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for the waqf board, urged the court that at least the mosque part of the complex must be allowed to be reopened after the inspection and demarcation exercise.Appearing for the Centre, counsel Rajat Nair said the inspection may be carried out, but a decision can be taken thereafter. He said currently, prayers are being offered and only after the inspection report could it be decided as to which areas should be regulated.The court granted 15 days to submit the inspection report and posted the matter for hearing to January 12.The board, in its plea filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, contended that even after Unlock1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the markaz complex continues to be locked up.It further contended that even if the premises are part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it “under lock and out of bounds” was a “primitive method” of inquiry process.On April 15, the court allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at the Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramzan, saying there is no direction from the DDMA to close down places of worship.The court allowed namaz to be offered on “the first floor above the basement” of the mosque, making clear that it has to be opened “strictly in accordance” with the DDMA’s April 10 notification and other standard operating protocols.Several FIRs have been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the Indian Penal Code after a Tablighi Jamaat event was held at the markaz, allegedly in violation of Covid-19 protocols, and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the lockdown last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-directs-waqf-police-to-inspect-markaz-building-to-decide-on-reopening-101637087309922.html
16-11-2021||Pune||MSEDCL cuts power to 800 Pune ZP schools over non-payment of bills||PUNE As per the information released by Pune Zilla Parishad’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad on Tuesday, electricity supply to 800 schools has been disconnected by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) over non-payments of the bills. There are a total 3,639 schools operated by the Zilla Parishad in the district and 800 of them are now in the dark over pending electricity bills. MSEDCL officials said that apart from non-payment of bills there is no reason to disconnect electricity supply of schools and Zilla Parishad Pune should pay the pending dues. “The total pending bill amount is Rs2.28 core. After every vacation we take stock about the status of electricity supply in the schools. This information came forth after that,” said Prasad.“We have asked the local authorities to assist in the payment of bills from their funds. We have assured MSEDCL that the bills would be paid. In 639 schools quarantine centres were operated. So there is an issue whether these electricity bills should be paid by the school or through the state disaster relief fund,” said Prasad.MSEDCL officials said that supply would be restored once bills are paid. “MSEDCL is already in a fragile state as electricity bills worth Rs72,000 crore are pending from consumers of various categories. ZP conducted a meeting on November 11 and this issue of schools was highlighted. Connection of any consumer who fails to pay bills on time is cut after issuing a notice. There is no other reason for disconnecting the supply. ZP should pay the bills. It can be paid in installments as well,” said Rajendra Pawar, superintending engineer, Pune rural circle MSEDCL. The Zilla Parishad administration claimed that it has taken steps to resolve this problem. “In the last two days many school administrators have started the process of payments. We have asked local authorities such as gram panchayats to assist from their funds. It would be the responsibility of MSEDCL to resume electricity supply immediately, once the bills are paid. I assured MSEDCL that the bills would be paid, but electricity supply should be resumed for the sake of the students,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-cuts-power-to-800-zp-schools-over-non-payment-of-bills-101637087129712.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Led by part-time CM, MVA most corrupt government: Devendra Fadnavis||Terming the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, led by “part time” chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray the “most corrupt” regime, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s state executive passed resolutions to condemn ‘criminalisation of politics’ and highlight the plights of various stakeholders of the society owing to the failure of the state government. The state executive meeting held in Mumbai on Tuesday was attended by all key leaders from the Maharashtra unit as well as national leaders and in-charges, including national general secretary CT Ravi and Dilip Saikiya, national joint general secretary Shivprakash, among others. In his concluding speech, leader of opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis hit out at MVA government. Fadnavis said the Thackeray government has lost credibility owing to its failure on every front. “There is no presence of government felt. CM has no command over his cabinet. The ministers are busy with corruption and illegal liquor and gambling dens are on the rise with the help of political patronage. Women are not safe in the state. This sort of corruption and failure was witnessed never in the state,” Fadnavis said. While addressing party workers, Fadnavis said they should fight for people and take all the stakeholders in the society along, without waiting for power. He also said that there was an attempt to polarise minorities through the violent incidents in Amravati, Nanded and Malegaon. He said the incidents were a conspiracy by the ruling parties by misleading people over the purported atrocities against Muslims in Tripura. CT Ravi, taking a dig at Thackeray, said the Shiv Sena chief is a part-time CM. “Hindus are facing attacks on the soil, which is known after [Sena supremo and CM’s father] late Balasaheb Thackeray. The ruling party [Shiv Sena] has become a family party after it snapped ties with Hindutva. The family is enjoying prosperity while Maharashtra is going through destruction. People are eager to do away with the incumbent state government. I am sure that the state government will collapse soon. If they [the ruling parties] have courage, they should face elections by dissolving the Assembly. BJP will form the government single-handedly,” he said. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said the party will hold 20,000 ‘corner meetings’ across Maharashtra to highlight the failure of the government and to voice the plights of the common people. He also announced a massive rally in Mumbai against the state government and its “anti-people” policies. The state executive also passed a resolution to congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the “commendable job” done by the Central government in administering more than 1.09 billion doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/led-by-part-time-cm-mva-most-corrupt-government-devendra-fadnavis-101637087069869.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi asks Centre to clarify data in SC affidavit on stubble fires||New Delhi: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday asked his counterpart in the Union government, Bhupender Yadav, to clarify the exact contribution of stubble burning in Delhi’s air, referring to contradictory data submitted by the Centre in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on Monday. The Union government on Monday submitted before the Supreme Court that stubble burning is not a prime cause of pollution, adding that it contributes just around 10% to the total pollution. But the affidavit, placed by the Centre before the court in the same matter, also contains a finding that the stubble burning has been contributing about 35% to 40% of the total pollution load in Delhi-NCR. Interestingly the same affidavit, at another point, refers to a scientific study to maintain that stubble burning contributes a meagre 4% to PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollutants during the pre-winter and winter weeks. The source of this scientific study has not been named in the affidavit.“On Monday, there was a debate between experts and sections of the media on what is the exact contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM 2.5 concentration. While the affidavit said the contribution was 4% , another section in the same affidavit says the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi is 35-40%. Either the 4% figure is correct, or the 40% figure is right, both cannot be correct,” said Rai during a press conference on Tuesday. He asked the union environment minister to verify the contribution, and clarify the data so that corrective measures can be taken. Quoting the data from the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, Rai said that the daily contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels between November 4 and 14 was around 31%. “This body also falls under the central government, so which figure is correct?,” asked Rai, stating a Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to tackle a 4% percent contribution will work quite differently from an SIT formed to tackle a 40% load. “I request the minister to look into this matter and give everyone clarity on stubble burning and its contribution,” he said.A senior union environment ministry official on condition of anonymity, said there is a difference between the two figures, as one represents real-time concentration for the day, whereas the other figure of 4 percent is averaged out through the year. “There is a clear explanation in the affidavit submitted and the source of these,” said the official. According to the Safar data, the contribution from stubble burning to pollution in Delhi was 25% on November 4, 36% on November 5, 41% on November 6, and it peaked at 48% on November 7. By November 14, this came down to 31%. The Supreme Court had on Monday asked the Centre to hold an emergency meeting on air pollution within 24 hours. The meeting was organised on Tuesday by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) with Delhi and the states of Punjab, Haryana, UP and Rajasthan. Rai said the Delhi government suggested implementing work from home across Delhi-NCR, a ban on construction activities in the region and shutting down industries in Delhi-NCR, if required. “We have already imposed a ban on construction activities in Delhi, but we have asked the commission to impose this across NCR. Similarly, like Delhi, all government staff in NCR may work from home. If required, we have also suggested shutting down industries,” said Rai. To continue acting on local sources of pollution, the minister said the Delhi government will launch phase-two of the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign from November 19. Phase-one of the campaign was held between October 18, till November 18. “Due to poor air quality, we have decided to extend the campaign. Phase-two of the campaign will run for 15 days.” he said. Delhi’s air quality deteriorated to the ‘severe’ category on Tuesday, touching an air quality index (AQI) of 403 (severe) according to CPCB’s daily bulletin. In comparison, the AQI on Monday was 353 (very poor). Agencies say low wind speeds across Delhi, even during the day, are trapping pollutants locally and not allowing dispersal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-asks-centre-to-clarify-data-in-sc-affidavit-on-stubble-fires-101637086889723.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Congress MLA writes to Sonia Gandhi, claims ill-treatment by party’s Mumbai chief||The differences within the Mumbai unit of Congress have surfaced again as its Bandra (East) legislator Zeeshan Siddique has written to party president Sonia Gandhi, alleging about the “ill-treatment” meted out to him by Mumbai chief Bhai Jagtap during a recent public protest. In a letter Siddique, the youngest lawmaker in the current state legislature and son of former state minister Baba Siddique, has said that during a morcha at Dadar, Jagtap used foul language in the presence of senior leaders. “Before the protest, a delegation of leaders went to Dr BR Ambedkar’s memorial Raj Gruha to pay respects to the architect of the Constitution of India. Senior leader KC Venugopalji and HK Patilji had joined the delegation. Despite being one of the only four Mumbai legislators representing the party, my name was not on the list. Being an elected representative, when the police officers were willing to let me go [to the memorial], Jagtapji rushed out and told the personnel not to allow me to be a part of the delegation. When I requested that he should protect me as he is my president, he used foul language for me. ‘Go to hell, if you are feeling bad about it’, he said to me (sic),” the Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) has alleged in his letter. Siddique has also claimed that Jagtap pushed him after visiting Raj Gruha and used derogatory words for his community. He further said that his supporters were angry and wanted to retaliate, but he stopped them from doing so. Responding to Siddique’s claims, Jagtap said he was hurt by the allegations levelled by the MLA against him. “They [allegations] by are shocking. Throughout my political career, I have been a true believer of secularism and have followed the Gandhian ideology. I cannot say anything more about the allegations,” he said. Siddique had written a similar letter to Gandhi in June against Jagtap, accusing the city chief of “obstructing” the work in the MLA’s constituency. He had said Jagtap was supporting those who were sacked from Congress for anti-party activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-mla-writes-to-sonia-gandhi-claims-ill-treatment-by-party-s-mumbai-chief-101637086829724.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow admn to set up cloth banks to help poor tide over winter||To help the poor and the needy sail through the harsh winter, the Lucknow district administration is going to set up at least five cloth banks. Officials said they were chalking out a plan to ensure that the stocked clothes reached the poor. “It has been observed that many homeless people are forced to spend the nights in the open, that too without proper woollens. Hence, we have decided to set up five cloth banks, covering all corners of the city, to provide beddings and woollens to the homeless,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, while addressing a meeting on Rain Baseras. The DM said commoners, NGOs, corporate houses and others would be roped in to run these banks. “We will appeal to people, NGOs and others to donate with an open heart. We will accept bed sheets, old blankets, old quilts, sweaters and other woollens,” he said. For those who cannot come over to the banks to deposit old cloths, there will be a dedicated courier service. “The service man would collect the old clothes from the house and deliver it at the banks,” added the DM. Once the clothes are collected, the banks would be made open to the needy people. The remaining clothes would be transported to the Rain Baseras where they will be distributed among the gathering. However, the DM said the administration was yet to finalise the date when these banks would get operational. The administration is also going to increase the numbers of Rain Baseras to accommodate the maximum numbers of homeless. The DM has also directed the Nagar Nigam and other departments to give a facelift to the existing Rain Baseras. “We are also preparing a list of the old government establishments that would be transformed into Rain Baseras,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-admn-to-set-up-cloth-banks-to-help-poor-tide-over-winter-101637086772406.html
16-11-2021||Pune||Autorickshaw fares for Pune, PCMC revised from Nov 22: Rs21 for first 1.5 km||PUNE The minimum fare for autorickshaws in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad will be Rs21 instead of Rs18 for the first 1.5 km and thereafter, Rs14 for every km, according to revised rates approved by Regional Transport Authority (RTA) of Pune division. Earlier in October, RTA had approved an increase in fares by Rs2 for the first 1.5 km and Rs1 for every km thereafter. The decision, which was to come into effect from November 8. This was then put on hold.Now, fares have been increased by Rs3 for the first 1.5 km and Rs2 for every km thereafter The revised fares for three-seater autorickshaws will come in effect from November 22 in Baramati, besides Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. This decision by RTA was taken on recommendations made by the Khatua committee report as auto unions were demanding fare hikes following a rise of Rs4 per kg for CNG during the past few days. The existing auto rickshaw fares are Rs18 for the first 1.5km and Rs12.31 for every kilometre thereafter. A review meeting of the Pune RTO was held at Pune district collector’s office on October 12, at which discussions over the recommendations given by the Khatua committee report were made. The committee declared the revised rates of Rs20 for first 1.5 km and Rs13 for every kilometre thereafter. Auto unions strongly opposed this decision and on Tuesday revised rates were declared. As per information given by the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), staring November 22 in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Baramati jurisdictions, revised rates with a 25% increase will be applicable for fares between midnight an 5am. Apart from these three jurisdictions, an additional 40 per cent will be applicable during night hours for the rest of the district. “Passengers travelling with luggage will have to pay Rs3 per bag of 60 by 40 centimetres. At the same time, auto drivers have been given time till December 31, 2021, for meter calibration with the revised fares. And most importantly, only those auto drivers will be allowed to take the revised fares from the passengers who have their meter calibrated for revised fares,” said Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde. Autorickshaw unions are happy with the decision. “We are happy that RTO listened to our demands and finally gave a fare hike. Now we will look to all the auto drivers to complete their meter calibration process,” said Bappu Bhave, president, Pune auto-rickshaw federation. On other hand the passengers are not so happy with the decision. Kiran Sawale a regular auto user said, “I often take an auto to go to my workplace and now if these revised rates are going to be implemented it will be costlier travelling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/autorickshaw-fares-for-pune-pcmc-revised-from-nov-22-rs21-for-first-1-5-km-101637086771278.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Brace for major traffic jams from next month; BMC set to repair 808 city roads||Expect traffic diversions and blockages as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to start repair work on 808 city roads measuring around 274 km. The civic body is expected to finalise bids worth ₹2,200 crore by the end of this month, paving the way for the work to start.According to BMC officials, the proposed repair work across the city, western and eastern suburbs include a total of 808 roads, both major and minor. Some of them include Cumbala Hill Lane, Kamathipura 10th Lane in South Mumbai, Kamraj Nagar Road, Ramabai Road in Eastern suburbs and Military Camp junction, Kalina Navpada Road, Bandra East, Shastri Nagar Road, Santacruz East Aarey Colony Road in Western suburbs. Under the repair, maintenance and strengthening work, the BMC is converting the surface of all city roads from paver block/ asphalt to cement and concrete. The contractor that will be appointed for repair works will be responsible for clearance from the Mumbai Traffic Police and will have to manage traffic, including installing safety barricades during the construction phase.The construction period for all the 808 roads in the city varies from road to road and ranges from a year to two years, depending on the challenges at the construction site. According to sources from the BMC, it has received bids that are 15-20% below the estimates despite re-tendering the number of roads. On September 13, Additional Municipal Commissioner P Velrasu in its letter had sought justification from the deputy municipal commissioner of infrastructure (BMC) on how the quality will be maintained amid the contractors quoting below 30% of the estimated cost. Post this, the BMC had re-floated all the bids citing there would be quality concerns.The last date for submitting re-floated tenders was earlier this month, and the BMC is now scrutinising the bids it received. A BMC official said, “The bids are still being scrutinised but it looks that they are 15-20 per cent lower than the estimates. The final call will be taken by the senior officials. We may be in a position to submit the proposals to the standing committee for approval by month end.”P Velrasu, Additional Municipal Commissioner of the BMC said, “We are expecting to table the proposals in the standing committee in the coming days and post that approval, the repair work may start from next month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/brace-for-major-traffic-jams-from-next-month-bmc-set-to-repair-808-city-roads-101637086709876.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav’s ‘political rath’ to traverse Purvanchal e-way today||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav will traverse the entire 340-km Purvanchal Expressway on ‘political rath’ on Wednesday “in a symbolic reiteration” that the expressway was the previous SP government’s project. Before this, on Tuesday, hours ahead of the expressway’s inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the SP cadres did “symbolic floral inauguration” in all the districts falling on the longest expressway in the country. SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “Akhileshji will begin the fourth leg of Vijay Yatra in the morning (on Wednesday) from Ghazipur and end it in Lucknow the same evening.” Ghazipur is one end of the expressway, Lucknow the other. On Tuesday, hours before the PM landed at the Sultanpur IAF emergency landing airstrip on the Purvanchal expressway to inaugurate the expressway, the SP workers wearing red caps rode bicycles and did “floral inauguration” of the six-lane road in various districts along it. The SP workers acted on instructions that party chief Akhilesh Yadav had issued the day before. As the expressway was blocked for traffic on Tuesday at many points in all the districts due to the PM’s event, in many places SP workers climbed (carrying their bicycles) on the expressway from the sides and then rode along, showering flowers. Akhilesh said the Samajwadi Expressway’s name was changed as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s habit of renaming of the SP’s projects and re-inaugurating them. On Tuesday, Yadav tweeted pictures of the “inauguration” and the foundation-laying ceremony of the expressway by him as chief minister in December 2016. “How will the BJP wipe out from the pages of history that the foundation for the expressway was laid on December 16,” he said later in a statement. Originally, Akhilesh was scheduled to take the expressway for his Ghazipur to Azamgarh Vijay Yatra. But the Ghazipur district administration denied permission. Yadav also said that the BJP was five years behind SP’s rule “in the way it was doing the inauguration”. He added fighter jets had landed on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway when the SP ruled the state and the BJP government copied it for the Purvanchal Expressway. Hours before the inauguration of the expressway Akhilesh Yadav alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre was trying to steal the credit for the work done by his party. Akhilesh Yadav’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read: “The ribbon came from Lucknow and the scissors came from New Delhi. There is a ‘khicham-khichai (tug-of-war)’ to take credit for the work of SP. It is hoped that till now the people of Lucknow must have memorised the length of the ‘Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway.” And after the inauguration in Sultanpur, Akhilesh said in a statement: “Even as the (UP) assembly elections are getting closer, the BJP is frightened over the rising public anger against it. That’s why the chief minister who sat idle for 4.5 years is on foundation-laying and inauguration spree and spinning false stories of development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-s-political-rath-to-traverse-purvanchal-e-way-today-101637086589700.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Eastern Freeway to be extended from Chembur to Thane||To make travel between Mumbai and Thane seamless, the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA) has decided to extend the Eastern Freeway to Thane. The formal decision was taken in its board meeting headed by Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde.Currently the Freeway, which starts from South Mumbai ends at Shivaji Nagar, Chembur but hits a traffic hurdle towards Thane. The Freeway has played a significant role in faster traffic movement from South Mumbai to the Central suburbs of Chembur and Ghatkopar.Shinde, who is guardian minister of Thane, has been an ardent advocate of the plan. The plan is to extend the freeway from Chheda Nagar to Anand Nagar. From there onwards, an elevated road has been planned between Anand Nagar and Saket. There will also be a creek road bypassing the busy Ghodbunder Road.“Currently we are experiencing huge traffic bottlenecks in Thane. The said plan will considerably decongest both the main roads as well as internal roads in Thane. In addition, the Saket Gaimukh bypass road will also clear off most of the traffic on Ghodbunder Road,” said Shinde.The meeting also gave in-principle approval for Kopri-Patani bridge and Kharegaon bypass road. The latter will decongest traffic in areas like Kalwa, Vitava and Kharegaon.In the last few decades, there has been a huge rise in the population in Thane due to various reasons including exorbitant realty prices in Mumbai. This has caused a huge strain on the local infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eastern-freeway-to-be-extended-from-chembur-to-thane-101637086472405.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Second dose certificates not updated, complain citizens; hospitals unable to backdate||A 56-year-old woman from Borivli had taken her second shot of the Covid-19 vaccine at the state-run Sir JJ Hospital in April. When she tried to access the full vaccination certificate last week, while entering a mall, she realised that the Co-Win portal had no update on her second dose. She got in touch with the hospital where the doctors updated her certificate, but could not backdate it. The date of her second dose now shows as November 8, which is the date when she got her vaccination certificate updated. The civic body had found that nearly four lakh people from the city have missed their second dose of the vaccination. While some of them could have delayed the doses due to travel plans or other work-related issues, some may have taken the second dose outside Mumbai or other parts of the country. A section of people like the Borivli resident adds up to the statistics of unvaccinated people, due to delay or manual errors in data entry. As malls, trains, air travel and even offices have linked entry to fully vaccinated people, citizens who had earlier not accessed the certificates are now stumbling upon such issues. “In the initial phase of the vaccination drive, our staff was manually entering data in the portal,” said Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officer of the Sir JJ Hospital vaccination centre. “We were vaccinating nearly 2,000 people in a day and all of the data had to be entered in the portal at the end of the day. Because of the high workload, updates of some beneficiaries may have been missed out,” he said. According to Dr Sankhe, the Co-Win portal is a real-time system. “We are therefore unable to make any backdated entries,” he said adding that the Sir JJ Hospital centre has administered nearly 100,000 doses to date and fewer than 30 people have turned up at the hospital as their certificates were not updated. In another case, a 51-year-old Churchgate resident faced a similar issue. She had taken her second dose at the state-run Cama Hospital way back in May, but realised that her certificate was not updated when she was making travel plans. Her certificate too could not be backdated. “We are getting a few such cases. We promptly verify the documents of the beneficiaries, cross-check with our records and give them an updated certificate,” said Dr Tushar Palve, medical superintendent of Cama Hospital. “Verification is important because we have had a few cases wherein people turned up at the hospital claiming to have got vaccinated, but there were no records about them. We believe that these people are among those who are hesitant to take the jabs but wanted a certificate because a lot of things are now linked with vaccination,” he said. Mumbai’s immunisation officer Dr Sheela Jagtap said that the 24 war rooms in the city have been tasked with reaching out to every person who has missed out on the second dose and updating the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-dose-certificates-not-updated-complain-citizens-hospitals-unable-to-backdate-101637086296074.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||After lull of 20 months, big fat weddings back; traders hopeful of great season||With the decline in the Covid-19 cases and the Maharashtra government easing restrictions, the ‘big fat Indian weddings’ are back on the cards. After a lull of about 20 months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, hotels, banquet halls and open grounds across the state are witnessing hectic activities as people have now started holding grand-scale weddings. All the banquet halls in leisure destinations such as Alibag, Lonavala and Karjat have been fully booked till January.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has estimated 2.5 million weddings across the country between November 14 and December 13, which are likely to generate business more than ₹3 lakh crore. Of the 2.5 million weddings, 400,000 are slated to be held in Maharashtra alone and are likely to generate business of approximately worth ₹20,000 crore.The stakeholders from the hospitality and other sectors feel that the government should now relax the restriction imposed on the number of guests allowed for wedding ceremonies. The state has allowed 200 people for weddings in open places, while in closed-hall venues, the number has been limited to 100 attendees or 50% capacity of the venue, whichever is less.St Regis Hotel at Lower Parel said banquet bookings, which suffered the most during the pandemic, have bounced back to business. “We will host at least 20-30 weddings in November and 40 in December. Weddings are one of the biggest revenue generators for us and we had suffered a lot during the pandemic. The business is reviving now,” said Nicholas Dumbell, general manager, St Regis.Radisson Blu Mumbai International Airport Hotel, which has two banquet halls along with a lawn, is also seeing many bookings. “It is welcome change as people are back to holding grand celebrations. The confidence [in the industry] is back,” said Pankaj Saxena, the hotel’s general manager.“We had a fabulous Diwali and now even the wedding scene is all set to dazzle in the coming months. People have again started spending on celebrations,” said Rajendra Bathiya, executive chairman, CAIT (Maharashtra), adding that more than 25 sectors, including catering, decorations, food items, flowers, jewellery, transport, entertainment and clothing are directly related to the wedding industry. “This will give a great boost to both various businesses as well as generate large-scale employment,” he added.According to representatives from Revmerito, which is a revenue management consultancy firm for around 75 hotels in India, people prefer nearby destinations for weddings. “As most of the destinations abroad are closed, we are witnessing a huge response for places such as Alibag, Lonavala, Wada and Karjat, where people are holding destination weddings. Opulence Resort at Alibag, which started in October, is fully booked for weddings till January-end,” said Vishal Ajwani, director, Revmerito.The wedding industry had suffered a lot during the pandemic as there was hardly any activity during the lockdown. Besides, the government had restricted the number of guests initially to 20. In the second wave which started in February, many weddings were cancelled.The Indian Bullion and Jewellers Association (IBJA) said jewellers are expecting record sales this wedding season. “Many families had postponed their celebrations in the past two years and are now splurging on jewellery,” said Kumar Jain, president, IBJA (Mumbai). “People saved a lot of money during the pandemic as they did not travel abroad or indulge in eating out or shopping. They are now buying jewellery,” he added.The Bombay Caterers Association (BCA) said though the bookings have started, many grand weddings have shifted either out of Mumbai owing to the restriction on guests. “As Mumbai has a strict rule on restrictions on the number of guests, people are now holding grand celebrations outside the city limits. As Covid-19 cases are declining, we are seeing restrictions being eased all around. So the cap on guests should also be relaxed further,” said BCA spokesperson Lalit Jain.Savio D’sa, a hospitality consultant who also hosts wedding parties, said the guest restrictions need to be waived off at the earliest. “If there are more guests, more will be money spent [for the ceremonies], thereby helping the state exchequer. This [rule on guest limitation] needs to be rectified at the earliest,” said D’sa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-lull-of-20-months-big-fat-weddings-back-traders-hopeful-of-great-season-101637086289763.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||‘Pollution-related’: Pvt hospital in Delhi’s diagnosis for respiratory problems||New Delhi: With high levels of pollution driving up cases of respiratory problems and aggravation of chronic conditions like asthma, a private hospital in the Capital plans to write “pollution-related” as diagnosis for such patients. “We have decided to write ‘pollution-related’ or ‘triggered by pollution’ as a diagnosis for people who come in with respiratory symptoms to the hospital this time of the year. It should become a diagnostic criterion,” said Dr Sumit Ray, head of the department of critical care at Holy Family hospital in Okhla.Clinicians have for years been pointing out that increase in pollution levels drive up cases of respiratory conditions. “Respiratory symptoms can be clearly connected to increasing levels of pollution. Usually symptoms in people with asthma or COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) are triggered either by infection or due to exposure to pollution. So, what we need to do is, check for an acute exacerbation, a spike in the number of such cases, and rule out infection,” said Dr Ray.With temperatures and air quality dipping in Delhi, hospitals across the city have seen a 20-30% increase in the number of patients coming in with respiratory symptoms in the last 10 days, doctors said.“Exacerbation in symptoms of those who have conditions like asthma and COPD is usually triggered by three things – viral infections that are common during the change in season, high levels of pollution and exposure to certain gases that are usually released in the atmosphere during Diwali,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, a professor in the department of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung hospital. He, however, did not want to comment on whether “pollution” should be used as a separate diagnostic criteria.Dr Karan Madan, associate professor in the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said that experts should come together to set a criteria for what can qualify as a “pollution-related” diagnosis.“One can say that certain conditions are triggered and exacerbated by pollution. But labelling is a challenge. All of us know that pollution is leading to an increase in respiratory symptoms, but establishing cause and effect in one particular case is difficult. The experts should come together and define the symptoms or behaviours that happen due to pollution. Once that comes in the medical literature, then we can have a criteria for such a diagnosis,” he said. Dr Ray added that even though there is an increase in cases of heart attack and stroke when the pollution levels are high, determining the role of pollution in individual cases is difficult. “Unlike the acute respiratory symptoms, it takes years for pollution to cause a heart attack or a stroke. We know that the incidence (of respiratory symptoms) goes up in winter – and it cannot be only due to the cold because earlier the numbers used to go up during the really cold months of December and January. Now, we have already started seeing an increase,” said Dr Ray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollutionrelatedpvt-hospital-in-delhi-s-diagnosis-for-respiratory-problems-101637086229907.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Financial, logistical support reduce paediatric cancer treatment abandonment rates: TMH analysis||A holistic cancer care approach that includes financial, logistical, nutritional and treatment support has considerably brought down the treatment abandonment rate among paediatric cancer patients at the Parel’s Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH). Analysis of 10-year patient data, carried out by the hospital, has revealed that the treatment abandonment rate dropped from 10.4% in 2010 to 3.7% in 2020. Preliminary data compiled up to June this year showed that the abandonment rate was around 2.4%. The hospital defines abandoned treatment as failure to begin cancer-directed treatment or to have started treatment but subsequently discontinued it at least for four weeks. Before 2010, the treatment dropouts were estimated to be more than 20%. “Financial constraints and logistical issues such as accommodation in Mumbai were among the topmost reasons for abandoning cancer treatment,” said medical oncologist Dr Shripad Banavali, who is also the director of academics at the TMH. “We probed all these reasons and decided to tackle every aspect that prompted parents to discontinue their child’s treatment mid-way or not initiate the treatment at all,” he said. In 2009, an internal audit conducted by the TMH found that nearly 70% of paediatric patients coming to the facility were from a lower socioeconomic background, about 60% of the parents were illiterate and almost 90% of the patients travelled from long distances for treatment. Of the 1400 paediatric patients who came to TMH in 2009, over 20% had abandoned treatment, the audit revealed. A telephonic audit of families, who abandoned treatment, revealed that lack of quality and affordable housing in Mumbai, travel from long distances, cost of food and local travel, loss of income, lack of family donors for blood components, misplaced faith in alternative medicine, and a sense of hopelessness regarding the curability of cancers were among the key reasons. Based on the findings of the audit, the hospital set up the Improving Paediatric Cancer Care and Treatment (ImPaCCT) Foundation in 2010 to ensure that no child coming to TMH goes without treatment or leaves treatment mid-way. “To start with, we got some funds from a United States-based organisation to hire support staff,” said Shalini Jatia, secretary of ImPaCCT Foundation. “We hired data managers, paediatric social workers and formed a paediatric social support group which included a network of hospital staff, NGO’s among others and worked out a system wherein all paediatric cancer patients are covered for everything right from the time they arrive at the hospital,” said Jatia, adding that from smaller contributions in the initial years, the foundation now raises nearly ₹30 crore to ₹35 crore annually. The foundation leverages funds through four sources- corporates, government, non-profits and individual donors. It covers accommodation for every paediatric patient enrolling in the general category and their parents or caregivers and offers meals and snacks to minimise the out-of-pocket expenditure. The accommodation given to the children is commonly in non-profit run homes, guest houses etc, that are connected to the hospital through shuttle services to avoid travel expenditure. Treatment time for most childhood cancers ranges from six months to 18 months. Blood cancers — leukaemias and lymphomas — and brain tumours are among the commonest childhood cancers. “With timely and complete treatment, the outcomes of childhood cancers are extremely good,” said Dr Girish Chinnaswamy, head of paediatric oncology at TMH. “Unfortunately, those who abandon the treatment suffer from advanced disease and eventually succumb,” he said. An estimated 60,000 children are diagnosed with cancers in India every year. “In the West, the childhood cancer cure rates are nearly 85%, because almost every patient gets treatment. In India, the cure rates would be only about 35% to 45% as a large number of patients don’t get treatment,” said Dr Chinnaswamy adding that TMH has a 75% childhood cancer cure rate. The ImPaCCT Foundation’s robust abandonment tracking system involves data managers and social workers closely following up with the child’s parents and caregivers. The team constantly counsels them, to ensure that they come back for treatment. During the pandemic, the hospital staff was actively in touch with patients on phone and WhatsApp and many patients were encouraged to get blood tests and other basic examinations done locally. “A similar holistic model can be replicated in adult cancer patients too, as the treatment abandonment rate among adults is likely to be much higher,” said Dr Banavali. The TMH is the country’s biggest cancer facility and it receives a large pool of patients under one roof. Over the years, the hospital has worked towards decentralising cancer care by starting similar centres in other parts of the country such as Varanasi, Sangrur, Guwahati among other cities. “There is a definite need to develop more cancer centres across the country, and decentralise the treatment options further so that people don’t have to travel all the way to Mumbai,” said Soumitra Ghosh, associate professor at the Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “When patients have treatment options in their own states, their out of pocket expenditure reduces and they are more likely to continue the treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/financial-logistical-support-reduce-paediatric-cancer-treatment-abandonment-rates-tmh-analysis-101637086049692.html
16-11-2021||Patna||For Chand Sarai, Poorvanchal expressway opens gateway of progress||Lucknow: When Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Poorvanchal Expressway on Tuesday, residents of Chand Sarai village in Gosaiganj area of Lucknow saw the programme on a large screen and cheered. Small wonder they are thrilled, for the western end of the 340-km Expressway is located in the village and its construction has brought prosperity to Chand Sarai that was once called the ‘gwalon ka gaon’ (village of milkmen). “The road has brought development to our village. While some families were given handsome compensation for their land, others benefited by opening business along the road,” said Pramod Kumar, 57, pradhan of the village. The hamlet of over 6,000 residents had wide roads, concrete drains, street lights and community toilets that were made in the past three years, said Kumar. The prosperity is also reflected by the big colourful houses with wide porches that stand on both sides of the road leading to the village. Most of the houses have an SUV or two parked near the gates. The village has a government primary school but children from most households go to English medium schools in nearby Gosaiganj or in Lucknow city. Even as most of the villagers are involved in farming, everyone has contact number of the local real estate dealer. The prices of land in the village have almost doubled in the past four years and gone up 5 times since 2011. “The price of land in our village was around ₹350 per sq feet in 2011. It was around ₹600 per sq ft in 2016 but now the rates are around ₹1500 to 1700 per sq feet,” informed Mahmood Alam, 46, former village head. Alam is one of the 30 people whose land was taken for the construction of the expressway. “People in the village are approached regularly by real estate agents to broker a land deal for one or the other construction projects,” added Alam. Besides the Poorvanchal Expressway, the Lucknow-Sultanpur road also benefited the residents of the village. The Sultanpur highway linked the village to the district headquarters some 20 km in north and helped business thrive along it. Several restaurants, shopping complexes, banquet halls and higher education colleges have come up along the road that provide business and employment to the villagers reducing their dependency on roads. While highlighting the importance of the expressway and business opportunities it will bring in the coming days, they hope that a service lane will soon be made specially near the approach road of the expressway. “The absence of a service road near the approach road has turned it into an accident-prone zone. We hope that a service road will be constructed near it to facilitate easy and safe movement of local traffic,” said Sumit Kumar Pal, 55, another resident of Chand Sarai .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/for-chand-sarai-poorvanchal-expressway-opens-gateway-of-progress-101637085990136.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Bus goes out of control, mows down 3 in Kasganj||Agra: Three people, including a couple, were mowed down by a private bus which went out of the driver’s control in the market area of Kasganj city on Tuesday. The bus finally stopped after hitting a shop on Malgodam Road. The bus driver was arrested. “The bus driver seemed to have lost control on the steering and the vehicle hit several people on the road on Tuesday. Three of them, including a couple, died. The driver was arrested,” informed SP Kasganj Rohan Pramod Botre. The private bus was going through the market on Malgodam Road when it suddenly went out of control. The exact reason is yet to be assigned but it is believed that the brakes of the bus failed. The bus first struck an e-rickshaw and thereafter mowed down three people. The directionless bus stopped after hitting a shop of music instruments on Malgodam Road. Fortunately, no one in the shop was injured. Police reached the spot and sent the bodies for post mortem examination. Those killed were identified as Ramesh Kumar (50), his wife Nirmala (45) and an unidentified aged man. The bus was later seized by the Kasganj police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bus-goes-out-of-control-mows-down-3-in-kasganj-101637085390464.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 held for trying to free criminal from custody outside Moga court||Two persons were arrested on Monday for trying to free a criminal from police custody from outside the district court complex in Moga. The incident took place when the police were taking Harjinder Singh, alias Raju of Moga to the court for hearing, the police said. Those arrested were identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Jajji (24), a resident of Moga and Jaspreet Singh, alias Preet (31) of Faridkot. The police have also recovered a .32 bore revolver and 6 cartridges besides a motorcycle from them. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) SS Mand said that teams of criminal investigation agency (CIA) nabbed both the accused before they could take the criminal away from police custody. The accused revealed that Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi who is in the Faridkot jail, had asked them to help Harjinder escape from police custody, said the SSP. They all are close aides of gangster Satinder Brar, alias Goldy Brar, who is presently living in Canada. All the accused have criminal records, he said. Harjinder and Jaspreet, alias Jassi would be brought on production warrant for further investigation, the SSP added. A case under Section 120-B (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25(6) and 27 of the Arms Act was registered at the Moga (city) police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-held-for-trying-to-free-criminal-from-custody-outside-moga-court-101637085388974.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to lay foundation of ultra-mega solar park in UP’s Jhansi on Nov 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the 600 MW ultra-mega solar park in Jhansi on November 19 in a move that seeks to convert the Bundelkhand region with abundant land and sunlight into a “solar power hub” in the state, people dealing with the issue said.Jhansi project is one of the three ultra-mega solar parks that are proposed to be set up in the region to generate 2,000 MW solar power in “plug and play mode” under the Centre’s Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power Parks (UMREPP) scheme. “Besides the 600 MW solar park in Jhansi, the foundation stone of which is to be laid by the PM on November 19, the action is also being taken to set up a 600 MW solar park in Lalitpur and 800 MW solar park in Chitrakoot,” a senior official of the alternative energy department said. The TUSCO Ltd, a joint venture of the THDC India Ltd and the New and Renewable Energy Development Agency (UPNEDA), has been given the mandate to set up three ultra-mega solar parks to generate 2,000 MW electricity from the sunlight in Bundelkhand. The developer has already identified 2,609 acres of private land 242.3 acres of government land in six villages under the Garautha tehsil of Jhansi for the development of the solar park there.“As per the detailed project report (DPR), the total project cost of the Jhansi solar park is ₹3,013 crore of which ₹313.18 crore will be spent on the creation of the park and ₹2,700 crore will be used in setting up solar units in the park,” the official said. “The Centre will provide 30% of the project cost,” he added. The UP Power Corporation Ltd will buy the power to be generated from the solar park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-ultra-mega-solar-park-in-up-s-jhansi-on-nov-19-101637084729950.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Purvanchal E-way will be lifeline of eastern UP’s growth: UP CM||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday the Purvanchal Expressway would not only be a means of transportation but will also become the lifeline of development of eastern UP that “remained neglected after Independence”.Addressing a public meeting at the inauguration programme of the Purvanchal Expressway in Sultanpur district, he said, “The foundation of the Purvanchal Expressway was laid three years back. Despite the Covid pandemic, the construction was completed on schedule and was being inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi today (Tuesday).“The inauguration of the expressway will take the development of UP to a new height. The industrial cluster being developed on both sides of the expressway will generate employment,” he added. “Within four-and-a-half years, several infrastructure and development schemes have been launched in the state. Along with the inauguration of the Purvanchal Expressway, the state government is also working to connect Bundelkhand with a new expressway. The work on Ganga expressway will start within a few days to connect western UP with eastern UP. The work on Gorakhpur link expressway and Ballia link expressway is also continuing on a war footing,” Yogi said.“Since 2014, the BJP government has made major efforts to improve public transport by spreading the Metro network in various cities. Next month, Metro services will be launched in Kanpur. Earlier, there were only two airports in the state-- in Lucknow and Varanasi. Now, taking benefits of the Centre’s UDAN (Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik) scheme, nine airports are functional in the state and construction of 11 new airports is in progress,” he added.“It’s the picture of new India and new UP. Uttar Pradesh is assisting the PM’s resolve to make the country the biggest economy in the world. UP is moving fast in all sectors— infrastructure, education, health and welfare schemes. People are getting benefits of the schemes without discrimination. The symbols of faith have also been given due respect under the BJP government,” Yogi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/purvanchal-e-way-will-be-lifeline-of-eastern-up-s-growth-up-cm-101637084249775.html
16-11-2021||Bhopal||Man rapes, strangles daughter to death in Bhopal over her love marriage||A 55-year-old man allegedly raped and strangled his daughter to death as he was upset about her love marriage in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal district, police said on Tuesday. The police on Monday arrested the accused and his son over the incident that took place in Samasgarh forest area, Ratibad police station in-charge Sudhesh Tiwari said. The matter came to light when a forest guard spotted the body of a woman and her six-month-old baby near Pilota nullah in Samasgarh area on Sunday. During the investigation, the victim was identified as a 25-year-old resident of Bilkisganj in Sehore district, he said. The victim had married a man from Sehore about a year ago, and had been staying with her elder sister in Ratibad for the past few days, when her infant son died due to some illness on November 4, he said.Following the death, the victim's elder sister had called their father and brother for the child's cremation, the official said. On their way for cremation on a motorcycle, the accused took the victim inside Samasgarh forest, where he allegedly raped and killed her, the official said, adding that the accused came out of the forest and narrated the incident to his son and the duo returned to the village. The accused confessed to the crime and said that the family was angry with the victim after she married against their wishes, he said. A case under section 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and other relevant provisions of the IPC has been registered in this regard, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-rapes-strangles-daughter-to-death-in-bhopal-over-her-love-marriage-101637082054765.html
16-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal poll body hits pause on civic body polls, will let court decide case first||KOLKATA: The West Bengal State Election Commission on Tuesday told the Calcutta high court that it will not issue the notification for elections to any of the state’s 120-odd civic bodies till the two-judge bench decides a petition filed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The BJP rushed to the Calcutta high court last week after the commission accepted the ruling Trinamool Congress government’s suggestion to hold elections to the Kolkata and Howrah municipal corporations on December 19. The BJP wants the high court to order the state election commission to hold elections to all civic bodies in one go.On Tuesday, the commission, which is mandated to hold urban local body and panchayat elections, told the high court that it was in no rush and will wait for the high court to decide the petition before issuing the election notification.The assurance implies that there is a distinct possibility that the commission will have to reschedule the elections proposed for December 19.Bengal minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay said the commission’s decision was appropriate. “The commission did the right thing since the matter is sub judice. The polls can be held after the case is heard” said Chattopadhyay.BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh welcomed the development. “We have questioned the state’s decision to hold polls only in Kolkata and Howrah. Why should people in the rest of Bengal be deprived? The government cannot cite lack of manpower as an excuse to hold these elections in phases,” said Ghosh. Opposition parties in Bengal have been demanding civic elections for more than a year.The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) controls most of the 120-odd civic bodies in Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended over the last two years but elections were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government appointed the elected heads of the civic boards as administrators till fresh polls are held. For example, minister Firhad Hakim, who was the mayor of Kolkata, was made head of the administrative board of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation.This decision also became a political issue on the eve of the March-April assembly polls.On March 20, the Election Commission of India, which conducted the assembly elections, passed an order saying politicians appointed as administrative heads of civic corporation and municipalities beyond their terms be replaced by government officers within 48 hours.Since the administrators were politically affiliated people the situation could “give rise to a legitimate apprehension in the mind of the voters about the fairness and impartiality of the election process,” the ECI said. The order, said the ECI, was passed “to avoid a situation where critical functions of urban local bodies are actually discharged and thereby affecting level playing field during the operation of Model Code of Conduct….” This triggered a sharp reaction among TMC leaders who saw it as a move against the ruling party prior to the eight-phase polls that began on March 27. The TMC, however, secured 213 of the state’s 294 assembly seats while the BJP won 77 against its declared target of 200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-poll-body-hits-pause-on-civic-body-polls-will-let-court-decide-case-first-101637084129479.html
16-11-2021||Dehradun||Supreme Court stays felling of 11,000 tress on Doon Expressway till November 26||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed felling of around 11,000 trees and plants on the Ganeshpur-Dehradun Road (NH-72A) stretch, part of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor until November 26 and also asked National Green Tribunal (NGT) to decide the plea against forest clearances granted to the Expressway.A Bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Surya Kant, and Vikram Nath set aside the October 6 order of NGT and asked it to consider afresh a plea of NGO 'Citizens for Green Doon' which has challenged the Stage-1 and Stage-2 Clearances and tree felling permissions.It asked the NGT to pass a reasoned order on each of the averments made by the NGO and asked it to list the matter within 24 hours of filing the plea. The NGO was granted liberty to move the NGT within a week.The new six-lane Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor Expressway will reduce the travel time from 6.5 hours to just 2.5 hours as per the plan of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and would have a 12-kilometre elevated road to protect the wildlife and forests.The apex court said that the NGT's order of dismissing the plea of the NGO is in error as it did not consider the earlier judgements on the issue.The Central government has contended that the project should not have stayed in the public interest as all necessary clearances were taken by the NHAI.The NGO said that they have filed an RTI before the Divisional Forest Officer of Saharanpur seeking to know whether an order for tree felling has been passed, which was categorically denied.It stated that mitigation steps which the Centre is talking about for the protection of flora and fauna are not implemented and would destroy the forests and endanger the wildlife in the area.The apex court on November 11 had directed the Centre that there should not be any tree felling on the Ganeshpur-Dehradun Road till November 16. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/supreme-court-stays-felling-of-11-000-tress-on-doon-expressway-till-november-26-101637082022620.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||With Ayodhya a priority, UP CM likely to launch projects next month||Ayodhya has remained the focal point of the Yogi government from day one after it came to power in Uttar Pradesh in March 2017. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been a regular visitor to Ayodhya ever since he started visiting the temple town as CM on May 31, 2017. Now, even when the government is going to complete its tenure and is preparing for the assembly polls due early next year, Ayodhya still tops the priority list of the BJP government. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to lay the foundation stones of pending projects in the temple town and will also dedicate to people some of the projects nearing completion next month. According to the Ayodhya administration, the Queen Heo Hwang-ok memorial park, a park named after a Korean queen with Ayodhya roots, and digital museum at Ram Katha Park are almost complete. A makeover of the Ayodhya railway station is also going on. The renovation work of the station and electrification of railway line is almost complete. The CM is likely to dedicate these projects to the people of Ayodhya next month. The Centre has approved 27 road projects in Ayodhya under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana. For these roads having total length of 197 km, the Modi government has sanctioned ₹132.78 crore. Construction work of these roads will start next month after CM Yogi Adityanath lays their foundation stones. The Ayodhya Development Authority is also likely to finalise the master plan of Ayodhya by December end. “Chief minister is likely to visit Ayodhya next month to inaugurate some projects that have been completed. He will also lay foundation stones of some projects,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya (Sadar) constituency. On Deeputsav in Ayodhya on November 3, the CM had either laid foundation stones or inaugurated projects worth ₹600 crore there. Even during the pandemic phase of one–and-a-half-years, Ayodhya remained the priority of the state government. Yogi presided over the ceremony of shifting of Ram Lalla idol from makeshift temple to a pre-fabricated temple within the Ram Janmabhoomi campus on March 25, 2020. The ceremony was organised by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Only priests and members of the Trust were present at the event. No locals and media persons were allowed. Then there was “bhoomi pujan” (groundbreaking ceremony) of Ram Mandir on August 5, 2020 in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief guest. The event had attracted attention worldwide. After this ceremony, the construction work of Ram Mandir began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/with-ayodhya-a-priority-up-cm-likely-to-launch-projects-next-month-101637083712068.html
16-11-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal government launches ration at doorstep scheme||The Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal launched the ‘Duare Ration’ (ration at doorstep) scheme on Tuesday which the administration said will benefit around 10 crores of people of the state.“This Duare Ration scheme will help 10 crore people of the state. I will request all the ration dealers to make it a success,” Banerjee said while launching the scheme and flagging off vehicles that would deliver the ration.Earlier, the Kejriwal government in Delhi decided to launch a similar ration delivery scheme from March 25 this year. The Union food and consumer affairs ministry, however, raised objections.The ‘Duare Ration’ scheme is one of the many pet projects of CM Banerjee and was announced ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections earlier this year. A section of dealers had moved the Calcutta High Court against the scheme but their plea was junked.“Some are moving court while others are creating obstacles. Don’t do this. No one should create any disturbance else the food supply department would have to step in. Ensure its success,” Banerjee told ration dealers. There are around 21000 rational dealers in the state. The government would provide a subsidy of ₹1 lakh to each dealer to purchase a delivery vehicle. The government also allowed ration dealers to recruit two assistants. The state would pay half their salaries. Each vehicle would be parked at a convenient location in a neighbourhood so that residents need not walk more than 500 metres to avail the ration.At the programme, Banerjee also inaugurated a WhatsApp chatbot for the Food and Supplies Department of the state government and a mobile application, ‘Khadya Sathi: Amar Ration Mobile App’ to help people apply for ration cards and get information about how to do it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-government-launches-ration-at-doorstep-scheme-101637083531013.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Abhyuday Yojana: Free coaching classes in all UP districts soon||Classes under the Mukhyamantri Abhyuday Yojana offering free coaching to economically weaker aspirants of competitive exams in Uttar Pradesh will now be held in every district instead of just at divisional headquarters. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had launched the Abhyuday free coaching scheme for the aspirants of competitive examinations on February 15 earlier this year. As part of the scheme, the UP government has set up coaching centres offering free classes to prepare the students for Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) for engineering, National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for the medical aspirants, the entrance exam for the National Defence Academy (NDA), Combined Defence Services (CDS) examination and Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams.The platform has over 500 IAS officers, over 450 IPS officers, over 300 IFS officers and several experts on various subjects who contribute by creating educational content through physical classes and virtual sessions for civil services and other competitive exams’ aspirants.A portal http://www.abhyuday.up.gov.in/ too has been launched for the benefit of the students. These training classes were given online during the multiple lockdowns that the state went through. Gradually, the Abhyuday coaching centres were set up at the divisional levels in the first phase and is now being followed up at the district level in the next phase, said officials of the state social welfare department in the know of the development.For paving way for the classes to begin at the district level, a missive has already been sent to all divisional commissioners and district magistrates on behalf of the director of social welfare department. Now preparations were on to constitute district level committees, they added.Confirming the development, Deputy director (social welfare), Prayagraj, Manjushree Srivastava said, “This time, classes are to be held in all the districts of the state.” “State social welfare director’s letter has arrived in this regard. District level committees are being constituted. This is the reason why the classes, which were to start from November 15, have been stopped for the time being. As soon as the committees are constituted in all districts of the division, the classes will start simultaneously in all 75 districts,” she said.“For this, there will now also be a designated officer from among the respective district inspector of schools, district social welfare officer or district magistrate,” the officials said.Senior IAS officer and director general, UP Academy of Administration and Management, Lucknow, L Venkateshwar Lu also attended a workshop organised in the meeting hall of Circuit House in Prayagraj on Tuesday in this regard. Officers, teachers and candidates enrolled under the Abhyudaya Yojana also participated in the workshop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/abhyuday-yojana-free-coaching-classes-in-all-up-districts-soon-101637083169571.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Protection against Chinese manjha: View-cutters being installed on 11 flyovers of Prayagraj||After a spate of incidents where two-wheeler and bicycle riders sustained serious injuries after running into thin Chinese kite threads or manjha while crossing flyovers, as many as 11 flyovers of Prayagraj are being fitted with six-feet high ‘view cutters’ or fibre-walls.The state government has sanctioned ₹20 crore for installing view-cutters in Prayagraj as well as neighbouring Kaushambi, said officials. To note, during the past several years, many cases have been reported in Prayagraj city wherein commuters have run into Chinese thread used to fly kites. Although district police have been taking strict action against those who are indulging in the business of selling these illegal Chinese-manufactured threads and have even raided several shops in old city area, the sale of these ‘dangerous threads’ goes on unabated. It so happens that locals residing in the localities situated besides the major flyovers of the city indulge in flying kites using these Chinese threads which are quite strong and often have coatings of glass shreds that can be fatal when someone runs into them, causing serious injuries to the body part that comes in contact with the thread. Now, with the view-cutter being installed on both sides of the flyovers, the commuters will not run into this thread thereby zeroing the chances of any such incidents, officials explained. Chief engineer of UP Bridge Corporation RK Singh said “The view cutters are being installed at several of the flyovers of the city, including Rambagh flyover (which is one of the major spots where such incidents have occurred in the past), the flyover at Pani-Ki-Tanki, flyover at Chaufatka, at Alopibagh, MNNIT railway overbridge, Phulpur overbridge, Karchana overbridge, Naini overbridge, Saiyaara overbridge of Kaushambi, Sirathu overbridge in Kaushambi and the one at Manauri.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/protection-against-chinese-manjha-view-cutters-being-installed-on-11-flyovers-of-prayagraj-101637081969816.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||NCB shielding some people in cruise drug bust case: Nawab Malik||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday shared screenshots of WhatsApp messages and audio clips purported to be between KP Gosavi, an independent witness in the cruise ship drugs bust case, and a Delhi-based unnamed informer, in a bid to show that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had planned to entrap guests who were scheduled to attend a party on the Cordelia cruise ship on October 2. Malik also questioned why Kashiff Khan, a Fashion TV executive was allowed to board the ship that eventually left Mumbai for Goa and returned the following night.An NCB team led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede had conducted a raid on the cruise ship, which led to eventual arrest of 20 persons, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23), who was detained with his friends Arbaaz Merchant on October 2 before they boarded the ship.Malik said on Tuesday that while some people were caught before they boarded the ship, Kashiff Khan was given safe passage because he was allegedly close to Wankhede.Responding to Malik’s allegations, Wankhede said that he did not know Kashiff Khan and had never met him. “If Kashiff Khan is close to me, then Malik should produce some evidence, like call data record or WhatsApp chats etc,” he said. Gosavi is currently lodged in a Pune jail after he was arrested on a cheating case last month. His counsel, Sachin Kumbhar expressed his inability to comment on any NCB related matter. “I am restricted to cheating cases lodged in Pune, where the first case was registered with Faraskhana Police Station and then Lashkar Police Station took him into custody. Two more cases have been registered against him. We are looking into these cases only.”Malik alleged that the NCB picked up certain individuals from the terminal at Green Gate, where the ship was docked, by distributing their pictures to some private individuals. “Here are Whatsapp chats between K P Gosavi and an informer which shows how they were planning to trap people who were going to attend the party on the Cordelia Cruise. This is Sameer Dawood Wankhede’s private army therefore he has a lot to answer,” he said in a tweet which shared an audio recording.Malik in the past had also alleged that Wankhede had formed an “army of private individuals” that used to extort money from drug peddlers and that Gosavi was part of it. Wankhede has repeatedly refuted all allegations.According to the chats shared by Malik, in the first screenshot, the person can be seen asking Gosavi details of the people attending the cruise party along with their names and the outfits that they would be wearing. “Ok agar outfits mil jayenge to its easy to find them asap (It will become easier to find them if we could know about the outfits they are wearing)” the chat in the screenshot read. In another screenshot, the person tells Gosavi that 35 officers were waiting for his message. Gosavi purportedly responded saying that he would send an update as the boarding had been delayed by a few hours. Malik shared another screenshot of a conversation that he claimed was about Kashiff Khan. “Here is a Whatsapp chat between K P Gosavi and an informer which mentions Kashiff Khan. Why is Kashiff Khan not being questioned? What is the relationship between Kashiff Khan and Sameer Dawood Wankhede?” he asked in his tweet. “Unlike others Kashiff Khan along with a person from Dubai were allowed to board the cruise and were also given a safe passage to return. We want an answer from NCB about why they are shielding Kashiff Khan,” Malik told reporters in a press conference after he tweeted.Kashiff Khan has clarified to news channels that he has no relation with Wankhede as claimed by Malik.(With inputs from Manish Pathak and Nadeem Inamadar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-shielding-some-people-in-cruise-drug-bust-case-nawab-malik-101637079929221.html
16-11-2021||Ranchi||J’khand: CRPF jawan among 3 held for supplying ammo to Maoists||Three persons, including a CRPF jawan, were arrested by Jharkhand’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS) for allegedly supplying ammunition to outlawed CPI (Maoists) and organising criminal gangs in the state, police said on Tuesday. The three arrested persons include 29-year-old Avinash Kumar, currently posted with CRPF 18 BN stationed in Pulwama, besides his two associates, Rishi Kumar (49) and Pankaj Kumar Singh (48), police said. Prashant Anand, superintendent of police (SP), ATS, said while Avinash and Rishi were arrested from Patna and Gaya in Bihar with the help of state police, Pankaj Singh was arrested from Ranchi. Based on their information, police have recovered 450 ammunition of 5.6mm, which is used in Insas rifles. “We are verifying the source of these ammunitions, including if they have been pilfered from stock meant for any security force. Avinash had joined the CRPF in 2011 and was posted in Pulwama since 2017. However, he had been absent from duty for the past four months. We are verifying whether he has been absent due to any misconduct there,” Anand said. While all three accused belong to Bihar, Pankaj currently lives in the Bhuli area in Dhanbad. On whether they had any terror links, the officer said they are yet to establish anything on that front. “Prima facie, it appears the gang is in the trade to make quick money. They have confessed to having supplied over 1000 rounds in the past as well. They were in touch with the gangsters in jail using social media platforms like WhatsApp and Telegram,” said Anand..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-crpf-jawan-among-3-held-for-supplying-ammo-to-maoists-101637078133841.html
16-11-2021||Other||Madhubani journo killing: Two nursing homes get closure notice||Days after the abduction and murder of a local journalist with a news portal, Madhubani’s civil surgeon (CS) has issued closure notices to two nursing homes allegedly operating illegally in Benipatti area of the district, including the one from where he was allegedly waylaid and kidnapped by five youths on the night of November 9.The two nursing homes, identified as Anurag Nursing Home and Ananya Nursing Home, both situated on Kataiya Road in Benipatti, have been served separate closure notices after an inquiry conducted on a petition filed against them earlier by the slain journalist, Buddhinath Jha alias Avinash, who was also an RTI (right to information) activist.According to police, Avinash was last seen at Anurag Nursing Home around 10 pm November 9 after meeting one Purnkala Devi (24), who has since been arrested along with five others. Madhubani civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar Jha said closure notices have been served to the two nursing homes following inquiry reports, which were submitted in his office on October 30, even though prepared by district communicable disease officer on October 12. He attributed the delay on his absence on some official assignment, besides vacation on account of Diwali and Chhath festivities.The CS said a fine of ₹50, 000 has also been slapped on each of the two nursing homes, which were running without registration and necessary facilities.“So far, probe against 21 nursing homes have been conducted on the basis of two petitions filed by Avinash. Out of them, eight were already closed while inquiry reports on some others were awaited. Out of 21, only one nursing home was found to be operational in accordance with stipulated norms,” the CS said.Earlier, on November 14, Madhubani police had issued a press release about the arrest of six accused, including a woman, in the murder case. According to press release, the victim, son of Dayanand Jha, youngest among three siblings, had disappeared on November 9. His elder brother Chandra Shekhar Jha lodged an FIR at Benipatti police station on November 10. Avinash’s partially burnt body was recovered from Urain village under the same police station on November 12.Police have arrested Purnkala Devi, along with five others, identified as Roshan Kumar Sah, (23), Bittu Kumar Pandit (20), Dipak Kumar Pandit (24) and Manish Kumar (21). The press release, however, was completely silent on the “motive” behind the crime. Superintendent of police Satyaprakash did not answer calls. Later, his staff member called back saying he was “out in field” and couldn’t be contacted immediately.“My brother had filed many RTI applications against these illegal and unauthorised clinics and hospitals and healthcare establishments in his area running without licence,” said Avinash’s eldest brother Trilok Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madhubani-journo-killing-two-nursing-homes-get-closure-notice-101637078132639.html
16-11-2021||Ranchi||An ocean of info with us after Maoist Kishan Da’s arrest: J’khand DGP||It would take months to study and analyse the information obtained during interrogation of dreaded Maoist Prashant Bose, Jharkhand director general of police Neeraj Sinha said on Tuesday, even as security agencies from other states also joined the questioning here. Bose alias Kishan Da was arrested last week along with his four associates from Saraikela-Kharsawan district. “The volume of information we have following his arrest is like an ocean that would take months to study and analyse. Currently, we are doing physical interrogation after taking him on remand on Monday. Officers from other states have also joined the interrogation. Once we are done with it, we plan to deploy around 100 of our men across hierarchies to study and analyse the set of information that we already have with us,” DGP Sinha said on Tuesday. However, the state police chief refused to share the source of the information they have, including those in the lone pen drive and the two SD cards they have shown in the seizure list as part of recovery from the arrested Maoist. Bose, a member of the CPI (Maoists) Politburo, his wife Sheela Marandi, herself a member of the central committee, and their four other accomplices were arrested on November 12 from Giddibera toll plaza under Kandra police station limits when they were paying toll fee for the white SUV they were travelling in as they did not have a Fastag facility. Sources said septuagenarian Bose, who now has difficulty in walking, was on his way to attend a high profile meeting of the Maoists in the forest area under Tonto police station in West Singhbhum district. A top official, who is part of the anti-Naxal operations in the state, said the arrest was done after specific inputs from the intelligence bureau (IB) about his movement from the Parasnath area in Giridih district in North Chhotanagpur to Saranda area in the Kolhan division. “A dedicated team of IB had been tracking his movement for the past 4-5 months. On November 12, his movement was being tracked from 4 am until 11 am when he was arrested. An active mobile on that vehicle helped in tracking his movement,” the officer said. With their top ideologue landing in the police net, the CPI (Maoists) has called for Bharat Bandh on November 20, besides observing “Pratirodh Diwas” from November 15 to 19. DGP Sinha said all districts have been put on high alert in wake of the call given by the Maoists. “Retaliation is not unexpected as their biggest living ideologue is in our net. We have made all preparations to meet any eventuality,” added Sinha..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/an-ocean-of-info-with-us-after-maoist-kishan-da-s-arrest-j-khand-dgp-101637078131356.html
16-11-2021||Other||Purnia leader’s killing: Police claim key leads, minister denies charge||Police have claimed vital leads in CCTV footages in connection with the last week’s murder of a Purnia leader in which Bihar’s food and consumer protection minister Leshi Singh has been named as one of the five accused.The minister, who is JD(U) MLA from Dhamdaha assembly constituency in Purnia district, has dismissed the charge.Vishwajeet Singh alias Rintu Singh, former member of Purnia district board, was shot dead on November 12 at his native village Sarsi, 40 km from district headquarters town of Purnia. The next day, his wife Anulika Singh, who was elected as district board member in the ongoing panchayat polls, filed an FIR (first information report) on Saturday, naming the minister, her nephew Ashish Singh alias Athiya and one Sudesh Singh as accused. The other two accused are yet to be identified. Banmankhi subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Kripa Shankar Azad, who is leading the probe, said, “We have got a CCTV footage which gives us a clear clue about the incident. We are carrying out raids not only in Purnia, but also in several districts including Araria, Katihar and Bhagalpur, to nab the accused.” Reacting to the charge, the minister said, “I am ready to face investigation. This is nothing but to malign my political image.” On the other hand, Anulika Singh has demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “The minister is quite influential and the police can’t act with honesty and integrity,” she said.Meanwhile, police have pasted notices for property attachment on the houses of the two named accused, declaring them absconders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purnia-leader-s-killing-police-claim-key-leads-minister-denies-charge-101637078129198.html
16-11-2021||Patna||Bihar prohibition meeting: No concrete plan except ‘strict action’ warning||A special meeting convened by chief minister Nitish Kumar to review liquor prohibition in Bihar in the wake of hooch tragedies in the state lasted seven hours on Tuesday, but could not come out with any solid proposal to prevent such tragedies, officials familiar with the matter said.“To ensure involvement of ministers and secretaries in-charge of districts, they have been asked to hold a monthly meeting to take stock of the situation,” additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad said, while briefing media persons about the outcome of the meeting. “Strong action will be taken against any government employee if his involvement in liquor trade is established,” he said.“The meeting also stressed the need of sealing the border and subsidiary routes if the liquor smuggling continues and keep a special vigil on liquor being smuggled from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal,” said Prasad.The need to strengthen intelligence network was also emphasised with help of chowkidars/dafadars. “They would be the primary informer and any laxity on their part would invite strict action,” said the additional chief secretary (home).“Station house officers would be debarred from a posting at a police station for 10 years if any complaint is received against them. The in-charge of police station would be suspended if proof of their direct involvement is found,” said director general of police (DGP) S K Singhal.The DGP said special drive against home delivery of liquor would be launched in the state capital district and police stations have been instructed to identify the places and people involved in it. He said that the police headquarters would monitor the situation every second day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-prohibition-meeting-no-concrete-plan-except-strict-action-warning-101637078069020.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||#ShaadiSeason: Delhi to have 8000 weddings on November 21||Shaadi season in Delhi is back and how! With comparatively low number of Covid cases in the city and the guest list being capped at 200 people now, heavy saaya dates have been booked solid. While the latter part of November will see a lot of weddings in the Capital, November 21 has emerged as the day when there are nearly 8000 weddings in Delhi. “November 18-20 are totally booked for functions with the weddings being on November 21. In fact, the venues were all booked for this day since October itself,” says wedding planner Sumathy Bachchan while another wedding planner Chinmayi Jain adds, “November 21 is the most auspicious day of the year. I have five weddings booked on this day and I also have my friend’s wedding to attend in Delhi as well. So things will need to be figured out...We stopped taking more orders for that day last month itself.”Anil Thadani from Jea Band says that he has had to book more weddings than what they usually do every year. “In Delhi, there are about 7000-8000 weddings approximately on that day. Every year, even if it’s a heavy saaya day, we don’t book more than six to seven weddings, but this year we have booked 10 weddings. Some of these weddings is of people who booked with us earlier but their weddings were delayed due to Covid restrictions. People are also scared of the third wave and want to finish getting married before cases go up. Sabko abhi hi karni hai shaadi, ki third wave aa gayi toh kya karenge,” he says.Anam Zubair from WeddingWire India, a virtual marketplace that connects vendors with customers, says that booking a decent venue is becoming quite tricky. “Couples are having a hard time booking a decent venue at that date. Most of the preferable venues are already pre-booked for half or whole day. It is becoming quite challenging for vendors too because the demand is rising rapidly.Swati Chirpal, a wedding planner adds, “Hotels have divided their venues to accommodate as many weddings as they can on November 21. People are sticking to the 200-250 guest limit, but other than that, nothing has changed. People want to go all out. It’s challenging for wedding planners also as we like to be personally present at the weddings and this is why I don’t prefer taking on too many weddings on the same day. This year, we are actually having to refuse customers who want to book on November 21.”Pandits are also facing an issue in trying to divide their time on November 21. “Saaya bahut bhaari hai aur humein bhi 3-4 shaadiyon mein jaana hoga. Jinki shaadi hai, unke parivaar wale hi humein pick aur drop karenge. Aaj kal sab prefer karte hai ki shaadi jaldi ho jaye, toh uske hisaab se dekhna padhega,” says a wedding pandit, RK Pandey from Shalimar Bagh. Sushma Arora, a homemaker from Delhi says that they made sure that everything was booked well in advance for her son’s wedding on November 21. “Humne toh venue August mein ho finalise aur book kar leeya tha. Iss din saaya bhaari hai aur bahut saari shaadhiyan hai Delhi mein. Aise mein, we wanted to be very sure of getting the place we wanted,” she says.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shaadiseason-delhi-to-have-8000-weddings-on-november-21-101637077535204.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||UP govt plans sector-wise industrialisation in 12 districts along Purvanchal Expressway||LUCKNOW With the formal opening of the 341-km-long expressway on Tuesday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Uttar Pradesh government’s next focus would be rapid industrialisation along this expressway. The government has selected 12 districts along this expressway where region specific industries will be promoted. These units will be specific to that region/district to ensure overall development of the region, said a senior official of the state government. Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Ghazipur, Mau, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Ballia and Sant Kabir Nagar districts have been identified for the Purvanchal Expressway Industrial Corridor project. The government has also decided to set up industrial parks along the expressway as part of its policy to bring up industrial parks along all e-ways. Being a land-locked state, transportation has been a major challenge for entrepreneurs investing in Uttar Pradesh. This is a major reason that the government is now preparing to develop industrial parks on the sides of expressways. “Investors have been demanding to set up industrial units along the expressways as this will provide proper connectivity to industries,” said Manmohan Agarwal, senior vice-president, Indian Industries Association (IIA). BARABANKI Food products, wood products, pharmaceuticals, electrical equipment AMETHI Food products SULTANPUR Food products JAUNPUR Textiles, non-metallic mineral products, fabricated metal products except machinery and equipment AZAMGARH Food products GHAZIPUR Food products, beverages, chemicals and electrical products MAU Food products, textiles and other non-metallic mineral products AYODHYA Food products, beverages, textiles and other non-metallic mineral products, fabricated metal products GORAKHPUR Food products, textiles, wood products, coke and refined petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, basic metals, fabricated metal products, medical and dental instruments AMBEDKAR NAGAR Food products, textiles, other non-metallic mineral products BALLIA Food products SANT KABIR NAGAR Food products INDUSTRIAL PARKS TO COME UP HEREHargaon village, Firozabad (Agra-Lucknow Expressway) Buhana village (connecting Agra-Lucknow Expressway and Yamuna Expressway) Pohara village, Chitrakoot (Bundelkhand Expressway) Bara village, Barabanki (Purvanchal Expressway) Mohabbatpur (Mainpuri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-plans-sector-wise-industrialisation-in-12-districts-along-purvanchal-expressway-101637075489054.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan railway pointsman saves man by pulling him up between train and platform||A pointsman attached to the Kalyan railway station saved the life of a 40-year-old man who was trying to board the moving Howrah-Mumbai special train and slipped through the gap between the platform and the footboard.The pointsman pulled him up and saved his life on November 14, the video of which went viral on Tuesday.According to the railway officials, the incident occurred at 11.54am when a passenger, descending the steps, saw that the Howrah-Mumbai Express was leaving the platform. He wanted to board the train and started running towards it and tried to grab the nearest door. In doing so, he slipped in the gap. Railway pointsman Shivji Singh saw the passenger and immediately ran behind him and pulled him out. Meanwhile, some passengers inside the train pulled the emergency chain to bring the train to a halt.A Kalyan railway officer said, “The train was slow. The man lost his balance and couldn’t step on the footboard. Some passengers in the train pulled the chain and the pointsman ran behind him to pull him out. We are urging people not to alight or board a running train.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-railway-pointsman-saves-man-by-pulling-him-up-between-train-and-platform-101637075010361.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Pollution levels shoot up further in Mumbai, AQI at 269||A day after air pollution levels touched a season high of 245 on the air quality index (AQI), pollution levels shot up further on Tuesday, peaking at 280 in the morning, and then dropping slightly to settle at an index value of 269 by evening. An AQI of 269 falls in the “poor” category, which, as per the Central Pollution Control Board, can cause “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.”This is as per data from the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) network of 10 monitoring locations across the city.Gufran Beig, meteorologist and project director, SAFAR, explained that a buildup of moisture in the city has allowed the air to retain a larger quantum of particulate matter pollutants, like PM2.5 and PM10, pushing up the AQI in almost all monitoring locations. According to IQ Air, a Swiss air quality technology and monitoring company, Mumbai’s air quality on Tuesday evening made it the seventh most polluted city across major cities globally. Delhi was the second worst, while Kolkata came in at number 10. IQ Air follows more stringent air quality guidelines laid down by the United States of America’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), as per which the AQI of all three Indian cities fell in the “unhealthy” category.Experts attributed the spike in pollution — particularly particulate matter (PM) — over the past two days to an incursion of moisture after the formation of a low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea off Maharashtra’s coast. Air quality had also dipped to the “poor” category this month on November 5, a day after Diwali, when the AQI touched 215. However, the overall AQI as presented by SAFAR is an average of its city-wide network, which shows significant geographic variation.Colaba continued to register the city’s most polluted air with an AQI of 370 on Tuesday evening (up from 345 on Monday). This was in the “very poor” category, which, as per the CPCB can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.” Other locations with “very poor” air on Tuesday included Mazagaon at 331 (up from 325 on Monday) and Malad with an index value of 327 (up from 306 on Monday). “Very poor” air persisted in Bandra-Kurla Complex which recorded an AQI of 311 (314 on Monday).Only Andheri registered a significant improvement in air quality, with a "moderate” AQI of 183 (down from a “poor” reading of 259 on Monday). Meanwhile Chembur (183), Borivli (159), Worli (142), Bhandup (125) and Navi Mumbai (183) all recorded “moderate” air on Tuesday, with slight deteriorations from Monday. “Moderate” air quality can cause “breathing discomfort to people with lung disease such as asthma, and discomfort to people with heart disease, children and older adults,” as per the CPCB’s health advisory.“Because of the low-pressure area, moisture laden winds have started blowing over the city, pushing up the humidity levels. When this happens, the air becomes heavier and is able to hold pollutants, especially PM2.5 and PM10, to a greater capacity. This is why haze has accumulated over some parts of the city. Locations with higher AQI are very likely also more humid, such as in south Mumbai. At the moment, winds are not strong enough to disperse this haze but there may be some relief tomorrow due to rains,” Beig said, pointing out that parts of the South Konkan and adjacent area, including Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri coast have already begun receiving thunderstorms as of Tuesday evening.Rising humidity levels have also coincided with an uptick in temperature over the past week, with Tuesday’s daytime maximum settling at 35.7 degrees Celsius (two degrees above normal), up from 35.2 degrees Celsius a day prior. This was after maximum daytime temperature dropped to a monthly low of 32.8 degrees Celsius on November 7. Mornings in the city have also been getting warmer, with Tuesday’s minimum nighttime temperature settling at 25.4 degrees Celsius — four degrees more than normal — up from 24.4 degrees Celsius a day prior. On November 11, the minimum temperature was 19.8 degrees Celsius. Both maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to remain above normal till Friday, as per IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai. “We were expecting it to rain in Mumbai on Tuesday, but the influence of the low-pressure area is being felt more in south Maharashtra. Northern Raigad, Mumbai and parts of interior Thane will get rains either Tuesday night or Wednesday. There is a likelihood of thunderstorms continuing till early Friday,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.The highest daytime maximum temperature recorded this month in Mumbai was on November 14, when the mercury touched 36.6 degrees Celsius. Last year, the highest temperature recorded in November was 36 degrees Celsius (on November 15 and 18).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pollution-levels-shoot-up-further-in-mumbai-aqi-at-269-101637074108711.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Previous govts reduced eastern UP to poverty, mafia rule: PM||LUCKNOW Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday accused the previous Uttar Pradesh governments of letting poverty and mafia take over the state’s eastern part, saying the BJP government was now writing a new chapter of development there.Modi was addressing a rally near Kurebhar area of Sultanpur district on Tuesday after inaugurating the 341-km Purvanchal Expressway, where he landed in a C-130J Super Hercules aircraft on a 3.2-km stretch developed as an emergency airstrip for the Indian Air Force. He also witnessed an airshow on the airstrip.The expressway links Lucknow with Ghazipur and has been constructed at an estimated cost of ₹22,500 crore. It starts from village Chaudsarai in Lucknow on Lucknow-Sultanpur road (NH-731) and ends in Hydaria village located on National Highway number 31, 18 km east of the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border.Terming the Purvanchal expressway as a symbol of new UP and its progress, he said it would bridge the gap between the development of western and eastern UP. The PM invoked Lord Hanuman and lauded the contribution of the people of the district in the freedom struggle.“I bow to the people of the land on which Lord Hanuman killed Kalanemi. In the 1857 struggle, the people of the area fought the British. The land carries the fragrance of the independence struggle. And today, the holy land is getting the gift of Purvancahl Expressway,” he said.Development was limited to places where the previous chief ministers had their homes or families, Modi said while not naming the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party or the Congress, which the ruling BJP faces in the assembly polls just months away.“The previous governments reduced the vital eastern part of the state to ‘mafiawaad’ and poverty, but the BJP government is now writing a new chapter of development,” he said. “The government, which was in power in UP before the BJP government, did not assist me. The then CM did not share dais with me fearing that his vote bank will get angry. The governments before the Yogi government were unfair to people, neglected development of the state and focused on the well being of their family. The people of UP removed them from power. They gave a big mandate to Yogi and Modi in 2017 and 2019 to serve them,” he said.“In UP, we have seen a long period of governments who showed dreams of industrialization without worrying about connectivity. As a result, many factories located here were shut due to lack of infrastructure. It was also unfortunate that both Delhi and Lucknow were dominated by the dynasts. For years, this partnership of family members kept crushing the aspirations of Uttar Pradesh,” he said.Modi emphasised that the BJP’s “double engine government” was working for the welfare of people and development of the state. “Along with running old industries, it is creating an environment for new investments,” he said. “When I laid the foundation stone of the Purvanchal Expressway three years back, I had never thought that I will land here on an aircraft one day,” added the PM. The airstrip on the highway is meant to facilitate landings and take-offs of Air Force jets during emergencies.Accusing the previous governments of “ignoring” defence infrastructure, the PM said that the country’s security was as important as its prosperity.“The emergency landing facility for aircraft on the expressway is a symbol of strength for the Indian Air Force. It’s a message to those who neglected defence infrastructure of the country,” he said.The PM said after seeing the development in UP one can say that he destiny of the state was set to change. “Who can forget regular power cuts earlier, deterioration in law and order, lack of medical facilities and loot incidents. Now, those who committed loot are in jail and new roads are being constructed across the state,” he added.“In the last seven years, villages in eastern and western UP have been connected with roads. The dream of UP’s development is being fulfilled. New medical colleges, AIIMS, modern educational institutions and airports have also been constructed,” he said.The PM said the Yogi government was working with the ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ mantra without any discrimination. “The industrial corridor is being developed along the expressway and 21 spots have been selected for the purpose,” he said. Lauding the Covid vaccination drive, Modi said UP had achieved the 14-crore vaccination milestone, making it the leading state in vaccination. “People ignored political misinformation and conspiracy over the Covid vaccine manufactured in the country. My government is working hard for the development of UP. Women have benefitted most under the BJP government –they have got pucca houses, power supply, cooking gas, toilets, piped drinking water supply, better health facilities under Ayushman Bharat scheme,” emphasised the PM.The event ended with an air show performed by Mirage, Jaguar, Sukhoi and An-32 aircraft, before the Prime Minister headed back to Delhi on the C-130 Hercules, which had brought him here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/previous-govts-reduced-eastern-up-to-poverty-mafia-rule-pm-101637073688819.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Mathadis protest against unloading bags heavier than 50kg at APMC market in Navi Mumbai||The mathadis (headloaders), who have been protesting for the past 15 months against unloading bags of more than 50kg, went on strike again on Tuesday at the APMC wholesale onion-potato market.They had earlier protested in February.The mathadis refused to unload bags weighing more than 50kg and threatened to intensify their agitation if their demands were not met immediately.Mathadi leader Narendra Patil said, “The mathadis have been taken for a ride for the past several months. Despite the central government issuing orders restricting the weight of the bags to 50kg, the traders continue to get the mathadis to unload heavier bags.“This is exploitation of the mathadis and we will no longer tolerate it. If the situation is not corrected, tomorrow we will have mathadis from all the APMC markets converge at the APMC administrative office and take over the cabins of the officials.”APMC director and trader, Ashok Walunj, said, “We have repeatedly asked our suppliers to not send more than 50kg bags. There are just a few overweight bags that come at times and we will ensure that they too are stopped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mathadis-protest-against-unloading-bags-heavier-than-50kg-at-apmc-market-in-navi-mumbai-101637073450054.html
16-11-2021||Other||CMs of Assam, Meghalaya reiterate commitment to resolve boundary disputes amicably||The chief ministers of Assam and Meghalaya on Tuesday reiterated their commitment to resolve the long-pending boundary disputes between both states amicably. Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma stated this following a joint inspection of Langpih, one of the 12 border points of contention, between both states on Tuesday. The two northeastern states are planning to address 6 of the 12 points first before moving on to the rest. Addressing a press conference in Guwahati later, the CMs stated that they have asked the three regional committees, formed to look at each of the 6 border points, to submit their reports on or before November 30 this year. Out the 12 disputed areas, the 6 which will be taken up first for resolution are Tarabari, Gizang, Hahim, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilangkata and Ratacherra. The areas fall in Kamrup, Kamrup (Metropolitan) and Cachar districts of Assam and West Khasi Hills, Ri Bhoi and East Jaintia Hills districts of Meghalaya. “Till date, the committees formed by both states have visited 5 of the 6 disputed sites together. Today, with the consent of Meghalaya CM, we have decided that by November 30 all the three committees shall submit their reports to their respective CMs,” said Sarma. Once the reports are received, both states will consult with stakeholders one more time. After that is done, both states have agreed to issue a final statement on the 6 disputed sites most likely by December 31. Sarma mentioned that Langpih is not part of the 6 points of disputes which both states hope to resolve in the first stage. But the CMs visited the site on Tuesday to demonstrate that even in areas where the disputes are more complex there is a will by both state governments to address them. “We are trying to define which village or area in the 6 sites falls under which state. Redrawing the boundaries of both states will require the intervention of the Union home ministry and Parliament but first, we are focussing or arriving at a consensus on the boundaries. We are trying to create history,” Sangma said. Meghalaya was carved out of Assam in 1972. Over the years, differences started cropping up regarding the boundary and sometimes resulted in skirmishes between the various communities inhabiting the border areas. Both states share a 733 kilometre-long boundary. Before Tuesday, both Sarma and Sangma met twice - in July and August - this year in Shillong and Guwahati where modalities of resolving the disputes through the formation of regional committees were agreed upon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cms-of-assam-meghalaya-reiterate-commitment-to-resolve-boundary-disputes-amicably-101637072968910.html
16-11-2021||Pune||NDA pays homage to late Col Viplay Tripathi||Pune: A wreath laying ceremony was held at the Hut of Remembrance, National Defence Academy (NDA), on Tuesday in honour of late Colonel Viplav Tripathi, who was killed in a militant ambush in Churachandpur district of Manipur. The commanding officer (CO) of 46 Assam Rifles (Khuga Battalion), Col Viplav Tripathi, his family and four Quick Reaction team (QRT) were killed in the attack on Saturday morning. Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor, Commandant, NDA paid homage to the braveheart in a solemn ceremony on behalf of the NDA fraternity. Officials of the academy and representatives of 102 Course NDA were present. Col Viplav Tripathi was an alumnus of 102 NDA Course, M Squadron and passed out in May 2002. After passing out from the Indian Military Academy (IMA), he was commissioned in the 2 Kumaon regiment of the Indian Army. His name gets inscribed in golden letters with full military honours in the Hut of Remembrance to inspire future generations of NDA cadets. The Hut of Remembrance at NDA is a cenotaph that commemorates the sacrifice of former NDA officers of the Armed Forces who laid down their lives in line of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nda-pays-homage-to-late-col-viplay-tripathi-101637072908694.html
16-11-2021||Bangalore||Actor Puneeth Rajkumar to be conferred with Karnataka Ratna award posthumously||Karnataka government has decided to honour late Puneeth Rajkumar with the Karnataka Ratna award posthumously, said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday."State Government has decided to honour late Puneeth Rajkumar with Karnataka Ratna award posthumously," Bommai said while addressing a condolence event organised at Palace Ground in Bengaluru.Puneeth Rajkumar breathed his last on October 29. Colloquially known as Appu, he was an actor, playback singer, television presenter, and producer. He died of cardiac arrest at the age of 46.Earlier, Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar had urged the chief minister to recommend the name of Puneeth Rajkumar for Padma Shri and consider the star for Karnataka Ratna."I request the CM to consider late actor Puneeth Rajkumar for Padma Shri, Karnataka Ratna and name an important name after him for people to remember him every day," Shivakumar had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/actor-puneeth-rajkumar-to-be-conferred-with-karnataka-ratna-award-posthumously-101637071692685.html
16-11-2021||Jaipur||Gold worth ₹75 lakh found hidden under passenger seat on AI flight from Dubai||Gold bars worth at least ₹75 lakh were found hidden under a passenger seat of an Air India flight that landed at the Jaipur International Airport from Dubai on Tuesday.A passenger was detained by customs officials and two gold bars weighing about 1,500 grams were seized from his seat.Officials conducted a search on the Air India aircraft AI 942 after receiving intelligence inputs on the same, assistant commissioner of customs department BB Atal informed. The gold bars were found concealed under the cushion of the passenger's seat.During interrogation, the accused passenger revealed that the gold kept in the aircraft was to be collected by an airline staff not known to him, the commissioner said.Meanwhile, Jaipur airport authorities said that the role of ground staff is under examination.They were 99.50% pure and the value was estimated to be around ₹75.9 lakh. The gold has been seized under Section 1962 of the Customs Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gold-worth-rs-75-lakh-found-hidden-under-passenger-seat-on-ai-flight-from-dubai-101637066881952.html
16-11-2021||Pune||Pune district sees 195 new Covid cases, 5 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: As of Tuesday, Pune district has reported 195 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,998 deaths and 2,839 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 39,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 66 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 366,750 and the death toll stood at 6,936 as two more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 96 new virus cases which took the progressive count to 522,019 and the death toll stood at 9,206 as one more death was reported. PCMC reported 33 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 269,257 and the toll stood at 3,507 as two more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 39,754 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 12,490,109. Of which 7,942,286 are first doses and 4,547,823 are second doses. A total of 649 sites saw vaccination of which 503 were government centres and 146 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-195-new-covid-cases-5-deaths-in-24-hours-101637070388543.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Committed to providing medical insurance to retired Air India staffers: Scindia tells Sena MP||In what could be a relief for thousands of retired Air India employees, the civil aviation ministry said that it is “committed” to providing medical insurance to retired personnel and that the matter would be ironed out after a discussion with the Union ministry of health.The assurance was given by civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia to Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Priyanka Chaturvedi, who had written to the civil aviation minister on October 20 asking for mediclaim insurance for retired Air India employees, including pilots, cabin crew, engineers, catering staff etc.The Sena MP, in the letter, said, that many retired employees, who had “devoted years of their lives to Air India are left without any concrete medical support”. “It saddens me to know that the retired employees do not have insurance benefits. With the divestment of Air India, this issue becomes more acute,” she wrote.Scindia, in a response to the MP on November 12, said that the government is “committed” to providing medical benefits. “I have had the matter examined. I would like to inform you that the government is fully aware and committed to providing medical facilities to the retired employees of Air India. Modalities for the same are being worked out in consultation with the ministry of health and family welfare,” Scindia responded.Reacting to the minister’s response, Chaturvedi tweeted that she was “heartened and happy to hear” from the minister that the civil aviation ministry and the health ministry are “working to resolve this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/committed-to-providing-medical-insurance-to-retired-air-india-staffers-scindia-tells-sena-mp-101637070028556.html
16-11-2021||Ranchi||CRPF jawan, 2 others held in Jharkhand for supplying ammunition to Maoists, organised gangs||Three persons, including a CRPF jawan, have been arrested by the Jharkhand anti-terrorism squad (ATS) for allegedly supplying ammunition to outlawed CPI (Maoists) and organised criminal gangs in the state, police said on Tuesday.The three include 29-year-old Avinash Kumar, currently posted with CRPF 18 BN stationed in Pulwama, besides his two associates, Rishi Kumar (49) and Pankaj Kumar Singh (48), police said.Prashant Anand, superintendent of police, ATS, said while Avinash and Rishi were arrested from Patna and Gaya in Bihar with the help of Bihar STF, Pankaj Singh was arrested from Ranchi. Based on their information, police have recovered 450 ammunition of 5.6mm which is used in Insas rifles.“We are verifying the source of these ammunitions including if they have been pilfered from stock meant for any security force. Avinash had joined the CRPF in 2011 and was posted in Pulwama since 2017. However, he was absent from duty for the past four months. We are verifying whether he has been absent due to any misconduct there,” added Anand.While all three accused belong to Bihar, Pankaj currently lives in Bhuli area in Dhanbad. On their having any terror links, the officer said they are yet to establish anything on that front.“Prima facie it appears the gang is in the trade to make quick money. They have confessed to having supplied over 1000 rounds in the past as well. They were in touch with the gangsters who are in jail using social media platforms like WhatsApp and Telegram. We have formed an SIT led by a deputy SP to work on the case further,” said Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/crpf-jawan-2-others-held-in-jharkhand-for-supplying-ammunition-to-maoists-organised-gangs-101637069909380.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fighting indifference to make a difference||We waited for three days, hoping someone would take notice of the leaking tap in the playground. Its valve had become defunct and the precious liquid was flowing out incessantly. Athletes and their coaches strive hard day in and day out to make a mark in the playground of the college. The adjoining lush football ground invites an enviable footfall every morning. But somehow no one seemed to notice the 24×7 leakage of the tap in one corner of the ground. Constant wastage of water for the past few days had flooded a corner of the ground to turn it into a swamp. My friend and I are avid morning walkers. We spent the next day or two, trying to stop the flow of water by plugging the spout with twigs, tying the faulty valve with a piece of cloth and pressing the stopcock by keeping a brick over it, but to no avail. The continuous running of the tap led to waterlogging of almost one-third of the ground. Players and coaches chose to restrict their area of activity rather than spring to action to fix the defective tap. We decided to inform the security men at the gate. “Sir, do you have the required permission for morning walk in the college campus?” one of them countered. While examining our ‘morning-walk cards’, the man in-charge was ready with his next query, “Why did you enter the playground? Only players and athletes are allowed there. You come here for a walk, so stick to the pavement or road. Regarding the tap, we’ll see what needs to be done.” Dejected, we waited for two more days for remedial action but nothing happened. We decided to meet the works manager of the college. He assured us of a quick redressal but even 10 days later, nothing happened to prevent the wastage of water. Google, the panacea of all ills, was consulted to find an email ID or phone number of the college to lodge a complaint. All phone numbers on the college website were out of order. Whenever, we tried to contact the college authorities via email, all links led us to select the courses of our choice and pay the fee with a single click. One of our friends suggested to click the picture of the running water and share it on social media. His suggestion did not find favour with us. We decided to get the tap repaired instead of circulating its photo. Now, the next challenge was to bring the plumber and his tools to the ground without the security guards getting wind of our plan. A young plumber was selected and I lent him my tracksuit and sports shoes so that he could pass off as an enthusiastic jogger. It being the rainy season, I concealed the ranch, stopcock valve and thread in my folded umbrella to smuggle them to the manmade wetland. It took a few minutes to repair the faulty tap that had led to the wastage of thousands of litres of water in a fortnight. A small step in the right direction called for a treat. What better way to celebrate than eating samosas along with piping hot tea at the stall opposite the campus on a rainy morning. rajivsharma.rs201067@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fighting-indifference-to-make-a-difference-101637069788444.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Sheena Bora murder case: Bombay HC rejects bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday dismissed the bail plea of Indrani Mukerjea, who is being prosecuted for allegedly murdering her daughter Sheena Bora.A single-judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre rejected Indrani’s plea on merits. Though the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court – which is trying her along with her ex-husbands Peter Mukerjea and Sanjeev Khanna, and driver Shyamvar Rai for Bora’s murder – had rejected her bail applications multiple times, this was Indrani’s first attempt to seek bail from high court on merits.According to CBI, on April 24, 2012, Indrani, Khanna and Rai allegedly strangulated Sheena and later disposed of her body in a forested area near Gagode village of Raigad district.The murder came to light in August 2015 when Khar police arrested Rai, purportedly while he was attempting to dispose of an illegal firearm. After Rai revealed the murder to the police on August 25, 2015, Indrani was arrested and has since been lodged in the Byculla women’s jail. Khanna was arrested after she revealed his alleged involvement in the commission of the crime.Peter Mukerjea was arrested on November 19, 2015, after the case was transferred to CBI, which claimed that the former media baron, too, was a part of the conspiracy to eliminate Bora. Justice Sambre had granted bail to Peter Mukerjea last year on February 6.Meanwhile, the Mumbai sessions court also rejected Indrani’s anticipatory bail application in connection with a case registered by Nagpada police station for rioting inside Byculla women’s jail after the prison guards allegedly assaulted a murder accused, Manjula Shetye, to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sheena-bora-murder-case-bombay-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-indrani-mukerjea-101637067448359.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC jatha to visit Kartarpur to celebrate parkash purb||AMRITSARHailing the Centre’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor on November 17 for parkash purb of Guru Nanak, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday decided to send a “jatha” to Darbar Sahib Gurdwara in Kartarpur.The “jatha”, which will pay obeisance at the gurdwara on November 19, will be led by the gurdwara body’s chief Bibi Jagir Kaur. It will also include a “ragi jatha” (group of Gurbani singers) and other members of the gurdwara body. The SGPC has also appealed to the Sikh sangat to take part in the “jatha” to celebrate Guru Nanak’s 552nd birth anniversary at Kartarpur Sahib.Earlier in the day, Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted that the corridor will be reopened from tomorrow (Wednesday), two days before the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, saying the decision will benefit a large number of Sikh pilgrims. “I thank the Prime Minister, home minister, foreign minister and the other cabinet ministers who have taken the decision in favour of the aspirations of the Sikh sangat,” Jagir Kaur said.“As soon as we came to know about the reopening of the corridor, we requested the manager of gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan to start akhand paath (continual recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) from the SGPC in view of the Gurpurb,” she said.“We expect 1,500 pilgrims will be allowed to visit Kartarpur Sahib through the corridor on Gurpurb. The SGPC will expenses of Sikhs who wish to visit the historic shrine, the SGPC chief added.Kaur said another SGPC “jatha” of 855 pilgrims was scheduled to visit Nankana Sahib via the Attari-Wagah brder on November 17 to celebrate the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. Of the 179 historic gurdwaras that came under Pakistan’s jurisdiction after Partition, only 10-12 are open for want of pilgrims, Kaur said, urging the Indian government to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-jatha-to-visit-kartarpur-to-celebrate-parkash-purb-101637066488392.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||AAP accuses MCD of 'corruption'; claims BJP on its way out||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Member of Legislature (MLA) Atishi accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) of “corruption” by not auctioning off five prime parking locations and taking them out of the e-tender process, alleging that it will lead to the loss of funds for an already cash-starved MCD.“MCD said that we will allot these parkings to those who have been handling it till now and at a minimum price,” Atishi read off a corrigendum at the press conference on Tuesday.Atishi alleged that if the parking lots in Mansarovar Garden, Ajmal Khan Road, Karol Bagh, Shastri Park, MCD primary school Pusa Road had been auctioned MCD would have earned more than four times the 17 lakhs it is getting now by allotting it without any auction.“MCD is experiencing a shortage of funds because all three MCDS are corrupt.” Atishi claimed, adding that “This is that MCD which is unable to pay its teachers, doctors, and when they will protest MCD will say Delhi government did not pay us hence we cannot pay you”.“This is a loss for the government’s treasury, for MCD’s teachers, doctors, nurses, safai karamcharis because when MCD is unable to earn money from auctions and advertisement property tax and it goes into the pockets of BJP leaders and politicians MCD is unable to pay their salaries,” she stated.Atishi hit out at BJP for not providing any reason for taking the parking spaces out of the auction process, alleging that “because their time at MCD is about to be over and once they lose the elections next year they will not be able to continue with their practises.”Atishi also criticised the Centre for “misleading” the Supreme Court over the stubble burning issue, claiming it is the reason for the apex court questioning what the Delhi government has done to curb pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-mcd-of-corruption-claims-bjp-on-its-way-out-101637065302474.html
16-11-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Support culture of road safety in society||PUNE The World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims is observed later this week on November 21, 2021. Let’s take a moment to think about all the people who lost their lives and those seriously injured in road crashes. Today’s column is in their memory.Road traffic injuries present a colossal cost to humanity, as it is the leading cause of death among people aged 5-29 years. Children, women, the elderly, and the disabled are more likely to be pedestrians and are the most vulnerable road users.The United Nations General Assembly has proclaimed 2021-2030 as the Second Decade of Action for Road Safety with a target to reduce road traffic deaths and injuries by 50% by 2030.From victim blaming to “safe systems”Often, there is a tendency to blame the victims and drivers. In news reports of accidents, we read “a case of rash and negligent driving was registered”, or pedestrians are blamed for “crossing in the middle of traffic.”However, road safety experts for many years now have been advocating the “safe systems approach.” It advocates that safety must be at the core of road transport systems. The approach anticipates and accommodates human errors. It includes road and vehicle design to prevent death or serious injury.Those who design and maintain the roads, manufacture vehicles, enforce road safety rules and administer safety programmes share responsibility for safety with road users. Factors such as cost or the desire for faster transport should not compromise safety. In fact, lower speeds can prevent many deaths and serious injuries, especially among pedestrians, without significantly adding to travel times.To bring down road accidents in Pune, solutions need to be jointly developed and implemented by the city and transport planning agencies, road departments and highway authorities, traffic police, regional transport office (RTO), and public transport agencies.Multi-modal transportSafe public transport and safe walking and cycling are key elements of road safety within the mandate of local authorities. The road department needs to adequately provide for these modes in street design and encourage road management for the safety of all. The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) efforts to improve footpaths and the upcoming Pune Pedestrians’ Day on December 11 are noteworthy and something to look forward to.A similar focus is needed for cycle tracks. In Pune, after cycle tracks were made, we found motorised two-wheelers were using them. Bollards were added to prevent such misuse. Some of us spent several hours measuring just how wide the gap should be to allow a cyclist but prevent a scooter or motorcycle. Now, most of the cycle tracks have a forest of bollards but hardly any cyclists. The cure – if you can call it that – has proved worse than the disease, and the cycle tracks remain unusable. Perhaps it is time to accept that the design has not worked out.We will need to continue to evolve cycling infrastructure design and management. Perhaps car and bike drivers who found a new interest in cycling due to the Covid-19 lockdowns are more sensitive to cyclists’ needs now. However, a systemic solution is essential, such as better enforcement to prevent motorists’ misuse of footpaths and cycle tracks and to ensure safe crossing for pedestrians and cyclists at junctions and mid-blocks. Then perhaps one day we will feel our city is safe enough for children to walk or cycle to school.How you can helpAs a driver the best policy is to stay safe – follow traffic rules, keep safe speeds, don’t drink drive, and ensure that self and passengers wear seat belts in a car and helmets on a two-wheeler. Often if you ask back-seat passengers in cars or SUVs to put on their seat belts they say, “Oh only the driver and front passenger are required to wear.” In fact, the driver and all passengers must wear seat belts to stay safe and comply with the law.When buying a two-wheeler, you are required to be provided two helmets by the dealer, for yourself and a pillion, so make sure you get them. Helmets should fit snugly and be ISI-marked. Avoid buying a spurious or second-hand helmet especially if it is dented or cracked.If you witness a crash and people are injured, immediately contact emergency services on 108 with your mobile or land phone. If an ambulance is not available, try to take the injured persons to a hospital. One need not fear getting stuck in legal processes after helping road crash victims, as India has enacted the Good Samaritan Law in 2015. Those who help victims are not liable in legal proceedings and need not even provide their name or number as per this law.In addition, we should demand road safety. We do have a great opportunity to ask for road safety to be on the political agenda in the upcoming municipal elections. It’s up to us to support a culture of road safety and care in society and each of us has a role.Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-support-culture-of-road-safety-in-society-101637063491301.html
16-11-2021||Other||BJP’s Raina calls on J&K L-G, demands security audit of minority pockets||Former Member of Legislative Council and Jammu and Kashmir BJP spokesperson Girdhari Lal Raina on Tuesday called on Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhavan and sought resolution of problems troubling the displaced community, particularly related to the security of religious minorities of Kashmir including employees recruited under PMs Package.Raina sought safe, secure and suitable residential accommodation in Kashmir under present challenging situations.“Till the time secure accommodation of minority employees is arranged, their harassment by officers must be stopped and these employees may be asked to work from home,” he stressed.Raina demanded a comprehensive security audit of pockets and transit camps inhabited by minority communities.Raina said the latest incidents of targeted killings in the valley has dealt a dreadful blow to the hopes, aspirations and composure of the minority communities. He stressed the importance of immediate effective, visible and measurable actions, including a dialogue with the community leadership for reassurance.The former MLC also demanded the establishment of temporary camps in the valley to ensure their stay in comparative safety. He further asked the LG for a comprehensive affordable and reassuring insurance scheme for all these employees as a compensatory safety measure besides a provision for risk allowance at the rate paid to local employees of the LIC in Kashmir valley.With regard to the removal of illegal encroachments, Raina opined, “A narrative is being pushed by vested interests to discredit the recent laudatory effort of the UT administration to remove illegal encroachments from the property of the displaced community. Illegitimate beneficiaries of these unlawful encroachments and unethical coercive sales are joining hands to blame this long due action for the unease in the valley. In this regard, “distress sale” under the Jammu and Kashmir Migrant Immovable Property (Preservation, Protection and Restraint on Distress Sales) Act, 1997 needs to be defined comprehensively to avoid arbitrary disposal of complaints. This will put to rest fake propaganda”.He demanded “a complete security audit of areas where religious minorities live in Kashmir including transit camps for PM package employees and an in-depth enquiry into coercive sales of land that originally belonged to KPs in 1990 but was taken away through manipulative sales and later resold to government at much higher rates”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjps-raina-calls-on-j-k-l-g-demands-security-audit-of-minority-pockets-101637063489725.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||HC extends stay on construction of cycling and jogging track around Powai lake||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday extended its stay on the construction of a cycling and jogging track around Powai Lake, in Kurla taluka, till January 31, 2022. HC had, earlier this month, imposed a stay till November 18, in a response to public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Omkar Mahadeo Supekar and Abhishek Tripathi, PhD candidates at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), alleging that the work violates the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules. On November 1, HC had restrained Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from constructing a 10-km cycling track bordering Powai lake after it was informed that such activity would violate wetlands guidelines and rules, disrupt the natural flora and fauna associated with the lake, and have an adverse impact on the habitat of Indian marsh crocodiles (a protected species) that live there. The PIL has also stated that in 2009, the Supreme Court had passed a judgement that had stressed on safeguarding wetlands and sought directions to BMC to comply with the same. However, BMC refuted these claims and stated that Powai lake is a manmade reservoir, hence the area surrounding the lake would not come under the purview of wetland guidelines and rules. The court had asked the state to ascertain the claim of BMC and asked both the state and BMC to file their replies within a week. Neither party has yet filed their responses, and asked for additional time to comply. The BMC had previously informed the court that the project was in public interest. A division bench of the HC, led by chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand S Karnik, on Tuesday directed them to do so by November 30, after which, the petitioners may submit their rejoinder by December 8. The matter will be heard next on December 13. BMC’s Projects division officials, who are privy to the development, declined to comment and said that the matter is subjudice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-extends-stay-on-construction-of-cycling-and-jogging-track-around-powai-lake-101637061868195.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Data literacy essential for evidence-based decision-making||Data and digitisation have changed governance and even the business landscape across the globe. Technological innovations and new data methods have encouraged innovative governance practices. These are challenging the traditional rules of business and the markets substantially. Digital firms have risen to higher scales, without mass and with economies of scale and scope. There is a new wave of competition, occasionally regulated but largely unforeseen, which among other things, also has a direct impact on public sector institutions. Data means information about people, things, and systems. It is a critical input and a driver for equitable growth. It is collected differently through various sources and is affected by values, power structures, policies, and programmes of governments. Social media, call data records, geographic information system (GIS), and e-governance platforms are some of the new modes of data collection. However, governments still follow traditional methods of survey and enumeration. The data is broadly distinguished as public intent and the private intent data. Three pathways to collect data are: First or top pathway: Individuals and civil society; second or middle pathway: Government and its organisation/agencies; and third or bottom pathway: Private firms/organisations. The data collected through each of these pathways complement and supplement each other. However, each type of data has its limitations. These include lack of representativeness, granularity, accuracy, and biases such as spatial, gender, and in the Indian context, class, and caste biases. Data literacy must for digital governance For a better understanding of the new normal of digital governance and economy, data literacy is considered essential even among senior leadership in the governments and public sector institutions. It implies a greater knowledge and understanding of data acquisition, processing, analysis, visualisation, validation, and reporting that create an enabling institutional and leadership environment that places a high premium on the use of data and evidence in decision-making. It enables decision-makers to champion innovations for speedier quality growth, prepare the institutions for new statutory and non-statutory business and tax regulation, and compete in global markets. The promotion of data literacy would, however, require additional human, technological, and financial resources. Data governance, which has changed over time, includes data infrastructure policy, the legal and regulatory framework, the related economic and other policies, and institutions. These diverse elements are effectively the building blocks of a social contract that seeks to deliver the potential value of data equitably while safeguarding against harmful outcomes. It also involves laws and regulation that protect personal data and promote the open transfer of non-personal data. Data literacy is an essential aspect of data governance, and therefore its requirement would also need to be met. Challenges in harnessing social, economic value of dataThe governments and the public sector institutions face challenges in harnessing the social and economic value of data. They suffer data illiteracy even among some of their senior leadership. It was experienced during the Covid-19 pandemic. The data collection and management systems were often not fully equipped and updated according to the changing demands. The problem is, however, more intense in low and medium-income countries. The senior management and leadership of these institutions in these countries do not meet the requirements of data-driven and evidence-based decision-making. The National Statistical Organisations of these countries face substantial difficulties in data collection, access, validation, analysis, and usage due to capacity constraints. Public sector institutions mainly use public intent data. But, with the advent of new technologies and innovations, the private intent data landscape has also changed. It is big, always-on, and can be zoomed in at any time. It is also real-time, collected actively or passively, without many unknown biases, and considered a crucial input for new product design and development, cost reduction, effective intermediation, and innovations. The value of private intent data for the economy and society will be much higher if combined and repurposed along with the public intent data. It, however, does not happen too often. Again, the inadequacy or lack of data literacy among the senior leadership and management of the public sector institutions and the governments is observed as a handicap. Free flow of data for better businesses The promotion of data literacy, particularly among the senior leadership of public sector institutions, has not received the attention it requires. It is considered a low priority in low and medium-income countries. with inadequate funding for research, training, and data infrastructure. Appropriate policies and structures need to be evolved for research, training with full appreciation of the requisite financial resources. These should be done to achieve a greater understanding of new techniques and technologies of data collection, validation, and analysis. The complementarity between private intent and public intent data should also be encouraged. The values and systems that envisage the free flow of data with due safeguards for privacy should be promoted for better and competitive businesses with a greater understanding of the larger political objectives. Governments should evolve a long-term holistic plan to overcome financial, technological, and knowledge constraints in promoting data literacy and resultantly better decision-making. Such a plan should, if so required, leverage international assistance for technical assistance and training to cultivate open data practices and to build skills in the creation and dissemination of public use census, survey, and administrative datasets that are subject to international best practices in deidentification. Collaboration with private technology firms should also be explored for better results at a low cost. It has become almost essential to promote, and secure future growth with innovations. sureshkumarnangia@gmail.com The writer, a retired IAS officer, is former chief principal secretary to the Punjab chief minister. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/data-literacy-essential-for-evidence-based-decisionmaking-101637060968642.html
16-11-2021||Patna||Ex-MLA, over 40 others booked for alleged involvement in attack on police personnel in Bihar||The Rajepur police on Tuesday registered a case in which 42 persons, including a former MLA, has been named as accused, along with 150 unknown people, for their alleged involvement in Monday’s attack in East Champaran during panchayat elections. Eight police personnel and a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) were injured in the attack, officials said. Confirming the incident, Sunil Kumar Singh, sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Pakaridayal, said no arrests have been made in this connection as yet. “The search for the accused is on,” said the SDPO. At least eight police personnel and a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Kumar Ravindra, were injured after a group of villagers took to hooliganism and attacked police personnel and other government officials at booth number 177 and 178 at Nonimal in Mehsi block of Chakiya subdivision during the final hours of the polling. Shirsat Kapil Ashok, district magistrate (DM), East Champaran, who, along with other government officials, rushed to the polling booths after receiving the complaints on Monday evening, told HT over the phone that a group of villagers grew agitated after few people were detained and attacked the police and government officials in reaction. “Some of our cops and an administrative officer got injured in the attack,” said the district magistrate, who escaped the attack unhurt. Kumar Ravindra, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Pakaridayal, who was injured in the attack, had to undergo a medical investigation at Sadar hospital in Motihari. He said some troublemakers gained access to the polling stations and were taking the snap of the voters and EVM inside the booth. “The matter is being looked into,” he said. However, former MLA Shivji Rai, whose son Bipul Yadav was in the fray for Pramukh could not be contacted for comments. Police have registered a case under sections 147, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/exmla-over-40-others-booked-for-alleged-involvement-in-attack-on-police-personnel-in-bihar-101637060552075.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet to pay obeisance at Kartarpur Sahib on November 18||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday announced that entire Punjab Cabinet will pay obeisance at Sri Kartarpur Sahib on November 18 as a part of the first delegation after the reopening of the Kartarpur Corridor. Also read: Modi govt to reopen Kartarpur Sahib corridor tomorrow, says Amit ShahAddressing the gathering during a function to mark the death anniversary of former Punjab minister and Congress stalwart Sardar Santokh Singh Randhawa at Dharowali in Gurdaspur district, the chief minister thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for the re-opening of the Kartarpur Corridor on the eve of the prakash purb (birth anniversary) of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev. Channi said that he had personally taken up the issue of reopening of corridor with Modi and Shah. “This is a joyous occasion for the Punjabi community in general and Sikh brethren in particular,” he said. Paying tributes to Sardar Santokh Singh Randhawa, the chief minister said that the life of the legendary leader was a source of inspiration as he was a votary of morality, honesty and value-based politics. He said it’s a matter of pride that deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is carrying forward the legacy of his father. The deputy CM also recalled his father’s legacy in the service of the state. Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Aruna Chaudhary, MLAs Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Parminder Singh Pinki, Davinder Singh Ghubaya, Kulbir Singh Zira, Amit Vij, Darshan Singh Brar, Pritam Kotbhai, former Punjab minister and Punjab Agro Industries chairman Joginder Singh Mann were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-to-pay-obeisance-at-kartarpur-sahib-on-november-18-101637060307954.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||'Development limited to where leaders had homes': What Modi said on sidelines of unveiling Purvanchal Expressway||Prime Minister Narendra Modi after inaugurating the 341km-long Purvanchal Expressway addressed a rally in Sultanpur on Tuesday and launched an attack on opposition parties and “dynasties” on various issues. His words assume significance as Uttar Pradesh is slated to go to the polls next year.Here are the highlights from Modi's speech1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hit out at the opposition on Tuesday, alleging that they had left eastern Uttar Pradesh in the hands of poverty and the mafia but his party is bringing in a new era of development. “Previous governments handed over eastern Uttar Pradesh to 'mafiawaad' and poverty, but the BJP is now writing new chapter of development,” he said.
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Income tax raids at SAD MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali’s properties in Ludhiana||An income tax search is underway at the house of Shiromani Akali Dal Dakha MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali since Tuesday morning. Also read: Modi govt to reopen Kartarpur Sahib corridor tomorrow, says Amit ShahSecurity personnel sealed Ayali’s house soon after the raid by the income tax officials began around 6am and no one was being allowed to enter or exit the premises. According to Mani Sharma, the officer on special duty to Ayali, a team of 70 people, including I-T officials and CRPF personnel, simultaneously raided the MLA’s properties, including his farmhouse, offices and apartments. Ayali’s properties had been raided by the income tax department in 1999, too. “Our work is in the public domain. He (Ayali) had come out clean in the past and even this time, he will be found spotless,” Sharma said. The 44-year-old MLA, who is into the real estate business, owns a huge chunk of land that is now prime property in the city. Ayali and his two brothers were not available for comment. Besides Ayali, I-T teams raided the offices of other colonisers in South City and the newly established Sun View residential colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/income-tax-raids-at-sad-mla-manpreet-singh-ayali-s-properties-in-ludhiana-101637057367813.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s air quality continues to worsen; in ‘poor’ category||Mumbai’s air quality worsened on Tuesday, recording an AQI of 280, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The reading officially puts the city’s air quality in the “poor” category, going by the Central Pollution Control Board’s classification.On Monday, the AQI reading was 245, also in the “poor” category. According to data from IQ Air, a Swiss air quality technology and monitoring company, Mumbai’s air was the sixth most polluted across major cities globally on Tuesday afternoon. New Delhi’s was the worst, while Kolkata was the other Indian city in the top 10, at No 8. IQ Air follows its own stringent air quality guidelines laid down by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), according to which New Delhi recorded an AQI of 235, Mumbai 166 and Kolkata 159.Experts said pollution has spiked over the past two days - particularly particulate matter (PM) pollutants - due to moisture coming in as a result of a low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea off Maharashtra’s coast. Also Read: SC: Ensure smaller cities don’t become polluted like MumbaiMumbai’s air quality had dipped to the “poor” category on November 5, a day after Diwali, when the AQI touched 215. Colaba continued to register the most polluted air in the city with an AQI of 370 - up from 345 the previous day. It was in the “very poor” category.Other locations with “very poor” air quality include Mazagaon at 331 (up from 325 on Monday) and Malad with 327 (up from 306 on Monday). “Very poor” air quality persisted in Bandra-Kurla Complex with an AQI of 311, marginally down from 314 the previous day.Gufran Beig, a meteorologist and project director at SAFAR, said a build-up of moisture in the city has allowed the air to retain more particulate matter pollutants such as PM2.5 and PM10, pushing up the AQI in almost all monitoring locations.“Due to the low-pressure area, moisture-laden winds have started blowing over the city, pushing up humidity levels. When this happens, the air becomes heavier and is able to hold pollutants, especially PM2.5 and PM10, to a greater capacity. This is why one might notice a haze accumulating over some parts of the city. At the moment, winds are not strong enough to disperse this haze, but there may be some relief soon because rains have been predicted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-air-quality-continues-to-worsen-in-poor-category-101637057127772.html
16-11-2021||Noida||UP CM Adityanath orders officials to take measures to curb pollution in NCR||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting with local officials to discuss air pollution, an issue prevailing in the National Capital Region. In the meeting, the chief minister instructed officials on the need to have planned efforts to curb pollution. He also asked the officials to encourage locals to use public transport as much as possible, instead of private vehicles, according to the statement by the chief minister's office.The meeting comes as Delhi NCR is seeing a major dip in the air quality, prompting government to take emergency measures such as the closure of schools, construction sites. The Delhi government is also considering a lockdown of one week in order to reduce the pollutants in the air.The pollution level in the National Capital Region (NCR), especially Noida and Gurugram, recorded a slight dip on Tuesday. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), Noida reported the Air Quality Index (AQI) in the upper end of the 'Very Poor' category at 362, while the air quality in Gurugram deteriorated to the 'Very Poor' category at 322,As per SAFAR's bulletin, the AQI in Delhi which was recorded at 331 is "unlikely to improve" today as winds at the transport level are increasing, resulting in more intrusion of farm fire-related pollutants into Delhi.Yesterday, the national capital recorded an AQI at 318 (overall).The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Central government to call an "emergency meeting" on November 16 with Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh and sought an action plan to curb air pollution in the city.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-cm-adityanath-orders-officials-to-take-measures-to-curb-pollution-in-ncr-101637055338952.html
16-11-2021||Jaipur||Bird flu kills 300 migratory demoiselle cranes in Rajasthan in last 10 days||As many as 300 migratory demoiselle cranes, popularly known as Kurjan, have died in Rajasthan over the last 10 days because of bird flu, forest officials said on Monday, adding that the death rate was falling every day. Bird flu or avian flu is an influenza that spreads among birds. In rare cases, it can affect humans. Initially, experts felt the deaths were caused by Ranikhet disease, known in the West as Newcastle disease. But a Bhopal-based lab report later confirmed that the migratory birds were dying in Rajasthan due to bird flu, officials said. Veterinary doctors and those involved in rescue operations have so far tested negative for bird flu.Authorities in the state have faced criticism over the handling of the situation, especially with the disposing of the bodies. A senior government official who wished not to be named said, “We should have waited for the lab report before acting, but the pressure was so intense to take action.”Also Read: First possible human infection of bird flu in India: What we know so farThe first death of a demoiselle crane was reported on November 5 in Kaparda village in Jodhpur, from where around 180 bodies have been recovered so far. Officials said the number of daily deaths among the migratory birds in the area have come down to four to five fatalities per day from 30-40 in the initial days of the outbreak. The outbreak hasn’t yet been recorded in the Sardar Samand Lake area in Pali district, around 36km from Kaparda. A total of 134 migratory demoiselle cranes died in the last three days, including 22 on Sunday, according to Vinod Kumar Kalra, joint director of the state’s animal husbandry department. Viscera samples of the dead birds have been sent to a lab, he said. Dr Gyan Prakash, a veterinary expert at Kaparda, said a report from a lab in Bhopal has confirmed that the birds died from avian flu, after which certain protocols were put in place, such as disinfecting the area and carefully disposing of the bodies. Prakash also said no such case has so far been reported in Khichan village, which currently has over 14,000 migratory birds. Khichan is around 180km from Jodhpur city. Prakash said that local birds were aware of Kaparda’s saline water, hence only the migratory demoiselle cranes were dying from bird flu. He said the presence of black wind stilt in the area, a bird that is seen as a pollution marker as it feeds on algae and weeds that grow in polluted water, indicated that the water in Kaparda was polluted. Prakash speculates it’s possible that the bird flu came from Japan, where an outbreak was reported in October, with migratory birds likely carrying the disease to Rajasthan. On protocols that are followed in the event of a bird flu outbreak, retired professor and microbiologist Dr AK Kataria said the process starts the moment symptoms are spotted prima facie. “Everyone, especially those involved in the process, need to be cautious when the disease is undiagnosed as it can be fatal and communicable. If it is bird flu, it can be fatal,” Dr Kataria said.In November 2019, carcasses of close to 18,000 migratory birds were found at Rajasthan’s Sambhar Lake, the largest inland salt lake in India. The deaths were caused by avian botulism, a neuromuscular illness of birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bird-flu-kills-300-migratory-demoiselle-cranes-in-rajasthan-in-last-10-days-101637055687865.html
16-11-2021||Bhopal||‘Will leave no stone unturned’: Shivraj Chouhan assures empowerment of tribals||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that his government will leave no stone unturned in ensuring empowerment for the tribal community in the state. Chouhan announced initiatives for the tribal population, including the Raja Sangram Shah Award for work in the field of tribal art and culture and a memorial for tribal warriors.On Monday, the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre launched the 'Janjatiya Gaurav Divas' in Bhopal to mark the birth anniversary of tribal leader Birsa Munda.A day before the Diwas, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan welcomed all tribal artists into Madhya Pradesh's capital.“Bhopal and Madhya Pradesh are painted in tribal colours. Our culture, art, and dance traditions are amazing. Tribal society lives life in its joy and fun, this is the speciality of this society. You people have come on the occasion of Bhopal Janjatiya Gourav Diwas. Bhopal Janjatiya Gourav Diwas means we are warriors too,” Chouhan said while addressing an event at the MP Tribal Museum on Sunday.Remembering the sacrifices of tribal queen Rani Kamalapati, the Madhya Pradesh government renamed the revamped Habibganj railway station in Bhopal after her. On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Rani Kamalapati railway station.The Madhya Pradesh chief minister also said that memorials are being set up across the state for tribal warriors.“A memorial of Tantya Mama has been established in Khandwa district, Bhima Nayak in Barwani district. A memorial is being established in Jabalpur in the name of Raghunath Shah-Shankar Shah. Tribal Museum is coming up in Chhindwara,” Chouhan was quoted as saying in an official statement.He also said that all arrangements were being made for tribal development blocks in Madhya Pradesh whether it is the education of children or providing ration.Urging students from the tribal community to focus on their education, Chouhan said, “If they study and move forward, then the state government will also make arrangements to pay their fees. You read, go ahead, the government is with you at every step.”The chief minister assured that his government will pave the way for the progress of the tribal community regarding food, shelter, healthcare and employment etc, according to the official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/will-leave-no-stone-unturned-shivraj-chouhan-assures-empowerment-of-tribals-101637046018836.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||High court allows eateries and bars to serve herbal hookah in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Tuesday allowed the use of herbal hookahs in the national capital subject to bars adhering to strict Covid-19 norms and using disposable pipes. The court said that when cinemas have been opened and all other activities have resumed, it would not be appropriate to keep the petitioners hanging.In an interim order, Justice Rekha Palli said in case there is any change in the Covid-19 situation, the city government can move an application to modify Tuesday’s order. Palli gave the Delhi government six weeks to file its reply.In late October, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government had opposed a plea filed by various bars and restaurants seeking permission from the high court to sell and serve herbal flavoured hookahs. Citing a World Health Organisation (WHO) and Centre of Diseases Control and Prevention (CDC) order, the government said allowing sale and consumption of hookah might increase the risk of Covid-19 transmission."As per WHO and CDC, the act of hookah smoking includes, touching hookah by many hands, close contact of fingers with lips which increases the possibility of transmission of the virus from hand to mouth. Thus, allowing herbal hookah in open spaces may worsen the situation and increase the transmission of COVID-19," the government had told the high court.The government also told the court that bars, restaurants and eateries do not acquire separate licences for selling herbal hookahs and classify it as “food”. Considering herbal hookah as a food product is not at all justified, the government said.Several petitions were filed by Breath Fine Lounge and Bar, TOS, R High Speedbar and Lounge, Verandah Moonshine, and Sixth Empirica Lounge in West Punjabi Bagh, challenging the order of the joint commissioner of police (licencing unit) prohibiting and excluding the sale or service of herbal flavoured hookahs in restaurant/bar being run by them.The petitioner alleged that even though herbal hookahs contained no tobacco, cops were conducting raids, seizing equipment and issuing challans. They requested the court to issue directions to both Delhi government and Delhi police not to interfere with the sale and service of herbal flavoured hookahs and not to take coercive steps against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-court-allows-eateries-and-bars-to-serve-herbal-hookahs-in-delhi-101637052240631.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Purvanchal will become lifeline of east UP, says CM Yogi at expressway launch||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the newly opened Purvanchal expressway will give momentum to development in the state.Addressing the inaugural event of the 341-km expressway, Adityanath said, “Three years ago, the foundation of the expressway was laid. Despite the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the expressway is ready for inauguration on schedule.”The CM said this is the expressway for the people of Uttar Pradesh and it is not only a medium for transportation, but it would also pave the way for developing the state's eastern region which remained neglected since the country’s Independence.Also Read| 'New era of UP': PM Modi inaugurates 341km long Purvanchal Expressway“We are laying the foundation of new India. Purvanchal will become the lifeline for development in eastern UP,” he said.The chief minister said that work is also going on for four more expressways in the state, namely Bundelkhand, Ganga, Gorakhpur and Ballia.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the Purvanchal Expressway, constructed at a cost of about ₹22,500 crore.Modi said, “When I laid the foundation stone of Purvanchal Expressway 3 years ago, I had never thought that I would land here on an aircraft one day.”“Such a modern expressway has now come up where it was just a piece of land 3-4 years back,” Modi added and urged those who doubted the capability of the Uttar Pradesh government to come to Sultanpur to witness this capability.Also Read| Centre trying to steal credit for Purvanchal Expressway, says SP chief AkhileshThe 341-km expressway starts from Chaudsarai village in Lucknow located on Lucknow-Sultanpur road (NH-731) and ends at Hydaria village located on National Highway 31. It will have 22 flyovers, 7 railway-over-bridges (ROB), 7 major bridges, 114 minor bridges, 6 toll plazas, 45 vehicular-underpasses (VUP), 139 Light VUP, 87 pedestrian underpasses and 525 box culverts.The expressway is six-lane wide which can be expanded to eight-lane in future.One of the most important features of the expressway is a 3.2-km airstrip that will enable landing and take-off of Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft in case of any emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/purvanchal-will-become-lifeline-of-east-up-says-yogi-at-expressway-launch-101637050575721.html
16-11-2021||Patna||NDA govt completes first year of fourth term in Bihar under shadow of pandemic||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar completed the first year of its fourth term on Tuesday. The government was formed after state elections were held amid the Covid-19 pandemic.State education minister Vijay Kumar Chowdhary said Covid-19 has affected the pace of work for two years. “Development process and implementation of schemes were completely affected. This in turn affected government revenue and state exchequer. But we are now on the path of recovery.”Asian Development Research Institute director Prabhat P Ghosh said the pandemic management was the main concern of the government during the year. “In spite of the resource constraints, the state was able to meet this challenge, both in terms of vaccination and other dimensions like the relief for the poor.” Ghosh added there are now signs of the revival of the economy. “But it will certainly take some more time to reach its pre-Covid levels. Once the economy is back to normal, the health of state finances will also improve, enabling the state government to undertake development work.”Also Read: ‘He is lying, misleading public’: RJD MP slams Bihar CM over crime rate in stateN K Chowdhary, a former head of Economics at Patna University, said the government failed to cope with the second Covid-19 wave. “The public healthcare system was utterly incapable to meet the challenge.”The government also faced much embarrassment after the death of over 40 persons due to hooch.Chowdhary said they have appointed 45,000 teachers even as the process was stalled due to Panchayat polls. “For the first time... the appointments for the headmaster and headteachers for high and higher secondary education will be done through Bihar Public Service Commission (to improve quality).” Chowdhary said the women have been given 35% reservation in government jobs.Ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD (U) spokesman Neeraj Kumar said ₹4,671 crore has been sanctioned for Seven Resolves for development. “[Chief minister] Nitish Kumar has been hailed globally as a climate leader by UN body and state government has been awarded for its e-governance programme.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rajiv Ranjan said the NDA has been following development with justice with the Centre’s support. “Bihar is leaping forward.”There have been signs of unease between the BJP and JD (U) over issues including caste-based enumeration and the Pegasus snooping row.Kumar led an all-party delegation that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to push for the caste-based census. Many parties believe the reservation system is no longer representative of the demography.Much to the BJP’s embarrassment, Kumar also called for a probe into the Pegasus snooping issue.Leaders of both parties have maintained that all is well in the alliance even as Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Jha has countered the Union government’s claim that 14.6 million water connections were provided in the state under the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission. Jha said that 87% of rural households in the state have access to clean tap water and credited the state government for the achievement.Opposition leader Tejashi Yadav questioned what happened to the government’s promise of 1.9 million jobs? “Where is the special economic package? When will be contractual employees will be regularised. The government claims to have been providing good governance yet it has failed to build infrastructure.”Congress leader Premchandra Mishra called the NDA government’s first year dismal. “The effect of being the number three party was clearly visible on Nitish Kumar and the BJP completely dominated the government. A large number of people died due to the failure of the government on the health front and prohibition. The government lacks stability.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nda-govt-completes-first-year-of-fourth-term-in-bihar-under-shadow-of-pandemic-101637049987363.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Masked up and vaxxed: Shoppers rejoice as #TradeFair returns||Delhiites are ready to shop till they drop as the India International Trade Fair (IITF) is back after a gap of a year at the revamped exhibition halls of Pragati Maidan. Gearing up for some much-needed retail therapy, shoppers in Delhi-NCR are relieved to find Covid-19 protocols such as mandatory wearing of masks, social distancing and sanitiser machines at various points in place. “Since my childhood, IITF has been a source of joy to me as everything is beautifully decorated, and there’s amazing food. I have never missed IITF except last year due to Covid. So this year, I’m really excited to visit again. I’m looking forward to buying pashmina stoles from Jammu and Kashmir hall and beautiful sarees from Kerala hall while keeping in mind safety protocols such as double masking, social distance and sanitiser,” says Shifali Gupta, a finance associate from GTB Nagar.Organised over an area of 70,000 sqm this year, the fair has around 3,000 exhibitors from 20 states, three union territories and nine countries, including Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bahrain, Kyrgyzstan, Tunisia and Turkey. Tickets are available for sale online as well as at 60 Delhi Metro stations including major ones like Mandi House, Rajiv Chowk, Hauz Khas and Kalkaji Mandir.LC Goyal, the chief managing director of the India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO) shares that the theme this year is Aatmanirbhar Bharat. He informs, “The fair highlights the outstanding performance of Indian entrepreneurs who have shown exemplary commitment to excel despite all odds due to the pandemic. More importantly, IITF offers an ideal platform to showcase Indian products under the Vocal for Local campaign.”For many, it is the limited number of Covid-19 cases that emboldened them to visit the fair this year. “Now that cases are fewer, we feel more confident to head out. I have always been a big fan of Delhi Trade Fair since it is here where I get chance to handpick items and relish great food from all over India,” says Niharika Gul, a Noida resident. Meanwhile, others hope that visitors will keep in mind that the pandemic is not over yet and remain careful. “If you notice, kaafi log toh markets mein bhi mask nahin pehen rahe… And lots and lots of people are going to be at the trade fair. So, everyone needs to be careful. I will definitely be going, but in double mask,” shares Manas Swaroop, a law student from Model Town. Catch it LiveWhat: 40th India International Trade FairWhere: Pragati MaidanOn Till: November 18 (business segment), November 19-27 (general public)Timings: 10am to 7.30pmNearest Metro Station: Pragati Maidan on Blue LineAuthor tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/masked-up-and-vaxxed-shoppers-rejoice-as-tradefair-returns-101637048851244.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Grooving to reels on weddings is denizens’ new love||If trendy dancing reels on Instagram fascinate you, you might enjoy some original ones while attending shaadis in Delhi this wedding season. City-based wedding choreographers are being asked to teach dance routines on songs like Woman (Doja Cat), Black & White (Diljeet Dosanjh) and Jalebi Baby (Tesher), that make for popular music audios on IG Reels. “It’s no more about photos, photo albums are passé. All the craze is on reels now,” says Sudha Khatri of photography studio Pixelstory.in, adding, “These days, clients come up with crazy requirements on deliverables. One of the common ask is how many reels will be delivered that can be instantly shared on Instagram.” Prabhu Kumar from a wedding choreography studio, More Than Thumkas, says, “With rising interest in wedding choreographies, the new trend in weddings is to include the famous Instagram reels/TikTok trends. Out of 100, at least 75 people ask for reels-inspired dance moves.” For Saloni Sharma, a city-based choreographer, lists of songs for 30-second reels have been coming in, too: “People are influenced and also want to be influencers themselves.” Anubhav, a choreographer, adds, “Reel songs like Manike Mage Hithe O Nari Manhari Sukumali are popular. People want to inculcate these dance moves.” The trend seems to have blown up so much that Meher Sarid, a Delhi-based wedding planner, says she is even looking to “hire a young person with the knowledge of making reels”.Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/grooving-to-reels-on-weddings-is-denizens-new-love-101637048727571.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||SC dismisses plea challenging Dinkar Gupta’s appointment as Punjab DGP||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed the petitions filed by DGPs Sidharth Chattopadhyaya and Mohd Mustafa (now retired) challenging the appointment of 1987-batch Indian Police Service officer Dinkar Gupta as the Punjab Police chief by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government. Also read: 12 firms booked for hoarding, overpricing of DAP fertiliser in PunjabThe development is seen as a setback to Chattopadhaya, considered a frontrunner for the post of Punjab DGP, the appointment of which is expected in the next few days. The camp led by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been strongly backing Chattopadhyaya’s candidature for the post. It was under the Sidhu faction’s pressure that Chattopadhaya was appointed chief director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Punjab, last month. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao dismissed the appeals filed by Chattopadhyay and Mustafa. The court had reserved judgment in the case on September 15. Gupta had superseded five officers Dinkar Gupta was appointed the Punjab director general of police (DGP) in 2019. Both Mustafa, a 1985-batch IPS officer, and Chattopadhyaya, 1986-batch IPS officer, had challenged Gupta’s appointment with claims that the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) had tailor-made rules to include Gupta in the panel sent to it by it to the Punjab government. Gupta had superseded five senior officers, including Mustafa and Chattopadhyaya. After both the officers challenged the appointment in the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), this court had quashed Gupta’a appointment. However, the Punjab and Haryana high court in January 2020 stayed the CAT orders. The UPSC is said to have taken a strong stand while backing Gupta, citing two factors, the length and range of service in the previous 10 years. The detailed judgment in the case is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-dismisses-plea-challenging-dinkar-gupta-s-appointment-as-punjab-dgp-101637048307330.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Centre should clarify contribution of farm fires to Delhi-NCR pollution: Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday the government’s anti-vehicular campaign, titled, ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’, that was scheduled to come to an end on November 18 has been extended for another 15 days.Rai said the second phase of the campaign, as part of which people are urged to switch off their engines while waiting at traffic signals at major intersections to reduce pollution levels, will begin on November 19 and continue till December 3.Rai also sought clarification from the Centre on its claims regarding contribution of farm fires in the region's pollution.  “In its affidavit, the Centre mentioned both 4% and 35-40% stubble burning contribution in air pollution. It should be clarified...How can both be correct? I urge the environment minister (Central) to verify the data,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Rai's comments came a day after the Supreme Court slammed the Delhi government over its affidavit that it said was "all about bashing farmers and how the entire cause (of pollution) is stubble burning".Speaking about the meeting convened to discuss pollution in the national capital region (NCR), Rai said the Delhi government suggested a work from home policy, ban on industries and construction work to deal with the crisis.The meeting was attended by officials from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, besides all other stakeholders as directed by the Supreme Court on Monday.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a high-level meeting on pollution earlier in the day. He directed officials for implementing planned efforts to curb pollution in NCR, including encouraging people to  use public transport instead of private vehicles. "Farmers should be contacted not to burn stubble," he was further quoted as saying in a release issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-to-continue-for-15-more-days-101637047189795.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||New liquor vends in Delhi from tomorrow. What are the new facilities? Will alcohol cost more?||The Delhi government will exit the liquor business as nearly 600 vends run by it will be shut from Tuesday night making way for new private shops with a walk-in facility, which will begin operations from Wednesday under the new excise policy brought in to boost the city's revenue, crackdown on liquor mafia and improve user experience.The private liquor vends already shut operations on September 30 and the government-owned shops, which were operating in the transition period of one-and-a-half months, will close on Tuesday night.All the 850 liquor vends in the Capital, including the 260-odd outlets, run privately, have been given to private firms through open tender, under the new excise policy of the Delhi government implemented in June this year.Under it, retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP mandated by the government.Also read | ‘Won’t act against pvt vendors for not paying license fee’: Delhi govt to HCThe new excise policy aims at revolutionising the consumer experience by replacing the existing liquor vends in the nooks and corners of the city, with swanky, well lit and air-conditioned liquor stores spread over at least 500 square feet area with a walk-in facility.These new liquor vends will be set up in 32 zones across the city where people would be able to walk in and buy the brand of their choice just as they do in shopping malls. They will not have iron grilles at the front which most liquor vends in the Capital had.The new liquor policy stipulates that the new liquor stores will have to be equipped with air-conditioning and CCTV cameras. It also bars selling liquor through grilled shops with people crowding outside on roads and pavements.Five super-premium retail vends having an area of 2,500 square feet can open and a liquor tasting facility will also be developed at these super-premium retail vends under the new policy.Also read | Delhi HC asks govt for details of liquor brands with fixed MRPs under new excise policyBusiness hours in the new vends in Delhi will be from 10am to 10pm and those at the airport may open round-the-clock.Officials familiar with the transition process said the availability of liquor in the city may be affected in the first few weeks and that the prices may spike a little during the initial stage.“Liquor prices may slightly start with higher rates in the initial days but, it could also be the other way round. Eventually, the prices are bound to stabilise and we can safely say that Delhi will be strongly competing with Gurugram in keeping liquor rates low and offering attractive discounts, which until now was not possible in the national capital,” a senior excise official, who asked not to be named, told Hindustan Times.The Delhi government has already issued guidelines regarding placing orders and receiving the liquor stock for the upcoming shops under the new regime. These vends have already started placing orders for procurement of liquor from November 11, officials have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-liquor-vends-in-delhi-from-tomorrow-new-facilities-extended-hours-101637044494233.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana's legal advisor resigns||Suresh Chandra who was appointed as the legal advisor to Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana has tendered his resignation on health grounds, an official said on Tuesday.A senior police officer said the retired officer was only a temporary consultant and was under contract only for six months. He was almost at the end of his tenure and tendered his resignation on health grounds.His successor has not been appointed yet, the officer added."Suresh Chandra has tendered his resignation from the post of consultant to work as legal advisor to CP, Delhi on health grounds and the same has been accepted by the Commissioner of Police, Delhi," according to an order from the office of the Delhi Police Commissioner stated.The officer has been directed to deposit all government articles, if any, issued on official capacity, it stated.Chandra had served as the union law secretary before being appointed as the legal advisor of the police chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-commissioner-rakesh-asthana-s-legal-advisor-resigns-101637044451853.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan drugs bust case: Malik makes fresh claims, shares WhatsApp messages||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has shared screenshots of WhatsApp messages allegedly exchanged between KP Gosavi, an independent witness in the Mumbai drugs bust case, and an informer, claiming that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had planned to entrap people who were scheduled to attend a party on the Cordelia cruise last month.Malik has been alleging that the NCB did not honestly raid the cruise ship, and instead, picked up only certain individuals from the terminal before they could board it.Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was among several people arrested by the NCB in connection with the case. The film star’s son was later released on bail. Nawab Malik has claimed that Aryan Khan was “kidnapped and a ransom was sought to let him of”, but eventually arrested him after the initial plan failed.Also Read: NCB examines ‘important witnesses’, reconstructs events in drugs-on-cruise caseIn a bid to underline his claims, Malik tweeted screenshots of chat messages on Tuesday. “Here are WhatsApp chats between KP Gosavi and an informer, which show how they were planning to trap people who were going to attend a party on the Cordelia cruise. This is Sameer Dawood Wankhede’s ‘private army’. Therefore, he has a lot to answer,” Nawab Malik alleged in a tweet.Malik, Maharashtra’s minorities minister, had in the past alleged that the NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede had formed an “army of private individuals” to extort money from drug peddlers, and Gosavi was allegedly part of the network. Sameer Wankhede has refuted all the allegations made by the Maharashtra minister.According to the purported chat messages, as shared by Malik, between Gosavi and an unnamed person, a WhatsApp group was formed for communication and around 35 NCB officials were part of it. Following a spate of allegations surrounding the drugs bust case, the NCB itself formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the charges. Mumbai Police also formed a separate SIT to probe claims of extortion in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-drugs-bust-case-malik-makes-fresh-claims-shares-whatsapp-messages-101637044647181.html
16-11-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee condoles death of Bangladeshi writer Hasan Azizul Haque||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday expressed grief over the demise of renowned Bangladeshi writer Hasan Azizul Haque.Describing the octogenarian novelist's death as an irreparable loss to the world of literature, Banerjee extended her condolences to Haque's family and friends.Banerjee referred to some of Haque's famous books such as 'Agunpakhi' and 'Naamhin Gotrahin', and remembered that the writer was born in Mangalkot in Purba Bardhaman district and did his schooling there."I am deeply saddened by the passing away of Hasan Azizul Haque. It's an irreparable loss to the world of literature. I extend my deepest condolences to his family and friends," Banerjee said in a statement released by the state secretariat.The writer, who had been suffering from old age ailments, died at his residence in Rajshahi city of Bangladesh on Sunday night. He was 82.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-condoles-death-of-bangladeshi-writer-hasan-azizul-haque-101637042104435.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Ribbon from Lucknow, scissors from Delhi’: Akhilesh Yadav targets Centre over Purvanchal Expressway||Hours before the inauguration of the Purvanchal Expressway by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Tuesday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre is trying to steal the credit for the work done by his party.Workers of the Samajwadi Party on Tuesday morning began a symbolic inauguration of the Purvanchal Expressway. The workers', riding on cycles, showered flowers as a mark of protest against the inauguration by PM Modi.Also Read| All about Purvanchal Expressway PM Modi will inaugurate today"The ribbon came from Lucknow and the scissors came from New Delhi. There is a 'Khichham-Khichai' to take credit for the work of SP. It is hoped that till now the people of Lucknow sitting alone must have memorised the length of the 'Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway," Akhilesh Yadav's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.On Monday, Akhilesh accused the BJP of compromising on the quality of the Purvanchal Expressway to cut down its project cost and inaugurate it before the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh next year.pic.twitter.com/Q4YvF7Sp9d"In a bid to make it cheap, there has been a compromise on its quality. To take credit ahead of the polls, the BJP is going to inaugurate the half-baked Purvanchal Expressway. There has been a compromise with the quality with which it should have been built," Yadav told reporters on Monday.He pointed out that the foundation of the Purvanchal Expressway was laid during his Samajwadi Party's rule.Also Read| Purvanchal Expressway will be better than Yamuna E-way. UP govt explains howThe 341 kilometre-long expressway, constructed at the cost of about ₹22,500 crore, will be inaugurated by PM Modi at 1.30 pm. “This project brings with it multiple benefits for UP’s economic and social progress,” Modi tweeted on Monday.The Purvanchal Expressway starts from village Chaudsarai in Lucknow located on Lucknow-Sultanpur road (NH-731) and ends at village Hydaria located on National Highway number 31. It will have 22 flyovers, 7 railway-over-bridges (ROB), 7 major bridges, 114 minor bridges, 6 toll plazas, 45 vehicular-underpasses (VUP), 139 Light VUP, 87 pedestrian underpasses and 525 box culverts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/centre-trying-to-steal-credit-for-purvanchal-expressway-says-sp-chief-akhilesh-101637039575992.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||SP workers begin ‘symbolic inauguration’ of Purvanchal Expressway||Opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) workers on Tuesday began “symbolic inauguration” of the 340km Lucknow-Ghazipur Purvanchal Expressway ahead of its scheduled launch by Prime Minister Narendra Modi later in the day. This comes a day after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav announced the “inauguration” by riding bicycles saying the expressway was his previous government’s project. He said the Samajwadi Expressway’s name was changed as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s habit renaming of the SP’s projects and re-inaugurating them.Yadav on Tuesday tweeted pictures of the “inauguration” and the foundation laying ceremony of the expressway by him as the chief minister in December 2016. He was scheduled to take the expressway for his Ghazipur to Azamgarh Vijay Yatra ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. But the administration denied permission citing security concerns given Modi’s event on the expressway.Also Read: All about Purvanchal Expressway PM Modi will inaugurate todayModi is scheduled to inaugurate the expressway after a C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft carrying him will land on a 3.3 km emergency airstrip along the expressway. The inauguration ceremony will also feature an air show by the Indian Air Force jets. Yadav said BJP was five years behind the SP’s rule. He added fighter jets landed on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway when the SP ruled the state and now a similar exercise would be undertaken on the Purvanchal Expressway. “They have copied our government’s event. What they are doing, we were done and dusted with it five years ago when our government inaugurated the Agra-Lucknow Expressway... IAF jets [landed]] on the expressway to mark the event.”He accused the government of compromising with the quality of the Purvanchal Expressway to cut down the project cost and inaugurate it before the assembly polls to claim the credit. He questioned the denial of permission to his Yatra. “What kind of threat they face from me. Azamgarh is nearly 100km from Sultanpur, where Modi is going to inaugurate the Samajwadi government’s project. Yet they denied the permission for my rath yatra.”The BJP hit out at Yadav for calling the Purvanchal Expressway his government’s project. “The manner in which Akhilesh Yadav is beating the drums of the on-paper only expressway, his next tweet will be that Ram temple has also been built by the SP government...” the BJP said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-workers-begin-symbolic-inauguration-of-purvanchal-expressway-101637039966608.html
16-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal govt may table resolution against BSF jurisdiction’s extension today||The West Bengal government is expected to table a resolution in the assembly on Tuesday against the Centre’s decision to expand the Border Security Force’s (BSF) jurisdiction in the state as well as in Punjab and Assam.In October, the union government amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to carry out search operations, seizures and arrests within 50km from the international borders of the three states - up from the previous 15km jurisdiction.“The discussions [in the West Bengal assembly] would be held on November 16 (Tuesday). The BSF Act had no provision for such extension of jurisdiction. The amendment is illegal,” said state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee.Also Read: Only extent of jurisdiction has changed, not laws: BSF Punjab frontier IGThe Punjab assembly has already passed a resolution against the Centre’s move. West Bengal shares a 2,216km border with Bangladesh. In southern Bengal, the border is more than 900km long of which nearly 60% is riverine.On October 26, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she won’t accept the expansion of the BSF’s jurisdiction. “This is direct interference with our state’s sovereignty and India’s federal structure. Law and order is a state subject. We have high respect for the BSF, but they cannot operate inside our districts. We will oppose this,” the CM said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) welcomed the Centre’s move, alleging that Banerjee is opposed to it since suspected infiltrators from Bangladesh are a part of her vote bank. “The move is a positive step by the Centre to control smuggling, infiltration and trans-border terrorism. It is not surprising that Mamata Banerjee will oppose it because cow smugglers and Rohingyas vote for her,” claimed state BJP leader Dilip Ghosh.The union home ministry told parliament in March that in 2017, 2018 and 2019, security agencies arrested 1,175, 1,118 and 1,351 people, respectively, along the India-Bangladesh border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-govt-to-table-resolution-in-assembly-against-bsf-jurisdiction-s-extension-101637038587889.html
16-11-2021||Patna||'He is lying, misleading public': RJD MP slams Bihar CM over crime rate in state||Slamming Janata Dal United-led Bihar government, over the deteriorating law and order situation, Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha on Monday said that a chief minister with 40 seats is incapable to govern the state.Speaking to ANI, Jha said, "The chief minister is lying and misleading the public. Nitish Kumar has become the chief minister by winning only 40 seats. It is the reason that nothing is in the hands of the chief minister. He has no control. If even the ministers do not listen to the chief minister, then this will be the condition of the state. National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data has not been prepared by the opposition. If the Chief Minister looks at the data of NCRB, then he will know what is the crime rate in Bihar."Meanwhile, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said the crime rate in Bihar has come down after the liquor ban and he stands against liquor.Speaking to media persons here, Kumar said, "Some people have turned against me because I have ordered a liquor ban and I am serious about it. Those who are against it, feel bad. It is a different matter. They might have their own opinion. But we listened to the people - both men and women. I stand against liquor.""The crime figures have not increased. If something happens, action is taken. Administration and Police are active and action is being taken wherever something is happening," he said.A local journalist and an RTI activist, who was allegedly kidnapped, was killed in Bihar's Madhubani district, said the police on Sunday. Family members of the deceased journalist and villagers are protesting against the killing and demanding justiceEarlier this month, 32 people died in the state after consuming spurious liquor in Bihar. Nitish Kumar has called a high-level meeting over the liquor ban on November 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/he-is-lying-misleading-public-rjd-mp-slams-bihar-cm-over-crime-rate-in-state-101637037207945.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case: SRK's manager Pooja Dadlani may be issued third summons, say cops||The Mumbai Police may issue a third summons on Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s manager Pooja Dadlani in an alleged extortion case.Dadlani is alleged to have paid a sum of ₹50 lakh to an independent witness of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after Khan’s son Aryan was detained from a Goa-bound ship off Mumbai’s coast early in October.  She had earlier skipped the interrogation citing health reasons.Dadlani has already been issued two summons. Police said, so far, 20 people have recorded their statements in the case.Mumbai | Second summon was issued to actor Shahrukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani in which she had sought more time. Now, there could be the issuance of a third summon too. So far 20 people have recorded their statements in the drugs-on-cruise extortion case: Mumbai PoliceThe NCB has claimed to have seized drugs onboard following the raid. Aryan and two of his friends were granted bail by the Bombay high court after having spent more than 20 days behind bars.The sensational case that saw several twists and turns turned into a political potboiler after Maharashtra home minister levelled extortion allegations against the NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede.Also read | SRK’s manager apparently influenced witness, NCB tells HCThis was after independent witness Prabhakar Sail last month claimed that he had overheard Kiran Gosavi discussing a pay-off deal of ₹25 crore with one Sam D'Souza over phone after Khan was detained.The Mumbai Police later constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the allegations against NCB officials in connection with the case.The NCB's vigilance team is also probing the pay-off allegations in the case.D'Souza, who appeared before the Mumbai Police on Monday, had earlier claimed in his pre-arrest bail application that Gosavi had taken ₹50 lakh from Dadlani to get Aryan released. The money was returned after the NCB arrested him on October 3, the application said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-srk-s-manager-pooja-dadlani-may-be-issued-third-summons-101637037214178.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||' ₹1.5 crore, not ₹5 crore': Hardik Pandya clarifies on watch seizure||Team India cricketer Hardik Pandya issued a clarification on Tuesday regarding the seizure of two of his watches by the Mumbai customs department on Sunday night. Pandya said that he voluntarily went to the customs counter of the Mumbai airport to declare the items that he brought and pay the requisite customs duty.Custom officials seized two watches worth ₹5 crore from Pandya when he was returning from Dubai after India was eliminated in the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup. The officials said that he neither had a bill for the watches nor did he declare them as custom items.Also Read| Custom officials seize 2 watches worth ₹5 crore from Hardik Pandya: ReportHardik Pandya issued a statement on Twitter and said that the watches were worth ₹1.5 crore and not ₹5 crore “as per rumours floating around on social media.”“I had voluntarily declared all the items that I lawfully purchased from Dubai and was ready to pay whatever duties that needed to be paid,” Pandya said in the statement.pic.twitter.com/k9Qv0UnmyS“As a matter of fact, the customs department had asked for all purchase documents which were submitted; however customs is doing proper valuation for duty which I have already confirmed to pay,” he added.The 28-year-old all-rounder also said that he is a law-abiding citizen and assured his full cooperation to customs officials and will provide whichever legitimate documents are needed to get the matter cleared. “All allegations against me of crossing any legal boundaries are totally unfounded,” Pandya added.Hardik Pandya is said to own some of the most expensive watches in the world and his collection reportedly includes a Patek Philippe Nautilus Platinum 5711, which costs around ₹5 crore.He has been dropped from the India squad which will be playing against New Zealand in a three-match T20 series starting Wednesday. Venkatesh Iyer has been chosen as a replacement for Pandya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rs-1-5-crore-not-rs-5-crore-hardik-pandya-clarifies-on-watch-seizure-101637034860933.html
16-11-2021||Mumbai||Custom officials seize 2 watches worth ₹5 crore from Hardik Pandya: Report||The Mumbai customs department has seized two watches worth ₹5 crore from Hardik Pandya, saying the cricketer neither had a bill for the watches nor did he declare them as custom items.According to a report by ABP, the watches were seized on Sunday night when Pandya and the rest of the members of Team India were coming back home from Dubai after getting eliminated in the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup. As Pandya arrived at the Mumbai airport, the customs department found him in possession of these two watches and seized them.The 28-year-old all-rounder, who is often seen as a fashion icon among celebrities, owns some of the most expensive watches in the world.According to another report by ABP, Hardik Pandya has a Patek Philippe Nautilus Platinum 5711, which costs around ₹5 crore. He is often seen sporting this watch and also wore it during a recent photoshoot, the report added.After a dismal performance at the T20 World Cup, India will now play against New Zealand in a three-match T20 series starting Wednesday.Rohit Sharma has been appointed as the team's captain and Virat Kohli has been rested from the tournament. Injury-ravaged Hardik Pandya, who did not perform well during the World Cup, has been dropped from the squad against New Zealand. He will be replaced by Venkatesh Iyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/custom-officials-seize-2-watches-worth-rs-5-crore-from-hardik-pandya-report-101637030656222.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||New Delhi’s air quality still ‘very poor’; mercury drops to 11°C||New Delhi experienced a nippier morning on Tuesday with the mercury recording a temperature of 11°C, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Tuesday’s minimum temperature was predicted to be 10°C, while the mercury could go up to a maximum of 26°C.The minimum temperature on Monday was 10.3°C, which was three notches below normal for this time of the year, and the maximum temperature was 26.4°C, which was two degrees below normal.Also Read: Debate over share of farm fires in toxic airNew Delhi’s air quality was yet again in the “very poor” category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 389. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 353, which was “very poor”.The CPCB classifies an AQI of 0-50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-s-air-quality-still-very-poor-mercury-drops-to-11c-101637030905712.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual employees of Punjab Roadways to hold indefinite strike from Nov 23||Contractual employees of Punjab Roadways protested in Ludhiana over job regularisation on Monday and said, "will start an indefinite strike on November 23."Speaking to ANI, Gurpreet Singh, a protester said, "We have been demanding the state government for a long time to make our jobs regular but unfortunately the struggle is still continuing.""We have also held a protest two months back that continued for nine days when Captain Amarinder Singh was the chief minister of Punjab and demanded to make our jobs regular," he said.The former chief minister back then promised us to make our jobs regular in twenty days but then it should not happen because he resigned from power and Charanjit Singh Channi took over the CM position, Singh said.The current chief minister also promised the same. It has been two months now there is no update from this government too," he added.The government keeps making promises to us but our demands have not been fulfilled yet.Speaking further, Singh said, "from November 23, we will start an indefinite strike, if the government will not listen to us even after that, we will start blocking roads."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractual-employees-of-punjab-roadways-to-hold-indefinite-strike-from-nov-23-101637028612910.html
16-11-2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to chair review meeting on liquor prohibition today||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will on Tuesday chair a review meeting on liquor prohibition in the state, which will be held after at least 40 people have died in the state after consuming hooch in recent days, the latest death being reported from Muzaffarpur.As many as 150 people have lost their lives in various hooch tragedies after 2016 when the Bihar government banned the manufacture, trade, storage, transportation, sale and consumption of liquor.Chief minister Kumar chaired a similar meeting on November 5 over the issue of liquor prohibition. After that meeting, Kumar said that action was being taken against those who were preparing spurious liquor.Also Read| Bihar CM rules out review of liquor law, says it has no lacunaIn the last nine months, the Bihar police have confiscated more than 3.87 million illicit liquor and 62,140 people have been arrested. Of the total, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Aurangabad and Patna districts reported the highest quantity of liquor seized.Two days ago, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) urged the state government to end liquor prohibition. In a statement, the CIABC said that it requested the government to end prohibition in such a way that the latter can get revenues for Bihar’s development without compromising on the desired goals of the prohibition policy.Meanwhile, opposition parties in Bihar have slammed the Nitish Kumar government over the liquor ban.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday blamed the government for the hooch tragedies in Bihar, and alleged that the illicit liquor business in the state was "thriving, with the full support of political leaders in the ruling coalition and the administration".Also Read| Ahead of CM’s review meet, JDU leader raps Bihar police for continued liquor flowLok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) chief Chirag Paswan on Saturday accused senior officials in Bihar of being a part of the illicit liquor racket. “The chief minister should answer why alcohol is still available to the public in Bihar. He won't answer this question because higher officials of the state are part of the racket and Nitish Kumar is known to run the government through his officials,” Paswan said while speaking to reporters, according to news agency ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-to-chair-review-meeting-on-liquor-prohibition-today-101637021379873.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Special voter enrolment drive on Nov 27, 28, says Delhi CEO||The office of the Delhi chief electoral officer (CEO) is going to organise a mega enrolment drive on November 27 and 28 in the national capital to facilitate residents to get their names added to the voters’ list.Delhi CEO Ranbir Singh, in an interview to Hindustan Times, said the two-day special camp will be organised at all the 13,820 polling stations of Delhi. “I request Delhi residents, especially the youth, to get their names registered in the electoral rolls. The entire process can be done online too, which is way easier and the voter ID card will be delivered at their homes. Still, for those who are uncomfortable with the online process, we will be organising special camps across all polling stations on November 27-28,” said Singh.People can get their names registered with the Delhi CEO’s office by downloading the ‘Voter Helpline app’, or going to www.nvsp.in, or by visiting the upcoming camps.The differently abled can do the same by downloading the PWD mobile app. For the homeless, the Delhi CEO organised special camps across 200 shelters on Saturday.As per the draft electoral roll, Delhi has 14,795,549 registered voters, of which 8,088,031 are male; 6,706,570 female; and 948 third gender. The total number of electors in the final electoral roll of the Delhi as on January 15, 2021 was 14,898,069, data with the CEO office showed.The special summary revision is significant because municipal elections are going to due to be held in Delhi in April next year. The final electoral roll will be published on January 5, 2022.Talking about the Covid-19 pandemic, Singh said that the 13,820 booth level officers (BLOs) appointed by him played a mjor role in Covid management.“From ensuring people follow home quarantine, to patrollig along containment zones, helping in the vaccination process and even contact tracing. BLOs helped the Delhi government in a big way in containment of the epidemic,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/special-voter-enrolment-drive-on-nov-27-28-says-delhi-ceo-101637012661850.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Woman, attacked by stalker with acid, succumbs||The 23-year-old woman from outer Delhi’s Bawana, who was admitted at a city hospital after her neighbour threw acid on her on November 3, succumbed to her injuries on Monday evening.Police said they will now book the arrested suspect under sections of murder.The suspect, Montu, was allegedly stalking the victim and pestering her for marriage, even though she was already married and living with her husband.On November 3, he allegedly tied up the victim’s hand before throwing acid on her when she turned down his proposal on November 3. Police had rushed the 23-year-old acid-attack survivor to the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital where she was being treated. Doctors had told the police that she had suffered around 50% burns on her face and head and that she had lost vision in both her eyes.Police had on November 8 arrested Montu,26, from Buxar, Bihar. Since over-the-counter sale of acid is banned in India, including Delhi, following the Supreme Court’s order in 2013, police interrogated Montu to know how and from where he procured it. Police had said that he had bought the acid from a man in Uttar Pradesh, by claiming to use it to clean the toilet.After his questioning, police arrested Ram Sevak, a resident of UP’s Shahjahanpur, who had sold the acid to Montu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-attacked-by-stalker-with-acid-succumbs-101637012106530.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Centre’s plea against Delhi govt’s ration plan declined||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to entertain two separate petitions against a Delhi high court interim order on September 27 that allowed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to stop supplying foodgrain to fixed price shops for patrons who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.The decision also effectively gave the go-ahead to a scheme over which the Union and Delhi governments have locked horns for over a year.The top court was considering two separate appeals, filed by the Centre and the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh, both aggrieved at the high court order.“We are not inclined to entertain these special leave petitions (SLP) as we are informed that the writ petition before the high court is listed on November 22, and as both parties have agreed they will not seek an adjournment,” a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said.The Centre, represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta requested the apex court to record an undertaking from the Delhi government, that they will not implement the scheme in the meantime.To this, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the state government, said, “There is no need to pass such an order. It is impossible to roll out the scheme in such short time. The preparation and implementation of the scheme is in progress.”The bench said it will record this statement to dispose of the appeals.The ration shop owners moved the court in February challenging the tenders issued for the doorstep delivery scheme. However, the petition was amended on March 18 to challenge the Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme, with the association demanding that it should be declared ultra vires (beyond the scope of legal power).On March 22, the court directed the Delhi government not to stop or curtail the supply of foodgrain or flour to the members of the petitioner association, for operationalising the doorstep delivery. However, the high court modified its order on September 27, allowing the government to stop supplying foodgrains to FPS to the extent of food grains for those who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.This was after the Delhi government informed the high court that out of 7.2 million registered ration card holders in the Capital, over 6.9 million had availed of the doorstep delivery scheme.Solicitor General Mehta on Monday argued in the Supreme Court that the delivery of foodgrain to the intended beneficiaries under the public distribution system (PDS) was envisaged only through fair price shops (FPS) as this process ensures checks against leakages through biometric authentication. “Is it open for any state to deviate from the statutorily prescribed method when the Union government has apprehensions that the foodgrains may not reach the beneficiaries,” he said, adding that this matter had “potential all-India repercussions”.He clarified that he was not arguing for the FPS owners who filed a separate appeal and had earlier petitioned the HC.Mehta argued that the scheme goes against the One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme under which the entitlement can be availed by a beneficiary and his family at two places at the same time.Singhvi rebutted Mehta’s claim, and said that Delhi government’s scheme fully complied with ONORC, and was fully computerised to enure proper delivery. He added that it was optional for the beneficiaries to collect ration from FPS on designated days. “Mandate under the NFSA is actual delivery, and if the state is ensuring it at zero cost, why should it be restricted. Unfortunately, politics is interfering in a matter of public interest. When everything is delivered at doorstep by Amazon, Flipkart, why not foodgrains?” Singhvi told the court.He pointed out that the Centre appeared through law officers in the Delhi high court and did not object to the order (September 27 verdict).The bench said that these issues were pending before the high court and asked the Centre to address its submissions there.The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament. The term “mukhyamantri” was later dropped from the scheme’s name.In June, the government sent the file back to LG, contending that its provisions are in accordance with the NFS Act, and that it will simultaneously implement the Centre’s “One Nation, One Ration Card” scheme.On October 5, after the high court’s order of September 27, the government sent the file again to the LG office. In a note on the file, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he sincerely hoped that Baijal will review his decision to stop implementation of the doorstep delivery scheme, so that the orders of the high court can be implemented and doorstep delivery of ration can be processed for the beneficiaries opting it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centres-plea-against-delhi-govt-s-ration-plan-declined-101637011927879.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt all set to exit liquor biz, pave way for reforms||After decades of operating around 60% of the city’s retail liquor shops, the Delhi administration will formally exit from the business permanently from Tuesday night, paving the way for new privately owned shops that aim to provide a better buying experience to consumers as a new excise regime kicks in from Wednesday.Owing to the transition to the new system, under which Delhi has been divided into 32 zones, with 27 liquor shops each owned by one retail licensee per zone, the availability of liquor in the city is likely to take a hit for the first few weeks, people familiar with the transition process said. This is because the government has, so far, issued provisional licenses for retail trade of alcohol to about 350 vends, as against the 850 that are supposed to come up under the new regime.“Availability of liquor will take a hit briefly, but that is expected in such a major transition. In the wholesale market, over 200 brands have been registered, with around 10 wholesale licensees so far. These licensees have started operations with an initial procurement of 9 lakh litres of liquor of various brands. It will take about 2 months for everything to be stabilised,” a senior excise official said on condition of anonymity.A major trader in Delhi’s liquor business, who wished not to be named, said out of the 350 shops that have got the provisional license to operate, majority of them are not operational yet. “Most of them either are still getting their interiors designed, or are facing delays in terms of stock delivery. So, it will take a few weeks until the real impact of the new excise policy in terms of customer experience is visible,” he said.Meanwhile, Tuesday will be the last day for the city’s government run liquor shops.Until the new excise regime was approved earlier this year, Delhi had 849 liquor vends, of which 60% were government and 40% were private. But most of them were dogged by poor service -- personified by the famous grilles that donned most of the storefronts -- did not offer a walk-in experience, and there were allegations of brand- pushing and excise evasion by the city’s liquor mafia.The new policy aims to change all this. Under it, the new retail stores in Delhi will get rid of the iron grilles at the front of most liquor vends in the Capital, and allow buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice; shops will be spacious, well lit and air-conditioned to allow customers a walk-in experience under camera surveillance; and business hours will be from 10am to 10pm, while those at the airport may open round-the-clock.The office of Delhi government’s excise department was also teeming on Monday with representatives of the new licensees to get last-minute glitches addressed. Some retail licensees who have their shops ready started placing orders for liquor procurement from November 11.The excise department had kept a total reserve price for all the 32 zones at around ₹7,041 crore, and managed to earn about ₹8,917.59 crore through bidding. In addition to the bid value for the 32 zones, the excise department will also earn about ₹650 crore from excise duty, import fees, value added tax, and other licence fees, an excise official said on condition of anonymity. Another ₹900 crore to ₹1,000 crore is expected to come from licensing of new brands and distributor licenses.The average revenue of the city from the liquor business over the past three years stood at around ₹5,500 crore annually, according to government data.The new policy was implemented on June 11. Under it, retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP mandated by the government.The prices may spike a little during the initial stage, but they will stabilise soon, said a senior excise official who asked not to be named.“Liquor prices may slightly start with higher rates in the initial days but, it could also be the other way round. Eventually, the prices are bound to stabilise and we can safely say that Delhi will be strongly competing with Gurugram in keeping liquor rates low and offering attractive discounts, which until now was not possible in the national Capital,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-all-set-to-exit-liquor-biz-pave-way-for-reforms-101637011641286.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Debate over share of farm fires in toxic air||Like a thick haze of smog that blots out visibility, mystery shrouds the exact contribution of stubble burning in worsening the air quality of Delhi-NCR.The Union government on Monday submitted before the Supreme Court that stubble burning is not a prime cause of pollution, adding that it contributes just around 10% to the total pollution. But the affidavit, placed by the Centre before the court in the same matter, also contains a finding that the stubble burning has been contributing about 35% to 40% of the total pollution load in Delhi-NCR.Interestingly the same affidavit, at another point, refers to a scientific study to maintain that stubble burning contributes a meagre 4% to PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollutants during the pre-winter and winter weeks. The source of this scientific study has not been named in the affidavit.Delhi-NCR has been in a grip of severe-plus air pollution as a toxic smog lingers over the Capital and its adjoining cities, leading to a public health emergency. This November has also seen the number of farm fires reaching a new high with the enforcement of a ban on the practice collapsing.On Saturday, the Supreme Court stepped in, imploring the Centre and the Delhi government to take “emergent measures”, including imposition of a lockdown in the national capital, to “immediately” control rising levels of air pollution.At the same time, the bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, lamented that “bashing farmers” over stubble burning has become a fashion even though there are several other major contributors to the hazardous air quality.When Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehra submitted that it is “probably” the stubble burning that has made the air quality index and PM 10 and PM 2.5 pollutants shoot up by several hundred points, the bench, which also comprised justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant, retorted: “What is this? Now, it has become a fashion to bash farmers, whether its Delhi government or someone else. You had imposed a ban on firecrackers in Delhi. But see what has been happening in the last 7-8 days. What are you doing? What are Delhi Police doing?”When the proceedings resumed on Monday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, conceded that the court was right when it said that stubble burning is not a major contributor of air pollution. “I must admit stubble burning is not a major contributor. It contributes only 10%,” he said.This prompted the bench to observe that the “hue and cry” over farm fires apparently had no legal, scientific or rational basis. The bench also noted that the Centre’s own affidavit refers to a study to say that stubble burning contributes only 4% to increase in PM 2.5 and PM 10, and therefore, “an insignificant source of pollution” was being targeted by everyone.But the anomaly in the Union government’s response was sought to be highlighted by senior advocate Vikas Singh, who was appearing for the 17-year-old petitioner, Aditya Dubey. He contended that the Centre is trying to mislead the court by claiming stubble burning is causing less than 10% pollution. He said that the high-powered committee, comprising senior officials of the Centre and governments of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP have recorded in the meeting on November 14 that stubble burning is responsible for 35%-40% of air pollution.HT has reviewed the Centre’s affidavit cited by Singh. The minutes of the meeting of the commission for air quality management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas, held on Sunday, records it categorically that farm fires and stubble burning partakes a major share in rising levels of pollution.“Post Diwali, there has been a spurt in the number of fire incidences owing to paddy stubble burning, particularly in Punjab where about 42,285 incidences have been reported in the last 10 days alone, out of the cumulative fire count of 62,863 till November 13 during this season. Likewise, the instances of paddy stubble burning in Haryana have also witnessed an increase compared to last year with 5,400 incidents being reported so far in 2021 against a cumulative figure of 3,635 in the corresponding period in 2020,” recorded the commission.It also made a recommendation in this regard to the state governments concerned. “Efforts need to be intensified to control the instances of stubble burning to minimum as currently the paddy stubble burning has been contributing about 35%- 40% of the total pollution load in Delhi-NCR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/debate-over-share-of-farm-fires-in-toxic-air-101637010983780.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Stubble fire emissions to stay low but AQI may worsen, say scientists||Air quality in Delhi will gradually deteriorate over the next 48 hours due to poor wind speed even as the contribution of farm fire emissions is expected to stay low, forecasting agencies said on Monday.
16-11-2021||Delhi||Experts say lockdown will do little to clear Delhi’s air||The Delhi government on Monday told the Supreme Court in an affidavit that it was willing to consider a lockdown in the national capital to bring down pollution levels if other NCR states agreed to do the same, but multiple experts believe such a step will achieve little in terms of controlling the bad air, cause major economic disruption, and trigger an emissions rebound once it is rolled back.The lockdown suggestion was first made on Saturday by the top court while taking stock of the Capital’s annual air emergency that has once again led to a toxic haze engulfing the city as measures by the Delhi and Union governments have once again failed to control the spike. The suggestion of locking down was in the context of Delhi alone, and the rationale behind it was that it will curb emissions from vehicles and industries, and road dust.But experts said this would only be a reactive measure that is unlikely to lead to any improvement now that the situation has turned serious. Mukesh Khare from IIT Delhi, who is also a former expert member of the now-dissolved Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control Authority), said that measures such as lockdowns, if at all, can be taken pre-emptively when there is a prediction of a drop in air quality.“We have forecasting systems which can tell when air quality will deteriorate and the concentration levels expected. Measures under Grap (Graded Response Action Plan) and a lockdown should be possibly based on that if required. It is even possible to feed data from the Covid-19 lockdown period and assess the possible reduction that could occur if a decision support system is used,” he said.Senior counsel Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, told the court on Monday that a lockdown will be of little use unless it is implemented across adjoining NCR regions in UP and Haryana.Another expert called the lockdown suggestion a “knee-jerk idea” that takes away from what is needed: focussed year-long measures. “It is a knee-jerk reaction, if it occurs. Once the lockdown is lifted, those sources of pollution will return once again and you are only looking at an extreme and temporary solution. What we need is action throughout the year,” he said, asking not to be named.A third expert said warned of the costs of such measures, especially when there is little scientific evidence it will lead to any significant gains. “It will set a terrible precedent, and show that we are not able to handle the spikes in pollution at this time of the year. We also cannot judge the meteorological factors that will be at play, even if a lockdown is imposed,” said Santosh Harish, fellow at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR).Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of the Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union said that the ban on construction activity in the Capital has already led to uncertainty in the sector, and feared workers might migrate back to their villages as they had when the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed last year.Inamul Haq, a private labour contractor in Delhi, said: “Workers are worried that the ban on construction activity will be extended as the air pollution situation is unlikely to improve. In the past too, the ban has been extended. It was after great difficulty I managed to get workers back from Bihar, West Bengal etc. Now, I don’t know how long this will continue.”Haq said that if the ban is extended then he might think of sending the labourers to other cities.Traders opposed the idea of a lockdown, too, “We hope there is no lockdown now, as it will hugely impact businesses. It is only recently that the rush is back in the markets and sales have picked up. A lockdown now will break the continuity. During the pandemic, traders have suffered a lot,” said Atul Bhargava, president of the New Delhi Traders Association in Connaught Place||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/experts-say-lockdown-will-do-little-to-clear-delhi-s-air-101637010510637.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 2 held for bogus billing worth ₹91.73cr||The anti-evasion wing of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) commissionerate, which is probing the ₹484-crore bogus billing scam busted in Khanna in March this year, arrested two more persons involved in availing Input Tax credit (ITC) of ₹13.50 crores through bogus billing of ₹91.73 crore. The two accused - Mohan Lal Verma and his son Mukesh Verma - had formed four bogus firms and were arrested in the Shimlapuri area on Sunday. The accused were produced before the duty magistrate and were remanded to judicial custody till November 26. As per the official, both the accused were involved in bogus billing of iron scrap, fabrics etc. The department had arrested the Khanna-based mastermind of the ₹484 crore bogus billing scam Baljinder Singh Bunty in March this year. Bunty was operating 19 bogus firms and availed input tax credit worth crores. Two more persons - Gurtej Singh and Sagar - were arrested for bogus billing and availing input tax credit in connivance with Bunty. Singh and Gurtej were proprietors of two bogus firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-held-for-bogus-billing-worth-9173cr-101637009963853.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Another aide of Anil Arora behind bars for hurting religious sentiments, 9 arrests so far||Ludhiana Yet another aide of Anil Arora, who is wanted for hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikhs, was arrested on Monday, taking the count of arrestees in the case to nine. The accused, Sanjiv Sharma of Jalandhar, is a close associate of Vasu Syal, another key accused. Police say Sharma was aware of the objectionable audio clip, in which the voice of Anil Arora and another accused Vasu Syal can be heard.Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Sharma had been arrested on the basis of the information provided by Vasu Syal of Zira, Ferozepur. Sharma had lent Syal ₹20,000 and helped him evade arrest by arranging his stay at different places outside Punjab. Arora and his accomplices have been booked under Sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code.Bhullar added that the police had received vital information regarding Anil Arora’s whereabouts during the interrogation and the police were very close to arresting him. Various teams of police led by additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, detective) Jagatpreet Singh, special branch in-charge inspector Beant Juneja, CIA staff in-charge sub-inspector Harminder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-another-aide-of-anil-arora-behind-bars-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-9-arrests-so-far-101637009783861.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar crime: Skeleton of abducted teenager recovered, 2 arrested||Four months after being abducted, an 18-year-old boy’s skeleton was recovered from the shrubs near a canal at Parowal Aliwal village on Monday.The Amritsar-rural police have also arrested two persons —Varinder Singh, alias Raju, and Prince of Nag Kalan village — at the instance of whom the remains of the victim, Rohit, of Bal Kalan village were recovered. Police said Varinder with the help of Prince had hacked Rohit to death. Varinder was considering Rohit an “obstacle” in his “illicit affair” with a woman, said the police.Rohit went missing on July 2 while returning from his work at a clinic at Nangli village. A case under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against unidentified persons at the Kambo police station on the complaint of his father.Senior superintendent of police (SSP-rural) Rakesh Kaushal said: “A team under the supervision of Kambo station house officer (SHO) was formed to investigate the case. The team, during their technical investigation, found that Varinder and Prince contacted Rohit before he went missing. Both the suspects were rounded up and during their questioning, they confessed that they killed the 18-year-old with a sharp-edged weapon.”“Varinder was in illicit relation with a woman and Rohit had told about it to the woman’s family. On July 2, Varinder and Prince took Rohit near the canal and killed him,” he said. The police have also recovered the weapon used in the crime. The accused will be produced in a local court on Tuesday. Police have added Section 302 (murder) and 304 (culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code in the first information report (FIR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-crime-skeleton-of-abducted-teenager-recovered-2-arrested-101637009483806.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Tipper Association demands revision of sand prices||Staging a protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office, the Ludhiana Tipper Association on Monday accused the police and administration of pressuring them to sell land for ₹5 per cubic foot. They claimed that earlier they were paid ₹32 per cubic foot but the prices had been slashed. “Selling sand at the rate fixed by the government is impossible and allowance should be made for vehicle maintenance expenses, diesel charges and other miscellaneous expenses,” he said.  Leading the protest Mohd Ilyas said, “The Punjab government had recently fixed the rate of sand at ₹5.5 per cubic foot at the sand pit. However, transportation charges are additional. However, authorities and locals demand that sand should be given to them at the rate announced by the government. It is impossible for us to deliver sand at such a price.” .He added that those associated with the tipper-truck business were incurring losses and if the situation did not improve,they will have to close down their businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-tipper-association-demands-revision-of-sand-prices-101637009424381.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Unemployed PTI teachers barge into Pargat’s premises, minister fumes||Members of the Unemployed Physical Training Instructor (PTI) Teachers’ Union on Monday entered the residential premises of Punjab education minister Pargat Singh in Jalandhar by climbing over the barricades and staged a protest in the courtyard. Later, police removed the protesters from the minister’s premises. Pargat Singh’s elderly parents were at home but he was not around. A scuffle also took place between the police personnel and union members after the latter entered the premises. Amandeep Kamboj, state president of union, said no PTI teacher has been recruited since 2006 even as they have been demanding to create 5,000 new posts in primary schools. Later, addressing the media in Chandigarh, Pargat said, “This is not fair. The protesting union members barged into my residence when I was busy discuss ways means to resolve their problems. “I have met these agitators umpteen times and directed the department to look into their demands sympathetically. But an irresponsible behaviour on part of protesters caused a huge inconvenience to my aged and ailing parents besides those residing in the area. I condemn this inhuman act,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unemployed-pti-teachers-barge-into-pargat-s-premises-minister-fumes-101637009243702.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||History-sheeter injured, mother killed in firing at Amritsar village||A history-sheeter was injured critically while his mother was killed in an indiscriminate firing in the broad daylight by two unidentified car-borne men at Chogawan village in Amritsar district’s Ajnala sub-division on Monday. The deceased was identified as Paramjit Kaur (50). The incident took place when Gagandeep Singh of Chogawan, who is facing 11 criminal cases, including that of attempt to murder and possession of illegal weapons, was talking to someone in a car outside his house in the local market around 1pm. According to eyewitnesses, the assailants fired 15 to 20 bullets.Lopoke station house officer (SHO) Kapil Kaushal said, “We have scanned closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage from the area. At 1.02pm, a Hyundai Verna car reached near the HDFC bank branch and men alighted from it and started firing. To save his life, Gagan fled towards his house, but the accused continued with the firing. One of the bullets hit Gagan’s mother. Gagan received three bullet injuries.” The assailants fled from the spot when people started gathering there, he said, adding that preliminary investigation suggested that gangster Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi Mahal may be behind the incident.Both were rushed to a private hospital in Amritsar, but Paramjit Kaur died on the way. Gagandeep’s condition is stated to be critical. “We have found that he had a rivalry with gangster Gopi Mahal. We suspect that Gopi’s men were behind the incident. We are waiting for the family’s statement to register a case. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act will be registered as per the family’s statement,” the SHO said. Their teams were working to identify and arrest the assailants.Gagandeep recently came out of jail and the last case was registered against him at the Lopoke police station in 2020. Also, Gopi is facing more than 18 criminal cases, including that of murder and attempt to murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/historysheeter-injured-mother-killed-in-firing-at-amritsar-village-101637009064096.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana officials told to hold meets with sweepers||Taking up the safai karamcharis grievances with administrative and municipal officials, Anjana Panwar, a member of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis, demanded that measures be taken to stop the exploitation of sweepers and sewermen at government establishments. Panwar, who met several officials, including deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, joint commissioner of police Harsh Dayama, additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal at the Circuit House on Monday, said regular meeting should be held with the safai sewaks or their union representatives to resolve their grievances and sensitise them about the welfare schemes floated by the Union and state governments. During the meeting, the safai karamcharis and union members accused the officials of corruption, apathy and harassment in releasing their salaries, and providing jobs on compassionate grounds. Taking note of the absence of a few officers from different departments, Panwar directed the administration to ensure that the message was conveyed to everyone. “The need of the hour to protect the interests of the weakest strata of society. The sweepers and sewermen are the real heroes of the Swacch Bharat Mission,” she said. Dalit Vikas Board chairman walks outAfter getting into a heated row with Panwar over the commission’s role in resolving the grievances and implementing the norms, Samay Singh Birla, the chairman of the state Dalit Vikas Board, walked out of the meeting.While Birla held that Panwar should get the norms implemented in the district, Panwar said the commission does not have any constitutional powers and merely works as a bridge between Class-4 employees and the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-officials-told-to-hold-meets-with-sweepers-101637009004255.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||12 firms booked for hoarding, overpricing of DAP fertiliser in Punjab||Following complaints of hoarding and overpricing of di-ammonia phosphate (DAP), a key fertiliser for rabi crops, the Punjab agriculture department got first information reports (FIRs) registered against 12 firms.FIRs were registered against firms which were engaged in overpricing, diversion of subsidised urea for industrial purpose, tagging other products, and sale of fertilizers from unauthorised sale points, said agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha. He said FIRs have been lodged against Mand Khad Store and Sidhu Kheti Store in Gurdaspur and Ranjit Pesticides in Nakodar, Jalandhar for overpricing. He said that the department has also registered a case against Victory Biotech Pvt. Ltd, Mansa, for sale of unbranded DAP and Ram Murti Gupta & Sons, Phillaur for alleged diversion of subsidised urea for industrial purposes. Thuha Pesticides and Seed Store, Zirakpur, was allegedly found tagging of other products with DAP, he added. Chugh Khad Bhandar, Chugh Trading Company Chugh Khad Store, Bhata Co-operative Fruit and Vegetable Processing Sabha and Ajay Trading Company all in Jalalabad were found involved in hoarding. Show-cause notices have also been issued to these firms, said the minister. Jindal Agency, Giddarbaha, was also found in the sale of fertiliser from unauthorised sale point, he said adding action was also initiated against the Patiala agriculture officer for inaction against hoarding and black marketing of the DAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12-firms-booked-for-hoarding-overpricing-of-dap-fertiliser-in-punjab-101637008884093.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy arrivals continue, Punjab asks Centre to up procurement target||With paddy arrivals still continuing in Punjab even after the agencies concerned shut the procurement operations on November 10, the state government has written to the Centre to allow purchase of the grain reaching the mandis. So far, at least 188 lakh tonne produce has arrived in the grain markets and 2-3 lakh tonne more is expected. State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu asked Union minister for food and public distribution Piyush Goyal to renew the procurement target to 191 lakh tonne. In a communication received by the state government from the Centre on August 31, the procurement of rice from Punjab was fixed at 113 lakh tonne (equivalent of 168.65 lakh tonne paddy) for the current season. “It is estimated that the total arrival of paddy this kharif season may surpass 190 lakh tonne,” said a demi-official communiqué by Ashu to the Union minister. An official in the state food and civil supplies department said, “So far, there is no reply from the Centre and we are sending another written reminder on Tuesday (through the department secretary).” On September 24, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had also requested Union food secretary during his visit to the state to revise the paddy procurement targets for the current season.At the start of the procurement season it was promised that the purchase of produce will continue till November 30, in line with the schedule followed by the state agencies in the past two years. Previously, the procurement that started on October 1 continued till December 15. This time, the procurement started on October 3. Due to late rainfall at the maturing stage of the crop, the harvesting was delayed and the Centre postponed the start of procurement till October 11 but it was advanced by a week after protests by farmers. At the start of the current season, procurement targets were set at 191 lakh tonne against the previous year’s all-time high procurement of 204 lakh tonne. Last year, rice of previous seasons in large volumes was brought from the outside states to be mixed with freshly shelled grain so as to make profits illegally. To check the malpractices, restrictions were imposed this time. On Sunday, 132 tonne paddy arrived in the state’s mandis, taking the total arrivals to 187.95 lakh tonne. Of the total 186.45 lakh tonne procurement so far, 167 lakh tonne has been lifted and 95,526 tonne bought by private millers. Nearly 20 lakh tonne is still lying in mandis. GRAPHIC: Produce purchase in mandis 187.95 lakh tonne: Total arrivals so far 167 lakh tonne: Lifted from mandis 21 lakh tonne: Still lying in mandis 168.65 lakh tonne: Centre’s procurement target this season||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-arrivals-continue-punjab-asks-centre-to-up-procurement-target-101637008823771.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana woman foils armed robbery at grocery store||A woman foiled a robbery bid by challenging the miscreants holding her husband at gunpoint in their grocery shop on Main Chowk, Machhiwara, on Sunday night.The complainant, Vishal Sood, a grocer, said he was about to close his shop when two masked miscreants with pistols in their hands barged into their shop and threatened to kill him. The robbers asked him to handover the money to them. However, just then his wife entered the shop from the back of the shop, which is connected to the house and challenged the robbers. Startled, the robbers fled. The incident has been captured on CCTV cameras. Inspector Rajesh Thakur, Machhiwara station house officer, said the police were trying to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-woman-foils-armed-robbery-at-grocery-store-101637008584013.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||8 extradition pleas in Bhola drug case pending with Canada: Centre to high court||Eight extradition requests against alleged “drug lords” sitting abroad are pending approval of the Canadian authorities, a ministry of external affairs (MEA) report in the Jagdish Bhola drug racket case has revealed. The report was filed in compliance with the Punjab and Haryana high court order on October 26. The court had sought a status report from the central government on extradition of those accused in the infamous drug case in which the court is monitoring proceedings against those accused. The report would be taken up for hearing on November 18. Those against whom extradition requests have been submitted include Ranjit Singh Aujla, Gursewak Singh Dhillon, Nirankar Singh Dhillon, Sarabjit Singh Sander, Lehmbar Singh Daleh, Amarjit Singh Kooner, Pardeep Singh Dhaliwal and Amrinder Singh Chheena. The report reveals that while proceedings in one case are pending before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and others are pending with the Department of Justice, Canada. THOSE ON THE LISTAmarjit Singh KoonerKooner is wanted in the 2013 FIR registered under the NDPS Act in Fatehgarh Sahib. Documents were forwarded to Canadian authorities in 2016. Reminders were sent in 2016 and 2018 and the latest in April 2021. The matter pending with the Department of Justice, Canada. Gursewak Singh Dhillon Wanted in the 2013 Fatehgarh Sahib FIR under the NDPS Act. Extradition documents were forwarded in 2016. Reminders sent in 2016 and 2018 and the latest one in April 2021. The matter is pending with the Department of Justice. Nirankar Singh Dhillon Wanted in the 2013 Fatehgarh FIR under the NDPS Act. Extradition documents were forwarded in 2016. Reminders sent in 2016 and 2018 and the latest in April 2021. The matter is pending with the DOJ. Sarabjit Sander Wanted in the 2013 Fatehgarh FIR. Extradition documents were forwarded in 2016. Reminders sent in 2016 and 2018 and the latest in April 2021. The matter pending with DOJ. Lehmbar Singh Daleh Wanted in the 2013 Fatehgarh Sahib drug FIR. Extradition documents were forwarded in 2016. Reminders sent in 2016 and 2018 and the latest in April 2021. The matter is pending with DOJ. Amrinder Singh Chheena Chheena, alias Laddi is wanted in the 2013 Fatehgarh Sahib drug FIR. His documents were forwarded in 2016 and reminders were sent in 2016 and 2018 and the latest in April 2021. The matter is pending with DOJ. Pardeep Singh Dhaliwal Wanted in the 2013 Fatehgarh Sahib FIR. Extradition documents were forwarded in 2016 and reminders sent in 2016 and 2018 with the latest in April 2021. The matter is pending with DOJ. Ranjit Singh Aujla Wanted in the 2013 Fatehgarh Sahib FIR. Extradition documents were forwarded in 2016. Reminders sent in 2016 and 2018 and the latest in April 2021. The matter is pending with DOJ. Ranjit Kaur Kahlon Wanted in the 2013 in Fatehgarh FIR. Extradition request made in 2017 with reminders sent in 2018 and April 2021. Pending approval of DOJ. Parminder Singh DeoDeo, alias Pindi is wanted in the 2013 drug FIR registered in Patiala. Extradition proceedings were initiated in 2017 and in 2018 more information sought from the Canadian authorities. Pending approval with DOJ. Kanwar Baljit SinghWanted in a Narcotics Control Bureau case of 2013 under the NDPS Act. Extradition proceedings initiated in 2017 and then in 2018. More documents sought by the Canadian authorities. The NCB apprised of the matter in 2018. The matter pending with NCB, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-extradition-pleas-in-bhola-drug-case-pending-with-canada-centre-to-high-court-101637008463724.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs cases: Contempt petition moved against Sidhu||A criminal contempt petition has been moved before advocate general, Haryana, against Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for his reported tweets about ongoing proceedings in Punjab’s drugs racket case before the high court.Haryana AG Baldev Raj Mahajan has scheduled a preliminary hearing of the matter on Tuesday on the plea moved by Parampreet Singh Bajwa, a high court lawyer, who is also treasurer of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association. The plea seeks consent of advocate general for initiation of contempt proceedings against Sidhu by high court. It alleges that Sidhu tweets about the drugs case just when it is to be taken up by high court. His act “substantially” interferes with “due course of justice” since Twitter is a public platform and he has 9.77 lakh followers. He knows his tweets are widely read and generate huge publicity, it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drugs-cases-contempt-petition-moved-against-sidhu-101637008403807.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leaders by her side, Sonu Sood’s sister starts campaign in Moga segment||A day after announcing her entry into Punjab politics, Malvika Sood Sachar, sister of Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, on Monday started her political campaign by holding public meetings in the Moga constituency with leaders and workers of the Congress’ district unit by her side. On Monday, she along with Sonu, district planning board chairman Inderjit Singh Charik and former district Congress president Babu Singh visited at least 10 villages to address gatherings in view of the upcoming assembly elections. At a press conference on Sunday, Sonu had announced that Malvika, 39, will contest the polls. But he refused to reveal the name of the party she will be joining and the seat she will contest from, while showing preference for their hometown. Moga MLA Harjot Kamal is fearing for his ticket due to Malvika’s political campaign. Sources in the district Congress unit said the defeat of the MLA’s wife in the Moga municipal corporation polls has lowered his standing within the party. His wife Rajinder Kaur was the candidate for mayoral post but lost to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate Harwinder Kaur Gill from ward number 1. Besides, Congress had won only 20 of a total of 50 wards even as 10 independent candidates joined the party later. Indirjit Singh Charik said, “Sonu and Malvika are like family to me. We are always there for each other. Besides, I had gone to villages along with Sonu and Malvika to extend my support to their mission of helping the unprivileged and the needy. These were not political events and we were there for the social cause.” Babu Singh said, “We along with Sonu Sood met people to know their problems. We all will resolve their issues. These were more of social gathering.”Talking to mediapersons, Sonu Sood said, “There are a number of people in villages, who need help, but they do not find any way. Therefore, our motive is to find those people who can take responsibility for helping people.” MLA Kamal did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-leaders-by-her-side-sonu-sood-s-sister-starts-campaign-in-moga-segment-101637008163966.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana bus contractor issues notice to ministers, authorities over ‘illegal’ buses on city routes||With city bus services struggling to make a profit, a bus contractor has served a legal notice to the ministers concerned and local authorities for failing to tighten the noose around the transport mafia, which he claimed was plying ‘illegal’ buses on city bus routes.The notice has been served to transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, local bodies’ minister Brahm Mohindra, the state transport commissioner, Ludhiana Regional Transport Authority assistant transport officer, local bodies’ department secretary, Ludhiana municipal commissioner; commissioner of police and Ludhiana City Bus Services Limited. Accusing the ministers and local authorities of being hand in glove with the transport mafia, the contractor alleged that the authorities concerned had failed to act on his complaints, which had caused his company to incur losses. He pointed out that his agreement specifies that no private bus will be allowed to ply on city bus routes. The contractor Jaskirat Singh said no action was taken against private buses and auto rickshaws that have been plying on city bus routes, due to which the footfall in city buses had reduced. He also alleged that in July a few members of the auto-rickshaw union had also manhandled their staff in Sahnewal, but the culprits were let go scot-free. “It has come to our knowledge that the transport department is renewing the permits given to private buses to ply on city bus routes, which is against our agreement with Ludhiana City Bus service Limited. We will be left with no other option than to move court, if authorities still fail to act against the illegal buses,” said Singh.Despite attempts to reach MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, he remained unavailable for comments. One of the officials said that a meeting had been scheduled to discuss the matter on Tuesday. At present, the city bus service is only running on two routes. Of 120 buses, 83 have been transferred to the contractor, of which, only 25 are being operated. The contractor had also moved the high court a few years ago, after the MC had served a termination notice to his company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bus-contractor-issues-notice-to-ministers-authorities-over-illegal-buses-on-city-routes-101637008043771.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Air pollution: More than 65,000 farm fires recorded in Punjab this season||More than 65,000 farm fire incidents have been recorded across Punjab this season despite penalties imposed by the authorities and efforts made for management of crop residue, officials said on Monday.Farmers kept flouting the ban on paddy stubble burning across the state, and around 2,500 farm fire incidents were witnessed on Sunday, with Sangrur district accounting for the most of them, they said.To curb the practice, the state government has so far imposed an environmental compensation of ₹2.46 crore on erring growers, said an official of the Punjab Pollution Control Board.Punjab saw 65,404 stubble burning incidents till Sunday, as against 73,893 registered till November 14 last year, the official added.Though the number of farm fires this year so far is less than last year, it has crossed the 2019 figures.Punjab had seen 76,590 incidents of field fires in 2020 as compared to 52,991 in 2019, as per the data.The farm fires continued unabated despite the state government deputing nodal officers across Punjab to check these and giving more machines for management of crop residue.Farmers’ burn paddy stubble in order to clear their fields to sow the next crop, but the fumes of these fires causes air pollution.According to farmers, it is not feasible for them, especially small and marginal growers, to purchase farm machinery for the management of crop residue.“We want the government to give us ₹200 per quintal as bonus for management of paddy straw,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan.Farmers of Punjab and Haryana are often blamed for causing air pollution by burning paddy straw.Punjab alone generates an estimated 20 million tonnes of paddy stubble annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-pollution-more-than-65-000-farm-fires-recorded-in-punjab-this-season-101637007863886.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t punish Akali Dal, SGPC for my faults, says Sukhbir Badal at Golden Temple||Having faced the flak over the issue of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday exhorted the Sikh community not to punish the party and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for his “faults or flaws”. Addressing the devotees at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar to mark the SGPC’s 101st foundation day, Sukhbir said, “We must identify who is our own and who is not. I may have flaws. I may commit a fault or a sin, but the Akali Dal or SGPC must not be punished for that. I may be replaced as party chief tomorrow. But the institutions will be there and they are real strength of the Sikhs. They need to be defended by defeating the propaganda of the Congress”, he added.The Akali Dal and the apex gurdwara body, he said, are repositories of Sikhs’ faith and of the Punjabis’ trust in the Guru’s philosophy.“Both belong to all those who subscribe to the Panthic philosophy and Punjabi identity,” he said. Differences among Sikhs can and must be resolved within the family. Criticise me, correct me whenever you think I am wrong. But do not join the Panth’s enemies to weaken our treasured institutions,” the SAD chief said. Unfortunately, the Congress is spreading false propaganda despite their entire cabinet led by Parkash Singh Badal tendered an apology for the sacrilege incidents taking place during the SAD’s tenure in government, he said.“We tried to solve these cases, but we had to hand over the inquiry to the CBI under the circumstances. Ironically, the issue is being raised by the party that attacked the Sri Darbar Sahib with tanks and massacred thousands of our brothers and sisters,” Sukhbir said. Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh appealed to the Sikhs to unite to further strengthen the SGPC.SGPC president Jagir Kaur said preachers of different languages would be recruited and sent on tours to different states and countries for spreading Sikhism. “The Central Sikh Museum would be further expanded and the Sikh history would be portrayed in a modern way,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-punish-akali-dal-sgpc-for-my-faults-says-sukhbir-badal-at-golden-temple-101637007685525.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mathura jeweller booked for threatening Ludhiana businessman||A Mathura-based jeweller and his aides were booked for defaming and threatening a city-based businessman and his family on Sunday over a business dispute. It is alleged that the accused, Yashu Aggarwal of Mathura, UP, and his aides had ordered furniture from the complainant, Gyaneshwar Sood of Citizen Enclave, Barewal Road, but had refused to pay for the same. Sood owns an interior designing firm in Ludhiana and had received a ₹9.5-crore order from Aggarwal in 2017 for renovating their house in Mathura. However, the accused only paid the first instalment of ₹25 lakh, even though Sood claims that he had sent him articles worth ₹4 crore. Later, Aggarwal filed a case against the complainant in Mathura, which was cancelled after an investigation. Soon after, the accused started harassing Sood and his family. “They threatened my father with a gun outside our house on June 3, 2020, tried to kidnap my sister-in-law in September, and also sent us derogatory messages,” he told the police. Sub-inspector Amritpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said the mobile used to send the derrogatory messages is registered to Aggarwal. Besides, they have defamed Sood and his family on social media. A case was registered against the accused under Sections 341(wrongful restraint), 511 (attempt to commit an offence), 294 (obscene act), 500 (defamation), and 506 (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mathura-jeweller-booked-for-threatening-ludhiana-businessman-101637007563827.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||40 cartridges stolen from gunhouse in Sangrur||Thieves took away 40 cartridges by digging a hole in the wall of a gunhouse in Dirba town on Sunday night. Police said that the incident took place near Patran-Sangrur national highway.Sangrur superintendent of police (investigation) Palwinder Singh Cheema said 40 cartridges were found missing. The police are checking records of arms and ammunition in the gun house.Cheema said CCTV footage is also being checked. “Initially, a case of theft has been registered against unidentified persons. Further action will be taken after investigation,” added the SP.Dirba MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema alleged that the theft at a gun house was a failure of law and order situation in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40-cartridges-stolen-from-gunhouse-in-sangrur-101637007503668.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (Sanyukt), Punjab Lokhit Party announce alliance for assembly polls||The Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and the Punjab Lokhit Party on Monday announced alliance for the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections slated early next year. The Punjab Lokhit Party is led by four-time MLA from Ludhiana and former state jail minister Malkiat Singh Birmi. Addressing the media in Mohali, SAD (Sanyukt) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said, “It is sure that no party will get majority in the polls. Without our support no party can form government in Punjab.” In the next two weeks, the third alternative of an important political party will be seen in Punjab, he added. “People of Punjab are frustrated with the Congress, the BJP and the Badals-led Akali Dal. The farmers have been sitting on the streets for the last one year for the repeal of three black laws. The people of Punjab need a third alternative which no one party but for a common alliance of Punjab-friendly groups can offer,” he said. Birmi has the support of about 35 OBC wings that have jointly formed the Punjab Lokhit Party, he claimed. Birmi said he had been holding constant discussions with Dhindsa for the betterment of Punjab and the Panth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-sanyukt-punjab-lokhit-party-announce-alliance-for-assembly-polls-101637007445337.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Five-day Kapal Mochan Mela begins in Yamunanagar||Five-day Kapal Mocha Mela and a large exhibition was formally launched by additional chief secretary, revenue and financial commissioner Sanjeev Kaushal in Yamunanagar’s Bilaspur on Monday. A large number of devotees from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan visit the site, which is also called the karambhoomi (workplace) of Maharishi Ved Vyas, and adjoining Adi Badri, Sri Sarasvati Udgam Tirath, to take holy dip at three prominent sarvovar -- Kapal Mochan, Rinn Mochan and Surajkund. District administration has regulated extra buses and other facilities from Yamunanagar and Jagadhri bus stands, almost 20 kilometres away. Single-dose vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour has also been mandated for the devotees. Ambala division commissioner Renu S Phulia said over three lakh pilgrims visited the mela on the first day. Kaushal said that 40 stalls by various departments and organisations have been set up at the mela. He added that the administration managed to make arrangements for the mela within 12 days of announcement. Earlier, the state government had decided to cancel the mela this year due to a purported third wave of Covid. But the decision was reversed within days, after requests by locals for reconsideration as the mela that provides employment to thousands, remained cancelled last year due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fiveday-kapal-mochan-mela-begins-in-yamunanagar-101637007443762.html
16-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Two months later, man arrested for raping niece at Kasna home||Police arrested a 38-year-old man on Monday for allegedly raping his niece, 18, in Greater Noida in September-mid this year, said officials.The suspect is a resident of Kasna in Greater Noida. Ranpal Singh, senior sub-inspector, Kasna police station, said that the man and his niece’s family are also neighbours.“On the day of the incident, the suspect’s family members were away, and he called the victim to his house to prepare some bread for him. He allegedly entered the kitchen and locked the door from inside, and sexually assaulted the victim,” he said.He had also threatened the 18-year-old of consequences, if she disclosed the matter to anyone. The scared victim returned home and “did not disclose the matter to her family members because of his threats, and social pressure”.As the victim’s family members had been questioning her about the change in her behaviour, she finally told them about the incident on Sunday.The victim’s father approached the police on Sunday night, informing them that the suspect had raped his daughter two months ago, Singh said. A case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 376 (rape) at the Kasna police station on Sunday night.“The suspect had fled his home after the FIR was registered. We conducted a search on Monday and arrested him from Khanpur village in New Delhi,” Singh said, adding that the suspect was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-two-months-later-man-arrested-for-raping-niece-at-kasna-home-101637007143854.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to organise International Gita Mahotsav from December 2 to 19||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Haryana government has decided to organise the International Gita Mahotsav on a large scale at Kurukshetra from December 2 to 19. This was announced by the Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar on Monday.Lakhs of devotees from across the country converge on to the Brahma Sarovar, where several rituals, including lighting of diyas and chanting of mantras, are carried out during the Mahotsav.Last year due to Covid 19 pandemic, the Haryana government had reduced the International Gita Mahotsav to a mere online show and the celebrations were limited to only a few programmes, such as International Gita Webinar and online Gita Path.According to the deputy commissioner, this year, the Saras Craft Mela will be organised from December 2 to 19 and the religious programmes will be organised from December 9 to 14. Online Gita Quiz will be organised from November 21 to December 8, Gita Marathon will be organised on November 28 and wall and floor painting competition will be organised on November 21 and 22. Gita seminar will be organised on December 10 and slogan chanting will be done by around 55,000 students on December 14, he added.When asked about the funds allocation for the Gita Mahotsav, Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of the Kurukshetra Development Board said that the estimates for the expenditures are yet to be finalised.The information, provided by the Kurukshetra Development Board in a reply of an application filed by a Panipat-based advocate Amit Rathee under the RTI Act, revealed that the Bharatiya Janata Party led Haryana government had spent ₹42.16 crores in organising International Gita Mahotsav (IGM) between 2016 to 2019. The maximum ₹15.20 crores were spent in 2017, followed by ₹11.07 crores in 2018, ₹9.59 crores in 2016 and ₹6.28 core in 2019, revealed the reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-to-organise-international-gita-mahotsav-from-december-2-to-19-101637006963679.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir witnesses bumper tourist season this year||Kashmir has witnessed a good tourist season this year so far despite the Covid’s second wave hitting the country in April, May and June.Officials said over 4.25 lakh visitors toured places in the Himalayan valley till the first week of November and the outlook for winter is also bright with advance bookings in most of the hotels.October witnessed a record footfall of 91,000 – which is otherwise considered a lean month. Many people chose to celebrate their Diwali in Kashmir with 25,000 arrivals in the first week of November.“This is a bumper season as we have the highest footfall in October which is usually a lean period,” said Zeeshan Khan, assistant director tourism department, publicity.Bilal Ahmad, assistant director tourism, Pahalgam, said post-Covid, the tourism scenario this year was good.“These are lean months, but surprisingly we are getting record tourist numbers and many of them are high-end visitors,” he added. He said they have already crossed four lakh visitors till October end and the numbers are increasing. The tourism in Kashmir had nosedived after August 5, 2019, when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked. The situation was further aggravated by the Covid-induced lockdown the next year. The ski resort of Gulmarg has also been reaping benefits this year, particularly drawing elite visitors. “Our hotels are booked. This is after 2008 that we have been seeing such inflow, particularly since last winter’s snowfall, though there was some break in May and June,” said Javid ul Rehman, assistant director tourism, Gulmarg.He said that many elite groups have been making their way to Kashmir.“There is hardly any day when the most expensive hotel in Gulmarg where a room costs 50,000 a day does not remain booked,” he said. “There can be two reasons. One is restrictions on foreign travel, so Kashmir is an option for such high-end tourists and another is many people have been holed up in their homes owing to Covid and they want to relax,” Rehman said.The footfall has buoyed the economy to some extent which has been under increased stress. Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) president Sheikh Ashiq acknowledged the positive impact of tourism revival on the economy, but wanted the government to work on making Kashmir a 12-month destination.“Definitely when there is no business and something positive happens, it helps,” Ashiq said.He said that the focus on high-end tourists is good but at the same time we want that the lower and middle segment should also be attracted.“The middle segment of tourists should not be ignored as they are a boon to the industry,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-witnesses-bumper-tourist-season-this-year-101637006847259.html
16-11-2021||Noida||Noida: 2 labourers die after basement wall of a four-storey building collapses||Two men died after a wall collapsed in the basement of a four-storey building in Noida Sector 2 on Monday evening.One of the victims was identified as Atum Das (45) -- a resident of West Bengal, and the second person is yet to be identified, said police.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the incident took place at Block A in Sector 2 -- under the jurisdiction of Sector 20 police station -- at 8pm on Monday.“There is a four-storey building in which three workers were engaged in some construction work in the basement. A portion of a wall in the basement suddenly collapsed, in which two workers were injured,” Singh said.Security guards of the building, and the third worker raised an alarm, and informed the police about the incident. The two injured workers were taken to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared them dead.Singh said that a contractor named Rajan had engaged the labourers into the construction works. “Rajan and the third worker have fled the spot. We will register a case soon, and investigate the matter,” he said.The two bodies have been sent for a post-mortem and reports are awaited, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-2-labourers-die-after-basement-wall-of-a-four-storey-building-collapses-101637006483694.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Railway police to auction ‘jinxed’, seized vehicles||‘Doomed’ vehicles cursed with ‘drivers’ bad luck’, vehicles left parked in the parking zones of the Ludhiana railway station, and unclaimed stolen vehicles will soon be auctioned by the Government Railway Police.The railway police have been left with the custody of 165 unclaimed vehicles, mostly bikes and scooters, of which 110 will be auctioned, say officials.Many vehicles are those involved in a crash, but have not been claimed by the victims’ kin, fearing the vehicle to be jinxed. “We do contact the relatives of the deceased after completing legal formalities and ask them to take the vehicle with them. However, more often than not they bluntly refuse saying the vehicle may prove to be unlucky for other family members as well. We are left with no other option but to dump the vehicle at the backyard of the police station,” a GRP official said.Parking fee surpasses cost of vehicleHowever, not all vehicles to be auctioned belong to accident victims, a few also belong to those who parked their vehicles in the marked parking zones of Ludhiana railways pre-Covid, but failed to pay for the space.“People have parked their two-wheelers in these areas before the Covid lockdown. However, now that the rent of the parking has exceeded the cost of the vehicle, people have refused to claim the vehicle,” says inspector Jaskaran Singh. “We have tried to resolve such parking disputes and a few people took their vehicles back after paying concessional parking fees. However, ,many left their vehicles in the said parking areas, saying they will buy a new vehicle instead of paying the parking fee!” said Singh.Unclaimed stolen vehiclesA few vehicles were taken in custody as there were no number plates on them and they may be stolen vehicles. The GRP has now formed a committee to auction the vehicles (case properties) stranded at the GRP Police station for many years. The committee will decide the reserve price of the unclaimed vehicles.The committee includes GRP deputy superintendent of police, inspector, transport officer, manager roadways and DIC general manager. “The committee is yet to decide the date of the auction. It was supposed to be held last month, but due to a strike of the ministerial staff , the meeting of the committee was postponed. Since the strike has ended, soon proceedings will be initiated after the coordination with the DC office,” he added. The GRP will hold the auction under Section 25 of the Police Act (police- officer to take charge of unclaimed property, and be subject to magistrate’s orders as to disposal) and under Section 102 of the CRPC (any police officer, may seize any property which may be alleged or suspected to have been stolen, or which may be found under circumstances which create suspicion of the commission of any offence).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-railway-police-to-auction-jinxed-seized-vehicles-101637006244133.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP government insensitive to plight of farmers: Mehbooba||PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday strongly criticised the government for not being ‘sensitive’ to the plight of farmers, who recently suffered losses due to hail and snow to their paddy crops and apple produce in Jammu and Kashmir regions. She was on a visit to RS Pura and Bishnah areas to meet party workers. “Rice farmers of Jammu and those growing apple and dry fruits in Kashmir have suffered losses in recent rain, hail and snow. They are major contributors in the economy, but it seems that the administration, instead of assessing the damage on the ground, decided the compensation within four walls of their offices,” Mehbooba said. The administration, it may be stated here, has declared heavy spell of rain and snow on October 23 and 24 as ‘state-specific natural disaster’ under state disaster response fund (SDRF) norms for the purpose of providing relief to the affected farmers. Jammu, Udhampur, Kishtwar, Reasi, Samba and Kathua in Jammu division and Anantnag, Kulgam and Shopian in south Kashmir were the districts covered under the declaration. “I am told that the government assured peanuts to the farmers of RS Pura, Bishnah, Samba and other plains of Jammu as compensation, where farmers have suffered extensive damage to their standing crops,” said the former CM. “Sudden change in weather has damaged the crop of farmers and brought them to the verge of starvation but government, I am told, has fixed ₹600 compensation per kanal, which is a humiliation to the farmers,” she added. She said the BJP government has adopted a hostile attitude towards the farmers across the country and it seems Jammu and Kashmir is no different. “While they claim to provide free ration to 80 crore people of the country, they seem to miss the point that the one producing this food is the farmer of this country who has been at the receiving end of the anti-farmer policies of this government,” she said in a clear reference to the ongoing protest by the farmers against the three contentious farms laws. People of J&K will teach a lesson to BJP in next elections: GA Mir J&K Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir on Monday said that people of J&K will teach BJP a lesson akin to Himachal Pradesh byelections. Addressing a rally at Nagrota in Jammu district, he said, the ruling party continue to commit atrocities on the people and all sections of society are great sufferers due to its policies. Mir said that the BJP has let loose a reign of terror from tax terrorism to all sorts of other anti-poor, anti-farmers, anti-youth and anti-trade policies besides looting the local resources after the arbitrary disbanding and downgrading of historic Dogra state of J&K. He further that the BJP was offering jobs to outsiders at the expense of local youth thereby increasing unemployment in J&K. The protest rally was part of Nationwide ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan’ of the Congress. He said that a solitary stroke by the people in Himachal Pradesh in recent byelections forced the Modi government to scrap the prices of petrol and diesel. “People of Jammu have got only toll plazas, privatisation of power and offering of local resources and jobs to outsiders,” he said. “The people of country, especially J&K, feel cheated by the BJP and would teach a lesson to the ruling party in coming elections, as and when they are held,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-government-insensitive-to-plight-of-farmers-mehbooba-101637006123656.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt claims 38% dip in farm fires, but air polluted in most cities||Even as Haryana government has been reporting a 38% dip in stubble burning cases this year, the air quality index of most cities in the state continue to remain in the ‘poor’ or ‘very poor’ category.As per the Haryana Space Application Centre’s data of the rice-residue burning events from September 15 to November 14, the state has reported 5,595 farm fires against 8,831 incidents reported during the same period last year. But the central pollution control board’s air bulletin revealed that the AQI of at least 15 cities, including Narnaul (359), Jind (350), Manesar (342), Ballabgarh (339), Bahadurgarh (332), Gurugram (332), Charkhi-Dadri (323), Sirsa (321), Faridabad (319), Rohtak (319), Dharuhera (317), Hisar (308), Fatehabad (306), Bhiwani (251) and Ambala (219), were in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday. The AQI of six other cities, namely Yamunanagar (248), Sonepat (274), Panipat (280), Kurukshetra (232), Karnal (223) and Kaithal (261) was categorised “poor” as the AQI remained between 200 and 300. As per officials from the state agriculture department, there is a difference between the number of active fire locations detected by HARSAC and the actual fire locations verified on the ground by officials after physical verification. For example in Karnal, the HARSAC has identified 897 active fire locations but officials have found only 735 incidents on ground and only 678 of them were on agricultural land. Similarly, out of 1,112 AFLs reported in Kaithal district by HARSAC, only 586 were found on the agriculture land and 526 AFLs detected by HARSAC could not be verified by the field staff.Kaithal deputy director, agriculture, Karam Chand said, “There were also problems in the locations of the stubble burning detected by the satellite. Several locations picked up in the satellite monitoring were even traced to Punjab.”Officials monitoring stubble burning said the air quality of cities like Karnal, Kaithal and Kurukshetra, where maximum cases of stubble burning were reported, was better than cities like Faridabad, Bahadurgarh, Sonipat, Charkhi-Dadri, Gurugram, Rohtak, and Hisar, where the incidents of farm fires are negligible.“Farm fires alone cannot be blamed for air pollution. There are several other factors like industrial pollution, emission from vehicles and construction activities that are equally responsible for the toxic air, especially in the NCR,” said a senior officer of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, pleading anonymity. Haryana agriculture and farmers welfare department director general Hardeep Singh said, “No-doubt we have managed to bring the number of farm fires down this year with the help of machines, but the challenge is to bring farm fires to zero and more efforts are required so that the crop waste could be made useful.”He said there is a need to make paddy residue valuable as in areas where farmers grow basmati varieties and the crop is harvested manually, there is no problem of stubble burning as they use parali (crop waste) as cattle fodder.Ratan Mann, a farmer leader, said, “It’s easy to blame farmers for air pollution of Delhi but why is the air of Karnal and Kaithal better than the other cities despite having maximum cases of stubble burning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-claims-38-dip-in-farm-fires-but-air-polluted-in-most-cities-101637005823607.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Appointment of registrar: Former PAU functionaries object to Punjab govt’s decision||Former vice-chancellor Kirpal Singh Aulakh and other senior Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) functionaries have raised objections over the state government’s decision to hold an interview to appoint a registrar for the varsity, which will be conducted on Tuesday.Aulakh said that even though the post of V-C has been lying vacant since June, the authorities are instead eager to fill the post of registrar.NS Malhi, former director of extension, PAU and ex vice-chancellor of Guru Kashi University, Talwandi Sabo, has also objected to filling the post of registrar prior to appointment of V-C .“It is always the prerogative of the V-C to appoint an able and competent person of his choice to manage the working of PAU efficiently for his term. Further, the advertisement for the post of registrar has already lost its sanctity as it has already crossed the limit of six months and fresh applications are needed to be invited as per norms,” said Dr Malhi.President of PAU Teachers’ Association Harmeet Singh Kingra and secretary KS Sangha said that the advertisement for the post of registrar was issued on February 21 this year. According to the government rules, the advertisement will have to be issued again to fill this post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/appointment-of-registrar-former-pau-functionaries-object-to-punjab-govt-s-decision-101637005583645.html
16-11-2021||Noida||SHO justifies below the knee shooting of seven accused of cow slaughter||The Ghaziabad police chief on Monday ordered a probe by a circle officer after a general diary (GD) noting from the Loni police station — made by the transferred out station house officer alleging that he was being unfairly targeted for acting against cow slaughter suspects — got leaked on social media on Sunday. Police said the inquiry was ordered after station house officer (SHO) Rajendra Kumar Tyagi made the GD entry on the night of November 13, criticising his transfer to another police station and stating that it was linked to the incident of November 11, when he and his team led a crackdown on seven cow slaughter suspects in Loni and all seven suspects sustained gunshot wounds to their legs. GD entries mainly document the daily happenings in a police station and include the arrival and departure of police officers, details of law and order, arrests and even visits of senior officers, among others. A copy of the GD is currently doing the rounds on social media and in it, Tyagi also states that the shooting of the suspects was right and senior officers should have held an inquiry before transferring him on November 13. “I was shocked when I heard of my transfer. So, I made the entry in the GD and went home instead of joining the new posting in Indirapuram. If gunshot wounds to seven suspects created any suspicion of foul play, it should have been inquired into. Had I been found erring during such an inquiry, I would have happily accepted any punishment. I have been a sharp shooter since my early days with the police and I still keep practising,” Tyagi told Hindustan Times. According to police, acting on a tipoff, they cracked down a godown in Behta Hajipur area of Loni around 6.30am on November 11 and exchanged fire with the suspects, in which all seven suspects were wounded in the leg. The police also seized seven countrymade weapons, 12 live cartridges and seven empty cartridges from the suspects, besides the seizure of several slaughtered animals. “All seven suspects fired shots at my team and we fired 16 rounds in retaliation. My actions were as per procedure but two days later, my transfer was ordered and it seems to be in connection with the crackdown incident. If such things prevail, police officers would hesitate to act against cow slaughter suspects in the future. I am shattered by the treatment meted out to me and may not resume my duty if such treatment continues,” Tyagi said. Coming to Tyagi’s aid, Loni MLA Nand Kishor Gurjar on November 14 shot off a letter to the senior superintendent of police Pawan Kumar and also marked a copy to additional chief secretary (home). “I feel that the police who countered cow slaughters should have been rewarded instead. I have come to know that there was pressure on the SHO to remove names of some people connected to the slaughtering incident. When the SHO did not budge, he was transferred,” the MLA said. Ghaziabad SSP Pawan Kumar said, “I have directed an inquiry by a circle officer in connection with the incident of leak of the contents of the GD, a government document, from the police station. Action will be taken against anyone found erring in this regard. As regards the comments made by the SHO in GD, he was transferred under a routine administrative procedure and it should not be seen in light or as an aftermath of the slaughter incident.”“If the SHO is not joining duty at Indirapuram police station, he will be termed as absent and departmental action will follow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sho-justifies-below-the-knee-shooting-of-seven-accused-of-cow-slaughter-101637005464848.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Six more die of Covid in Himachal||With six more fatalities due to Covid on Monday, Himachal’s death count has climbed to 3,804. Three deaths were reported in Kangra, two in Hamirpur and one in Mandi. A total of 66 people have died of the infection in the first fortnight of November. The Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) has been 3.9% during this period. Highest 34 deaths have been reported in Kangra during the first 15 days of November, 11 in Hamirpur and five each in Shimla and Una. On Monday, 125 fresh infections took the state’s total case tally to 2,25,893. The active cases again rose to 1,113 while the recoveries have reached 2,20,959 after 99 people recuperated. Meanwhile, Shakti Helpline, a Dharamshala-based social initiative, will be distributing free Covid kits, which include masks, sanitisers and other necessary material, to the school going children in Dharamshala assembly area. The Shakti Helpline was launched by All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former Himachal minister Sudhir Sharma when Covid was at peak in HP earlier this year.Jammu and Kashmir recorded 108 fresh Covid cases and three deaths, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 89 cases were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 19 infections. Two persons succumbed to the virus in the Valley while one person lost life in Jammu. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 103 with active cases reaching 1,517.The recoveries reached 3,28,318 and its rate climbed up to 98.21%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have mounted to 3,34,288 and the death toll stands at 4,453.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-more-die-of-covid-in-himachal-101637005463692.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Motorists suffer as Haryana fuel dealers go on strike over slashing of VAT||Motorists had a harrowing time on Monday as private fuel dealers in Haryana went on a strike to protest against the Centre’s decision to slash value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. Though government-operated fuel stations continued to run as usual, at private stations, commuters were seen pleading with the employees for fuel. Krishan Lal, a commuter seen standing outside a fuel station in Karnal, said, “I was not aware of the strike and I needed fuel to go to Gharaunda for a wedding.”Haryana Petroleum Dealers Welfare Association had given a 12-hour strike call from 6 am to 6pm on November 15 while the Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association said they will hold a 24-hour protest from 6 am on November 15 to 6 am on November 16.The dealers alleged that they were facing losses due to the sudden decision of the Union government to reduce central excise duty as they had to sell their fuel stock at reduced prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/motorists-suffer-as-haryana-fuel-dealers-go-on-strike-over-slashing-of-vat-101637005406522.html
16-11-2021||Noida||UP government holds mass marriage event for over 2,300 couples in Ghaziabad||More than 2,300 couples from different communities got married in a mega mass-marriage event in Ghaziabad, organised by the Uttar Pradesh government, on Monday.Several state government ministers also attended the ceremony and blessed the newly wedded couples. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, blessed the couples via video conferencing.Out of the total 2,306 couples, 812 couples from the Muslim community and six couples from the Buddhist community. The remaining couples were from the Hindu community. The couples are residents of Ghaziabad, Hapur and Bulandshahr, according to the officials.“The mass marriage event was held on the auspicious day of ‘devutthan ekdashi’ and the labour department put in a lot of efforts to make it successful. Daughters are above caste, beliefs and religion... They are daughters to everyone. There’s a saying -- ‘Gaon Ki Beti, Sab Ki Beti’... You should remember that mass marriage events could not take place here before 2017, as the state administration did not make arrangements for it,” CM Adityanath said on Monday.“Someone who has experienced the pain and suffering of the poor will be able to help them out. Such events create social participation... the entire society attends such events. Relatives of many such women stay away from them so that they don’t have to help them, especially financially... Now, our ministers and officers help to organise such mass marriage events. When such marriage events are arranged, it shows that the common people are getting the true benefits of independence,” he said, adding that “such initiatives also lessen/defeat societal evils like dowry and child marriage”.The labour department in Gautam Budh Nagar took the initiative to help unmarried women among the registered labourers, according to its officials.The family of a woman also gets ₹75,000 under such arrangements, and ₹55,000 if her family gets her married, said officials of the district labour department.“Apart from this, we also made arrangements for huge pandals, and lunch for all guests. We also roped in band parties so that the couples get the real feel of the usual wedding ceremonies. Couples with different religious beliefs were married according to their respective rituals on Monday. Ministers and other eminent persons also attended the event and blessed the couples. There was a huge participation, and the guests said that they enjoyed the event,” said Ravi Srivastava, labour commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar.Officials familiar with the development said that “there were rumours that Muslim couples, too, will get married as per Hindu rituals during the mass marriage event on Monday”, however, the situation was tackled by making the people aware that wedding of couples from different religions will be held as per their practices only.Danish Saifi from Dasna, one of the bridegrooms, said, “Marriage of all the couples was performed as per their religious beliefs only, and they were happy with the arrangements. Such events should be encouraged so that there is no financial burden on the family of the woman,” Saifi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-government-holds-mass-marriage-event-for-over-2-300-couples-in-ghaziabad-101637005405165.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sans fire brigade, Doraha perched on powder keg||A major fire incident at an automobile factory near Doraha on November 11 has yet again brought the many inadequacies in the city’s fire safety under the spotlight. For starters, the city, which has a population of 35,000, does not have its own fire brigade and depends on the fire services of surrounding cities such as Samrala, Khanna and Ludhiana. This allows the flames time to spread and increases the scope of tragedy as the fire stations of Samrala, Khanna and Ludhiana are located at a distance of 17km, 23km and 21km from Doraha, respectively. It takes at least 20 minutes for the fire brigades to reach Doraha in case of an emergency. Though a fire tender borrowed from the Samrala fire station has been stationed at Doraha for around one year, the fire fighters lack modern equipment and the foam solution required to douse fires caused due to chemicals. Fuel galore for flames Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Ward 14 councillor Sarabjit Singh (Vipan) Sethi said, “We have raised this issue time and time again! The fire tender from Samrala was also stationed here after the residents raised a hue and cry over lack of fire safety. Incidentally, Lakkar Mandi, the wood market, is also situated in Doraha and on an average at least two fire incidents are reported from the area every fortnight.” There are around 40 industrial units in and around Doraha. “Authorities have failed to setup a fire brigade despite the presence of industrial units in and around Doraha. Fatal fire accidents have taken place here in the past,” said former municipal council president Rajvir Singh Rubal, who is also the president of the All-India Trade Union in Doraha. Industrialists in Jaspalon village, around 5 -6km from Doraha, have also raised a demand to set up a fire brigade in the area. Knitwear and Textile Club president Vinod Thapar says, “A few years back, a fire had ravaged a garment factory in the area. The common facility centre (CFC) of the apparel and knitwear industry, Integrated Apparel Technology and Facilitation Centre Private Limited, has been established in the village at a cost of ₹15 crore and a few national and internal brand companies are also situated in the area. Thus, a fire brigade is sorely needed.” ‘Proposal pending with govt’Several attempts were made to reach Doraha municipal council president Sudarshan Sharma, but to no avail. However, the council’s executive officer Sukhdev Singh said the council had approved a resolution to establish a fire station in the city, but the proposal is pending with the state government. Doraha, Sahnewal and a few other areas contribute to running the fire brigade in Samrala. Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha said, “A fire station is needed in Doraha and I have taken up the matter in the Vidhan Sabha as well. A fire tender from Samrala was stationed in Doraha only after I raised my voice. I will take up the matter with the government again.” Fire tragedies Previous tragedies have failed to impress the necessity of a fire brigade in Doraha on the administration. On June 2015, five people were killed and over 140 were injured in an ammonia gas leak after a gas tanker was stuck under the Doraha flyover on National Highway-44 and gas leaked in the area.A young couple was killed due to suspected asphyxia after fire broke out at a beer bar-cum-restaurant in Doraha on October 2018. At that time too, fire tenders were rushed from Khanna, Ludhiana, and Samrala to douse the flames and dilute the ammonia gas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sans-fire-brigade-doraha-perched-on-powder-keg-101637005404020.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police arrest man with 20-gram heroin||The anti-narcotic cell of Ludhiana police arrested a man with 20-gram heroin on Monday.The accused has been identified as Baldeep Singh alias Shanky of Dharampura, who works at a private firm.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, in-charge of anti-narcotic cell, stated that they arrested Shanky near Kashmir Nagar following a tip-off. He was crossing the area on his motorcycle, when the police stopped him for checking and recovered the drugs from his possession. He told police that he procured the heroin from Ghoda Colony and was going to sell it further to make some money.The inspector added that a case under Sections 21-B, 61 and 85 of NDPS act has been lodged at the Division Number 3 police station. He added that the police are trying to trace the person who sold the drugs to Baldeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-arrest-man-with-20-gram-heroin-101637005225264.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will not allow Haryana govt to sell Agro mall of Karnal and Panipat: Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait slammed Haryana government’s decision to sell agro malls of Karnal and Panipat to private players and said that farmers will not allow the government to do so at any cost.“If the government was unable to run this agro mall, they can return the land to the owners,” he said.Tikait said the proposal to sell agro malls is the beginning of the government’s plan to promote privatisation in the agriculture sector.Tikait urged farmers of Haryana to get united and fight tooth-and-nail against the decision. He also asked local leaders of the Bhartiya Kisan Union to not allow any private trader to buy this agro mall and lock any official or buyer.As per officials, the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board had invited applications from interested parties for the e-auction of the Agro Malls of Karnal and Panipat. “As per the notification, the e-auction of the agromall of Panipat and Karnal has been fixed on November 18 as the other formalities had already been completed on November 9,” said an HSAMB official pleading anonymity. Tikait rubbished reports of rifts between leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha and said that all leaders are united. On Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni’s call for foot-march from Ambala to Delhi’s Tikri border via Rohtak on November 25, Tikait said this might be Charuni’s own decision but the SKM to take out the march on November 24.Charuni for fielding candidates in Punjab pollsCharuni also held a meeting of his supporters and leaders of other farmer unions of state at a gurdwara on Monday and another such meeting has been called on November 18 in Karnal. He said he was in favour of fielding candidates from all assembly constituencies in Punjab. He also said that the decision on the final date of the protest march on the anniversary of farmers agitation will be taken unanimously. Charuni also supported Tikait’s decision to protest the auction of agro-malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-not-allow-haryana-govt-to-sell-agro-mall-of-karnal-and-panipat-tikait-101637005223565.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Taking all steps to promote water sports in Himachal, says Pathania||Himachal Pradesh government is taking necessary steps to promote water sports and other adventure sports by utilising the available resources and developing the infrastructure for such activities, sports and youth services minister Rakesh Pathania said on Monday. He was speaking after inaugurating the four-day 9th Himalayan Goral Dragon Boat Race Championship 2021 being organised under ‘Chalo Chamba’ initiative of the tourism department at Waters Sports Centre, Taleru. Nearly 800 participants from 18 states are competing in the championship, a collaborative event of the Indian Kayaking and Canoeing Association (IKCA) and Chamba district administration. Pathania said such adventure sports activities will also give a boost to the tourism sector in the state.He said help would also be sought from the Union sports minister Anurag Thakur to promote adventure sports activities, especially water sports.The minister said that Chamba is famous for its rich history and culture and such sports activities will open the new employment opportunities in the tourism sector and also boost the local art and craft.Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana said the district administration was considering to form an association to ensure public participation in water sports activities.The championship will conclude on November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taking-all-steps-to-promote-water-sports-in-himachal-says-pathania-101637005103914.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU starts physical seminars once again||With webinars receiving lukewarm response from dairy farmers, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) has once again started holding monthly seminars in physical mode. The latest such event was organised by the directorate of extension education at Farmer Information Centre.Dairy farmers of Punjab and members of Punjab Livestock Farmers’ Association participated in the seminar and the key speakers were Dr DK Gupta from department of veterinary medicine and Dr RK Sharma from department of veterinary and animal husbandry extension education. They spoke on the topics “lumpy skin disease of dairy animals” and “injudicious use of antibiotics at field level”, respectively. The next seminar will be held on December 9, 2021 and livestock farmers of the state can participate in the seminar. Dr Parkash Singh Brar, director of extension education, said that these monthly meetings are playing an important role in knowledge enrichment of farmers through farmer-scientist interactions.He assured the participants that more relevant lectures depending on the needs of the farmers will be conducted by the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-starts-physical-seminars-once-again-101637005044949.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC holds health check-up camp for sweepers||The municipal corporation (MC) organised a health check-up camp for its sweepers at its sub-zone office near Middha Chowk on Monday.The camp was inaugurated by Anjana Panwar, member of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis. A total of 80 employees were checked by officials of the district health department for haemoglobin count, diabetes and blood pressure.The officials stated there are over 5,300 sweepers working for the MC and free medical check-up for all of them will be conducted in the coming days. Out of the 80 employees checked on Monday, two were diagnosed with diabetes and were referred to the civil hospital for further treatment.MC health officer Dr Jasvir Kaur stated that the decision to organise medical check-up camps was taken to keep a check on the health of sweepers, who have been working at the front lines during the pandemic.Kaur stated that such camps will be further organised in the coming days to cover all the sweepers working in the MC. The employees who will diagnosed with some disease would be referred to civil hospital or ESIC hospital for timely treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-holds-health-check-up-camp-for-sweepers-101637004863853.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal guv calls for more opportunities for specially abled citizens||Specially abled do not need sympathy but more and more opportunities, said HP governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar on Monday. He was speaking at an event organised by Himachal Pradesh University and Umang Foundation to honour specially abled persons at Shimla. He directed the HPU authorities to waive the hostel fees of the specially abled students. He said that specially abled persons are also an important part of the society. “Many of them are guiding the society with their significant contribution. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken this initiative by providing computers, laptops and other facilities to specially abled people,” he added. HPU V-C Prof Sikander Kumar said people need to be sensitive and work for the welfare of weaker sections of the society. “An attempt has been made to provide justice by setting up a legal cell in the university,” he said. UGC member and special guest Prof Nagesh Thakur said despite all adverse circumstances, specially abled persons have set an example in the society. Demanding a commission for reservation of upper caste, activists of Devbhoomi Kshatriya Sangathan launched a statewide protest in HP against the Atrocities Act. The protesters will walk 800km against the government’s “failure” to set up a panel. J&K DGP Dilbag Singh sanctioned ₹2.78 crore ex gratia and special welfare relief for next of kin of cops killed in action. Relief of ₹38 lakh has been sanctioned in favour of kin of Parvaiz Ahmad Dar among others. Amid dengue scare, Jammu municipal corporation on Monday conducted fogging in old city area. MC health officer Dr Sanjogita Soodan said, “We started intensive fogging in the city. We are spraying and fogging the localities to eliminate dengue mosquitoes and their larva.” Jammu GMC medical superintendent , Dr ADS Manhas said, “There were a total of 548 dengue patients, who reported at the hospital and presently 12 are under treatment. ” With an aim to rejuvenate the Banganga rivulet and improve aesthetics of the area, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board CEO Ramesh Kumar reviewed the ongoing civil and sanitation works. He stressed the need to strengthen effluent monitoring, afforestation and awareness of stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-guv-calls-for-more-opportunities-for-specially-abled-citizens-101637004803580.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC contract staffers threaten to intensify stir over demand for regular jobs||Alleging discrimination, contractual employees of the municipal corporation under the banner of Municipal Karamchari Dal staged a protest on Monday and burned the effigy of chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi in Chaura Bazar.They slammed the Punjab government for not including MC staffers in the list of 36,000 contractual employees to be regularised in the state ahead of assembly elections,Earlier, a protest march was conducted from MC Zone-A office to Chaura Bazar and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had extended its support to the employees. SAD district president Harbhajan Singh Dang and district president of Youth Akali Dal, Gurdeep Gosha, stated that they will continue to fight for the rights of contractual employees.Members of the union stated that the state government not including them in the list of employees to be regularised is condemnable, as they have been working with MC for over a decade. The union leader accused the Congress party of befooling the SC community by making false claims. They stated that around 3,000 contractual sanitary staff including sewermen and sweepers are working in the MC.Chairman of the union, Vijay Danav, said that the employees have been protesting against the state government for the last three working days and will further intensify their stir if their demand is not fulfilled. “CM Channi had supported demands of MC employees when he was a minister under former CM Captain Amrinder Singh. But now, he is shirking his responsibility,” said Danav.Danav added that they will lock down the MC Zone-A office on Tuesday in protest against the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-contract-staffers-threaten-to-intensify-stir-over-demand-for-regular-jobs-101637004748977.html
16-11-2021||Noida||CPCB focuses on monitoring stations seeing above-average spike as pollution dips||Pollution levels in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida witnessed a minor spike from Sunday to Monday, but remained in the “very poor” category on both days. However, statistics from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) revealed that monitoring stations in Loni, Ghaziabad, and Sector 116, Noida, recorded higher levels of pollution as compared to other monitoring stations in both cities on Monday.According to CPCB, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida recorded Air Quality Index (AQI) readings of 331, 310 and 321, respectively on Sunday, and 335, 317 and 338, respectively on Monday.The CPCB’s statistics indicated that the monitoring station at Loni recorded exceptionally high Air Quality Index (AQI) readings -- from 403 to 433 -- between 10am and 4pm on Monday.Likewise, the monitoring station at Sector 116, Noida, recorded AQI levels between 363 and 373 during the same period on Monday.An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered moderate, between 201 and 300 is considered poor, between 301 and 400 is considered very poor, and above 400 is considered severe.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that they will try to investigate the reasons for the spike at the two monitoring stations and will take corrective measures.“A team has been sent to Loni to find out the reasons. The readings of the station at Loni were higher than the average of other stations. There are multiple factors in Loni which affect local conditions. We have already asked the officials at Loni to increase water sprinkling and road sweeping,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad.“We inspected the monitoring station at Sector 116, but we could not find any local source that triggered the station’s AQI to higher levels compared to those of other stations in Noida. It could be due to some local conditions, but we are keeping a watch,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida.“Once the overall pollution levels come down in the NCR, the situation demands strict enforcement by local agencies as local factors then come into play. If there is a spike in pollution levels at random monitoring stations, it means that local sources could be responsible,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.The CPCB’s winter inspections -- “assessment of actions taken by implementing agencies” -- that are taking place between October 20 and November 10, have identified 22 polluted areas and sources that require attention so far.In Ghaziabad, CPCB states that factors such as industrial emissions, unpaved roads, open dumping of garbage, open/garbage burning, and unpaved roads/pits require attention, while in Noida, sources such as road dust, construction, and demolition activities, open dumping of garbage and unpaved roads require attention.In Greater Noida, factors such as road dust, traffic congestion, and industrial emission require attention, according to CPCB.Monday’s forecast by the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar) stated that NCR’s average AQI was in the “very poor” category and unlikely to improve on Tuesday as winds were transporting more farm fire-related pollutants into Delhi.“Calm local winds also reduce the dispersion of pollutants. So, the air quality is expected to remain in the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category tomorrow [Tuesday]. The effective farm fire count is 3,125 and its contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 today [Monday] is 10%... Surface winds are slowing down further on [November] 17th and 18th reducing dispersion. Overall the AQI is expected to be in the ‘very poor’ category range for the next 3 days,” the Safar forecast on Monday said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cpcb-focuses-on-monitoring-stations-seeing-above-average-spike-as-pollution-dips-101637004747806.html
16-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority floats ₹121 crore tender for waste management in city||The Greater Noida authority has decided to spend ₹121 crore on a project, for initiating a system for door-to-door waste collection across the city and transport the same at the landfill site for treatment, officials said on Monday.The move has been taken with an aim to collect waste from urban and rural areas for a cleaner city, they added.At present, the Greater Noida authority depends on ragpickers for door-to-door waste collection, and dumping the same outside the respective sectors without proper segregation, said the officials.The authority on Monday floated the key tender, inviting companies for solid waste management across the city, who will take up the job and develop an integrated mechanism for waste handling according to the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016. Interested companies can apply for the same through portal greaternoidaauthority.in by November 22 this year.“Once the companies submit their proposals, we will finalise the agency, following the laid down rules,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The authority will hire the agency for 10 years and develop a system under which the waste will be collected from door-to-door, and stored at a specific collection point. Then, the agency will ensure that the waste is transported from the collection point to the landfill site in Lakhnawali village in Greater Noida for treatment.The agency will also develop an integrated control room from where they will monitor the workers and the vehicles through GPS, for better productivity, said the authority officials.There are 124 villages and 50 residential sectors in Greater Noida which are spread across 38,000 hectares. However, the authority is yet to develop a proper system to handle around 300 metric tonnes of waste produced in the city daily. The authority hopes that once the agency will be selected, waste handling is likely to get better in Greater Noida.The Greater Noida authority hopes to select the agency for the purpose by December-end if everything goes according to the plan, and the agency selected starts working at the ground from next year, said the officials.Meanwhile, residents said that the authority officials have been discussing developing a systematic plan for waste collection in the city for many years, but nothing has happened yet.“The authority has failed in developing a proper mechanism for waste collection and treatment till date. It had issued similar tenders in the past, too. We hope that they finally select an agency this time, which will start working without any further delay,” said Om Raizada, a social activist from Sector P3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-floats-121-crore-tender-for-waste-management-in-city-101637004746494.html
16-11-2021||Other||AAP’s Cheema alleges misuse of funds at Sangrur women college||Sangrur Leader of opposition and Dirba Aam Aadmi Party MLA Harpal Singh Cheema alleged on Monday that the management of government-aided Akal Degree College for Women Sangrur had been‘misusing funds’“The college has been run on government funds since 1970, and was meant to educate girls from poor families. Funds that the management received were used to start self-financed courses,” alleged Cheema, adding that the Congress government should order an FIR against the guilty, as found in a probe report that Punjab secretary, higher education and language, had marked into the alleged ‘misuse of funds’. College chairman Karanvir Singh Sibia could not be contacted, as his phone remained switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aaps-cheema-alleges-misuse-of-funds-at-sangrur-women-college-101637004744830.html
16-11-2021||Noida||23 out of total 29 coronavirus patients in Gautam Budh Nagar fully vaccinated||Officials of the district health department said on Monday that 23 out of the total 29 Covid-19 patients in Gautam Budh Nagar -- as of Sunday (November 14) -- are fully vaccinated.Of the 29 active cases, 26 are in home isolation and three -- among the fully vaccinated ones -- are being treated at a private hospital in Noida, they said. Out of the remaining unvaccinated individuals, two are children -- on whom the vaccination status is not applicable. Of the total 29 Covid-19 patients, 15 have a travel history to other cities and states including Delhi, Haryana (Gurugram), Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai.“Over 80% of the fully vaccinated individuals, who have been infected with Covid-19, are immunocompromised patients above the age of 40-45 years. Three patients, who are undergoing treatment at the hospital, are senior citizens,” said a health department official, requesting anonymity.Of the total cases, two children and 10 adults tested positive following a routine RT-PCR test which they needed for travelling out of station, he added. Following this development, Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “Complete vaccination does not guarantee that the person will not get infected with Covid-19 again. However, it does help in lowering the severity of the disease and chances of death. Most of the patients have comorbidities, and the rate of infection is higher among them, even after double vaccination”.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), said that breakthrough infection -- people getting infected with Covid-19 two weeks after vaccination -- is not a major cause of concern. “None of the vaccines promise 100% protection against Covid-19. Both the vaccines in India have shown a 70-80% efficacy against the virus. In fact, Covaxin and Covishield have also shown a 70-80% efficacy against the delta variant of the coronavirus. Apart from this, the vaccines provide a 93-94% protection from hospitalisation and a 98% protection from death,” said the infectious diseases expert (IDE).“The breakthrough infections we are seeing now mean that they are in the remaining 20-30% category of efficiency of the vaccines. Since most of these patients are mildly symptomatic, and the rate of death is minimal, this is not a cause of concern,” Dr Gilada added.At 29, Gautam Budh Nagar has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh as of Sunday. So far, the district has reported 63,366 cases, of which, 62,894 have recovered. The death toll stands at 467.“There are a lot of migrants in Gautam Budh Nagar, and many people travel across the district during the festive season. This may have led to the increase in the Covid-19 infections. However, it is too soon to say that there is a rising trend of Covid-19 cases as the situation will only be clear in the next one week, as cases may go down again,” said Dr Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/23-out-of-total-29-coronavirus-patients-in-gautam-budh-nagar-fully-vaccinated-101637004743623.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh starts Bharat-series for seamless transfer of vehicles across states||The government and the private sector personnel can get their vehicles registered under the Bharat-series (BH-series) in Uttar Pradesh, a new registration mark that will save them from the liability of getting their vehicles registered afresh on their relocation to any other state.The transport department has launched the new series after the central government issued a notification in this regard in August this year.“We have launched the Bharat-series in UP with effect from November 13 having finalised the procedure related to taxation etc,” transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said.“With this, employees of central, state government and employees of private organisations having offices in four or more states or UTs may apply for this series,” he added.The new rules notified by the ministry of road transport and highways on August 26 came into effect in the country from September 15. “A vehicle registered under the BH-series shall not require assignment of a new registration mark when the owner of the vehicle shifts from one state to another in what will facilitate a seamless inter-state transfer of vehicles,” Sahu said. The registration number/mark for BH-series vehicles generated randomly through the portal after verification of working certification will be in black on a white background and ‘shall’ be exhibited in the format YY BH #### XX format, where YY will be the year of first registration followed by BH code for Bharat series.The new facility, Sahu clarified, was available voluntarily and was not compulsory. Under Section 47 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, a person is allowed to keep the vehicle for not more than 12 months in any state other than the state where the vehicle is registered. A new registration with the new state’s registering authority has to be made within the stipulated time of 12 months after taking NOC from the state where the vehicle was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-starts-bharat-series-for-seamless-transfer-of-vehicles-across-states-101637004623514.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punbus contract staffers protest in Ludhiana over demand for regular jobs||The Punbus/PRTC Contractual Employees’ Union staged a protest against the Punjab government at the Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Inter-State Bus Terminal on Monday demanding regularisation of services.They rued that the state government has gone back on its promise as it has decided to regularise only those contractual employees who have been working with the department for the last 10 years or more. They stated that in the past, even those staffers who had worked with the department for two to seven years had been regularised.State vice-president Satnam Singh and district president Shamsher Singh stated that the government had conducted a meeting with the Union government on November 12 and sought 20 days for regularising employees. But now, the government has gone back on its promise. “We will continue the protests and apprise the public of the anti-employees policies of the state government,” said Satnam.Indefinite strike from November 23Shamsher Singh stated that the state unit of the union has already announced the start an indefinite strike from November 23, if the government fails to fulfil their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punbus-contract-staffers-protest-in-ludhiana-over-demand-for-regular-jobs-101637004563751.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||PAU holds awareness camp on use of bio- fertilisers||The communication centre and department of extension education, Punjab Agricultural University, organised an awareness camp on the use of bio- fertilisers in wheat at Beelan village in Pakhowal block on Monday. Around 50 farmers, PAU scientists and officials from the department of agriculture participated. Extension education scientist Lakhwinder Kaur and microbiologist Seema Garcha informed the farmers about consortium bio-fertiliser in wheat. They explained that this fertiliser is a mixture of micro-organisms and is helpful for the growth of the plant. They also highlighted the methods of application of the fertiliser and precautions to be taken while using it. Kulwinder Kaur Gill, an agrometeorologist, urged the farmers to shun stubble burning and adopt measures to save the environment. He demonstrated the use of mobile apps to get weather forecasts and other weather-related information. Finally, a service centre on weather information and advisory issued by PAU was set up in the society of Beela village, that will inform the farmers about weather and agricultural planning for the coming week.Secretary of Beela Society, Sukhman Singh and progressive farmers Shingara Singh and Ajitpal Singh described the service centre as a great initiative by PAU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-holds-awareness-camp-on-use-of-bio-fertilisers-101637004444912.html
16-11-2021||Gurugram||Four booked for assaulting garbage collectors who asked them to segregate waste in Gurugram||Police on Sunday booked four men for allegedly assaulting two employees of Ecogreen Energy, the concessionaire engaged by Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) for waste management, after they refused to pick mixed waste. Police said incidents of residents assaulting employees after being asked to segregate waste have been reported from at least three residential areas in the past week . According to the police, Anil Kumar (30), the driver of the garbage collection vehicle and his helper Shadat Khan went to Shivaji Nagar on Sunday morning to collect garbage. Kumar was collecting the waste when he noticed that residents had not segregated the garbage and were giving them the bag of the mixed waste, which he objected to. “When I refused to collect the garbage, one of the residents called his friends and forced me to pick up the garbage. I told them that I cannot pick up mixed waste and will only collect it when they segregate it. They started abusing and assaulting me,” he said. Kumar said Khan rushed to help him and started making videos for evidence, following which the men assaulted him too and threatened them. Police said four men snatched away their belongings, including a gold ring, and threatened them against visiting their lane ever again. The MCG, since November 11, collects only segregated waste from households and has directed its drivers and concessionaire not to pick up mixed waste. The civic body said it will start penalising residents who dump accumulated mixed waste in public spaces. In the last week of October, the MCG issued directions to its sanitation wing and officials of Ecogreen Energy to make citizens aware of the segregation process. The segregation of waste is also aimed at converting wet waste into compost and recycling dry waste to the maximum possible extent so that the load carried to the overburdened Bandhwari landfill can be reduced. Suvendu Samantaray, general manager, operations of Ecogreen, said that as per the guidelines of MCG’s solid waste management, since Sunday they have started a 100% waste segregation campaign across the city. “To enforce this MCG professed that no mixed waste should be collected from any residential area and awareness campaigns have been launched. Our team members are often attacked when they do not collect mixed waste and threatened for life,” he said. Both employees are undergoing treatment at a private hospital and reported out of danger, said police. Samantaray said that they have given a copy of the mobile phone recording where the suspects are seen assaulting both the employees. Parveen Kumar, station house officer of Shivaji Nagar police station, said that incidents of assaulting the employees of waste management company has increased. “Residents do not want to segregate waste and when the employees ask them they get agitated and attack them. We have booked four of the suspects but yet to arrest them,” he said. A case under sections 323 (assault), 506 (threatening for life), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Shivaji Nagar police station on Sunday evening. The suspects were identified as Monu, Ankit , Sanjay, and Neeraj of Shivaji Nagar. They are on the run, said police. Hari Om Atri, joint commissioner of MCG, said that they have directly the drivers to only collect segregated waste and not to pick mixed waste. “Such incidents have increased across the city and we are taking strict action against the offenders. We are receiving complaints from Palam Vihar, Sector 10 and Sector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-booked-for-assaulting-garbage-collectors-who-asked-them-to-segregate-waste-in-gurugram-101637004443519.html
16-11-2021||Gurugram||Air quality dips again, deteriorates to very poor zone in Gurugram||After improving for a day, Gurugram’s air quality again dipped to the “very poor” zone, according to Central Pollution Control Board’s classification on Monday. The city reported an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 332 with Particulate Matter (PM)2.5 as the prominent pollutant. On Sunday, Gurugram had reported an AQI reading of 287. An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. According to the weather bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR on Monday evening, the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally but remain in the “very poor” category on Tuesday and Wednesday. Over the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain in the upper end of “very poor” category in this region with PM2.5 as the predominant pollutant. PM 2.5 is fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameters of 2.5 microns. PM 2.5 pollutants are made up of hundreds of chemicals that can enter the bloodstream via the respiratory system and cause asthma, lung cancer, and heart disease.Over the next two days, the ventilation index — a measure of air pollution based on the speed of the wind and the height of the column of air in which smoke or other pollutants mix — in Delhi-NCR will be 3,000 m2/s on Tuesday and 1,500 m2/s on Wednesday. Experts say a ventilation index lower than 6,000 m2/s, along with an average wind speed less than 10kmph, is unfavourable for the dispersion of pollutants. The weather bulletin also mentioned that on Sunday, Haryana reported 195 farm fires.In the past few days, Delhi-NCR witnessed “severe” air quality due to which on Sunday, the Haryana government ordered that all schools will be shut in four districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar —till November 17. The Delhi government too, on Saturday, announced the closure of all educational institutions for a week, and imposed a four-day ban on construction activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-dips-again-deteriorates-to-very-poor-zone-in-gurugram-101637004210071.html
16-11-2021||Other||Punjab BJP delegation meets President Kovind||Chandigarh A delegation of BJP leaders from Punjab led by state party president Ashwani Sharma called on President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday. They requested the President to reopen the Kartarpur corridor for Gurpurb on November 19, so that pilgrims can visit the Gurdwara on Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary. “The initiative of PM Narendra Modi to open the Kartarpur corridor for the Sikhs and followers of Guru Nanak demonstrates the sentiments of the BJP and the PM towards the Sikh religion and followers of Guru Nanak all over the world,” said state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma, who led the delegation. Later, the delegation also met Union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-bjp-delegation-meets-president-kovind-101637004024827.html
16-11-2021||Gurugram||Over 100 new monitors across Gurugram by January for localised monitoring of air quality||In the next two months, Gurugram will get over 100 new low-cost monitors for air quality and weather parameters, said officials of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority on Monday. These monitors will be installed on the terrace of a community centre in every sector to monitor levels of PM 2.5, PM 10 (particulate matter, which experts consider primary pollutants in Delhi-NCR), noise pollution, wind speed and direction, among others. “We will expand the number of air quality monitors in Gurugram and are aiming to install one such monitor in every sector in association with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram by January. These monitors will be installed at community centres in every sector,” said Subhash Yadav, head of the urban environment division, GMDA. “These structures will monitor air and noise pollution levels along with weather parameters such as rainfall, wind velocity, temperature, wind direction and humidity. These monitors will directly transmit the data to the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) of GMDA and we will know which area has more of air pollution or noise pollution,” he said. He added that these monitors will help in localised monitoring of pollution levels, according to which measures to curb pollution can be implemented. Gurugram has 115 sectors as well as separate colonies, such as Shivaji Nagar, Civil Lines, Chandan Vihar, Palam Vihar. Yadav said that these monitors will be in addition to five low-cost air quality monitors that are likely to be set up in the city as part of the second phase of Project Air Care. As part of Project Air Care, GMDA is working on installing real-time air quality display monitors at nine locations in the city where outdoor air purifiers are already installed. The city at present has 24 air quality monitors, which include four air quality monitors of the Central Pollution Control Board and low-cost monitors installed by GMDA. In January 2020, GMDA installed 20 of its own low-cost monitors, procured through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds, for realtime monitoring and localised remedial action. These monitors are installed at Vatika Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, Sector 32, Mayfield Garden, Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park, Sector 42, Sector 47, Sector 30, Sohna Chowk, Ghoda Chowk, Sector 14, Atul Kataria Chowk, Sector 18, Rezang La Chowk, Atlas Chowk, Shyam Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Belvedere Tower Metro station, TERI Golf Course at Bandhwari, and TERI retreat centre at Bandhwari. Air quality experts in the city welcomed the decision and said that this will help monitor local sources of pollution better. Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, said, “If the implementation is done properly then this will give us more data and help in tracking local sources of pollution. At present, if there is a fire due to any reason, it does not always gets noticed as there may or may not be an air quality monitor near the location. This is a good move, but will help only if it is implemented properly and on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-100-new-monitors-across-gurugram-by-january-for-localised-monitoring-of-air-quality-101637004023431.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PU mulls piped natural gas for houses on campus||Panjab University (PU) is considering a proposal for the supply of domestic piped natural gas (PNG) for quarters/houses under the university. There are around 700 houses on both Sectors 14 and 25 campuses of the PU.The PNG will be supplied by the Indian Oil-Adani Gas Pvt Ltd and the matter is currently under the consideration of a special panel constituted by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. The panel was earlier scheduled to meet last week, but the meeting was not held and is now expected in the coming days.A member of the committee said, “The matter is in the final stage.” As per the letter sent by the Indian Oil-Adani Gas Pvt Ltd in June last year, the university had requested to formulate a fresh plan having certain provisions for PU. The letter to PU states that connection charges cannot be waived off. The company has also said as per the company policy mess connections, laboratory connections, etc, are non-commercial connections and charges for gas usage in non-commercial connections are lesser as compared to commercial gas.However, they have said all shops as well as canteens will be covered under commercial connections and shall be charged accordingly.What has been decided so far?The previous meeting of the committee held last year resolved that the company would be accountable for monitoring the laying of the PNG and internal mechanism for security deposit be devised by the PU.They had also recommended that the construction (maintenance department) of PU will supervise the gas pipeline work and also ensure that the safety of this system from time to time is maintained by the company.Moreover, the members of the panel had resolved that fire and leakage of the PNG be attended by the company within 25-30 minutes and other complaints on priority within 3-4 days.Last year it was also decided that there would be a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Indian Oil-Adani Gas Private Limited and PU and the company will give MoU to the members of the panel and then the further decision will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pu-mulls-piped-natural-gas-for-houses-on-campus-101637003909178.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh excise department launches drive against restaurants serving liquor without license||The excise department has ordered a drive across the state to check if restaurants and marriage halls were serving liquor to customers without having a regular bar license or an occasional liquor license. “In such cases, where liquor is found being served without obtaining the license, the department would initiate strict action,” additional chief secretary excise Sanjay R Bhoosreddy and excise commissioner Senthil R Pandian said on Monday. To make it clear that this wasn’t an empty threat, Pandian mentioned a case in Noida, where a restaurant owner was booked, and the manager of the restaurant arrested after seizure of 17 bottles of foreign liquor, including a few open ones, 56 beer cans and bottles from the restaurant. “Two persons, including manager Gaurav Pandey and Pranay Manral were arrested on the spot. Cases against six others, including Rajendra Singh, Kehar Singh, restaurant owner Yogesh Sharma and Sunil Kumar were registered in the police station, Phase 3, Gautam Buddha Nagar,” Pandian was quoted as saying in a press release issued by the excise department. The excise department release also revealed the identity of the restaurant stating that it was the ‘Flying Dutchman Restaurant’ against which the action was initiated. When contacted, an outlet in Noida with the same name as mentioned in the excise department’s release, refused that any action was taken against them. “We have a proper liquor license. The action must have been taken against some other (outlet),” staff from the Noida based outlet said. Despite several attempts to find the outlet, against whom the action was initiated for their version, HT couldn’t contact the restaurant. Pay ₹12k to stock liquor at home The state government has also made the license mandatory for stocking liquor, above a certain quantity, at home. In March, months after the state cabinet approved the new excise policy, making license mandatory for stocking of liquor at home, the excise department issued notification setting limits for the same. A personal home license has been made mandatory for stocking liquor at home, and the annual fee of the license would be ₹12000 with a security deposit of ₹51000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-excise-department-launches-drive-against-restaurants-serving-liquor-without-license-101637003546469.html
16-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram reports one Covid-19 death after over two months||Gurugram on Monday reported the death of one Covid-19 patient, the first such fatality in over two months, said officials. The last Covid-19 death in Gurugram was reported on September 3.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “The death recorded on Monday was reported after two-and-a-half months. The deceased man was a 71-year-old Covid-19 patient who had co-morbidities. The patient was fully vaccinated but was suffering from cardiac ailments.”On Monday, 12 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Gurugram, along with 10 recoveries. The district now has 78 active cases, of which 70 are in home isolation and the remaining are hospitalised.Till now, over 181,546 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Gurugram. Of the 924 people who died due to Covid-19 reported in Gurugram so far, 608 had comorbidities, according to official data.In the past few days, the district witnessed a slight increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. Doctors and experts have attributed this to the laxity of following Covid-19 norms and crowing during the festive season. According to data from the health department, in the past two weeks, Gurugram reported over 110 cases of Covid-19.Last week, the district health department wrote to the district administration to declare three places as containment zones in the city. The chief medical officer on Monday said that they are still awaiting a response from the district administration in this regard.Amid rising cases, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Monday appealed to the residents of the district to get their vaccination done at the earliest.“In the past few months, the rate of Covid-19 infection was declining continuously in the district, but that did not mean that we were out of danger. Therefore, it is important to follow all precautions as before and follow all the guidelines issued by the administration,” said Garg.Meanwhile, 11,634 people were vaccinated on Monday, with 2,899 people being administered the first dose and 8,735 being administered the second dose. Till now, over 3.69 million people have been vaccinated in Gurugram.On Tuesday, the first and second dose of Covishield will be administered at 45 centres and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at six centres. The second dose of Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at Polyclinic in Sector 31. Door-to-door vaccination will also be carried out at 175 localities in Gurugram on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-reports-one-covid-19-death-after-over-two-months-101637003544732.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly Covid tally sees uptick in Chandigarh tricity||With 69 fresh infections reported in the week ending on November 14, the Covid-19 case tally in the tricity witnessed a slight uptick for the first time in eight weeks. Though the cases have increased after the festive season, medical experts feel the weekly tally is constantly fluctuating and it is too early to consider it another peak.In the previous week, the tricity had reported 41 cases, besides one fatality in Mohali. This week too, Mohali recorded one Covid-related fatality.In Mohali, the case tally reached 35 this week, against 25 cases reported last week. Panchkula, too, recorded a slight hike from five cases to 12. The cases in Chandigarh, however, doubled from last week’s 11 to 22 cases this week.Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “The cases didn’t witness a significant spike because of herd immunity. Most of the people are now vaccinated which is helping in controlling the transmission. People must not feel complacent as Covid is not finished yet and should get fully vaccinated at the earliest.” ‘Next few weeks crucial’The health department authorities in the tricity said the next 2-4 weeks were crucial to assessing the transmission rate of the infection, which may rise as people were complacent in following the Covid appropriate behaviour in the festive season.“The positivity rate in Mohali is controllable and cases increased this week because some people of a family, who had travelled from a foreign country, had tested positive. We have not lowered our guards and the department is tracing every positive case in Mohali,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur.Mukta Kumar, CMO, Panchkula, said, “It’s too early to say that cases are on the rise, but people must get their second dose of vaccine.” Dr GD Puri, dean (academics) and head of the Covid management panel, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “At present, only 19 Covid patients are undergoing treatment at the institute, of which eight have severe infections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekly-covid-tally-sees-uptick-in-chandigarh-tricity-101637003483404.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh told to work on enrolment, dropout rates in schools||The gross enrolment ratio and net enrolment ratio have declined for the 2019-2020 session across all levels in Chandigarh schools.The education ministry has asked the UT education department to look into it, according to minutes of the project approval board (PAB) meeting that was held in June to consider the annual work plan and budget of the Samagra Shiksha programme. The minutes were released recently.The meeting was held under the chairpersonship of secretary school education and literacy from the Union ministry of education and was attended by various officers, including UT education secretary SS Gill, director, SCERT, Chandigarh, SS Dahiya and the district education officer back then Neena Kalia among others from Chandigarh.As per the report under the appraisal issues and commitments for the 2021-2022 session, it was highlighted how the gross enrolment ratio and net enrolment ratio has gone down in 2019-2020 compared to 2018-2019 at primary, upper primary, elementary, secondary and higher secondary levels. The Centre has said the state should focus on improving the gross enrolment ratio at these levels and to identify the reasons for its decline and improve the net enrolment rate by bringing children to the age-appropriate classes.The report highlights the dropout rate of boys at the secondary level which has gone up from 4.7% in 2018-2019 to 5.9% in 2019-2020. There are 996 vacant posts in elementary and 274 vacant posts in secondary government schools which must be filled on priority. In the 3-18 age group there are an estimated 3,681 children with special needs who are out of school and only 21 faculty positions against 45 have been filled in the SCERT which the report points out should be fixed. In the 2020-2021 session to fix the dropout rate, the department in their reply in the meeting said no tuition fee was charged from those earning less than 1.5 lakh per annum and other special categories. The department said 412 JBT teachers and 155 TGTs had been recruited and seven heads on the basis of direct recruitment. The Centre has asked them to improve these further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-told-to-work-on-enrolment-dropout-rates-in-schools-101637003423945.html
16-11-2021||Pune||How Purandare’s ‘Jaanta Raja’ took Chhatrapati Shivaji to every household in the state||PUNE In seven decades of his work, Babasaheb Purandare (99), produced many books and delivered hundreds of lectures. However, he is best known for his book Raja Shiv Chhatrapati and the popular play, Jaanta Raja. The two are considered masterpieces on the life and times of the 17th century Maratha king, Shivaji Maharaj. While his book has more than 16 editions and is estimated to have sold 500,000 copies, the play, first staged in 1985, has been performed 850 times over the last three decades. Through ‘Jaanta Raja’ is performed by over 300 artistes, Purandare took the “open theatre” show to almost every town in Maharashtra, besides organising performances in various parts of India and the USA. The mahanatya (mega-play) was one of a kind, with its massive production values. “To read history and understand it is sometimes a complex task. However, Purandare through his lucid writing, made it readable to everyone,” said Mandar Lawate, a historian. According to Vishwas Patil, author and retired IAS officer, Purandare received a boost to bring Shivaji to the masses when Sumitra Raje Bhosale from the Royal family in Satara invited him for his first lecture. “His greatest contribution was that in a stretch of 10 days, he could deliver the entire story of Shivaji Maharaj. This was an achievement in modern times where he delivered long lectures and captured the imagination of the people for last 60 years. Babasaheb was a great orator with an excellent command over Marathi and his style was lucid, thus making his lectures a great contribution to literature.” Whenever Jaanta Raja was being staged, young and old thronged in large numbers with most shows booked in advance. There were elephants and horses in the play that made it blockbuster worthy. Divakar Pandey has worked with Babasaheb for 56 years. This play with more than 300 local actors and use of animals, brought the historical figure to life. “No one has been able to compose a play till date in the manner in which Babasaheb Purandare did it, with the help of hundreds of actors and living animals. Babasaheb created a magnificent play, even though the journey very difficult,” said Pandey.The play was a challenge from logistical point as shifting large number of animals and artistes was next to impossible. So Purandare often preferred local artistes wherever he went to stage the play. According to Pandey, Purandare wanted to produce a magnificent play on Shivaji and found inspiration in England while watching plays there. This inspired him to write Jaanta Raja in 1978. Milind Joshi, president, Maharashtra Sahitya Parisad said, “Earlier, history was regarded as a subject of researchers, but Babasaheb showed us that even the common man could understand the greatness of Raja Shivaji, through the use of the folk-tale style of telling a story. In fact Acharya Atre had written about Babasaheb’s work in his editorial in Maratha, stating that one could sense poets like Kalidas and prose like that of Shakespeare in Babasaheb’s works.” Babasaheb continued to hold lecture series on Shiv Charitra even at the age of 75 year. Doctor has to step in and tell him not to speak for more than two hours. At the same time, Raja Shivchhatrapati, Purandare’s hugely popular two-part book on Shivaji, written in Marathi, was first published in the late 1950s and has since been a staple in Marathi households, going through numerous reprints over the decades. When Purandare turned 99 in July this year, senior historian Gajanan Mehendale said, “Babasaheb has the credit of taking the life of Chhatrapati to every household in Maharashtra. He also carries the great legacy of the Bharat Itihas Sanshodhak Mandal. Sadanand More, author and critic who once headed the Philosophy department at the Savitribai Phule Pune University said, “Purandare’s work was immensely read and well appreciated. He was a Historian who used literary language to bring Chhatrapati Shivaj’s life to people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/how-purandare-s-jaanta-raja-took-chhatrapati-shivaji-to-every-household-in-the-state-101637003304193.html
16-11-2021||Gurugram||Fallout of Manesar gang rivalry: Diwali attack’s death toll rises to four||One more person injured on Diwali night in an attack on a family in a Manesar village succumbed to his injuries on Monday. Two members of the family were killed on the night of the attack and an injured member died during treatment on November 7. The death toll of the attack is now four, said police. On the night of November 4, two men were killed and four others, including Balram Singh (40) and his eight-year-old son, were severely injured when a group of men allegedly barged into their house and fired at least 30 rounds at them. Locals from Kasan village and Balram’s family members protested outside a private hospital in Sector 38 on Monday and refused to collect his remains, demanding the arrest of the main suspect, who is allegedly on the run. Senior police officers assured them they would do their best, following which they allowed officials to conduct an autopsy on the body. Police said Balram suffered one gunshot wound.The November 4 attack was a fallout between two gangs that has been going on for over a decade, the police said. According to the survivors and area residents, the firing went on for around 10 minutes, following which the attackers fled when the police were called. The police booked 10 persons, eight of whom were arrested, but the main suspect is still at large. Yashwant Yadav, the station house officer of IMT Manesar police station, said, “Balram was battling for his life at a private hospital and died due to excessive bleeding,” he said. Dr Yudhvir Singh Antil, the forensic expert who conducted the autopsy, confirmed that he died due to excessive bleeding. “The bullet was found inside his kidney and he had not gained consciousness since he was shot at,” he said.Yadav said two other victims, including the eight-year-old boy, were still recovering, and the family’s pet dog, which was also shot, is reported to be stable. According to the police, the incident took place at the residence of a former sarpanch (village head), identified as Gopal, around 8pm, when his extended family was visiting them for drinks and dinner on the occasion of Diwali.SHO Yadav said that the two groups were allies in criminal activities before their relations soured in 2007, when Gopal’s sons, Balram and Sohanpal, allegedly murdered one Manoj, the brother of Yogender alias Rinku, the leader of the other group.“A tiff broke out between the two groups leading to the murder of Manoj in 2007, done in order to establish supremacy in the area. Balram and Sohanpal were out on bail. The main suspect was holding a grudge against them for his brother’s murder and planned to kill all the family members when they were together on Diwali night,” the SHO said.According to Rajesh Kumar, one of the injured victims, the attack was carried out by Rinku, Deepak alias Bholu of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, Manish Rana of Bhiwani, and Amit alias Gaath of Sonipat, along with others. “We were sitting inside the room when the incident took place. My nephews Balram and Sohanpal were chatting with their cousin Praveen, while his son Vikas Raghav, and Balram’s eight-year-old son were celebrating Diwali on the lawn when we were fired upon,” he said.The men who died on Diwali night were identified as Vikas (21) and Sohanpal (35), while Balram was injured and died on Monday. The others who were injured were Kumar, Parveen and Balram’s eight-year-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fallout-of-manesar-gang-rivalry-diwali-attack-s-death-toll-rises-to-four-101637003063837.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath wants more bank branches in Uttar Pradesh||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday urged Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to sanction more bank branches and ATMs in Uttar Pradesh.He, along with the chief ministers of different states, was participating in a virtual interaction with Sitharaman.Yogi Adityanath explained that more bank branches were needed in proportion to the state’s population to achieve the targets of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the Union government. He also said the state government was making efforts to achieve objectives of the SDGs. Yogi Adityanath also requested the Union finance minister to provide an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in west or central Uttar Pradesh as this would provide better health facilities to the people of state and India. Vector-borne diseases were prevalent in west and central Uttar Pradesh and hence an AIIMS was needed there, he said.The Union government has sanctioned establishment of a plastic park at Gorakhpur, he said, adding that it should also give its nod to a plastic park at Dibiyapur, Auraiya and a bulk drugs park at Lalitpur.Yogi Adityanath also said the state government was awaiting the Union government’s proposals for a scheme to promote investment in the defence industrial corridor.He said he urged the finance minister to implement the scheme to expedite work at the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor. He expressed his gratitude to the Centre for sanctioning medical device park in the Yamuna Expressway Authority area.There has been expeditious development in states under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and an investment friendly atmosphere has been created, he added.He also said readymade garments sector should be given benefits under the Centre’s production linked incentive (PLI) scheme.During the video conference, Sitharaman interacted with the chief ministers and finance ministers of states and Lt Governors of Union Territories to enhance the investment climate in the country in the wake of strong recovery and the opportunities accorded by a shift in geo-political realities post Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-wants-more-bank-branches-in-uttar-pradesh-101637002884610.html
16-11-2021||Pune||Why Babasaheb’s dream project - Shivsrushti - must be completed||PUNE: The real tribute to late Babasaheb Purandare would be to complete his dream project, Shivsrushti, which remains unfinished due to financial problems, historian Pandurang Balkawde has said.“To create Shivsrushti was late Babasaheb Purandare’s biggest dream which remains incomplete. The Shivsrushti is located at Ambegaon; some works have been completed while many others remain incomplete due to financial problems,” Balkawde said.Late Babasaheb Purandare used the income received from the sale of tickets of his mega play, “Janta Raja” to create Shivsrushti where both scholars and commoners would get all the information about Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and the Maratha Empire. He purchased 27 acre land at Ambegaon through the Maharaja Shivchhatrapati Pratishthan under the Shiv Sena government led by the then chief minister Manohar Joshi.“Babasaheb spent Rs25 crore from his own pocket (sale of tickets of ‘Janta Raja’) on the project. However, a lot more money was required and Babasaheb tried to raise it. The Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh (RSS) generated around Rs50 crore for the project. Even the state government promised some money but handed over to him Rs5 crore under the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis,” Balkawde said.“Around Rs80 crore has already been spent on the project but if we want to pay real tribute to Babasaheb, we need to complete this project which will be a world attraction in future,” Balkawde added.The then BJP government under chief minister Devendra Fadnavis granted “mega project” status to Shivsrushti which created controversy at the time as there were two Shivsrushtis planned in the city – one by Babasaheb’s trust and the other by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).What is Shivsrushti?Late Babasaheb Purandare travelled all over the world and saw various memorials and parks following which he questioned why there was no such memorial dedicated to Shivaji Maharaj, where citizens would get all the information about the Maratha warrior-king and his various pursuits. It was a dream and Babasaheb began pursuing it, starting with the purchase of land at Ambegaon and meetings with various historians, architects and people from all walks of life.Today, the Sarkarwada building has been completed and even the replica of the Bhavani Mata temple located at Pratapgad is near complete. Babasaheb wanted to display how Shivaji Maharaj fought, which is why one tank was proposed within the memorial. He wanted the library located within the memorial premises to house all the books on Shivaji Maharaj so that citizens and students could refer to them whenever needed. He planned to erect a replica of Raigad hall (darbar) where Shivaji Maharaj pronounced his accession as Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/why-babasaheb-s-dream-project-shivsrushti-must-be-completed-101637002825946.html
16-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram mom strangles three-year-old girl to death in a fit of rage; arrested||A three-year-old girl was strangled to death on Sunday allegedly by her mother who later tried to end her life by slitting her wrist in Sector 10, police said on Monday, adding that the woman allegedly lost her temper over the child’s continuous cries and killed her.Police said they registered a case of murder against the woman, Pooja Rani, on the complaint of her husband Pradeep Singh. Pooja was arrested after being discharged from the hospital where she was admitted for wrist wounds. “Initial investigation has revealed that the woman was short-tempered and often got angry over trivial things. The child, Kanishka, was crying continuously and did not stop despite her mother’s best efforts to calm her down. In a fit of rage, Pooja allegedly strangled the child to death,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, Gurugram.Pooja in her statement to the police said she had no intention of killing her daughter and was only trying to scold the child after grabbing her by the neck. But the child died and once she realised what had happened, the guilt drove her to slit her wrist, said police, quoting Pooja’s statement.Sangwan said the husband is employed with a leading automobile company in the city and was at work at the time of the incident. “Singh left for work around 1.45pm Sunday, leaving Pooja and Kanishka at home. Around midnight, he returned home to find the house locked from inside. When his repeated knocks went unanswered, he banged on the door multiple times till it finally broke open,” Sangwan said.“He went inside and found his wife lying on the floor in a pool of blood. She was bleeding from her wrist wounds, but was breathing. Singh then saw his daughter on the bed, lifeless,” Sangwan said, quoting Singh’s statement to the police.Singh told the police that he was in a state of panic when he called the police control room and one of his relatives who live in the same locality.“We took Pooja and Kanishka to a government hospital in Sector 10 where the doctor declared Kanishka brought dead while Pooja was admitted for treatment,” said Singh.A doctor, requesting anonymity, said the woman had a sharp cut with a kitchen knife to her wrists. “The cut was not deep enough to be fatal. She is stable and fit now,” the doctor said.Based on Singh’s complaint, a case was registered against Pooja under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 10 police station on Sunday. Sangwan said a probe is still underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-mom-strangles-three-year-old-girl-to-death-in-a-fit-of-rage-arrested-101637002823490.html
16-11-2021||Other||NEET solver gang case: Fresh case registered against 8, including Osama Shahid, in Varanasi||VARANASI: A fresh case has been registered against eight persons, including Osama Shahid, an MBBS final year student of King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, who had been arrested for connections with the NEET solver gang about six months ago, police said on Monday. “The case has been registered against eight persons, including Osama Shahid, under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420, (cheating), 467(forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471(fraudulently using as genuine any forged document), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sarnath police station following a complaint by Virendra Kumar,” said A Satish Ganesh, Commissioner of Police (CP), Varanasi. According to the CP, Virendra’s son Umesh Ahirwar was preparing for the NEET examination since 2019 by living in Kota, Rajasthan. This year, Ahirwar went to fill the form for the NEET 2021 exam at a cyber cafe where he met cyber cafe operator Hamid Raza, who also runs a medical and engineering education consultancy. Raza negotiated a deal with Ahirwar for ₹15, 00,000 to get him passed the NEET exam through a solver, and took his photo and documents to fill the form. Raza told Ahirwar that his partners PK alias Nilesh, Dr Osama Shahid, Afroz , Ashutosh, Vikas Mahto, Mrityunjay Devnath and Divya Jyoti have filled the form by mixing his photo with an MBBS student (solver). For this, ₹50,000 was also given to Raza in advance. The complainant Virendra informed the police about the entire incident that his son told him. Virendra alleged that when he told Raza to return the money and documents of his son, Raza threatened and asked him not to file a complaint with police in this regard, Ganesh said. On Monday, sub-inspector Suraj Tiwari, who is investigating the NEET solver Gang case, presented Osama Sahid and Vikas Mahto, who were already in jail under judicial remand, before the chief judicial magistrate court. The court has granted police 14 days judicial remand for them. “Police teams are continuously tracking the whereabouts of NEET solver gang’s kingpin PK alias Neelesh of Patna,” he added. CP appeals to candidates Commissioner of Police A Satish Ganesh has appealed to NEET aspirant not to fall in the trap of any solver gang as all such candidates who are trying to get admission on the basis of money through solver gang are on the police radar. Therefore, stay alert and do not fall prey such gang or else legal action can be taken against such candidates too. KGMU to take action against accused King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has received a letter from the commissioner of police, Varanasi, regarding the case against Osama Shahid. “We have received the letter from commissioner of Police, Varanasi, about Osama Shahid. Now, action will be decided as per the university statutes and the rules laid down by the national medical commission,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. The matter will be put up before the executive council of the university once final documents are prepared in the case, said Dr Sudhir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neet-solver-gang-case-fresh-case-registered-against-8-including-osama-shahid-in-varanasi-101637002403531.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police on vigil for President’s visit||Chandigarh Police have deployed around 1,200 personnel to maintain law and order during the President’s visit on Tuesday. President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, on Tuesday to take part in its centenary celebrations.Kovid, who will be the chief guest, will inaugurate a centenary hall, hostel block and semiconductor lab at the institute. PEC completed its 100 years on November 9. Punjab governer Banwarilal Purohit and his Haryana counterpart Bandaru Dattatreya will be the guests of honour. The function will start around 4.30 pm.During the visit, President’s wife Savita Kovind will inaugurate Chandigarh Bird Park at Nagar Van (City Forest) near Sukhna Lake. The aviary, spread over four acres, will house nearly 550 exotic birds from 48 species, and will be open for the public from Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-on-vigil-for-president-s-visit-101637002351139.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Theft at ITBP officer’s house in Sector 32||Thieves broke into the house of an Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) deputy commandant in Sector 32, Chandigarh, and fled with ₹65,000 along with jewellery while he was out of town last week. The officer, Anil Kumar Jha, suspects that his sahayak and garbage collectors are behind the theft. Jha told police that he along with his family had left for his ancestral village on November 5 and left the house keys with his sahayak, who was to look after the house till their return. Jha said he was on his way back to Chandigarh on November 13 when he got a call from his sahayak, who informed him about the theft. Jha reached back on November 14 and found that the entire house was ransacked. One of the locks of the main gate was missing while the locks of the bedroom and the locker were also broken. Although Jha has raised suspicion on the sahayak and garbage collectors deputed between November 5 and 13, police are probing the matter and have registered a case of theft against unknown persons under Section 380 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-theft-at-itbp-officer-s-house-in-sector-32-101637002350102.html
16-11-2021||Gurugram||One killed in Gurugram as car on wrong side of road rams motorcycle||A 32-year-old employee of an online grocery delivery service was killed after a speeding car being driven on the wrong side of the road allegedly hit his motorcycle on Southern Peripheral Road in Sector 72 on Sunday. The police said the driver of the car fled the spot in his vehicle immediately after the incident. He is yet to be identified and arrested. Dinkar (known only by his first name), station house officer of Badshahpur police station, said, “The car driver was driving on the wrong side of the road and there was a massive head-on collision between the two vehicles. The man, who was driving, sustained severe injuries and was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival.”According to the police, the collision took place around 12.30am, when Arvind Pandey was on his way to make a delivery in Sector 72 along with his colleague Mehmood Samsad. After the collision, the motorists were flung in the air, hit a stationary truck, and collapsed on the road, said police. Police said that Pandey was rushed to a private hospital on Sohna Road by his colleagues who reached the spot. The colleagues called an ambulance and informed the police. Samsad was injured and was still undergoing treatment on Monday. The police said the driver of the truck also fled the spot in his vehicle immediately after the incident. He is yet to be identified or arrested.“We have received a complaint from Samsad, the colleague of the deceased man who was with him at the time of the accident, and have registered a case. The car driver will also be nabbed soon. The man died of excessive bleeding and head injuries,” said Dinkar. Pandey’s body was handed over to his family after a postmortem examination. Samsad said that he and Pandey were riding the motorcycle when they met with the accident on SPR. “Pandey became unconscious immediately after falling on the road and was declared dead by the doctors,” he said. A case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Badshahpur police station against the car driver. Police said Pandey lived in a rented room in Bhondsi and belonged to Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/one-killed-in-gurugram-as-car-on-wrong-side-of-road-rams-motorcycle-101637002349037.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Father-son duo held for stabbing teen to death in Sector 32||A father-son duo has been arrested for the murder of an 18-year-old neighbour, to whom they owed ₹2,000, in Sector 32, Chandigarh. The accused have been identified as Anil Kumar and his son Abhay, aka Abhi, 20. Anil is a painter while Abhi works at a chemist shop. The victim, Nikhil, was stabbed to death following an argument near his house on Sunday evening. Police said Nikhil had sold his motorcycle to Abhi about three months back at an agreed price of ₹8,000. Abhi had paid ₹6,000 and promised that he would pay the balance once the vehicle was transferred in his name. In the absence of the complete payment, Nikhil had retained the bike’s documents. In his complaint, the victim’s father, also named Anil Kumar, said both Abhi and his father had been threatening and harassing Nikhil. He alleged that even earlier the father-son duo had entered into an argument with Nikhil and threatened him with dire consequences if he did not get the bike transferred in Abhi’s name. “On Sunday evening, my son was standing on the street near our house when Abhi and his father surrounded him. Anil kept instigating Abhi, telling him not to let Nikhil escape and teach him a lesson. On his instigation, Abhi started manhandling my son and stabbed him,” said the father. The entire incident was captured in CCTV cameras installed in the area. The accused can be seen stabbing Nikhil in full public view and fleeing. Nikhil was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, in an autorickshaw, where the doctors declared him brought dead. Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against Abhi and his father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-father-son-duo-held-for-stabbing-teen-to-death-in-sector-32-101637002347606.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Drunk man tries to enter girls’ hostel at PU, arrested||A Bathinda man has been arrested after he tried to forcibly enter a girls’ hostel, allegedly in an inebriated condition, at Panjab University’s South Campus in Sector 25 late on Sunday night.The accused, identified as Dilpreet, also damaged the hostel’s main gate after ramming his speeding car into it and roughed up the varsity’s security personnel who tried to stop him.The incident happened at PU’s hostel number 9 around 11 pm on Sunday, said police. In an attempt to enter the hostel, Dilpreet rammed his car into its main gate. The car came to a halt after hitting a tree on the hostel premises, after which the accused got out and tried to forcibly enter the building. The hostel warden informed the PU security. As a few security men reached the spot, Dilpreet allegedly roughed them up and kept insisting that he had to enter the hostel to meet a friend, who is a student of the UIET. Later, he was handed over to police and a complaint was lodged. Dilpreet’s medical examination was conducted, and its report is awaited. The accused was produced in court on Monday, and was sent to judicial custody. Police have impounded his car. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the police station in Sector 11. Meanwhile, PU has marked an internal inquiry into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drunk-man-tries-to-enter-girls-hostel-at-pu-arrested-101637002346504.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Tuition teacher arrested for raping 15-yr-old in Mohali||A 23-year-old tuition teacher has been arrested for raping a 15-year-old student at her house in Mohali. Belonging to Tarn Taran, the accused was staying in a paying-guest accommodation in Sector 78, said police. The crime took place in August, though it came to light only recently. The accused was produced in court on Monday and sent to two-day police remand. His name is being withheld to conceal the victim’s identity.According to investigating officer (IO), sub-inspector Amandeep Kaur, the accused used to give math and science tuitions to the victim at her house, where she lived with her mother and younger brother. In her statement to police, the girl’s mother said the rape took place on August 28, but the girl revealed the crime after all these months as the tuition teacher had threatened her with dire consequences.The woman had gone to the market and her son was playing outside the house when the teachers started touching the girl inappropriately and then raped her, stated the complaint.The very next day, the girl refused to take tuitions from him and reasoned that he was not able to explain the concepts to her properly. But since that day, the girl started staying quiet and disturbed. After the mother repeatedly asked her the reason, she confided in her and a police complaint was made. The accused has been booked under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tuition-teacher-arrested-for-raping-15-yr-old-in-mohali-101637002345075.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Village residents in Ward 8 feel neglected||Ward No. 8 comprises four villages — Mauli Jagran, Raipur Kalan, Raipur Khurd and Makhan Majra — that have recently come under the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s jurisdiction and will be voting for a councillor for the first time next month. A general ward, it is especially important to Member of Parliament Kirron Kher, who had adopted Makhan Majra and Raipur Kalan villages under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana in 2014. However, residents rue that this hasn’t changed their fortunes.Moreover, locals feel that they have been neglected ever since the panchayati system was done away with and the villages came under the MC in 2018.Tarsem Singh Tiwana, who resides in Mauli Jagran (also called Moli Pind), says: “What was the point of bringing the villages under the MC if for three years we would have no public representation? Earlier, the panches were approachable and used to help us, but now the MC officials treat us indifferently.”There is an open drain that passes through the area, leading to a health hazard, especially during monsoons. Harbhajan Singh, a former zila parishad member, says: “The drain originates at Gobindpura in Manimajra and has been covered there, but has been left open here. It is a breeding site for disease-spreading mosquitoes.” In Raipur Kalan, one of two villages adopted by the MP, the streets wear a cleaner look and shopkeepers along the main road confirm that the MC staff visits the village regularly to collect waste. However, not all residents are happy. Gurdeep Singh, a local, says: “The village has no cut for vehicles on the main road and we have to drive on the wrong side to enter it, leading to a lot of hassle.”The situation is worse at the other adopted village, Makhan Majra, where residents allege that the MP hasn’t turned up since 2014. Prem Kaur, who has been living in the village for the past 40 years, says: “The MP has ignored us. The taxes have increased so much since the village was taken over by the MC that many traders have shut their shops.” At Raipur Khurd, former sarpanch Lachman Singh rues about how the status of the village has fallen ever since the panchayati system was abolished. “For three years, nobody from the MC enquired about us and we were left to fend for ourselves. Now that the MC elections are coming close, they are engaging in theatrics, putting a new water pipeline here and cleaning the streets. It remains to be seen if they can maintain this momentum after the elections.”Throwing light on the lal dora extension issue, local Congress leader Jeet Singh says: “In Raipur Khurd, around 60% of the village lies outside the lal dora. People living here can’t get a water or electricity connection. The next councillor must ensure that these people don’t suffer.”Know your wardLocalities: Mauli Jagran, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra and Raipur KhurdGeneral ward (taking part in MC polls for first time)Voters: 12,000 Key issuesIgnored by MC officials, residents want to go back to panchayati system Open drain passing through area a health hazard, especially during monsoons Garbage dumped on streets, not being picked by MC vehiclesLocal voicesThe area needs a sports facility for youngsters. Garbage collection vehicles should visit the village daily: Harbhajan Singh, 49, former zila parishad member from Mauli JagranAfter coming under the MC, we have being paying a lot more taxes but nothing has changed on the ground: Tarsem Singh Tiwana, 49, resides in Mauli Jagran and runs an electronics shopThere are no open spaces for kids to play. The area also needs a dispensary and we need relief from taxes: Gurmeet Singh, 36, a resident of Makhan Majra villageAlthough sanitation in our village is better, many people own cattle and animals keep defecating on the roads: Pawan Kumar, 35, a resident of Raipur Kalan who runs a grocery shop||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-village-residents-in-ward-8-feel-neglected-101637002343527.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: AAP announces ward in-charges||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Chandigarh unit on Monday released the second list of ward in-charges for the upcoming municipal elections. Seven new names have been added to the list. Chandigarh affairs in-charge and MLA from Delhi Jarnail Singh announced these names. According to the list, Satish Kumar has been announced ward in-charge from ward number-7. In addition to this, Omkar Singh Aulakh (Sunny) from ward number 11, Rajesh Chaudhary from ward number 20, Jasbir Singh Ladi from ward number 21, Anju Katial from ward number 22, Prem Lata from ward number 23 and Vikram Pundir from ward Number 30. Earlier on November 11, the party had announced Vandana Yadav as in-charge from ward number 9, Sandeep Dahiya from ward no 12, Ramchandra Yadav from ward no 15, Taruna Mehta from ward no 18, Amardeep Singh from ward no 27, and Sandeep Bhardwaj from ward no 35. MORE NEWS FROM TRICITYRelieve new Chandigarh DC immediately: Centre to HaryanaWith the MC election code of conduct expected to be imposed within a couple of days, the home ministry has directed the Haryana Government to “immediately relieve IAS officer Vinay Pratap Singh to enable him take up his new assignment as the deputy commissioner (DC) of Chandigarh”. A Haryana-cadre officer, he is currently serving as the Panchkula DC. According to another communication to the UT adviser, incumbent DC Mandip Singh Brar “may be relieved” once Singh joins.Two held for liquor smugglingTwo men have been arrested for allegedly trying to smuggle 149 boxes of liquor, worth ₹ 25 lakh, meant for sale in Chandigarh into Punjab. Identified as Gurwinder of Fatehgarh Sahib and Manoj Kumar of Zirakpur, they were arrested at a naka in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. They were carrying the boxes loaded from a liquor vend in Sector 28 in a pickup vehicle.Betting racket busted in ZirakpurWith the arrest of six people from Motia City in Zirakpur, the Mohali police have busted a betting racket running during the T20 World Cup final. Aged between 25 and 46, five men belong to Sirsa in Haryana and a 33-year-old is from Mansa in Punjab. Kalka man held with heroinA resident of Gugga Marhi village in Kalka was arrested after police recovered 12.76 gram heroin from him during patrolling at the Chandimandir light point in Pinjore on Sunday evening. Identified as Sunny Kumar, 32, he was carrying the contraband in a polythene bag, which he tried to throw away on seeing the cops. Mayor, MC chief inspect dumping siteMayor Ravi Kant Sharma and MC commissioner Anindita Mitra visited Dadumajra on Monday to take stock of progress in the legacy waste mining project. The contractor was instructed to speed up the work. The officials also visited the landfill, where the contractor was asked to complete the boundary wall. Infra works inauguratedMayor Ravi Kant Sharma laid the foundation stone for the finishing work at the community centre in Sector 52 on Monday. He also laid the foundation stone for a paved parking lot along a green belt at Kajheri village in Sector 52.Higher education conclave from Nov 18The first edition of the Higher Education Conclave, a three-day event on the theme “decoding future in the times of change”, will be held at Hyatt Regency, Chandigarh, from November 18 to 20. Almasto Kapoor, CEO, Silver Fern, which is organising the event, said: “We are looking forward to the participation of delegates from 40 universities in India and the world, like OP Jindal University, King’s College London, York University Canada and University of Arizona among others.”Cricket: Punjab women enter semi-finals Riding on gritty performances from Kanika Ahuja (5 for 23), Neelam Bisht (2 for 19 and 36 no) and captain Taniya Bhatia (39 no), Punjab recorded a five-wicket win over Maharashtra in the quarter-final Elite Group-C tie of the Women’s Senior One Day Trophy in Bengaluru on Monday.City fencer takes bronze Kashvi Garg, a student of Carmel Convent School, Chandigarh, brought laurels to the city by winning bronze medal at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Khelo India Open (U-17) Fencing in Patiala. She won the medal in the epee event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-aap-announces-ward-incharges-101637002289797.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula man duped of ₹50,000 in online fraud||An elderly man in Panchkula was duped of ₹50,000 in online fraud. A case has been registered against an unknown person.On Sunday, an FIR under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) were registered at the Sector 14 police station.Kishori Lal Sabherwal, 77, a retired government employee, in his complaint to the police said he received a call on November 8 where a man told him that he was from the central bank and asked for his debit card details. He received the call at 5 pm and within a few seconds, ₹49,998 was deducted from his account.Lal said he visited the bank and blocked the card. He alleged that though he tried reaching out to the cybercrime number, no one responded. Following which he wrote a complaint to the DCP. The case was then transferred to the police and an FIR was registered on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-man-duped-of-50-000-in-online-fraud-101637002288108.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shamlat land grab case: Punjab rural development secretary gets HC notice||The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a show-cause notice to the secretary, Department of Rural Development, Punjab, as to why proceedings for contempt be not initiated against him for violation of October 28 order in an alleged land grab of shamlat land in Chandigarh periphery.The high court bench of justice AG Masih and justice Sandeep Moudgil has sought a response by November 22.On October 28 the high court had given seven days’ time to appoint commissioners for the purpose.However, it came before the court that the panel had been sent to the personnel department on November 12, but nothing had been done. The court observed that the explanation is totally unacceptable. “We find that inaction on the part of the respondent-state appears to be intentional and deliberate with an intention not to comply with the order passed by this court,” the court said.The matter pertains to land-grab cases of village common land and forestland in villages of Mohali district. It is alleged that influential people grabbed land in Nayagaon and other nearby villages.In 2013, the high court had appointed a commission headed by Justice Kuldip Singh, a former Supreme Court judge. In the reports given, it had named several politicians, police officers and bureaucrats, who had grabbed panchayat land. The tribunal had scanned records of 38 villages and submitted reports highlighting the murky deals. As per rough estimates, nearly 25,000 acres were illegally occupied in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shamlat-land-grab-case-punjab-rural-development-secretary-gets-hc-notice-101637002286976.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PU to hold semester exams offline||Panjab University (PU) is planning to hold the upcoming semester examination in offline mode, the university said on Monday.The semester examination is scheduled to start in December at PU. The university on Monday in an official communique said: “The PU authorities have planned to hold the forthcoming odd semester December-2021 examinations in offline mode and started the preparation for the same.”This comes days after a university panel, constituted to deliberate on the specifications of online proctoring software as a backup plan for the upcoming semester examinations. The panel had also opined that offline mode should be preferred for the conduct of the examination.Only some departments on the campus have started offline classes for postgraduate final year students so far at PU. The panel has suggested that efforts should be made to reopen more departments and conduct doubt classes for those with the offline examination. “In colleges, offline classes have already started and residential accommodation is also not a problem there, therefore, the offline examination should be the preferred mode of examination,” the panel has said.Since the pandemic broke out last year, the university has conducted its semester examinations in online mode three times so far, without any invigilation. However, there was criticism over the sanctity of these online exams. The practical exams of undergraduate courses will be conducted from December 17 to 21 and the postgraduate courses will be conducted from December 20 to 24. The theory exams of undergraduate courses will start from December 22 and they will start from December 27 for the postgraduate courses.Meanwhile, Nikhil Narmeta, National Students Union of India (NSUI) PU president, said, “This is an illogical decision as classes for the current semester were held online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pu-to-hold-semester-exams-offline-101637002285836.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity logs 8 fresh Covid, 89 dengue cases||Eight more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Monday. Five cases were reported from Chandigarh while two cases surfaced in Mohali and one in Panchkula. Also, no death was recorded in the tricity on Monday. So far in November, Mohali has reported two covid-related fatalities while no death has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula.Tricity’s active cases tally stands at 99, with 56 patients still being infected in Mohali, 30 in Chandigarh, and 13 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,389 positive cases, of which 64,539 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, the total cases recorded to date are 68,883. Among these, 67,757 patients have recovered and 1,070 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,788 includes 30396 recoveries and 379 casualties. As many as 89 more people tested positive for the mosquito-borne dengue disease in the tricity on Monday. Mohali reported 47 cases, while 24 infections surfaced in Chandigarh and 18 in Panchkula. However, no death was reported in any of the three jurisdictions on Monday.For this year, Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,678, with the death count being at 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,251 cases so far, besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 824, with one death so far this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-logs-8-fresh-covid-89-dengue-cases-101637002284795.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 55-year-old liquor vend employee found murdered in Lalru||A 55-year-old employee of a liquor vend was found murdered inside the vend at Hasanpura village in Lalru on Sunday. The victim has been identified as Devi Sharan Yadav, a native of Pratapgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. The police have registered an FIR against unknown persons under Section 302 of the IPC.“The body bears strangulation marks around the neck,” said Inspector Jaswinder Singh, station house officer (SHO), Lalru. He said prima facia it seemed to be a burglary attempt or an old rivalry. The body has been kept in a mortuary and the police are waiting for the post-mortem examination report.He was working at the vend for the past three months and his son Amar Singh is working at another vend. Amar told the police that though his father had no enmity with anyone, he suspected it to be a murder case. The police said the liquor vend owner’s statement had also been recorded and friends and relatives of the victim were being questioned to ascertain the cause of the death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-55-year-old-liquor-vend-employee-found-murdered-in-lalru-101637002283544.html
16-11-2021||Other||Punjab brahmin welfare board meets Channi||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday assured the Punjab Brahim Welfare Board of resolving all its genuine demands. A 60-member delegation led by board chairman advocate Shekhar Shukla had called on the CM. CM Channi announced that a meeting of Punjab Brahim Welfare Board will be convened on November 28 to finalise their demands and said that the state government would also provide requisite funds for Bhagwan Parshuram Chair, already established at Punjabi University, Patiala He also promised to look into their other demands, financial assistance to poor families for education and allocation of funds for the board. CM also asked the board chairman to prepare a comprehensive plan for the development of Khati Dham project in a week to be executed by the public works department, and announced ₹10 crore for the development of the Dham on the Phagwara-Hoshiarpur Road. Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Ludhiana North MLA Rakesh Pandey and vice-chairman of the board Ajay Sharma were among thise president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-brahmin-welfare-board-meets-channi-101637002103326.html
16-11-2021||Pune||Kids’ growth in Pune continues to decline in past five years||Pune: The central government has found that Pune district has shown negative growth in all the four indicators of child growth including stunting, wasting, severe wasting and underweight since the past five years. As of recent data, Pune has reported 32.7% of kids are underweight, 30.7% stunting, 31.4% wasting and 14% severe wasting among those who were tested and reported to have a poor growth rate. Officials blame it on the rapid urbanisation of the district and the government machinery’s inability to reach out the ever-migrating population of kids who travel to the city along with the workforce. As per the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) data conducted within the past five years between 2015-16 and 2019-20, the district’s health indicators with regards to kids aged less than 5 has gone from bad to worse. However, the district administration has said that this is possibly because of the rampant urbanisation that the district saw in the last five years. In terms of stunting the difference rose to 8.3% more kids reporting the same, for wasting this went to 8%, severe wasting went to 5% and the number of underweight kids rose by 7.1%. All the four indicators worsened in the past five years and so the administration has taken multiple steps to ensure that the number of health kids goes higher. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune zilla parishad said, “It is true that we have reported a slip which not just includes the rural areas but also the urban areas in the district. The primary reason for this is the urbanisation seen in the district which is why the district saw a surge in migration and we have reported more malnourished kids among the labour workforce like construction labours, sugarcane cutters, factory workers and other migratory workers. We do not find malnourishment among the kids from the tribal belt. The reason for this slip could be the fact that the government machinery lacked in reaching out to this migratory force which we are working up on now.” Prasad said that the administration has taken several exhaustive steps which have also resulted in decrease in the number of malnourished kids in the district. He said, “We have got all the kids in rural areas checked for malnourishment through doctors a campaign which was launched in February 2020 and we categorised the necessary interventions into three groups like nutritional, medical and surgical. The results are evident now as in the first year, 2020, we saw a drop of malnourishment among kids by 44% which has now gone to 80%. It is also noteworthy that the child and maternal mortality rate in the district has also gone down significantly because of the interventions we have put into place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kids-growth-in-pune-continues-to-decline-in-past-five-years-101637002043489.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Air quality may deteriorate over next 48 hours||New Delhi: Air quality in Delhi will gradually deteriorate over the next 48 hours due to poor wind speed even as the contribution of farm fire emissions is expected to stay low, forecasting agencies said on Monday. Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 353 (very poor) on Monday, maginally poor from 330 on Sunday. However, it may shift towards the higher end of the very poor range (up to 400), forecasters said. They added that farm fires contributed 10% of the particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5) pollutants to the capital’s air. According to the Early Warning System for Delhi (EWS), a forecasting system developed under the ministry of earth sciences, wind is likely to blow at 4-8 km/hr in the early morning hours on Tuesday and Wednesday. Gufran Beig, founder and project director at the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said while calm wind conditions were impacting Delhi negatively, the share of stubble burning could reduce further from Tuesday, with wind direction expected to change to easterly. “This will reduce the impact of stubble burning further, even as pollutants accumulate locally. This may push air quality to the higher end of very poor, but it is unlikely to touch severe,” said Beig. Data from the Decision Support System (DSS) --- a new source-wise forecasting tool launched by the ministry of earth sciences this year -- shows that the contribution of vehicles is expected to remain highest among local sources of pollution in the next two days, hovering between 20 and 25%. This is followed by around 7-8% contribution from industries in Delhi and NCR. The share of stubble burning could meanwhile drop to around 6% in the next two days, the data shows. Another factor negatively impacting Delhi’s air at the moment is a drop in temperature. While Delhi recorded the season’s lowest minimum temperature of 10.1 degrees Celsius on Sunday, it was recorded at 10.3 degrees Celsius on Monday. IMD has forecast that it may drop to 9 degrees by Wednesday. Senior IMD scientist RK Jenamani said visibility dropped slightly on Monday, and the relative humidity went up by 10-15%. “Visibility was between 1,000 and 1,500 metres at Palam on Monday as compared to 1,500 to 2,200 metres on Sunday. Similiarly at Safdarjung, it was between 800 and 1,200 metres as compared to 1,000-1,500 metres on Sunday. Relative humidity has increased, with shallow fog expected on Tuesday,” he said. Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, says even with a reduction in stubble emissions, pollutants in Delhi had become trapped. “An accumulation is taking place, which will only go away if wind speeds pick up,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-air-quality-may-deteriorate-over-next-48-hours-101637001924517.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Nudged by SC, Delhi govt plans steps to maximise use of public buses, Metro||After the Supreme Court pulled up the Delhi government for making ‘lame excuses’ and passing the buck instead of taking emergent measures to control air pollution, the state government on Monday prepared a fresh proposal for the state disaster management authority to relax the Covid-19 norms and allow standing passengers in buses and the Delhi Metro, senior officials privy to the development said. The state transport department also wrote to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System (DIMTS) and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to utilise their bus and Metro fleet to full capacity to reduce private vehicles on city roads.According to the affidavit submitted by the Centre before the SC on Monday, 28% of the city’s PM 2.5 levels during winters is contributed by the transport sector in Delhi. The same for PM 10 is around 24% during the winter months. Delhi has more than 10 million registered vehicles and lakhs of hundreds of thousands more enter or cross the national Capital every day.On Monday, hours after the apex court reproached the Delhi government for mostly blaming stubble burning for the city’s hazardous air quality, environment minister Gopal Rai convened a meeting of all transport agencies to explore ways to increase the availability of public transport in the city. Besides, the additional chief secretary (environment) also held an inter-departmental meeting to discuss actions taken by all concerned Delhi government agencies and seek suggestions from them.“Timing is an important factor when looking at the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s air pollution. We do not know which period the data on stubble burning was considered by the Centre in its report that it submitted to the SC today (Monday). In October, the contribution of stubble burning was low because it rained. Central government’s own agency Safar has said in the past few days that the contribution of stubble burning to the city’s poor air quality was as high as 48% at one point. We do not know on what basis the Centre is quoting its numbers,” Rai said.The Delhi environment minister insisted that a joint action plan involving all the neighbouring states and the Centre was required to fight pollution in the city. “In Delhi, all our commercial vehicles run on CNG and we have one of the highest number of electric vehicles among Indian cities. But then, lakhs of diesel vehicles enter Delhi every day which also spikes pollution in the city. That is why a joint action plan is required. We are ready to cooperate with every stakeholder,” he said.The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and state government to focus on city related issues such as dust, industry and vehicular emissions. When the Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehra said road sweeping was handled by the municipal corporations, the top court shot back, “You’ are passing the buck to MCD again. This kind of lame excuse will compel us to find out and hold an audit inquiry into the total revenue you are collecting and spending on popularity slogans instead of looking after people.”Delhi transport commissioner Ashish Kundra said he has written to the DMRC, the DTC and the DIMTS to utilise their bus and Metro fleet to their full capacity. “All buses will be run every day and no buses will be kept on reserve until at least Wednesday (November 17). The Delhi Metro is also working on increasing their trains,” he said.According to the Central Pollution Control Board data, Delhi has seen one of the second most polluted ten days after Diwali since 2015, when AQI record keeping began. The data shows that the city saw seven severe days (of the total 11) this year, compared to the worst so far in 2016 when the capital witnessed the air quality in the severe zone for 10 days.A senior government official said the Delhi government is also sending a fresh proposal to the DDMA to allow standing passengers in the metro and the state-run buses. Almost 50% of the ridership in both these modes of public transport is being killed at present due to the DDMA’s existing Covid-19 norm which states that the Metro and buses are allowed to operate only with 100% of their seating capacity.When allowed to operate to its full capacity, including standing passengers, the DTC and cluster buses together carry about 4.2 million people every day, while the Delhi metro carries about 2.3 million passengers. Delhi currently has a bus fleet of a total of over 6,700 DTC and cluster buses.Kundra said the government will also intensify its crackdown against end of life vehicles by roping in the municipal corporations and the police. Registered diesel vehicles more than 10 years old, and any vehicle over 15 years old, cannot operate in NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nudged-by-sc-delhi-govt-plans-steps-to-maximise-use-of-public-buses-metro-101637001923364.html
16-11-2021||Other||Varanasi: BJP upset with SBSP-SP poll alliance, says Rajbhar||VARANASI Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Omprakash Rajbhar on Monday said that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is upset with the alliance between the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha and Samajwadi Party (SP). “The ruling party is playing every tactic to stop the programmes of the Morcha and the SBSP. Our alliance leaders are regularly raising burning issues like inflation, unemployment among others. Huge crowd emerges in every programme of the SP and the Morcha. The growing support to the alliance is giving sleepless night to the ruling party,” said Rajbhar while addressing a mahapanchayat organised by Bhagidari Party (P), an ally of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, in Varanasi on Monday. Rajbhar said, the public has made up its mind and departure of the BJP is certain in 2022. “I along with my party workers will participate in the SP’s rally in Ghazipur on November 16, to garner support for the alliance,” asserted Rabhar. SBSP-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha recently formed an alliance with Samajwadi Party. ‘Morcha will make Akhilesh next UP CM’ SBSP chief Omprapkash Rajbhar said the alliance has taken a resolution to make SP chief Akhilesh Yadav chief minister of UP in 2022. The morcha will put all its strength to realise its goal. “Inflation and unemployment are at peak. Common man is upset with the inflation, but the government at the Centre and the state led by the BJP are not taking any step to control it. Besides, the BJP government is not listening to the farmers,” Rajbhar alleged. Bhagidari Party president further said that the Morcha would uproot the BJP government in the state in 2022. SBSP state unit vice president Shashipratap Singh said, “The upcoming assembly elections in UP are very crucial. The Morcha will emerge as a strong force and will play important role in formation of next government in UP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-bjp-upset-with-sbsp-sp-poll-alliance-says-rajbhar-101637001863515.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow DM makes it mandatory for hospitals to treat Zika patients||The Lucknow district administration has made it mandatory for all hospitals in the state capital to treat those infected with the Zika virus. “No hospital can deny treatment to a Zika patient. The hospital will admit and treat the patient,” the Lucknow district magistrate’s office confirmed after a meeting chaired by the district magistrate Abhishek Prakash on Monday. Till now 399 samples from suspected cases have been tested in laboratory and three tested positive for zika in Lucknow.“If a person from Lalkuan, Husainganj or Kanpur Road, from where three cases have been reported, goes for blood donation or for consultation at hospital, they shall be screened for any symptoms on priority,” the DM asked the health officials at a meeting.“Also, samples from all fever cases getting admitted to hospitals should be tested for Zika and hospitals should prepare a ward for patients reporting illness from mosquito bite. If there is no separate ward then mosquito net should be used for each patient,” he said.It was also decided that fever clinics that were previously running for covid cases shall be started again. “The integrated covid command centres shall monitor fever cases and also ensure there is no panic regarding Zika and Dengue. Hospitals will put up dos and don’ts regarding Dengue and Zika prominently,” he said.“Prevention for both Zika and Dengue is the same. Avoid mosquito bite and remove stagnated water. Using a mosquito net at home is the ultimate protection against mosquito bite,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors.The health teams visited 3299 houses in different areas on Monday to check sources of mosquito breeding and served notices to 7 house owners where stagnated water was spotted.Also, health teams collected 33 samples from among 5196 people screened in Safdalbagh, 43 samples from among 3779 people in Phoolbagh and 7 samples in Sambhalkheda from among 4205 people screened during the day. Zika cases have been reported from these areas. In all 69 samples taken from people in close contacts of the three cases in these three areas tested negative for Zika. Samples were taken two days before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-dm-makes-it-mandatory-for-hospitals-to-treat-zika-patients-101637001803239.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Water storage units common breeding spots, says South Delhi civic body||As Delhi faces a sharp spike in dengue cases this year, an analysis by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has found that water storage units and peridomestic containers constitute the biggest share of mosquito breeding spots in the city.The analysis, conducted by SDMC’s anti-malaria operations headquarter and the public health department and based on mosquito breeding site data from 32 hot spot wards, chalks out the current distribution of mosquito breeding sites and its variation.According to it, 58.5% aedes aegypti larvae were found in water storage units, such as drums, buckets, jerry cans etc; 30.2% in peri-domestic units, like money plant vases, flower pots, water feeders for birds etc; and smaller contributions from overhead tanks (5.4%), desert coolers (3.8%) and sumps (2.1%).A senior SDMC public health official said that the top category of breeding sites shows an overlap of vulnerable spots in areas lacking basic infrastructure.“Households using containers for water storage have maximum breeding sites. There is also carelessness among the residents leading to breeding in such decorative items such as flower pots and fountains. Aedes aegypti is a mosquito that can spread dengue fever, chikungunya and yellow fever. It prefers to lay eggs in clean water and has adapted to breed among human dwellings. With the drop in temperature, we are likely see a further decrease in dengue cases but people need to be extra vigilant for these two weeks,” official said.Inderjeet Sehrawat, leader of the house in SDMC, said that the delayed monsoon and slow arrival of winter has led to increase in the dengue cases this year. “The situation will improve once temperature dips below 10°C. Meanwhile, we will continue a three-day intensive drive in areas with high frequency of dengue cases,” he added.The domestic breeding checkers of the three civic bodies have so far detected 1.80 lakh houses with mosquito breeding in 2021, which is higher than the 1.07 lakh detected in 2020 and 1.73 lakh in 2019.The weekly vector-borne diseases report released on Monday shows that mosquito breeding was found in 5,111 houses in the last week.Within the three civic bodies, North MCD areas have witnessed maximum cases of mosquito breeding, followed by SDMC and EDMC respectively.A public health official overseeing the entomological survey of the 32 vulnerable wards explained that the areas were assessed on mosquito surveillance indices -- house index (HI), container index (CI), and breteau index (number of positive containers per 100 houses) -- to measure the density of aedes mosquito larvae.Some of the problem areas highlighted in the survey include Gautam Nagar, G-2 Block Sangam Vihar, Tigri Colony, Mehrauli ward 8, Jeevan Park Uttam Nagar, F-Block Raj Nagar-2, Mahipalpur Village Harijan Basti, Rangpuri Pahari’s Inder Camp, Khadda colony and Chhuriya Mohalla of Tehkhand Village.“The distribution can be used to assess other vulnerable areas too,” the official remarked.A senior municipal entomologist said that with the temperature dropping below 15°C, residents should be extra cautious as adult aedes aegypti mosquitoes migrate from open areas, which are colder, to optimum temperature conditions within houses around evenings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dengue-cases-water-storage-units-common-breeding-sites-101637001683684.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Dengue cases cross 5,000 mark, Delhi’s highest since 2015 outbreak||The number of dengue cases in Delhi almost doubled to 5,277 as the city added 2,569 new cases of the mosquito-borne infection during the week ending on November 13, according to the weekly report released by the municipal corporations of Delhi.This is the highest number of dengue cases recorded in the Capital since its largest ever dengue outbreak in 2015 when nearly 16,000 people were affected and 60 died.“Of the total number of cases reported this week, 25-30% of the cases are from the last two months and are only now being reported by healthcare facilities. There has been an increase in reporting since the disease was made notifiable,” said a senior official from the corporation health department.The Delhi government made dengue a ‘notifiable disease’ in mid-October, along with other vector-borne diseases like malaria and chikungunya, under the epidemic diseases act.Another official from the Delhi government’s health department concurred, but added a note of caution: “There has been a change in the reporting process this year to strengthen the system. It stands to reason that more cases will be reported this year; the data cannot be compared to previous years.”Delhi reported 4,431 cases in 2016 and 4,726 cases in 2017, before it dropped sharply to 2,798 cases in 2018, 2,036 cases in 2019, and 1,072 infections in 2020.Delhi has reported nine deaths due to the infection so far, nearing the 2017 toll of 10. There were four deaths reported in 2018, two in 2019, and one in 2020.A doctor from a tertiary care hospital, on the condition of anonymity, said that the actual number of cases – those diagnosed by a test – are likely to be four times the current figure.“It is good that the previous numbers are now being added, but there are still many cases that are going unreported,” the doctor said.The report shows that the number of cases reported in November also continues to be high, despite a decline in temperatures. Usually, the highest number of cases in a year is reported in October.Discounting the 25% additional reporting this week due to the notification, over 3,000 cases were still reported in Delhi in November, higher than the 1,196 cases in October. Even during the 2015 outbreak, 7,283 cases were reported in the month of October, in comparison to just 841 cases in November.“This year, rains were erratic and continued till late; the temperature didn’t dip much either. This is the reason we are still seeing dengue cases. The mosquito breeding is likely to go down in another week and then the cases will reduce in the subsequent 15 to 20 days,” said the municipal health official quoted above.The municipal corporations are responsible for breeding control measures.A senior official from Lok Nayak hospital also said that the 100-bed ward at the hospital continues to be 80 to 90% full at all time.“We are reporting a high number of dengue cases in the hospital; unfortunately many cases are coming in late and then it is difficult to save them. People must visit a doctor if they experience any abdominal symptoms like pain, nausea, and vomiting,” said the tertiary care hospital doctor quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dengue-cases-cross-5-000-mark-highest-in-delhi-since-2015-outbreak-101637001623430.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||2 house helps found dead in four-storey Jangpura home in Delhi||Two domestic helps were found murdered inside a four-storey house in K-Block in Jangpura extension on Monday morning, following which police are on the lookout for five masked me who reportedly went in the direction of the house the night before. Investigators have not established the motive behind the crime.Police said the victims were found in two separate rooms – on the ground and first floors of the four-storey building – by their employer, who lives with her family in the building, at around 9.45am.Delhi police did not officially comment on how the two women were murdered but an officer, who asked not to be named, said that the hands and legs of one of the two women was tied up, and expressed suspicion that she may have been strangled. The second woman, found dead on the first floor, was not tied up, said the officer.Police suspect the victims -- Mina Rai (35) and Sujala (40), both from Darjeeling in West Bengal -- were either strangled or may have been poisoned by the masked men, who have been spotted in two CCTV cameras, in the K Block of the Jangpura Extension area.Police are currently questioning the security guards who reportedly claimed that the five men were carrying large bags.A neighbour, who asked not to be named, said the incident came light at around 9.30am when the family’ sdog trainer knocked the door of building in K-42 in Jangpura Extension, where the two women worked, but found no response. “He called the building owner and told her that nobody was opening the door. She (employer) came down, opened the door for him and then went to check on the domestic helps. They found one of the victims on the ground floor... and the other on the first floor,” said the neighbour.Police said that the family, which owns the building, runs an office and shop in the ground floor. A second officer, who wished not to be identified, said the suspects took away the hard disk of the CCTV camera from the house. “The security guards have claimed to have seen five men carrying bags walking in the colony at around 4am. The security guard thought they were residents and did not stop them. The CCTV cameras from other locations in the colony show 4-5 men wearing masks, entering the colony and walking towards the building,” said the officer.Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) Esha Goel confirmed that a murder case has been registered but did not share the details.On Monday evening, the Jangpura Extension Welfare Association(JEWA) shared an advisory on their WhatsApp groups. “...it is imperative that we start taking security seriously,” said a message on the colony’s WhatsApp group by Kapil Kakkar, president of the association||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-house-helps-found-dead-in-four-storey-jangpura-home-101637001443405.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Student groups clash in JNU, FIR registered||Two Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student groups -- ABVP and AISA -- accused each other of assault inside campus on Sunday evening, following which police registered an FIR, related to IPC sections on causing hurt, on the complaints on Monday. Students said the alleged assault took place after a quarrel over vacating the union room booked by another student group.Shivam Chaurasia, president of ABVP’s JNU unit, said that they were holding the unit’s weekly meeting in the union room when members from Left outfits asked them to vacate. “...some students with us got hurt as they were being pushed and shoved,” he said.Dhananjay, an AISA member who was present at the spot, said the room had been booked in advance by another student group. “ABVP members refused to vacate... they hit students,” said Dhananjay.“Investigation is on,” said DCP (south west) Gaurav Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/student-groups-clash-in-jnu-fir-registered-101637001385573.html
16-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Over 30,000 fish seeds released into Ganga by ICAR- CIFRI||PRAYAGRAJ: Over 30,000 seeds of Indian major carps--catla, rohu and mrigal fishes were released on the confluence of the Ganga and the Yamuna under the ranching programme organised by ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI), Prayagraj, on Monday, for conservation of fish species that are becoming extinct in the Ganga. The ranching programme is the part of National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) project. The center head of the CIFRI, DN Jha, welcomed the people and educated them about the river Ganga. Basant Kumar Das, the director, and guest of the institute informed the gathering about the Namami Gange (NMCG) project besides the biodiversity and cleanliness of the Ganga under which the seeds of important fish species, which are declining in the entire Ganga river, were released. The chief guest of the programme, Joykrushna Jena, deputy director general (fisheries), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, explained the importance of fishing and ranching in the river Ganga. He described the ways to increase the livelihood of fishermen and distributed 20 cast nets among them. Rajesh Sharma, convenor of Ganga Vichar Manch, and National Mission for Clean Ganga administered oath to all to keep Ganga clean. The pilgrims, fishermen, and regular visitors at Sangam also participated in the programme. On the occasion, scientist Absar Alam said the participation of all in the society is necessary for achieving the objectives of this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-over-30-000-fish-seeds-released-into-ganga-by-icar-cifri-101637001384350.html
16-11-2021||Other||UPRTOU students to get tablets, smartphones||The state government will give tablets or smartphones to all the students enrolled in Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU) till the academic session July-2021. The university has completed all the preparations for the implementation of the scheme for free distribution of tablet/smartphone for technical empowerment of the youths of the state. On the instructions of the vice chancellor of the University, professor Seema Singh, admission in-charge Gyan Prakash Yadav has been made the nodal officer of this scheme. “In the current session of the university (July 2021) all the students enrolled with the university and pursuing various courses, be it working people, retired professionals or unemployed youths, will be given tablet/smartphone under the scheme of the state government for technical empowerment,” said the nodal officer. For this, no student has to make any application or pay fees, he added. The database of students will be made available by the nodal officer to the officer selected by the government. Yadav said that if there was any error in the uploaded data, then the study center coordinator will inform the nodal officer. Information in this regard will be sent to the students on their phone or email. Media in-charge of the university, Prabhat Chandra Mishra said that along with this, the last date for admission to all the awareness programs, certificate programs, diploma programs, PG diploma programs and graduate and masters’ programs in the university for the session July 2021-22 has been extended till 25 November 2021. As per the directives of the UPRTOU VC, Prof Seema Singh, the last date of the admission in different courses has been extended from November 15 to November 25, 2021 in the interest of students. Students desirous of admission can ensure their admission by depositing the admission fee online on the university website and web link. The admission process is being conducted simultaneously at all the regional centers of the state which includes Prayagraj, Varanasi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Kanpur, Jhansi, Agra, Meerut, Azamgarh, Noida and Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uprtou-students-to-get-tablets-smartphones-101637001323530.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||EDMC suspends two officers for dereliction of pollution control duty||NEW DELHI: The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) authorities on Monday suspended two sanitary inspectors for allegedly not taking appropriate action to stop the open burning of garbage and not maintaining cleanliness and hygiene in their wards. EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand said that during a random inspection in Shahdara (north zone) on Monday as part of the ongoing drive to combat air pollution and maintaining cleanliness in the area, it was found that the sanitary inspectors of ward numbers 43-E and 47-E were not performing their duties properly. “Since they were found not taking appropriate action to stop the open burning of garbage in their wards, they have been suspended for negligence in their duties. Since the EDMC is making every effort to control the increasing level of air pollution in its area, such negligence by the officials will not be tolerated. We have served show-cause notices to both the officials,” he said. Anand, who also convened a meeting with the higher officials about the pollution-controlling measures in the EDMC area, said that different teams have been constituted to keep a round-the-clock tab on pollution. “All the employees and officers have been asked to do their duties honestly as the civic agency has already started taking strict action against the various activities causing pollution. EDMC has already issued seven challans for illegal dumping of construction and demolition waste at unauthorised locations, 14 challans for dust violations at construction sites and 108 challans for illegal dumping of garbage in this week so far,” he said. The EDMC commissioner also said that to curb air pollution, the east corporation has deployed 10 mechanical road sweepers, 40 water sprinklers and 12 jetting machines for water sprinkling in its area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-suspends-two-officers-for-dereliction-of-pollution-control-duty-101637001143375.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Deposit seized cash and other valuables in banks, police told||The Delhi Police have issued a circular directing station house officers (SHOs) of all police stations and investigating officers (IOs) to deposit cash seized in cases as fixed deposits in national banks, and jewellery and other precious items in bank lockers.The directions were issued by special commissioner of police (crime) Devesh Chandra Srivastva and are part of the effort to decongest the malkhanas (store room where case property is kept) and reduce the scope for misappropriation or replacement of the valuable articles.The circular was prepared following the order of a local court that accepted and appreciated the application by an IO and SHO of the Palam Village police station, allowing them to transfer ₹96,340 in cash -- seized during a raid on a gambling racket -- from the maalkhana to a fixed deposit account to be opened in the name of the police station.As per the circular issued by the special CP, the cash seized in various cases will be deposited in nationalised banks as fixed deposit receipts (FDRs) after opening an account in the name of the SHO of the concerned police station. For jewellery and other precious items, the circular says that such items will be kept in bank lockers after taking permission from the courts. The rent of the lockers will be paid from Delhi Police’s regular budget.In the circular, Srivastava has directed the police officers to produce seized items before the concerned magistrate within a period of one week, for its release to the rightful owner. In case of no claimants, the SHO has been directed to approach the court and seek its approval for depositing the cash in the bank through an FDR for a year.About the interest accumulated in the FDRs and its future use, the circular says that if the court orders the disposal of the seized cash in the government’s favour, the principal amount as well as the gained interest money will be deposited in the consolidated fund of India.But if the order comes in favour of the owner of the property, the principal amount will be returned to him or her while the interest accrued on it will be deposited in the government’s fund unless the court order mentions otherwise.Senior officers welcomed the move. “This will minimise the risk arising from keeping the seized cash and valuables in maalkhanas. It will also reduce the scope for misappropriation... The seized property can be put to a more constructive use,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deposit-seized-cash-valuables-in-banks-delhi-police-told-101637000963320.html
16-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, European Union ambassador discuss Covid, pollution||European Union ambassador to India Ugo Astuto met chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday and discussed Delhi’s role in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and measures to mitigate air pollution in the national capital, the Delhi government said in a statement. “There is no new strain of the virus in Delhi. Nearly 50% of the eligible population is fully vaccinated and about 90% have taken at least one jab. We are working rapidly to vaccinate everyone. I am constantly monitoring the trends of Covid-19 and keeping an eye out for any situation where the graphs may seem to increase,” the statement quoted Kejriwal as saying.The chief minister was keen to understand Europe’s experience with the recent surge in Covid-19 and asked the ambassador for his inputs in protecting Delhi from a similar scenario. The ambassador said the situation largely depended on the rate of vaccination and ideally it should be easier to handle when most of the population has taken the jab, the statement said.Kejriwal also apprised Astuto about the Delhi government’s efforts in controlling pollution throughout the year. “About 5,000 to 6,000 industrial units of Delhi were made to switch to green fuel in the form of PNG (piped natural gas) by the Delhi government. Earlier, these industries relied on heavily polluting industrial fuels so it was our top priority to make them switch over to healthier practices,” Kejriwal said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-european-union-ambassador-discuss-covid-pollution-101637000783218.html
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar’s principal media advisor Vinod Mehta resigns citing personal reasons||Vinod Mehta, principal media advisor to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, has resigned citing personal reasons, it is learnt. Sources say Mehta who was appointed in April this year had submitted his resignation on Sunday. “Yes, I have resigned because of personal reasons that include health and my business also which had been suffering due to my assignment as principal media advisor,” Mehta said when contacted over phone. Mehta said he had requested chief minister Khattar to accept his resignation with immediate effect as he wanted to focus on his business and health that had taken a toll after joining as media advisor to CM. “My company was suffering heavily in my absence. I will continue to work for the CM in my personal capacity,” Mehta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattars-principal-media-advisor-vinod-mehta-resigns-citing-personal-reasons-101636995922830.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Purvanchal Expressway sets pitch for poll battle in eastern UP||The 341-km long Purvanchal Expressway has set the pitch for electoral battle between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition parties in eastern Uttar Pradesh during the 2022 assembly polls in the state.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the expressway connecting Lucknow with the districts of eastern UP in a programme in Sultanpur district on Tuesday (November 16). The expressway passes through nine districts—Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur—considered to be a strong base of the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress.The BJP plans to showcase the six-lane expressway constructed at an estimated cost of ₹22,497 crore in a big way to retain power in the state. Besides working to consolidate gains made in eastern UP in the 2017 assembly elections, it is projecting the expressway as a road that will transform the backward regions of eastern UP into a developed area.To make the inauguration programme a grand event, the saffron brigade has mobilised its resources and cadre from across the eastern UP, also known as Purvanchal region, as it wishes to send a message to the voters about its commitment for the development of the region.Terming Purvanchal Expressway a highway of development, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said, “Eastern UP, which was neglected after independence, is now moving at a fast pace on the path of development. The expressway will become the backbone of the economy of the eastern UP. At eight spots on the expressway, the state government will develop industrial corridor to give fillip to industrial and business activities. The state government has issued a notification for the development of the industrial corridor.”Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, however, says the Purvanchal Expressway project was actually conceived by his government. “The SP government completed the Agra Expressway within 22 months whereas the BJP government is inaugurating an incomplete Purvanchal Expressway. The people are aware of the fact and they cannot be misled,” he claimed.BSP chief Mayawati too had said, “The BJP is trying to take credit for the Purvanchal Expressway that is not correct. The plan of the expressway project to connect NOIDA in west UP with the districts of east UP was prepared when the BSP was in power. Due to the hurdles put by the then Congress government (at the Centre), the project could not be launched.”A political observer SK Srivastava said, “Fearing that farmers’ agitation as well as Samajwadi Party- Rashtriya Lok Dal alliance will make a dent in its electoral fortunes in west Uttar Pradesh in the 2022 assembly election, the BJP has set its eyes on the eastern UP to retain power. The battle for the eastern UP will be decisive in deciding the fate of the political parties in the upcoming assembly election could be gauged from the fact that out of the 403 assembly seats in the state, 160 are in this region.”In the 2017 UP assembly election, the BJP came to power with a landslide victory but the SP and the BSP were able to check the saffron brigade in their strongholds Azamgarh and Ambedkar Nagar respectively. The SP alliance this time with Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) that has support base in Ghazipur, Mau and Sultanpur districts has caused concern in the BJP camp. To counter the SBSP, union home minister Amit Shah on November 13 announced that a state university coming up in Azamgarh will be named after king Suheldev, Srivastava said.“The BJP is leaving no stone unturned to bag maximum assembly seats in eastern UP and this could be gauged from the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a slew of development projects in eastern UP, including inauguration of the international airport at Kushinagar, a medical college at Siddharthnagar, development projects in his constituency Varanasi, within a month. He is likely to inaugurate an AIIMS and a fertiliser factory in Gorakhpur and the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project in Varanasi this month,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/purvanchal-expressway-sets-pitch-for-poll-battle-in-eastern-up-101636995143251.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||PM to visit UP today, inaugurate Purvanchal Expressway||LUCKNOW Prime Minister Narendra Modi will land on the Purvanchal Expressway in a C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft, when he arrives to inaugurate the 340-kilometre-long road at Karwal Kheri in Sultanpur district on Tuesday. After the event, he will address a public meeting and witness an air show organised by the Indian Air Force (IAF). A 3.3-km stretch has been developed for allowing fighter aircraft to make emergency landings near the Sultanpur district. The Mirage 2000 and Su-30MKI aircraft would be making multiple take-offs and landings at the emergency airstrip, which will be watched by PM Modi and other dignitaries. The Purvanchal Expressway starts from Chandsarai village in Lucknow and ends at Haidaria village located on National Highway 31 in Ghazipur (18 km from UP-Bihar border). It is a six-lane expressway that can be expanded to eight lanes in future.Constructed at an estimated cost of about ₹22,500 crore, the expressway is going to give a boost to economic development of eastern parts of Uttar Pradesh, especially the districts of Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur, an official statement said.“Despite the Covid pandemic, the state government constructed the expressway on schedule. People residing in eastern UP as well as the bordering districts in Bihar can reach Delhi within 9 hours,” said Awanish Awasthi, CEO, UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), addressing a press conference. The expressway passes through nine districts including Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur, he added.The expressway will have CNG stations, electric recharge stations for vehicles and will be connected with the Defence Corridor via the Agra and Bundelkhand expressways. While public amenities were being developed on the expressway, it will have two toll plazas – one at the point where the expressway commences and the other where it will terminate. The decision to charge toll on the expressway will be taken later, said Awasthi.The expressway has been designed for the movement of vehicles at a speed of 120 km per hour but the speed has been fixed at 100 kmph. Construction agencies faced difficulties due to the low lying terrain in Azamgarh and Mau districts and heavy rains in September affected construction works, he said.The state government had authorised UPEIDA to develop industrial hubs on the both sides of the expressway. Police vehicles, cattle catchers’ vehicle and 16 ambulances will be deployed for safety and medical emergencies. Intensive plantation had also been carried out on both sides of the expressway, he added.The state government plans to provide facilities to industrial training institutes, educational institutes, medical institutes near the expressway. The expressway will work as a catalyst for the development of handloom, food processing units, storage plants, markets and dairy units, beverages, chemicals products, coke and refined petroleum products, electrical equipment, medical and dental instruments. The expressway will also give boost to tourism in eastern UP, said UPEIDA chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-to-visit-up-today-inaugurate-purvanchal-expressway-101636994483123.html
16-11-2021||Other||12 Dalit families flee Bihar village citing threat from Maoists||At least 12 Dalit families have left their homes in Bihar’s Gaya district under fear of attacks by Maoists in the wake of the killing of four persons on suspicion of being police informers.Police said the residents of Monwar village under the Maoist-hit-Dumaria police station, nearly 193km south-east of the state capital, have shifted to houses of relatives in adjoining villages after the Maoists killed two couples late on Saturday during a “jan adalat” (a kangaroo court of the Maoists), branding the four police informers.The incident occurred at the same spot where an encounter took place on March 16, 2021 in which four Maoist commanders were killed by security forces.The four victims shot dead and hanged by Maoists were identified as Mahendra Bhokta, his wife Manojwa Devi, his brother Satyendra Bhokta and his wife Sunita Devi. The Maoists ordered the Bhokta families and their sympathisers to leave the village and threatened if they failed to do so, they would face dire consequences. Following this, Mahendra’s mother Sukwaria Devi, father Saryug Singh Bhokta, his 10-year-old son, besides two nephews and a niece, shifted to a relative’s house at Chanchal-Goraiya village barely a kilometre away.On Monday, when HT visited the village, the villagers were engaged in agriculture and other work, with no policeman in sight. A few men willing to talk admitted that those who fled were scared of both the police and the Maoists. B“...they killed four members and left a seven-page pamphlet there, stating the action was to avenge four of their commanders killed by the CoBRA battalion 205 at the same place,” one of victim’s family member, Babita Devi said.The Maoists alleged that their comrades were poisoned by the women.Gaya SSP Aditya Kumar said a case had been lodged against 15 persons, including Vivek Yadav, Indal and 40 unknown Maoists on the basis of the statement of the deceased’s uncle Mangroo Bhokta. Asked about security arrangements, the SSP admitted that the family had shifted to another place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/locals-flee-gaya-village-after-public-executions-by-maoists-101636989805270.html
16-11-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh: Maoist commander killed in gunfight||A Maoist commander was killed in an encounter with security personnel in Narayanpur district of Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region on Monday, officials said.Narayanpur police said that the encounter started at around 11.30 am in the forest of Bahker under Chhotedongar police station limits when a team of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) was out on an area domination operation.“The DRG team had some intelligence inputs about the presence of a small team of Maoists near Amdai Ghati iron ore mining area. The DRG team cordoned off the area and suddenly Maoists started firing,” said a senior police officer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.The other Maoists fled from the spot after and escaped into the jungles.“The dead body was identified as Saket Nureti alias Bhaskar Nureti, commander of the outlawed Peoples’ Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) company no. 6 of the Maoists. The company works in East Bastar division. Nureti was recently promoted as a commander from section in-charge,” an officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maoist-commander-killed-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarh-s-narayanpur-district-101636985602797.html
16-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi targets Opposition over Kashi Vishwanath cleanliness||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said those who came to power in Mahatma Gandhi’s name after Independence did nothing to ensure cleanliness around the Kashi Vishwanath temple even though Bapu had made a sharp remark on the filthy condition of the lanes around the temple during his visit to the shrine in 1916.The Mahatma’s words had no effect on the people who came to power in his name after Independence, he said, making a religion-centric pitch to attack opposition parties ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections.But, over 100 years after the remark, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made efforts and Kashi Vishwanath Dham has become a Divya Dham now, he said at a function to mark the reinstallation of a Goddess Annapurna idol in the Kashi Vishwanath temple premises in Varanasi. The idol has been brought back to India from Canada after 108 years.“After 108 years, the idol of Annapurna has arrived in Kashi and was reinstalled in Kashi Dham. The entire credit goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing back the rare idol of Mata Annapurna to Kashi,” Yogi Adityanath said, addressing the gathering at the International Cooperation and Convention Centre “Rudraksh” in Varanasi.No one else cared about the Ganga before PM Modi and the river now is flowing “aviral” (uninterrupted) and “nirmal” (clean), he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/they-ruled-in-mahatma-gandhi-s-name-but-didn-t-keep-kashi-vishwanath-temple-clean-yogi-adityanath-101636977081577.html
