17-11-2021||Pune||Unions oppose parking charges for commercial vehicles at APMC Pune||Pune In a bid to monitor unwanted vehicles and effective parking management, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Pune has implemented parking fees at Marketyard for three-wheeler and tempos at Rs50 and Rs100 respectively from November 16. Many traders, middlemen, tempo drivers and worker associations have opposed the decision and given an ultimatum till November 19 to withdraw the new charges or will call for market closure strike from November 21. On Tuesday, a meeting was held by the APMC chairman Madhukant Garad with various Marketyard organisations and unions over parking fees for traders’ vehicles. In the meeting members from different organisations opposed to charge any fees for parking of vehicles. After the meeting, all the unions unanimously decided to go on an indefinite strike from November 21, if the parking fees decision is not withdrawn. “In the meeting it was decided to charge ₹50 for three wheelers and ₹100 for other commercial vehicles for two hours which bring various types of goods to the market. There were several unwanted vehicles roaming around the market regularly and also it was found that some people were illegally taking parking charges from vehicles. So, to stop the illegal practice, we have started parking charges through a contractor for the commercial vehicles. However, after the opposition from the organisations, we have decided to reduce the parking fees and increase its timing,” said Garad. Vilas Bhujbal, leader of the association of traders and commission agents at the Marketyard said, “The parking charges decided by the APMC are too high and not affordable to traders, middlemen, workers, tempo or any other commercial vehicle drivers. For two hours ₹50 and ₹100 are charged, which a tempo driver earns after one trip. Hence, to pay that as parking charge is unfair. So, we have decided to go on strike if this decision is not taken back till November 21.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unions-oppose-parking-charges-for-commercial-vehicles-at-apmc-pune-101637173796598.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Ganga pollution case:HC seeks reply of Kashi Vishwanath Spl Area Development Authority||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has issued notices to Sri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Authority and asked it to file affidavit through its chief executive officer, giving details of the schemes and all constructions which are proposed or are underway in and around the river Ganga in Varanasi district. Expressing concern over non-co-operation among different departments of the state government on the issue of Ganga pollution, which is causing a lot of confusion before the court, a three-judge Bench of Allahabad high court has asked the chief secretary, UP to examine this aspect and issue required directions to obviate confusion and to have effective representation of the stand of the government before the court. Hearing a matter relating to Ganga pollution, the three-judge bench comprising justices Manoj Kumar Gupta, Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar said, “We notice that different departments, nodal and executing agencies are represented through different counsels among whom there is no coordination, resulting in a lot of confusion. If the additional advocate general is representing the state, we expect that he should have full instructions, at least in respect of all matters falling under the purview of state government or its instrumentalities.” Regarding purity of Ganga water, the court said that the report from IIT, Kanpur was still awaited and allowed some more time to enable it to complete the tests and submit the desired report. “We accept the request and permit submission of the report in sealed cover through registrar general of this court by the next date”, the court added, while fixing December 6, 2021 for further hearing of the matter. The court was not satisfied with the approach of the Prayagraj Nagar Nigam regarding cremation on the bank of river Ganga and said,” We do not appreciate the mindset with which the Nagar Nigam is handling the issue. No doubt, on account of religious beliefs, a few people avail the services of electric crematoriums, but we feel that if proper facilities are provided at the electric crematoriums and people are educated and made aware of the advantages and disadvantages of their use, more and more people will avail the facilities.” In this backdrop, the court in its order dated November 12 directed the additional chief secretary, Nagar Vikas, UP government, Lucknow to examine the matter and place before this court its plan in respect of improvement of the infrastructure of the two electric crematoriums and the time frame within which it would be implemented. On the question of ban on use of plastic, the commissioner, Prayagraj division has filed his affidavit annexing therewith order dated November 8, 2021, whereby a committee comprising of ADM city, Prayagraj, additional municipal commissioner, Nagar Nigam, Prayagraj and superintendent of police (City), Prayagraj has been formed to oversee the implementation of the ban on plastic carry bags in pursuance of government order (GO) dated July 15, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ganga-pollution-case-hc-seeks-reply-of-kashi-vishwanath-spl-area-development-authority-101637173256383.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||UP clerics miffed over book authored by Wasim Rizvi||LUCKNOW Former Shia Waqf Board chairman Wasim Rizvi’s book titled ‘Muhammad’ has sparked a fresh controversy with UP clerics condemning its cover page that portrays a man with a semi-naked woman. They also accused Rizvi of making objectionable comments against Prophet Muhammad. Some of the religious organisations, including the All-India Shia Personal Law Board (AISPLB), served notices on him, while a few approached the UP government seeking an FIR in the matter. “He made many anti-Islamic statements in the past, but this time all limits have been crossed. We strongly oppose his book ‘Muhammad’, especially the cover page that portrays a man with a semi-naked woman and demand an FIR against him,” said senior Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad on Wednesday. The cleric said he submitted a ‘tehreer’ against Rizvi at the Chowk Kotwali, but the FIR was yet to be registered. On November 4, former chairman of Shia Waqf Board Wasim Rizvi released the book at Dasna Delvi temple at Ghaziabad in the presence of Hindutva leader Narsinghanand Saraswati. However, the issue snowballed on November 15, after Rizvi posted the cover page image and buy link of the book on his facebook wall with a note—‘You can easily download e-book Muhammad from here’. The AISMPLB was the first to register protest. “It’s a shameful act that is not at all expected, especially from the person who is a Shia. The act has hurt religious sentiments of the people here and in Iraq and other countries,” said Maulana Yasoob Abbas, general secretary, AISMPLB. The board served a notice to Wasim Rizvi and approached the UP Government, demanding action in the matter. “You are hereby directed to withdraw your statement with immediate effect and issue an unconditional public apology for the comment or else criminal proceedings under Section 153 A and 295 A of the IPC,” reads the AISMPLB notice. Apart from Shia Muslims, Sunni Muslims too opposed the book. “Ignoring it is the only solution. People generally read books of authors who are subject matter experts, but unfortunately he is no expert. It is just a publicity stunt, which should be ignored,” said Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Imam Eidgah and member of All India Muslim Personal Law Board (APMPL). Wasim Rizvi issued a statement, saying he was receiving life threats for writing the book titled ‘Muhammad’ and challenging 26 verses from the Quran. “I have also heard that the maulanas said that my remains would not be allowed to be buried at Muslim graveyards. In such a situation, I want my remains to be cremated as per Hindu rituals and not buried at the graveyard. I have also made changes in my will, a copy of which has been marked to the district administration, asking them that if anything happens to me, my body shall be handed over to my Hindu friends and my last rites would be performed by Narsinghanand Saraswati,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-clerics-miffed-over-book-authored-by-wasim-rizvi-101637173016497.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra launches outreach programme in Chitrakoot, tells women to fight for their rights||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday urged women to fight for their rights in politics.She was interacting with women at Ram Ghat in Chitrakoot on Wednesday as part of her party’s 100-day women outreach programme “Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon”.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had earlier announced 40% reservation for women in ticket distribution in the state assembly election scheduled for early next year, asked women to begin fending for themselves.“No one will come to rescue. How can you hope for justice and protection from those who commit atrocities,” she said during her interaction with some 5000 women at Ram Ghat on the banks of the Mandakini river in Chitrakoot.The decision of giving 40% tickets to woman was a beginning, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said.“I want 50% women contesting the elections in 2024,” she said.She reiterated several promises to women. Apart from a separate manifesto that is being prepared, she once again promised smartphones for class 12 pass girls and electric scooties for girls who have completed graduation, free travel for women in government buses, an honorarium of ₹10,000 for anganwadi workers and old age pension of ₹1000.“The mobile will help in your safety and the scooty in your studies. All travels will be free for you in government buses,” she said.Hitting out at the BJP government, she said that the son of a Union minister crushed farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and the government helped him. This was a reference to the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 when eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra is the key accused in the case. He was arrested on October 9 and is currently in jail. The district and sessions rejected his bail application on November 15. Ashish Mishra has repeatedly denied his involvement in the incident.The Congress general secretary also referred to her recent meeting with some ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers who were earlier allegedly beaten up by police while trying to raise their demands at a public meeting.“When you are being exploited and tortured on a routine basis, if you ask for your rights from those beating you, you will never get it. You have to fight for your rights,” she said.“If the government is not doing anything for you, then why should it continue?” she asked.The women present at the interaction included students, anganwadi workers, lawyers and members of self-help groups. They shared with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra the problems they faced at home and at the workplace.She promised them that the party would stand by them and help them in solving their problems in the best possible manner.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also offered prayers at the famous Matgajendra Shiv temple in Chitrakoot and performed jalabhishek there. She also went to Kamtanath temple for puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-launches-outreach-programme-in-chitrakoot-tells-women-to-fight-for-their-rights-101637172956624.html
17-11-2021||Pune||CBI arrests IAF officer for graft in Pune||Pune: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested Suryakanat Sangle, civilian gazetted officer (CGO), Indian Air Force (IAF), 2 Wing, Lohegaon, Pune on charges of allegedly demanding a bribe of ₹50,000 for processing the transfer request of a housekeeping staff. Inspector (CBI) Girish Soni is investigating the case. The CBI FIR (first information report) states that the housekeeping staff posted with the IAF in Lohegaon resides in Nigdi and had applied for his mutual transfer from IAF Lohegaon to Station Headquarters (HQ), Dehu road. During verification of the complaint by CBI, the complainant sought 2-3 days’ time as he had only Rs3,000- ₹4,000 with him, but Sangle instructed to deliver the amount the same day itself. Accordingly, an FIR has been registered against accused for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The FIR stated, “The allegations mentioned in the complaint have been verified in the presence of independent witnesses. The verification has disclosed the demand of undue advantage by the public servant Sangle and when the complainant sought 2-3 days’ time as today he had only to Rs3,000- ₹4,000 with him. Sangle instructed to deliver today itself whatever amount is available with the complainant. The aforesaid facts and circumstances disclose commission of offences punishable under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 (as amended in 2018) against Sangle, CGO, IAF, 2 Wing Lohegaon.” Soni in his verification report dated November 15 stated, “The complaint revealed that the complainant is a housekeeping staff of IAF, presently posted at 2 Wing, IAF, Lohegaon, had applied for mutual transfer from Lohegaon to Station Headquarters, Dehu road in last week of July 2021. CGO Sangle demanded an amount of ₹50,000 from the complainant to send his application and get his work done at the earliest. Further, Sangle directed the complainant to pay bribe of Rs25,000 in advance and remaining amount of Rs25,000 after the work is done. Sangle called the complainant on November 15 to meet him near Vishrantwadi petrol pump in the afternoon,” it stated. The report added, “As per the verification proceedings, it is confirmed that Sangle is demanding bribe from the complainant otherwise the work of the complainant would remain pending and further confirmed that he had demanded Rs3,000- Rs4,000 rupees which is a part of Rs50,000 as alleged by the complainant. Hence, a regular case may be registered against Sangle under Section 7 of PC Act 1988, accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cbi-arrests-iaf-officer-for-graft-in-pune-101637172842623.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||After monsoon withdrawal, PM2.5 levels shot up by 320% in six weeks||The concentration of PM2.5 - Mumbai’s most widely prevalent air pollutant - shot up four times within six weeks, official data shows. In the week ending October 7, when sporadic showers were still occurring over the city, air quality monitors registered an average daily PM2.5 concentration of 27.5ug/m3 (micrograms per cubic metre of air), taken as an average of the preceding week.By November 1, this quantum had increased to 61ug/m3, rising further to 89.4ug/m3 on November 15. That is an increase of 320% from the first week of October. Most of the city’s PM2.5 load, as demonstrated by multiple studies, comes from anthropogenic sources including road dust, construction and demolition activities and vehicular emissions.The ‘safe’ threshold for PM2.5 concentration, as stipulated in the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS), is 60ug/m3 per day. As per the World Health Organisation, the daily safe limit is 15ug/m3. Experts attributed the pollution spike to an accumulation of particulate matter in the city’s air, which is a typical phenomenon at this point in its pollution cycle.PM2.5 refers to tiny, airborne particles less than 2.5 micrometres in diameter or about thirty times less than the width of a human hair. These particles can be inhaled by humans on exposure, leading to a range of adverse health impacts, from respiratory distress, cardiovascular disease and accelerated organ degeneration on prolonged exposure. HT examined daily PM2.5 data for a period of 120 days between August 1 and November 15 this year, and found a significant upward spike in the daily average quantum of these pollutants soon after October 7, as the influence of the southwest monsoon began to recede from the city. The official date of monsoon withdrawal this year was October 14.The data examined was obtained from a network of 20 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) operated across Mumbai by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board and the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), and is publicly available via a Central Pollution Control Board dashboard. Only one station, in Malad, did not provide actionable data and was not considered in HT’s analysis.“In the first week of October, PM pollution remained quite low because of post-monsoon showers, which were washing these particles out of the air. Wind speeds were also high which helped to disperse them,” said Gufran Beig, Project Director, SAFAR. As the withdrawal date of the southwest monsoon began to approach, not only did sporadic showers stop, but wind speeds also slowed down to less than 10kmph in most parts of the city. “Whereas during the monsoon, the winds can travel with speeds well over 20kmph,” Beig explained.“To add to this, the temperature also began to drop, because the air became less humid as the monsoon withdrew. Warm air rises, and with it, pollutants also settle higher in the atmosphere. But when air is cooled, it reduces the height of the ‘inversion layer’, which is the part of the atmosphere where temperature stops decreasing with height. This in turn reduces the ‘mixing height’ of airborne pollutants and settles them much closer to the earth’s surface, so much so that the air around us can start turning hazy,” Beig said. Several studies have highlighted the severe impact that exposure to PM2.5 can have on human beings. In September this year, an annually updated index known as the Air Quality Life Index (AQLI) by the University of Chicago’s Energy Policy Institute (EPIC), estimated that exposure to PM2.5 in Mumbai is reducing the average life expectancy in Mumbai by as much as 3.7 years.In a statement released at the time, researchers at EPIC noted, “Particulate pollution is no longer a feature of the Indo-Gangetic plains alone... (and) has increased so much in the states of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. For example, the average person in those states is now losing an additional 2.5 to 2.9 years of life expectancy, relative to early 2000s,” it said.Dr Piyush Goel, a pulmonologist with a leading chain of private hospitals in Asia, explained that PM2.5 particles are minute enough to enter the alveoli in human lungs, where the exchange of respiratory gases takes place. “When this alien material, which comes from vehicles, construction and many other sources, enters the alveoli, the body begins to secrete mediating enzymes which cause destruction of lung tissue,” he said. These particles can even be tiny enough to pass through the alveoli and enter the bloodstream, from where they get deposited in other organs, making them degenerate.“On the whole, inhalation of PM2.5 leads to a gradual degeneration of various parts of the body, which results in accelerated ageing. This may be one reason why we’re seeing younger people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), heart attacks and similar ailments which were earlier majorly seen in older age groups,” Dr Goel said.Dr VM Motghare, Joint Director (air quality) at the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-monsoon-withdrawal-pm2-5-levels-shot-up-by-320-in-six-weeks-101637172476296.html
17-11-2021||Other||New excitement in Varanasi as 3-day hot-air balloon fest begins||Varanasi, on Wednesday, was a vision of Albuquerque, the US city of New Mexico state, as 11 hot-air balloons took to the sky along the banks of the Ganga, as part of a three-day hot-air balloon show. Albuquerque holds an annual hot air balloon festival, and this year, in October, 600 balloons were in the sky at one point.In the opening session of the show in Varanasi, five children from an orphanage, Covid-19 warriors, and locals took a free balloon ride, to experience the scenic views of Kashi from the sky, regional tourism officer, Kirtiman Srivastava said. Around 50 people took the balloon ride on the first day, he said.The tourism department has fixed a price of Rs500 per ticket for flying in a balloon. The enthusiasm and excitement for this event can be gauged from the fact that all tickets were sold out within three hours, Srivastav said.Some balloons have a capacity of five passengers, while others may carry eight passengers.All balloons will take off under instruction from the Air Traffic Control, Varanasi, Srivastava added. The balloon will take off with ‘passengers’ and will go up in the air and land after 45 minutes, he said.Four centres have been identified in the city for the balloons to take-off and land. These are Domri, CHS Sports Ground, BLW Sports Ground, and Sigra Stadium. The balloons will take off from one of these locations daily. From which location the balloons take off daily will depend upon the direction of the wind on that day.This effort of the Uttar Pradesh Tourism Department will make the city’s tourism famous internationally. This will not only give a boost to the tourism industry but also will increase the employment of local people, said Srivastava.On the occasion of Dev Deepawali, devotees will get to see the beautiful ghats from the sky through tethered flights on the night of November 18 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-excitement-in-varanasi-as-3-day-hot-air-balloon-fest-begins-101637172416263.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Power load: 3 Noida engineers found guilty of giving fiscal benefits to builder||A departmental inquiry committee has found three Noida engineers guilty of illegally giving financial benefits to a colonizer while sanctioning the power load for the Gaur Saundaryam multi-storey residential complex in Greater Noida, besides committing various other irregularities in the same matter. People dealing with the issue said that the financial loss that the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) suffered due to the irregularities had been calculated to be more than ₹10 crore and the corporation, they said, had made up its mind to take stern action against the guilty. The new scam in Noida has come to the fore even as the UPPCL is still to act against a dozen engineers and clerks who were found guilty two months ago of illegally issuing temporary power connections of smaller loads for the construction of multi-storey apartments in Noida, causing huge revenue loss to the corporation. Directed by the UPPCL two weeks ago, the Meerut discom managing director set up a three-member committee to probe charges of irregularities in the development of the power infrastructure for the Gaur Saundaryam residential apartment comprising 2068 flats. As per the inquiry committee’s findings into the current case, the technical feasibility report (TFR) for the sanction of 5200 KVA load for the under-construction residential complex in Greater Noida was approved and signed by the executive engineer, distribution and transmission, against the rules that required approval by the chief engineer, transmission. The technical report also did not bear any date. The committee further found that the builder applied for the power load for 2068 flats but the accused did not calculate the required load of three towers comprising 208 flats which benefitted the builder in financial terms. The accused, it was found, also recovered lower supervision charges and cable charges from the builder. The committee said that then SDO, Greater Noida, then executive engineer, Greater Noida and then superintending engineer, Noida were primarily responsible for giving financial benefit to the builder by bungling in the calculation of the power load, showing lower cost f the estimate and recovering lower supervision charges. “Another confidential report prepared by the UPPCL has estimated the loss to the department to be more than ₹10 crore because of intentional irregularities committed by the then engineers,” a UPPCL official said. The UPPCL ordered inquiry into the matter after some local residents sent a complaint with documentary evidences to MD, Pankaj Kumar some time back. Chief engineer, Noida region, VN Singh, superintending engineer, Noida, Niranjan Kumar Singh and executive engineer, Greater Noida, Dheerendra Kumar who conducted the probe, submitted their findings on November 11. Kumar, when asked, said that action against the accused was in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/power-load-3-noida-engineers-found-guilty-of-giving-fiscal-benefits-to-builder-101637172296315.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Over 14,000 housing societies get fully-vaccinated tag||More than 14,000 housing societies in the city are now fully vaccinated, according to the data available with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This essentially means more than half of the housing societies in the city are fully vaccinated. BMC puts the approximate number of such societies in Mumbai at 25,000, although, many are yet to be registered. Suresh Kakani, Additional Municipal Commissioner of the BMC, said, “In the city, 14,207 housing societies were given the fully vaccinated tag till November 15.”The civic body will paste the tag with a QR code outside the societies with fully inoculated adult population. This will also help civic officials map areas with individuals partially vaccinated. On the basis of this data, the BMC will set up mobile vaccination centres in clusters to cover 15-20 societies.The exercise was launched in the first week of October. The BMC had issued request letters to housing societies, asking them details of the vaccination status of the eligible population, including daily visitors such as maids, gardeners, milkmen etc. By October end, around 10,000 housing societies got the fully-vaccinated status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-14-000-housing-societies-get-fully-vaccinated-tag-101637172118954.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC vaccinates 8,678 bedridden patients at home||Since July, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has vaccinated 8,672 bedridden patients in the city, of whom 3,918 are fully inoculated till November 17. This means, nearly 45 per cent of the bedridden citizens have been given both doses of vaccine, while a majority of 54 per cent have taken the first jab. Following a high court order, BMC started a special door-to-door drive inoculating patients who are unable to reach vaccination centres due to medical reasons. Suresh Kakani, Additional Municipal Commissioner and Public Health In-charge in BMC, said that initially, 4,500 patients had enrolled themselves for the drive. Post this, the number of doses were administered as per demand at the ward level. “Unlike other categories, we didn’t have a set target as the service is strictly based on demand. The beneficiary is inoculated within three days after they make a call,” Kakani told HT on Tuesday. He further added that many beneficiaries took the first jab at the vaccination centre and requested the second one at their doorstep. “There are beneficiaries whose movements are confined due to old age or several co-morbidities. Many of them availed the doorstep vaccination because of the available service,” he stated. Shishir Joshi, Founder and CEO of Project Mumbai – a non-profit group that provided the BMC logistical support for this drive, said that a maximum number of patients were inoculated over the last two months. “When the drive was announced, there was still some sort of vaccine hesitancy among people. Some beneficiaries stayed in slum areas and congested localities, where our ambulances couldn’t reach. However, as time progressed, the drive gained momentum,” Joshi said. He added that each vial of vaccine is equipped to inoculate 15 beneficiaries at a time, so they had to ensure that the doses are not wasted. Prashant Gaikwad, Assistant Municipal Commissioner from D ward (Malabar Hill and Breach Candy), said that the war room played a key role in managing the door-to-door vaccination drive. “Our medical teams are coordinating with the war room directly. Whenever we get a call, we deploy a medical team,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-vaccinates-8-678-bedridden-patients-at-home-101637171936254.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Congress recruiting articulate youths to spread party’s message across Uttar Pradesh||Lucknow: Ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Congress proposes to recruit a new team of spokespersons to forcefully put across its point of view and take its message to every nook and corner of the state. A written examination is being conducted in different districts and some new faces aspiring to be spokesperson or media coordinator (one spokesperson and one media coordinator in every district) of the Congress are joining the party, hoping to be heard by the people amid the rising political din. Questions in the examinations focus on the Congress history, the freedom movement, the role of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), the ideological battle, secularism and reservation for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the other backward classes etc. “The last words that Mahatma Gandhi said following his assassination?” was one of the questions that expected examinees to express their views about what led to assassination of the Father of the Nation. “Who was the first woman president of Indian National Congress?” was another, expecting that they knew about the election of Annie Besant to the post. The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) that recently launched the “Banein UP Ki Awaz” (Be the voice of Uttar Pradesh) campaign, is conducting the examinations to induct youths into the Congress fold and identify those already within the party. Most of the examinees, who were seen speaking to electronic media soon after taking the examination, said they were inspired by the Congress ideology and its leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “I have been aspiring to join a political party as spokesperson for the past few months. I used to take part in debates in college. When Covid-19 restrictions were imposed, I watched debates about deaths due to shortage of oxygen and realized how the opposition failed to put up a joint front to corner the state government. Then I came across the Congress campaign for appointment of spokespersons and consulted the Congress leaders of my area in Badaun district. I have taken the Congress membership and the examination at Lucknow on Tuesday,” said Jitin Kumar (19), a law student in Lucknow University. “I am inspired by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who has been raising issues of public concern. I have been working for women and hope to work with her to bring about an improvement in their condition,” said Ashiya Ali, who took the examination in Unnao on Monday. The UPCC proposes to complete the exercise of appointing spokespersons in the next few weeks. “The Congress is holding examination to appoint a spokesman and a media coordinator (two posts) in each district. We are conducting written examination to recruit the party’s spokespersons. About 23 applicants took the examination in Unnao on Monday while 16 candidates appeared for the test in Lucknow on Tuesday. We will cover Lucknow division by November 21 and rest of the state in coming weeks,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) spokesperson Uma Shankar Pandey. “Rahul Gandhi recently said those willing to fight the RSS should be inducted while those scared should leave the Congress. This campaign has been launched by the UPCC at the behest of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to give a voice to the youths who can fight ideological battles,” said Pankaj Srivastava, vice president, UPCC media department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-recruiting-articulate-youths-to-spread-party-s-message-across-uttar-pradesh-101637171876615.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Local train ticket booking may soon resume on UTS||Soon, vaccinated passengers travelling on local trains will be able to get suburban railway tickets and passes from the railway’s mobile application — Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS).Central and the Western railway are discussing the proposal with the Maharashtra government. The sale of suburban tickets stopped on the UTS after local train services were suspended due to the pandemic. The UTS will be linked with the CoWIN application to determine the vaccination status of passengers. Only fully vaccinated passengers, who have completed 14 days after the second dose, are allowed to travel by local trains on the Central and Western Railway. “We are in the final stage of discussion with the state government on resuming the UTS application. Both the applications will be merged in order to facilitate a smooth process,” said Alok Kansal, General Manager, Western Railway.On average, nearly 2.5 million passengers avail local trains on the Central Railway and 1.5 million on the Western Railway. Local train services resumed for fully-vaccinated passengers for the second time from August 15. Vaccinated passengers need to avail a universal pass, which can be obtained at the suburban railway stations or on http://epassmsdma.mahait.org/.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-train-ticket-booking-may-soon-resume-on-uts-101637171756339.html
17-11-2021||Other||AU to hold annual exams from March 21||Allahabad University (AU) authorities have started preparations to hold annual examinations, as the Prayagraj district continues to report fewer Covid-19 cases daily.As the year-ending exams for academic session (2020-21) were adversely affected by the pandemic, this year, the AU administration has made all preparations to face any challenge that the pandemic may present. The annual examinations of AU and the constituent colleges will start from March 21, 2022, university officials said. According to the controller of examination (CEO) of AU, Prof RK Singh, the exams for the odd semester examination will start from March 21. At the same time, the exams for the even semester will be held from May 23. The notification has been issued by the controller of examination.According to the information released, examinations for the undergraduate course of the academic session 2021-22 for BA, BSc, BSc Home Science and BCom (second and third year) will be conducted from March 21.Exams for the odd-semester (3rd, 5th, 7th and 9th) the examinations of law and professional courses will be conducted from February 21, while the exams for the even semester (4th, 6th, 8th and 10th) of law, PG courses and professional courses will be conducted from May 23. The controller of examinations further said that soon the detailed schedule of the examination will be released on the website of the university.In March, this year, as AU was in the middle of conducting its annual exams, the pandemic had forced university authorities to cancel the exams and the same were later held online. However, as the number of Covid-19-positive cases increased substantially, AU decided to promote all students and deferred the year-ending exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/au-to-hold-annual-exams-from-march-21-101637171636220.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Post Purvanchal Expressway inauguration, work on three other expressways expedited||After the inauguration of Purvanchal Expressway by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, the state government has expedited the construction work on the Bundelkhand expressway and Gorakhpur Link expressway, as well as acquisition of land for the Ganga expressway. In view of the crucial assembly election likely to be held early next year, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hopes that rings of expressways across Uttar Pradesh will assist it playing the development card and neutralizing the non-performance tirade of the opposition parties. That the expressways are likely to emerge as a major poll plank can be gauged from the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath chose the inauguration programme of the Purvanchal expressway to launch an attack on the opposition. “Instead of developing infrastructure facilities, the opposition parties; governments reduced UP to poverty and mafia rule”, the Prime Minister said. To counter the BJP attack, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav organized the fourth leg of Samajwadi Vijay Yatra from Ghazipur to Lucknow via Purvanchal expressway on Wednesday. Lauding his government’s achievement in the infrastructure sector, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the double engine BJP government planned to make UP an expressway state with maximum network of expressways. The state government would give momentum to the construction of the Bundelkhand expressway, Gorakhpur Link expressway and Ganga expressway, he said. A meeting of the officers was held under the chairmanship of chief executive officer (CEO) Uttar Pradesh Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) Awanish Awasthi on Wednesday to review the construction of the Bundelkhand expressway through video conferencing. Awasthi said the construction of the 296.07 km Bundelkhand expressway that will pass through seven districts- Chitrakoot, Banda, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Auraiya and Etawah ---was going on at a fast pace. More than 76% physical work of the project had been completed. The construction of bridges on rivers Yamuna and Betwa had been expedited and work on the remaining structures- Railway overbridges, toll plazas, toilets blocks and fuel stations was also going on in full swing. The bituminous level work on 227 km of the expressway had been completed in record time. The plan was to inaugurate Bundelkhand expressway soon, he said. The acquisition of 94% land for 594 km long Ganga expressway that will pass through 12 districts- Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj--- has been completed. The acquisition of the remaining land was continuing on aa war footing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was likely to lay the foundation of the ₹36,229.67-crore expressway next month, he said. As much as 99% clearing and grubbing work and 50% earth work on the 91.352 km long Gorakhpur Link expressway that will pass through - Gorakhpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar and Azamgarh had been completed. The total physical progress of the project was more than 29%. Despite the delay caused by the Covid pandemic, the construction agencies were working to bring the construction rate to pre- pandemic period, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/post-purvanchal-expressway-inauguration-work-on-three-other-expressways-expedited-101637171577548.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai wakes up to second-warmest November morning in 10 years||Recording a minimum temperature of 26.5 degrees Celsius, the city woke up to its second-warmest November morning in 10 years on Wednesday. The only time the state capital woke up to a higher minimum temperature was on November 4, 2018, when the mercury rose to 27.4 degrees Celsius. Experts attributed the rise in temperature to the continued influence of a low-pressure system in the Arabian Sea, close to the Maharashtra coast, which scuttled wind patterns and led to an influx of moisture over the Konkan.“A weak low-pressure system is bringing moisture in from the sea. This is making the air warmer. Also, with the wind speeds remaining slow, there is no cooling effect. This increasing humidity is also a sign of a thunderstorm brewing around Mumbai,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. He added that parts of south Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra received rainfall on Tuesday evening.As per the IMD’s monitoring station in Santacruz, Mumbai’s relative humidity stood at 84% on Wednesday morning, significantly up from 64% the earlier day. Ratnagiri received 38mm of rain, Vengurla got 63mm over, Nanded 24mm, Satara 15.55mm, and Pune received 7.4mm of rainfall until 8:30 am on Wednesday.There was also an improvement in Mumbai’s air quality. The city’s air quality index (AQI) stood at 269 at 8:30 am on Wednesday and improved significantly to 201 by 12:30 pm. Colaba continued to register the city’s most polluted air with an AQI of 320 (down from 370 the day prior). As per the Central Pollution Control Board, this can cause ‘respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.’ Malad, which clocked an AQI of 327 on Tuesday, showed improved air quality with an index value of 290 later.A similar improvement was seen in Bandra-Kurla Complex, where the AQI dropped from 311 on Tuesday to 228 on Wednesday afternoon. Chembur (183), Borivali (133), Worli (93), Bhandup (99) and Navi Mumbai (113) also saw slight improvements.“If it continues to rain through the night, the pollution levels will drop further, as will the minimum and maximum temperature,” said the IMD official cited above.The city on Wednesday recorded a maximum temperature of 34.5 degrees Celsius, down from 35.7 degrees Celsius the previous day. As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast, maximum temperature will remain between 34 and 35 degrees Celsius over the next week, while the minimum temperature will remain between 24 and 25 degrees Celsius. Cloudy skies are expected to prevail till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-wakes-up-to-second-warmest-november-morning-in-10-years-101637171576297.html
17-11-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC quashes Centre’s order on change in affiliation of some colleges||The Uttarakhand High Court has quashed a central government's order to affiliate some colleges under Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Central University to Sridev Suman University, Srinagar. The central government notification was quashed on Tuesday by a bench of Chief Justice R S Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma on a bunch of petitions challenging the government order. The bench also has asked the central and state governments to decide within two months which of the two will pay grants to the colleges affiliated with the central university. The court also asked the state government to bear the cost of grants to the colleges until the two governments decide on the issue. The bench gave its order on a bunch of pleas filed by Dehradun residents and statehood agitationists Ravindra Jugran and Arun Kumar besides Mahila Mahavidyalaya PG, BSM PG College, Roorkee and Dayanand Educational Institute. The petitioners had moved the court claiming that the central government order dated June 5, 2020 had led to the HNB Central University cancelling the affiliation of its colleges. Acting on the government’s order, the registrar of the Central University cancelled the affiliation of these colleges, the petitioners said, challenging both the Centre’s notification and the registrar’s order, The petitioners said the Central Government did not have the authority to issue these directions. The petition also claimed that any such right would vest with the University Grants Commission or the university only under the UGC rules. The petitioners also said the grant given to the affiliated colleges is being borne by the state government whereas it should be borne by the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hc-quashes-centre-s-order-on-change-in-affiliation-of-some-colleges-101637163148323.html
17-11-2021||Other||Indira Marathon: Route set, preparations complete for 36th edition of run||Preparations are almost complete for the Indira Marathon, set to be held in Prayagraj, on November 19.In all, 16 booths will be set up along the route for the runners and police will remain deployed at 54 specific spots all along the route. Around 1,000 volunteers and five ambulances will also be deployed to meet any eventuality, officials explained.As per the norms finalised, any runner wishing to participate in the 36th All India Prize Money Indira Marathon, who has not taken both shots of the anti-Coronavirus vaccine, will have to show his/her latest RT-PCR report, while others will have to show their certificates of having taken both jabs.As for those runners who do not report with the latest “all clear” RT-PCR report, they will have to undergo a Covid-19 test at a health department camp that will be set up at the Madan Mohan Malaviya Stadium. Only if the test report declares them Sars-Cov-2 negative, will they be able to take part in the marathon, district magistrate, Prayagraj, Sanjay Kumar Khatri, said.The DM said that work was underway to repair the roads along the route for the race and the dozen odd potholes still existing would be filled up well before the start of the run.Minister of state for sports and youth welfare (independent charge) Upendra Tiwari will be the chief guest of the opening and the closing ceremony of the marathon, he added.Khatri said that the route of the run has been changed this time around and the runners will proceed to Rewa Road from New Yamuna Bridge directly and return via the Bharat Petroleum petrol pump. “Owing to the pandemic, the cross country run that coincides with the Indira Marathon will not take place,” he added.Regional sports officer Anil Tiwari said that students of different schools will present a colourful cultural programme at the closing ceremony of the event.The winner of both the men’s and women’s category of the run will take home cash prize of ₹2 lakh each, while the first runner-up in both categories will receive a cash reward of ₹1 lakh each, even as the second runners-up of both categories will get ₹75,000 each.The Indira Marathon’s maiden edition was held on November 19, 1985, after being flagged off by the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. In 2020, the marathon could not be held owing to the lockdown enforced after the Covid-19 breakout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indira-marathon-route-set-preparations-complete-for-36th-edition-of-run-101637171036392.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Communal sentiments raked up for BJP’s benefit: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) referring to the recent communal unrest in Amravati. He said there was no need for a reaction over whatever happened in Tripura, however, there is also suspicion that communal sentiments were raked up to take their benefits in the assembly elections scheduled in a few states, which needs to be thoroughly investigated. The BJP had called for a bandh in Amravati on Saturday which led to large-scale violence and arson. The NCP supremo has started a four-day tour of Vidarbha region from Wednesday. He is expected to visit areas such as Nagpur, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Wardha where he will be meeting party leaders and likely to hold party gatherings. “There was no need to react here in Maharashtra for whatever happened in Tripura. But unfortunately, some people took law and order into their hands. Some people also suspect that another section came out to rake up communal sentiments to take its benefits in the upcoming assembly polls (in a few states). All this needs to be thoroughly investigated,” Pawar said in his reaction to the violence that occurred in three cities including Amravati. He also slammed former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and said that the statements made by him are unbecoming of a leader who has ruled the state. “The statements made by Fadnavis in the last three-four days were unbecoming of a leader who has ruled the state. I was also the chief minister four times, but while speaking on a sensitive issue, I have never made a statement as an opposition leader. Instead, I always kept the interest of the state on the top. I would have understood if Chandrakant Patil (Maharashtra BJP chief) would have made such a statement but I am shocked to hear it from Fadnavis. The restlessness after losing power is understandable but it should go to an extreme level,” Pawar said responding to a Fadnavis statement on violence in the state. Fadnavis on Tuesday said that the violence in three cities in Maharashtra was an experiment to create anarchy in the country and to polarise minority communities against the ruling central government. When asked to comment on an intelligence report that had “found” that the BJP and Yuva Sena were behind the Amravati violence, Pawar said that he would take the details in this regard and react accordingly. “It’s a sensitive issue and I will react to it only after getting the details,” he added. He also said that it would be a far-fetched statement to make that the violence is a failure of the home department and state government as it was done by a section of the society for a specific purpose. Coming on leading an alternative against the BJP at the centre, he said the decision is likely to be taken during the upcoming winter session of the parliament. “We are ready to support whoever is ready to lead. We (opposition leaders) will get more opportunities to meet during the parliament session and will surely discuss this. We all have attended meetings called by (West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief) Mamata Banerjee, me and (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi in the past,” Pawar responded. Meanwhile, Pawar also advised people to neglect Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut who has made objectionable remarks against Mahatma Gandhi. “What to say about a person having a habit of making irresponsible statements. Mahatma Gandhi was accepted by the world, now if someone is making such comments against him that it is better, he or she should be neglected,” Pawar concluded. BOX BJP hits back In the heels of Pawar’s remarks on BJP, vice-president, state BJP unit Madhav Bhandari sharply responded, “There was no violence reported in Tripura as being claimed. There was also a campaign going on for five to six days on social media to incite riots in Maharashtra in the name of alleged Tripura violence. What did the state government or the home department do to stop it? It was their responsibility to control the situation. Moreover, NCP corporator has also been arrested in Malegaon for violence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/communal-sentiments-raked-up-for-bjp-s-benefit-sharad-pawar-101637170976190.html
17-11-2021||Bhopal||NCW seeks immediate arrest of Bhopal man who raped, strangulated daughter||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Wednesday sought a time-bound probe into the case related to alleged rape and murder of 25-year-old woman by her father in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal district.According to the police report, a 55-year-old man was angry about his daughter's love marriage. The matter came to light when her body, along with her six-month-old baby's body was found near Pilota nullah in Samasgarh area on Sunday after being alerted by a forest guard.It was later found that the victim had married a man from another caste about a year ago, and had been staying with her elder sister in Ratibad for the past few days, when her infant son died due to some illness on November 4.The police was initially looking only at a murder case. But the autopsy revealed that the woman had been raped and then strangled to death.The victim's father has been booked for murder and rape, while his son has been charged with murder conspiracy.The NCW took cognisance of the incident terming it as “disturbing”. The organisation has written to Madhya Pradesh director-general of police demanding the immediate arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/ncw-seeks-immediate-arrest-of-bhopal-man-who-raped-strangulated-daughter-101637168846792.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Garhmukteshwar Kartik fair:Tight security for ‘deepdaan’ today||MEERUT With over 20 lakh devotees expected to take a dip in the Ganga on ‘deepdaan’ day on Thursday during the ongoing Kartik Snan Mela at Garhmukteshwar in Hapur, elaborate security arrangements have been made. Traffic diversions have also been put in place to control the rush of devotees. Addl superintendent of police, Hapur, Sarvesh Mishra said that floating ghats were placed on the banks of the Ganga along with boats and professional divers were also deployed to ensure safety of the devotees during the mela. He said that the main ritual of ‘deepdaan’ would be held on Thursday and over 20 lakh devotees from different states were expected to offer ‘deep’ ( earthen lamp) to the souls of their departed near and dear ones. He said that elaborate security arrangements had been made in and around the mela venue with route diversion plan to ensure smooth flow of traffic on Garh- Moradabad highway and other roads reaching the banks of the Ganga. Drones are also being used for an aerial view of the mela area to provide quick assistance to devotees in times of need. To note, the Kartik Mela at Garhmukteshwar is a historic fair associated with the Mahabharata period. The Kartik Mela is also famous for its animal fair. The mela started on November 9 and people from villages arrived here in their bullock carts and tractors. They will stay with their families in make- shift tents for over a week or till the end of the fair. The bank of the Ganga has turned into a tent city and youngsters can be seen playing kabaddi, volley-ball and other games. It also turns into a potential platform for political and social issues. There is a lot of enthusiasm among devotees this year because the Mela was not organised last year due to the pandemic. Similar melas are also organised on the banks of the Ganga in Tigri village of Amroha district and Anoopshahr of Bulandshahr district and lakhs of people also visit them and take a dip in the holy Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/garhmukteshwar-kartik-fair-tight-security-for-deepdaan-today-101637170796161.html
17-11-2021||Other||Two shot dead in Tarn Taran over monetary dispute||TARN TARAN Two men were shot dead, while their third friend was critically injured near Sarhali Chungi in Patti City over a monetary dispute on Wednesday about 5pm, police said. The crime happened just 500m near the Patti City police station, but the accused have now been arrested. Those dead are Jagdeep Singh, alias Manna, and Anmol Singh, alias Maula, of Patti City, while the injured is Gursewak Singh of Paringri village. Gursewak is critical has been rushed to a private hospital in Amritsar. The victims were close associate of Tarn Taran district youth Congress president Harman Sekhon.Jagdeep, Anmol and Gursewak were good friends and had been called to the Sarhali Chungi over mobile; they were on a Maruti Swift. The accused were in a car and opened indiscriminate firing on the trio, who were rushed to a private hospital in Patti, but two of them were declared brought dead. SSP Harwinder Singh Virk, along with other senior officials, reached the spot and started investigation. The SSP said they have identified two accused, Lakhbir Singh and Vinodh, alias Gattu Bahman. He added that both of them had been arrested and two pistols had been recovered. “Our preliminary investigation has suggested that the victims had fixed the time to sort out a dispute of ₹2.5 lakh with the accused. The meeting turned into angry brawl, and shots were fired.”A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempted murder) of the IPC relevant Sections of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at Patti City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-shot-dead-in-tarn-taran-over-monetary-dispute-101637169116162.html
17-11-2021||Patna||Covid effect on education: Smartphones increasing, but digital divide a concern||The Covid-19 pandemic made smartphones the most effective tool for education, which was mostly online during the period, though its availability across all sections raised concerns about the digital divide, according to the annual status of education report (ASER) – 2021 released on Wednesday.The report says that irrespective of financial constraints during the pandemic, people still went for smartphones for the education of their wards, with Bihar recording a significant jump in its availability. The availability was, however, higher among wards of comparatively well-off parents going to private schools, but the survey says even illiterate parents bought mobile phones for their wards’ education.The report is a household survey conducted via phone in the rural areas and sampling was done from the representative sample of households from the ASER 2018 survey – the last nationwide ASER survey that was carried out in the field. This is the sixteenth ASER report.Compared to 2018, when smartphone availability was just 36.5% in the country, it jumped to 67.6% in 2021 — 63.7% in the government schools and 79% in the private schools. In Bihar, the jump was from 27.2% in 2018 to 54.4% in 2021, though it is mostly useful for students in higher classes. However, more than half the children having smartphones (53.8%) nationwide are not able to use the device for educational purposes. The survey says that the digital divide could be apparent in schools once they open and the weak students would require greater attention to catch up.There has also been a shift in the gradual admission pattern over the last couple of years. This year, more students in the 6-14 age group got enrolled in the government schools. While 76.9% of students enrolled in the government schools in Bihar in 2020, it increased to 80.5% in 2021.However, dependence on private tuition has also increased, not only in Bihar, but across the country, except Kerala. The dependence increased especially during the pandemic period, though it may increase the void between those who can afford private tuition and those who cannot.While 64.3% students enrolled in schools took private tuition in 2020 in Bihar, the figure increased to 73.5% in 2021, which may be due to erratic schooling, engagement of teachers in on-academic work, poor quality and desire to prepare for competitive exams for engineering, medical and other technical or vocational streams. The survey says it is important to understand the impact of disruption in education in schools so that effective and timely steps could be taken. “With the enrolment in government schools increasing, schools and teachers need to be prepared for that. The involvement of parents in children’s education, as laid down in the new education policy, also needs to be affirmed,” it says.Dr Rukmini Banerji, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Pratham Educational Foundation, who was awarded the 2021 Yidan Prize for Education Development for her work in improving learning outcomes, said that in Bihar, 95% students whose parents had less than Class 5 education studied in the government schools, while it came down to 76.8% in case of wards of parents having above lass 9 education, indicating that higher the education level of parents, greater the preference for private schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pandemic-effect-on-education-aser-says-smartphones-increasing-but-digital-divide-a-concern-101637168518071.html
17-11-2021||Other||IAS officer who helmed Bihar prohibition dept back in charge||PATNA A day after review of prohibition in Bihar, the state government, in a move that reflects its hardening of position against the illegal sale and consumption of liquor, on Wednesday handed the charge of the department of prohibition and excise to K K Pathak, the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer who, incidentally, was principal secretary of the same department when the Nitish Kumar government announced total prohibition in the state in April 2016.Pathak, who returned to Bihar just a couple of days ago from central deputation, has been made the additional chief secretary of the department till further orders, as per the notification issued by the general administration department. The notification says that additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad has been relieved of the additional charge of the department of prohibition and excise. “I will take charge on Thursday. I returned just a couple of days ago,” Pathak said. Pathak was the managing director of National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited while on central deputation. Bihar has seen over 30 hooch deaths in this month alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iasofficer-who-helmed-bihar-prohibition-dept-back-in-charge-101637168516995.html
17-11-2021||Patna||MU V-C’s office, home searched in graft case, ₹95 lakh seized||The Special Vigilance Unit (SVU) of the Bihar Police on Wednesday searched the office and residences of Magadh University vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad in Bodh Gaya and his native place Gorakhpur in connection with a corruption case and seized ₹95 lakh, besides incriminating evidence, officials said. According to SVU officials, preliminary investigation suggests the vice-chancellor has been involved in corrupt practices and violated the rule of the financial department and purchased items worth ₹20 crore without any verification and audit. When the financial officer of the MU tried to intervene in his illegal purchase and refused to sanction the amount, the V-C managed to oust him from university service and posted another officer of his choice. Besides the V-C, the SVU has also registered a case against his private assistant Subodh Kumar under sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code, besides relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Additional director general (SVU) N H Khan said Prasad had purchased items through a Lucknow-based company whose owners were his relatives. The SVU also found that the MU has only 47 guards but the administration shows 86 guards. Khan said purchase related files were recovered from Prasad’s native place instead of MU premises. “Papers of properties worth ₹1 crore and ₹95 lakh in cash were seized from his native place. Sleuths are interrogating Prasad at his official residence,” said an official of the probe team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mu-v-c-s-office-home-searched-in-graft-case-95-lakh-seized-101637168515891.html
17-11-2021||Other||Punjab removes PRTC chairman; loyalist of former CM Amarinder||Patiala The Punjab government removed Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) chairman KK Sharma from his post on Wednesday, two days after Sharma’s photo with former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and wife Preneet went viral on social media on Monday. Sharma is also a staunch Capt loyalist and had been appointed to the post in April 2017, soon after Capt Amarinder took charge. Satwinder Singh, a close protégé of CM Charanjit Singh Channi, is the new PRTC chairman. “I am not at all upset at this, as I am staunch loyalist of Capt Amarinder, who made me the Patiala Improvement Trust chairman in 2003. Nowadays, instead of giving a stable government, Congressmen are being removed from key posts without any consideration. I have been removed just because I am close to the previous CM,” Sharma claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-removes-prtc-chairman-loyalist-of-former-cm-amarinder-101637168455842.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||UP first state to inoculate over 4 crore people with both doses: CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said that Uttar Pradesh became the first state in India to administer both doses of Covid-19 vaccine to 4 crore people. “UP has become the first state in the country to administer both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine to 4 crore people. This achievement is dedicated to able guidance of the Prime Minister, hard work of all health workers and citizens who got the ‘Teeka Jeet Ka’ (vaccine),” said Yogi in a tweet. In UP, over 14.33 crore people had taken the Covid vaccine, including over 10.32 crore, who took the first dose, a senior health official said. The government stated that only six new Covid cases were reported in the past 24 hours. So far, UP had conducted 85820026 Covid-19 tests, out of which 149918 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-first-state-to-inoculate-over-4-crore-people-with-both-doses-cm-101637167435955.html
17-11-2021||Noida||Tata Housing to invest ₹600 crores in upcoming Noida project||Realty firm Tata Housing on Wednesday said it will invest around ₹600 crore to develop a new phase of its residential project in Noida.Tata Value Homes, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Tata Housing, launched the second phase of its project, Eureka Park in Noida Sector 150.The towers will comprise approximately 650 units. The first phase of the project launch witnessed rapid sales, with 850 apartments being sold within 24 months of the project launch.Commenting on the launch Sanjay Dutt (Managing Director & CEO) Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd, said, “This project has been one of the highest traction residential projects in the North region. The current demand for larger homes has led to an increase in more rooms. Hence, with Eureka Park Phase 2, we will be adding approximately 650 units of 3BHK to address the demands of the home buyers in the region."He said the company would be investing around Rs. 600 crore for the development of this phase.Tata Value Homes Limited is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Tata Housing Development Company Limited, established in 2010, to exclusively focus on value and affordable housing.Tata Value Homes has projects in Mumbai, NCR, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, and Pune.Tata Realty and Infrastructure Limited is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Tata Sons and one of the leading real estate development companies in India with an extensive portfolio of over 50 projects across 15 cities.Tata Realty has developed over 15 million square feet of commercial projects and has around 12 million square feet of projects under development and planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tata-housing-to-invest-rs-600-crores-in-upcoming-noida-project-101637163185964.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Infectious aerosols can linger in washrooms: IIT-B study||Shared washrooms spaces in public areas such as restaurants, offices, trains and aircrafts are likely to have dead zones where aerosols carrying infectious agents like Sars-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – can linger up to 10 times longer than the rest of the room, a new study by the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) has revealed. Dead zones are corners where there is no circulation of fresh air. The study indicates that transmission of Covid-19 is, therefore, more likely in washrooms with dead zones, and that airflow should be well-engineered in order to mitigate the risk of the disease transmission. Researchers at IIT-B used a computer simulation model of a washroom that had a door, an exhaust fan on one wall, a washbasin console in the corner and a toilet seat in centre to study the airflow field and the distribution of aerosols. Their primary focus was on the regions of recirculating flow – which they called the dead zones –that can harbour infectious aerosol for much longer than the well-ventilated parts of the room. The study found two dead zones: the most prominent one was the washbasin console where particles that were injected kept recirculating and took much longer to be evacuated. Washbasins are typically crammed between walls, in a corner, which results in the air getting trapped and recirculating. This spot is more concerning in terms of disease transmission as one tends to spend more time near this area, said the authors. The second dead zone was at the height of two metres near the ceiling. This is a slightly less concerning spot as people using the washroom don’t come in contact with the aerosols at such a height. Dead zones could be right next to a window, door or even an air conditioner blowing air, and could be mistaken to be safe, ventilated spaces, the researchers pointed. They said that ventilation designs are often based on air changes per hour, but the air changes are not uniform in all corners of the room. In dead zones, these air changes could be 10 times lower. A way to tackle the infection hazard in such dead spaces is by studying the air circulation within the room before placing the ducts and fans, the study said. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who was not involved in the study, said that the IIT-B study is “extremely significant in the current scenario.” He said, “Countries such as Australia implemented a larger health measure by installing ultraviolet lights in public washrooms about two decades ago to deter intravenous drug users. They found that UV lights also played a role in reducing the bacteria and other pathogens in the washrooms. We should look at such technologies, not just for Covid-19 but for overall infection control in enclosed spaces.” DISRUPTING DEAD ZONES “The water used in the washroom for flushing or washing is a source of aerosols,” said Krishnendu Sinha, a professor of aerospace engineering at IIT Bombay and one of the authors of the study that was published in the journal Physics of Fluids this month. “When people using the washrooms cough, sneeze, spit or talk, they release droplets that are also likely to linger around in areas which are recirculation zones or dead zones,” he said. If a person using the washroom is infected with Covid-19, it immediately puts the other washroom users at the risk of contracting the infection. According to Sinha, disrupting the dead zones can play an important role in mitigating such risks. “Firstly, such dead zones should be identified in shared washrooms. Ways to disrupt or eliminate these zones include placing a fan to direct the airflow towards such corners, keeping the doors open between two consecutive usages or turning the angles of louvers towards the dead zones,” he said. The researchers said that the aim should be to replace the air in the washroom after every use, to let out any infectious aerosols generated by a user. “In addition to breaking the recirculation zone, there should also be a good exhaust system to suck out the air from the room to enable air changes,” said Janani Srree Murallidharan, an associate professor at IIT Bombay’s mechanical engineering department and a co-author of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/infectious-aerosols-can-linger-in-washrooms-iit-b-study-101637166175753.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||UP govt schools saw highest increase in enrolment during pandemic: ASER report||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh has shown a marked growth in enrollment of students in government schools during the Covid-19 pandemic.The state saw a 13.2% increase in the number of children (aged 6-14 years) in government schools between 2018 and 2021, as per the 16th ASER (Annual Status of Education Report) Report released on Wednesday.A total of 43.1% of the school-going children were admitted to government schools in Uttar Pradesh in 2018. This number rose to 49.7% in 2020 and 56.3% in 2021. While the percentage of school-going children admitted to government schools was less than the national average of 70.3%, the increase in enrollment was highest in the country in the period, stated the report.ASER-2021 was conducted in 25 states and 3 Union Territories. It reached 76,706 households and 75,234 children in the age group of 5-16 years, as well as teachers or head teachers from 7,299 government schools offering primary grades.Experts suggested different factors for the rise in enrolment but all said it was a positive sign for the state of education in UP. UP basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi said, “The enrolment in government schools over the last couple of years is reflective of the focus on education in the state. Steps taken by the state government like easy enrolment of children of migrant workers who returned home during the first wave of pandemic, transfer of money into accounts of parents via Direct Benefit Transfer to purchase bags, shoes, sweaters and uniforms for children along with easy accessibility led to the rise in enrolment.”As per education department data, around 175.8 lakh students sought admission to government primary schools across UP for the 2021-22 session, as compared to 166.3 lakh students in 2020-21 and 160.1 lakh students in 2019-20. To cater to the new students, the state government also increased the budgetary allocation for the basic education department in UP.The budgetary allocation for basic education department in 2018-19 was ₹55188 crore that went up to ₹59879.69 crore in 2019-20, ₹60358.49 crore in 2020-21 and currently stood at ₹63455.69 crore in the 2022-22 session. “Primary education has become the focus point for our government. We are trying to modernise amenities at our primary schools. During the last couple of years, the infrastructure of government schools has changed remarkably that has helped in increasing enrolment,” said Dwivedi.The minister said that a large chunk of the new students enrolled in government primary schools were children of migrant workers who returned home during the first phase of the pandemic. “Children of families financially affected during the pandemic have also shifted to government schools from private schools. We are trying to provide all facilities of private schools in government schools now,” he said.The basic education department had also started to change the existing culture at government schools. “Our government has introduced activities like parent teachers meet, annual day, sports day etc that attract students and also help in their all-around development,” informed the minister.During the period, the ASER report also found a rise in tuitions across the country. This reflected the lack of confidence in quality of education, according to experts. The number of students taking tuitions went up by 19.1% between 2018 and 2021, as per the report. This was the second highest in the country and more than the national average of 10.5%.“The closure of schools for physical classes during the pandemic is a reason for rise in tuitions. Parents enrolled their children in nearby tuition classes to utilise time. I believe that the trend of tuition will go down again once schools reopen completely,” said the minister. The report also found an increase in smartphone availability to children in UP but the rise was less than the national average. Though 58.9% of all enrolled children in Uttar Pradesh had a smartphone at home, about 34% of those children could not use it for studies, the ASER report found.IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF ASER REPORT • In Uttar Pradesh, less than 20% of children took private tuition classes in 2018. In 2021, this proportion increased to about 38.7%. At the national level, Uttar Pradesh and Nagaland are only second to Arunachal Pradesh, and have seen the second highest increase (19.1%).• Smartphone ownership in Uttar Pradesh almost doubled from 30.4% in 2018 to 58.9% in 2021.• Though 58.9% of all enrolled children in Uttar Pradesh have a smartphone at home, about 34% of those children cannot use it for studies.• 68.7% of enrolled children (government and private) in Uttar Pradesh received learning support at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-schools-saw-highest-increase-in-enrolment-during-pandemic-aser-report-101637166116159.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government must reduce VAT on petrol, diesel, Congress demands||Contrary to the stands taken by two other ruling parties, Congress has demanded that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government should reduce the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. It has also asked the Central government should bring the auto fuel under the goods and services tax (GST) regime.Patole pointed out that the Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Punjab had already reduced their taxes after the Central government’s decision to reduce the excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 a litre respectively. Patole said that on similar lines, the Maharashtra government too should bring down its taxes.Patole said that the Central government should also bring the auto fuel under the GST regime so that the petrol and diesel are sold at a reasonable price. “Instead of indulging in the allegations and counter-allegations, the Centre should include the petrol and diesel under GST. The step will automatically do away with the local taxes by the state governments,” he said.However, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has opposed bringing auto fuel under the GST regime. Deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar had said that the move will put the state finances in the doldrums. Pawar also said that reducing VAT on fuel is difficult keeping the financial health of the state in mind. The ruling parties have blamed the Centre for the higher excise, cess on fuel and non-payment of the dues in GST compensation.Patole said on Wednesday that the Central government has earned the revenue of ₹30,000 crore from excise duty and cess between March 1 and October 31, 2021, from Maharashtra. The state government has right over it. The Centre still levies heavy excise and cess on petrol ( ₹27.90 a litre) and diesel ( ₹21.80 a litre) and has not transferred the state’s share. The Central government is trying to weaken the state financially,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-must-reduce-vat-on-petrol-diesel-congress-demands-101637165695600.html
17-11-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru roads repair work will be done on ‘war footing’: Karnataka CM||Repair and restoration of pothole-riddled Bengaluru roads would be taken up on a war footing, said Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday adding that he himself would monitor the work."The restoration work of Bengaluru roads which have potholes will be taken up on a war footing. I myself will monitor the works after the end of the current spell of showers in the city," the Chief Minister said.Speaking to media persons after participating in the Bengaluru Tech Summit, he said, the continuous spell of rains in the city and other districts due to the depression in the Bay of Bengal has left its trail of damage on Bengaluru roads."I have already held a meeting in this regard and issued necessary instructions for road repair works," he said.Works would be taken up for comprehensive repair and improvement of roads in Bengaluru immediately after the current spell of rains.He said that the orders had been issued to utilise National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams for relief works in low-lying areas which have suffered damage to roads, houses, and properties. Four special teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) would be constituted for the purpose in Bengaluru, Bommai said.The Chief Minister said, "BBMP had been instructed to take up the works immediately if the concerned contractors fail to take up maintenance works immediately and to deduct the cost incurred from the contractors later."He also stated that the government had approved ₹280 crore for taking up underground drainage works in 110 villages which were newly added to BBMP limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-roads-repair-work-will-be-done-on-war-footing-karnataka-cm-101637163234996.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Woman’s dupatta entangles in chaff machine, dies of strangulation||Pune: A 21-year-old newly married woman died due to strangulation after her dupatta got stuck in the farm chaff cutting machine in Lakhangaon village in Ambegaon on Tuesday. The deceased, identified as Sonali Ajay Daund (21), was alone at the chaff storage unit when the incident took place as her husband Subhash Daund was away for some work while her father-in-law had gone into the field to spray pesticide. According to the Manchar police, both of the ends of her dupatta went into the machine suction which takes the chaff inside for cutting. She was strangled and died on the spot. She was spotted by two eyewitnesses Navnath Rode and Vaibhav Padwal who raised an alarm following the incident. On his return, Subhash removed the dupatta from the machine and untangled the cloth. However, she was lifeless and was rushed to a private hospital in Manchar. Doctors proclaimed her dead at the hospital and further investigation is on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/womans-dupatta-entangles-in-chaff-machine-dies-of-strangulation-101637164494832.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Active Covid cases in Pune division now lower than during first wave||PUNE All five districts of the Pune division have seen a drop in active Covid-19 cases. The current numbers are lower than the number of active cases during the first wave of Covid-19 in 2020. The five districts, including Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Solapur, had a deadly first wave and a deadlier second wave. All these districts now have less than a few hundred active cases, except Pune, which still reports 2,000 active cases, of which close to 900 are home isolations and 1,000 are admitted in hospitals.The five districts in the division are now seeing a drop in the number of active cases, new cases and also case fatalities as the spread of the infection is lowering. The active Covid-19 cases in these districts as of November 17 vis-a-vis the number of active cases before the first wave are: Pune at 2,882; which on May 21, 2020 was 2,491; Satara reports 193 active cases which is almost the same as June 23, 2020, when 195 patients were undergoing treatment; Sangli has reported 171 active cases, the same as it was in July, 2020 when 159 cases were reported; Kolhapur has reported 130 active cases and on July 2, 2020, 140 cases were reported; and Solapur has reported 228 active cases which was the same May 12, 2020, when 251 patients were undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “All the districts and in fact even the state is witnessing a fall of the second wave which has now further fallen than what it was before the first wave. However, despite this we need to keep in mind that there are some western countries that are seeing a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. The overall Covid-19 situation looks promising right now, but if we want that to continue we must continue to wear masks, maintain social distance wherever possible and also maintain hand and respiratory hygiene even as more commercial activities are opening up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/active-covid-cases-in-pune-division-now-lower-than-during-first-wave-101637163535485.html
17-11-2021||Other||26 times this November, Punjab’s AQI slipped into ‘severe’ category||Bathinda The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Punjab has been of severe quality (401 upwards on the measuring scale) on 26 different occasions across eight air pollution audit spots over November to date. AQI above 401 means it was five times worse than the ‘satisfactory’ AQI value of 51-100. A severe AQI rating means the air affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. An analysis of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data says the average daily AQI was rated ‘poor’ (201-300) on up to 14 days in the state, since November 1. The daily AQI average did not touch the ‘severe’ level this month, but the daily average of ‘very poor’ scale of 301-400 was recorded on up to four days at four AQI assessment spots.The debate over air standards in Punjab, however, has failed to get due attention with the pollution levels in Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) grabbing headlines.The CPCB audits air quality at eight places in six districts — three in Ludhiana (Khanna, Mandi Gobindgarh and Ludhiana City) and one each in Bathinda, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Rupnagar.Data says, the maximum overall high-pollution days this month in Punjab was at Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) in Ludhiana. On 14 days, AQI was rated ‘poor’ in the city, and one day it was ‘very poor’. Jalandhar, the air quality indicator of Doaba region, faced average ‘poor’ air on 12 days this month and it was reported ‘very poor’ on one day.The daily average assessment in Amritsar, the sole pollution indicator of Majha, was ‘poor’ air on 11 days whereas it was moderate (101- 200) on four days. In Bathinda, average daily ‘poor’ air was recorded on eight days and ‘moderate’ for seven days this month. In the state, AQI on most days this month reached a much higher level than the average readings.‘No data on which activity adds how much to pollution’Vinod Kumar Garg, professor, School of Environmental Science and Technology at the Bathinda-based Central University of Punjab, “Burning of organic waste, vehicular emission, power generation plants, dust etc cause smog and the problem turns worse in winters due to climatic conditions. There is no scientific mechanism to confirm how much use of various resources contribute to pollution,” he said. CPCB data says on 78 occasions, air quality deteriorated and fell in ‘very poor’ category. Bathinda, the only centre of south Malwa to audit air quality, saw eight days in November where AQI scaled beyond 401. Of these, the AQI was at the highest scale of 500 on four occasions since November 11. Patiala and Rupnagar recorded a maximum scale of ‘severe’ levels on three days. Ludhiana recorded very poor air on 15 occasions in November when AQI was very poor. The only exception was the Shivalik foothill region near the Rupnagar sample collection site, where daily AQI was ‘poor’ only twice; but severe air pollution was recorded thrice over the past 16 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/26-times-this-november-punjab-s-aqi-slipped-into-severe-category-101637163295270.html
17-11-2021||Pune||SPPU, colleges primed to reopen offline classes after Diwali vacations||PUNE As the Diwali vacations are coming to an end the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges have geared up preparations for opening up of colleges after the Diwali vacations now. Most colleges and university departments are starting offline lectures from next week, for which safety arrangements have been going on. Also, the university and college hostels for students will start admissions. “Last month we received SPPU guidelines about colleges reopening. We have not yet started the college for students. It will most probably would start after the Diwali vacations and till then our all-other safety-related arrangements would be completed. We are going to start college lecturers in phase-wise manner and there should not be any crowding in the college campus, and we have informed students to complete their both doses of vaccination so that no one misses lectures,” said Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal - Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce (Shivajinagar). There are more than 1,200 colleges affiliated to SPPU in three districts and the admission process for the majority of the courses is complete. Till last month online classes were going on, after which the state government announced that the colleges were allowed to open from October 12. In the initial days only, a few students came to attend lectures, as the main criteria was two vaccination doses. On other hand SPPU is preparing to start admissions for hostels. The hostel cleaning and sanitising work is going on. “Soon the university classes at various departments would start and we have already started getting inquiries about hostel admissions. Both boys and girls’ hostels are ready to start, once we get clear guidelines from the state government to open up colleges it would be started,” said SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-colleges-primed-to-reopen-offline-classes-after-diwali-vacations-101637163055358.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Defamation case: Complaint lodged to further political aspirations, says Rahul Gandhi; moves HC||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has filed a petition in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking quashing of the order of the Girgaum magistrate court, which has asked him to appear in person in a defamation complaint filed by a local politician, who has loyalties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Gandhi has stated in his petition that the complainant is not directly affected by the alleged defamatory statement made by him (Gandhi) in 2018, and as he (complainant) is attempting to further his political aspirations by lodging the complaint, the order of magistrate should be set aside. The single-judge bench of justice Sandeep Shinde, on Wednesday, while hearing Gandhi’s petition against the initiation of criminal proceedings on August 28, 2019, on the orders of the Girgaum magistrate, based on the defamation complaint filed by Mahesh Shrishrimal, was informed by advocate Kushal Mor that the complaint was vexatious, baseless, unmeritorious and misconceived. The petition states that the complaint is nothing but a vehicle to drive the complainant’s own political agenda to tarnish the public image of the petitioner. According to the complaint, during a rally held in Rajasthan in September 2018, Gandhi had made a defamatory statement against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which had resulted in various news channels and social media platforms trolling the PM. The complaint also stated that Gandhi had purportedly posted a tweet and given a statement, wherein he referred to the PM as “commander in thief”, which was defamatory and made “direct allegation of theft against BJP members and Indian citizens connected to Modi.” The petition states that he (Gandhi) became aware of the magistrate order after receiving a summon on July 12, this year. Terming the magistrate’s order as mechanical in nature and without any minimum reasoning required for the issuing process against the petitioner, Gandhi states that the complainant lacked locus standi (standing) to file the complaint, as a defamation complaint can only be initiated by the person defamed. In light of the above, the petition states that the present case comes under the exceptions to section 499 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), hence the magistrate order should be quashed and till the current petition was heard, all further proceedings arising out of the order before the magistrate court be stayed. The court will hear the petition on November 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamation-case-complaint-lodged-to-further-political-aspirations-says-rahul-gandhi-moves-hc-101637162335217.html
17-11-2021||Kolkata||‘Not legally valid’: Kolkata court on Nusrat Jahan's marriage with Nikhil Jain||A local court in Kolkata on Wednesday ruled that the marriage of actor-turned-politician Nusrat Jahan and businessman Nikhil Jain is ‘not legally valid’. The order comes amid the ongoing controversy regarding their marriage after the actor-politician claimed that she was “wrongly portrayed” and that the marriage was invalid in India.“It is declared that the alleged marriage held on 19/06/2019 at Bodrum, Turkey in between the plaintiff and the defendant is not legally valid. The suit is, thus, disposed of on admission,” the Kolkata court ruled.The order was based on religious grounds as Nusrat Jahan is a Muslim by faith, while Nikhil Jain is a Hindu.The Trinamool Congress MP had earlier claimed that their marriage was not registered under the Special Marriage Act and hence it was not valid in India. She had also accused Nikhil Jain of misappropriating her funds, even after their separation. Jain denied the allegations calling them ‘baseless, derogatory and devoid of truth’. He had subsequently filed for annulment.Nusrat and Nikhil tied the knot in Turkey in June 2019. While the wedding in Turkey was an intimate ceremony, the couple later hosted a grand wedding reception in Kolkata where they also invited chief minister Mamata Banerjee and other celebrities from the Tollywood film industry.Currently, Nusrat is in a relationship with actor-politician Yash Dasgupta. In August, they welcomed their first child, a son named Yishaan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/not-legally-valid-kolkata-court-on-nusrat-jahan-s-marriage-with-nikhil-jain-101637160867466.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh is a proclaimed offender, orders court||The city’s Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court on Wednesday declared former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh (56), the second most senior Indian Police Service (IPS) serving officer in Maharashtra, a proclaimed offender in connection with an extortion case. This is the first instance of a Mumbai police commissioner being declared a proclaimed offender. Singh was the city’s 43rd police commissioner. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Sudhir Bhajipale simultaneously issued a proclamation against his alleged accomplices Vinay Ramnarayan Singh (46) and Riyaz Bhati (56). All three have been ordered to appear before the court in 30 days. The order came following an application filed by Mumbai Police’s crime branch which is investigating an August 20 extortion case registered in Goregaon in northwest Mumbai. The FIR named Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and civilians — Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Ramnarayan Singh aka Bablu and Riyaz Bhati — for extortion. The complainant, restaurateur Bimal Agarwal, alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two of his outlets – Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar. Once it took over the investigation, the crime branch arrested Vaze, Sumeet Singh and Alpesh Patel. Special prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap, who represented the crime branch, submitted that on October 30 a non-bailable warrant (NBW) was issued against remaining three accused – Param Bir Singh, Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati. Jagtap said that “pursuant to the warrant, crime branch officials visited Singh’s last known address in the city at Neelam Building in Malabar Hill,” but that a cook informed them that Singh and his family had not stayed there for three months. He said a crime branch team later visited Singh’s hometown of Chandigarh, where Singh’s brother reportedly informed the police that the former top cop had not visited Chandigarh recently. Similarly, he said, the crime branch officials visited Bhati’s house in Kandivli in north Mumbai and Vinay Singh’s residence at Andheri in western Mumbai, but could not either of them. A short affidavit filed by investigating officer Vishal Patil in support of the plea seeking the proclamation under section 82 of the Criminal Procedure Code, stated that Singh has been absconding since March 2021. It added that, in the last four months, five cases have been registered against the senior IPS officer and that he failed to appear in all the five cases. Besides, it added, he also did not appear before Justice KU Chandiwal Commission, which is enquiring into Singh’s allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The affidavit added that “despite best efforts by the crime branch”, none of the three accused were found and therefore, the “non-bailable warrants issued against them have remained unexecuted.” The crime branch claimed that the accused were “intentionally evading the law,” and that the crime branch had even urged the court to initiate process for attachment of their properties. This process, however, can be initiated under section 83 of the Criminal Procedure Code only if the trio fail to appear before the court in stipulated period of 30 days, pursuant to the proclamation issued on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-declares-param-bir-singh-a-proclaimed-offender-101637161194501.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Sassoon first government hospital in Maharashtra with separate ward for third gender||PUNE Pune’s Sassoon General hospital will soon by the first government hospital in the state to have a separate ward for what is being identified as the “third gender”. Medically the “third gender” covers all persons not identifying as female or male, due to physical attributes or even out of personal choice.The decision was made based on a suggestion made by the newly appointed chairperson of the state women commission, Rupali Chakankar. Sassoon hospital has ensured that the ward will be fully quipped with state- of-the-art facilities and work on the same will begin soon.Chakankar, during her visit to the new 11-storey building on Wednesday, dedicated for Covid-19 treatment and housing an oxygen plant, interacted with medical and nursing students, resident doctors, resident nurses and women patients. Chakankar also suggested that CCTV cameras be placed on the road between the police station and hospital, a matter she said she will take up with the local police. Dr Vinayak Kale, dean of the hospital said, “This will be the first third gender-dedicated ward in any hospital, be it private or government. She had requested for a 25 bedded ward, but we will start first with about 10-15 beds and then, as required, we will increase. As of now, any person who is a third gender is admitted as per their preference in either the men’s ward or the women’s ward. Next week we will have a meeting with the core committee with regards to the place where the ward would be. We are hopping it will be set up the coming few weeks. We will also have special psychiatric doctors for the wards as patients require counselling during treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sassoon-first-government-hospital-in-maharashtra-with-separate-ward-for-third-gender-101637159214811.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Petition by Maharashtra government an attempt to scuttle probe against Anil Deshmukh, CBI tells HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), while opposing the petition by the Maharashtra government seeking constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) headed by a retired judge, to probe the corruption allegations levelled by the former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, against former home minister Anil Deshmukh, has informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the petition was an attempt by the state to scuttle the central agency’s investigation. CBI submitted that the objection raised by the state government to the agency’s probe, on the ground of Subodh Jaiswal, director of CBI, being part of the police decision-making machinery when the alleged corrupt acts took place, was taken belatedly, as the objection was not raised in the rejected petitions filed in the HC and Supreme Court. Earlier, the state concluded its arguments by submitting that as chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey were state officers, it had filed the petition under parens patriae jurisdiction. Parens patriae is a doctrine that gives authority to the state to protect persons who are legally unable to act on their own behalf.The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the petition filed by the state was informed by senior counsel Darius Khambatta that the April 5 order of the HC had directed the central agency to conduct a preliminary probe into the allegations by Singh as the Mumbai Police could not conduct an impartial probe as Deshmukh was heading it. “Present director of CBI was the then DGP and is party signatory to all police establishment board (PEB) meetings. If CBI case is that it’s all meetings are irrelevant and decisions were taken by the home minister, he (Jaiswal) is important witness, as he signed on every minute, based on which, the decisions were taken,” said Khambatta. Hence, in light of the HC order for impartial probe urged constitution of SIT. While commencing arguments on behalf of CBI, additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi submitted that the current petition by the state and all previous petitions filed by it were intended to derail the investigation by the CBI. Lekhi submitted that if the state was intending to initiate proceedings and probe the allegations by Singh, it would have done so immediately. However, it neither took cognisance of Singh’s complaint to the chief minister nor did they do anything based on the complaint by Dr Jayshri Patil, which showed that the state had no intention to take action against the wrongdoers. Lekhi said that the April 5 order of HC had directed CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry. He further submitted that the apprehension cast by the state on the CBI probe as Jaiswal was the director of CBI was raised belatedly, which also goes to show that the state was trying to scuttle the investigation and shield the wrongdoers. “They did not take this plea because it is a make-believe plea. The state has a one-point agenda to derail probe and is now targeting the director,” said Lekhi, adding that none of the reports directly or indirectly implicated the former director-general. He added that the conduct of the state was incriminating and showed its reluctance to proceed in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petition-by-maharashtra-government-an-attempt-to-scuttle-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-cbi-tells-hc-101637158434677.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Amit Shah in Pune: Two statues to score two hits with one visit||PUNE Ahead of the civic elections next year, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has begun, what some political observers are referring to as a “social engineering” play to woo communities whose votes may be up for grabs.The municipal elections are likely to be held in February 2022, with the BJP trying to retain its control in Pune and Pimpri-Chicnhwad. BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah will visit Pune on November 26, and the party has planned two programmes which include the installation of a statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar at the PMC’s headquarters, and then, the laying of a foundation stone for a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, also at the PMC HQ.Two statues to woo the Dalit and Maratha communities, respectively. “It is a very happy moment for us as BJP leader and home minister Shah has agreed to visit PMC. As November 26 is also CConstitution Day, we have decided to unveil Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s statue near the new building . At the same time, in the old building premises, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s statue is will be installed,” said mayor Murlaidhar Mohol. Shah will be present at both ceremonies.The BJP currently rules PMC with 99 corporators, while the NCP has 42, the Congress 10, Shiv Sena 10 and MNS 02, in the house of 164 members. If the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance that rules the state contests thecivic election as an alliance, the BJP will have a tough fight on in its hands. BJP leader and leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar said, “It is a happy moment that Shah will be present for installation of Dr Ambedkar and Shivaji Maharaj’s statues. Whereever Shah visits, it results in a victory for the party. His visit to Pune is the first step towards BJP’s big victory in the PMC elections. His tour has generated enthusiasm within the party.” A senior BJP leader on the condition of anonymity said, “The party has already started the campaign for the polls by raking up the OBC reservation issue after the MVA government failed to retain it in the High Court. The recent HC ruling has taken away reservations for OBCs in the local body elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amit-shah-in-pune-two-statues-to-score-two-hits-with-one-visit-101637157774715.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav promises to develop markets for farmers along Purvanchal Expressway||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said mandis (markets) for farmers and means of employment generation for the youths will be developed along the Purvanchal Expressway after his party comes to power in Uttar Pradesh. Akhilesh Yadav also said he sensed a “wave of change” in the state that will “wipe out” the BJP in the 2022 assembly polls.Akhilesh Yadav, who has often said it was his government that envisaged the project, described the Purvanchal Expressway as incomplete.Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 341-km Purvanchal Expressway on Tuesday.“This expressway, (which has been inaugurated), is incomplete. Samajwadis saw the dream of building this (Purvanchal) expressway in order that the travel time between Ghazipur in UP and Delhi reduces. But this expressway is not reducing the distance (travel time between Ghazipur in eastern UP and Delhi).It was to be an expressway of prosperity,” he said. He also said, “ Through this expressway, work to strengthen the economy of rural areas will be done. Mandis (markets) were supposed to come up near this but they did not. After the SP comes to power, work will be done to set up mandis for farmers and create means of employment generation for the youths along it.”Tell me if the country has a better road than this anywhere, Akhilesh Yadav asked.He also said the expressway will be extended to Ballia.“We have to take this expressway to Ballia and connect it with Bihar,” he said.The Purvanchal Expressway starts from village Chand Sarai in Lucknow district and ends at village Hydaria on National Highway number 31, 18 kilometres east of the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border, in Ghazipur.The key feature of the expressway is the 3.2-kilometre-long airstrip to enable landing and take-off of Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter planes in case of emergency.The six-lane Purvanchal Expressway can be expanded to eight lanes in the future.In his attack on the BJP, he said, “There will be a change in UP in 2022, for sure. I am watching a wave of change. I am confident that from this Ghaizpur (UP) to that Ghazipur (near Delhi border), BJP will be wiped out.”“Ghazipur is the land of bravehearts and sacrifice. I salute all of you,” he said, addressing people from atop the rath (bus).He asked the people to “remove the bulls and the bulldozers” which are running in the state. This remark appeared to be an indirect jibe at the problem of stray cattle and the Yogi Adityanath government’s drive against criminals and demolition of their unauthorised properties.Appealing to the people, Akhilesh said, “In 2022, change the government which is changing names.”It was a reference to the Yogi government having changed the names of Faizabad to Ayodhya and Allahabad to Prayagraj, besides renaming the Faizabad railway station as Ayodhya Cantt. At a function in SP chief’s Lok Sabha constituency Azamgarh on November 13, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said laying the foundation stone of a state university will turn Azamgarh into Aryamgarh in the true sense. “There should be no doubt that this university will truly turn Azamgarh into Aryamgarh,” the chief minister had said. Union home minister Amit Shah had laid the foundation stone of the university. Akhilesh Yadav also targeted the BJP on petrol and diesel prices, besides “rising unemployment”. “These are the very people who had said that poor with slippers will travel by air. But the way the prices of diesel and petrol have gone up, riding a motorcycle has become difficult,” he said.“Unemployed youths waited for jobs for five years. Where are the jobs? Will the youth not bring a change? All sections of the society, be it farmers, labourers and youths, are ready to bring a change in the state,” he said.He also said the SP will hold a historic rally in Ghazipuri in future.The Samajwadi Party’s ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar said SBSP has shut the door through which BJP came to power in 2017. The SBSP-led Bhagidari Sanklap Morcha, in alliance with the SP, will make Akhilesh Yadav the chief minister of UP in 2022, he said.Earlier, Akhilesh Yadav, along with Rajbhar, met noted vocalist Pandit Chhannu Lal Mishra at Lal Bahadur Shastri international airport, Varanasi, said SBSP state unit vice president Shashipratap Singh. Padma Vibhushan was conferred on Mishra recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-promises-to-develop-markets-for-farmers-along-purvanchal-expressway-101637157534810.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Marathi film actor Aniket Vishwasrao booked for domestic abuse||Pune: The Alankar police have booked Marathi actor Aniket Vishwasrao under relevant charges of domestic abuse and violence after a complaint was lodged against him, his father and mother by wife Sneha Chavan, who is also a film actress and a resident of Karishma Society at Karve road. The first information report (FIR) stated that the actor tried to allegedly strangulate her as he feared that his wife would become more popular in the film industry than him. The actor also physically assaulted, abused and insulted her in front of relatives and public, the complaint stated. Aniket and Sneha tied the knot in 2018. He hails from Mumbai and is known for his work in Marathi film industry and made his debut in Sudhir Mishra’s Chameli and first appeared in the Marathi film “Lapoon Chhapoon” in 2007. He became popular after the release of “Fakt Lad Mhana”’ in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marathi-film-actor-aniket-vishwasrao-booked-for-domestic-abuse-101637157114635.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||2 arrested in Thane for trying to sell ambergris||Two persons have been arrested by Thane Shree Nagar police while they were attempting to sell rare and high-in-demand ambergris or whale spew worth ₹2Cr in the market.Ambergris is a very costly wax. It can be found floating on tropical seas and is used in manufacturing perfumes.Shree Nagar police officials received information about two persons carrying ambergris and were coming to a hotel on their bike. Accordingly, the team laid a trap and nabbed them. They have been identified as Mayur More, 31 and Pradip More, 31.Senior police inspector, L Tambe, said, “Our team nabbed two of them and searched their bags and found some semi solid rock that was like ambergris. After checking it through an authentic person, we registered a case against them under the Wildlife Protection Act. We have got their custody until November 18. Finding ambergris is very difficult and these accused are yet to reveal any information about the same. One of the accused is from Ahmedabad. We are investigating if there are any links there too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-arrested-in-thane-for-trying-to-sell-ambergris-101637156874669.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Amit Shah in Pune on November 26: Visit to PMC to galvanise BJP cadre||PUNE Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Pune on November 26 has become crucial, not just for the co-operative sector, but for the municipal elections in Pune and rest of state as well. Shah, who is also Union minister for cooperatives, will visit the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and address party workers and booth heads in the city Earlier, it was decided that his visit would be primarily as co-operative minister, but the BJP’s state and city units decided to use his presence to campaign for municipal elections. The BJP’s state leadership - opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis and state unit president Chandrakant Patil - will also be present at these programmes,. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We requested the home minister to visit the PMC and he has given his consent for it. It is important Shah is visiting the PMC before the municipal elections.” According to BJP leaders, Shah will lay the foundation stone for a proposed statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji on the premises of the PMC headquarters, after attending a cooperative sector-related function at the Vaikunthbhai Mehtra Institute.He will also be present at a function where a statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar wil be unveiled. Later, Shah will attend a party function at the Ganesh Kala Krida auditorium, where he will address workers and booth pramukhs (chiefs), said BJP leader Ganesh Bidkar. “Shah’s visit to Pune and PMC ahead of the civic elections is definitely important for party workers as it will boost our morale. The party is extremely enthusiastic about it,” said Bidkar. The PMC elections are likely to happen in February-March next year with BJP trying its best to retain control over the civic body. Through Shah’s visit, BJP plans to kickstart its campaign for election and galvanise its machinery. According to BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik the party has organised the party meeting at the Ganesh Kala Krida Manch in Swargate. “We got confirmation for this. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis and other state leaders will be present. We have started meetings to prepare for this,” he said. The state co-operative department officials have also confirmed Shah’s tour.Maharashtra has a large number of co-operative institutes with politics centred around the co-operative sector, with several NCP and Congress leaders controlling institutions in western parts of the state. Though co-operatives has till recently been a state subject, it was for the first time that the central government started this ministry. Political observers see that by creating a separate cooperative ministry, headed by a senior minister like Amit Shah, the BJP is trying to establish its grip over the sector, while keeping a vigilance on activities of cooperative institutes run by the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders. Recently, NCP president Sharad Pawar invited Shah to visit the Vasantdada Sugar Institute (VSI) in Manjari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amit-shah-in-pune-on-november-26-visit-to-pmc-to-galvanise-bjp-cadre-101637156574818.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Woman from upscale locality in Thane arrested for stealing from shops||A tenacious dump data analysis of more than 600 women who visited a popular electronic showroom on Ghodbunder Road during the Diwali week led the Kapurbawdi police in Thane to a woman from a well-to-do-family who stole electronic items from stores across this locality.The woman, with her sophisticated looks, did not attract suspicion, thus duping several stores by stealing laptops, mobile phones, cameras, Bluetooth devices, DVD players, headphones, vacuum cleaners, hard disks and watches and 11 CCTV cameras.The woman has two children. Her husband holds a managerial post in a private company while her in-laws are retired government officials.The accused (police withheld the name to protect the family identity), is in her 40s. She used to take advantage of the crowd in shops during the festive season which kept most of the salesmen occupied. She would roam around in the shops in a mask and flick gadgets when there was no salesman around. On November 3, the owner of Vijay Sales shop on Ghodbunder Road realised that one of the laptops worth ₹99,999 was missing from the stock. They registered a complaint on November 15, when they still failed to trace it. S Nimbalkar, police inspector of Kapurbawdi police station, said, “We checked the CCTV footage of the shop and found the accused talking on the phone while her movements were suspicious. We did a data dump analysis and found about 600 women talking on their phone in the premises. We checked each of these women on their social media profiles and shortlisted those who looked similar to the accused.”The police finally found the woman in the camera and located her resident in an upscale locality and arrested her. “We searched her house and found all the other gadgets worth ₹2.65 lakh.”DCP Vinay Rathod said, “We are investigating further whether the woman is attached to some more people in this crime and getting information from her about other devices that she has stolen from different shops in the malls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-from-upscale-locality-in-thane-arrested-for-stealing-from-shops-101637155494927.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Retd Allahabad HC judge visits Lakhimpur violence site for probe||Retired Allahabad high court judge, Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, who is heading a single-member inquiry commission probing into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, visited the violence site near Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limits on Wednesday, said police officials.He examined the crime scene and received inputs from police officials over the entire sequence of events that has been established on the basis of statements of witnesses and crime scene recreation by forensic experts, they said. However, forensic experts accompanying Justice Srivastava carried out further investigations on his direction, they added.A police official said Justice Srivastava spent several hours at the site to understand the events that took place when a car of union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra, allegedly mowed down four farmers and four others were killed during the violence that erupted over the death of farmers. He said media personnel and outsiders were not allowed anywhere near and the crime scene was barricaded.The judge had reached Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday evening.The single-member judicial commission of inquiry under Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava had been constituted by the UP government as part of the agreement between the agitating farmers and the authorities to ensure a thorough probe into the Tikunia violence, which left eight people, including four farmers, a local journalist, two BJP workers and a driver, dead.In a notification dated October 6, the state government said the judicial commission would be headquartered in Lakhimpur Kheri. It was stated that the commission shall complete the inquiry within a period of two months from the date of the issue of this notification.In the incident, four farmers were allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers. The remaining deceased -- two BJP workers, a journalist and a driver -- were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by angry protesters.Two FIRs were lodged at the Tikunia police station in this connection. The first FIR (number 219) was lodged from the farmers’ side in which MoS home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra and 15-20 others were accused of mowing down four farmers. The investigators identified and arrested 12 others apart from the main accused Ashish Mishra.These included a BJP ward member Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti, Latif alias Kaale, Shishupal, Nandan Singh Bisht, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam, Mohit Trivedi, Ashish Pandey, Lavkush Rana, Rinku Rana and Dharmendra. At present, all the 13 accused are in judicial custody.The second FIR (number 220) was lodged by Sumit Jaiswal, in which he alleged that unidentified miscreants killed four persons. The investigators arrested four persons, including Gurvinder Singh, Vichitra Singh, Avtar Singh and Ranjit Singh, who are also in judicial custody.Apart from the single-member judicial commission, the government had formed a nine-member special investigating committee headed by DIG Upendra Agrawal to probe both the FIRs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/retd-allahabad-hc-judge-visits-lakhimpur-violence-site-for-probe-101637154894474.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Beyond borders: Two lines, three nations, one culture||Radcliffe Line, which divides India and Pakistan, was, after all, drawn on a map lying on a table. So was Durand Line that defines the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. The two lines, however, failed to divide the culture and heritage of the land. All they have given rise to is acrimony and trepidation, besides the millions of dollars spent to maintain the status quo by the three countries. People across the two lines share the same jokes, the same frustrations, the same worries and the same resilience, that is, if we decide to overlook the political rhetoric in the three countries. I had the good fortune of visiting Pakistan some years ago as a part of a delegation of mental health professionals. This was my first and only experience of actually stepping across the Radcliffe Line. From the moment we crossed over to Pakistan to the time we came back, not for a moment did we realise that we were not in our own country! We were welcomed with unprecedented warmth and unparalleled hospitality. What surprised all of us was that we have so much in common beneath the often bitter cacophony of Indo-Pak rivalry. The roads of Lahore reverberate with the lament of overflowing traffic and the lack of adherence to traffic rules, just the way we do, even when we ourselves might be doing the same thing. People of this big and vibrant city still love to bargain in the market, which often ends in a deal that makes both the shopkeeper and the customer happy, not forgetting to share a boisterous laugh and a memorable hug! People across the border still believe in extending their hospitality just because you come from the same city from which their grandparents migrated at the time of the most unfortunate Partition. We bid goodbye to our Pakistani friends at Wagah border with tears in our eyes and a lot of heart-warming memories to cherish. Each one of us was left wondering, at the end of our visit, as to the relevance of the Radcliffe Line that we stepped over to head back home. I happened to see a teacher from Afghanistan a few months ago at my clinic and my encounter with him made me think of the seeming irreverence of the Durand Line when it comes to our shared cultural heritage. This teacher belonged to the southern Afghan city of Herat. It was a pleasant surprise to see a citizen of a trouble-torn nation with so much of warmth and respect for an Indian doctor. He could speak only broken English and it was a challenge to treat him. However, his condition improved in a couple of weeks and he went back to his homeland. I was pleasantly surprised to see him in my clinic after a month with a basket of dry fruits and dates for me as a token of regards. He also presented me with an image of the Gurdwara Sahib at Kabul with utmost reverence. These two encounters set me thinking. Why can’t people living in these three countries meet more often? Don’t we have the same language of love? Do we deserve the acrimony that exists between our countries? Inshallah, the three nations will learn, sooner than later, to think beyond the borders drawn on the map. gulbaharsidhu@rediffmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based consultant psychiatrist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/beyond-borders-two-lines-three-nations-one-culture-101637153094223.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Insurance policy lapsed, pay and recover cannot be applied: Bombay high court||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday held that the “pay and recover” principle — which requires the insurance companies to first pay accident claims to families of the victims and then recover the amount from the owner of the offending vehicle — cannot be applied in cases where the insurance policy has lapsed and there is no subsisting insurance contract on the date of the incident.The court was hearing an appeal filed by the Oriental Insurance Company, challenging the March 28, 2014 order of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal at Nashik, holding the insurer jointly liable to pay compensation of ₹6.68 lakh to family members of Milind Gaikwad, who had died in a road accident.Justice NJ Jamadar said the principle can be legitimately resorted to where there exists a contract of insurance and the insurer is exonerated from the liability on account, some breach of conditions of insurance or causes of like nature, but not where there exists no such contract.The incident had taken place on February 4, 2009, when the deceased was riding a motorcycle on his way to Satpur industrial estate and another motorcyclist Uday Pathak, crashed into him. Twenty-seven-year-old Milind was severely injured and eventually succumbed to the injuries.Gaikwad’s family members instituted an accident claim under section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 before the Tribunal, which held that the accident occurred due to rash and negligent driving of the offending motor-cycle and the vehicle owner and his insurer - Oriental Insurance Company were jointly liable to pay compensation.The insurer had questioned the tribunal order primarily contending that there was no subsisting insurance contract between the insurance company and owner of the offending vehicle on the date of the incident and the tribunal erred in holding the insurance company jointly liable to pay the compensation.HC accepted the contention, noticing that the insurance certificate specifically mentioned that the policy was valid from October 17, 2006, to October 16, 2007, and as such expired long before the accident of February 4, 2009. However, after the HC held that the insurance company cannot be held jointly liable for paying the compensation, the claimants urged the court to apply the principle of “pay and recover,” directing the insurance company to pay the compensation first and then recover it from the vehicle owner.It was argued on behalf of the claimants that they would be left in the lurch and the beneficial object of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 would be defeated if no such order based on the “pay and recover” principle was issued. The counsel for the insurer opposed the plea by submitting that the principle of “Pay and Recover” cannot be resorted to where there is no subsisting insurance contract.HC accepted the contentions of the insurance company. “Undoubtedly, the beneficial nature of the legislation must be kept in view. Yet, the principle of purposive construction cannot be stretched to such an extent as to fasten the liability on a party, who is not at all liable to satisfy the award, for the only reason that in the past there was a contract of insurance between the insurer and insured,” said justice Jamadar.“The jural relationship between erstwhile insurer and insured gets snapped with the term of insurance coming to an end,” the bench added and exonerated the insurance company from the liability to pay compensation to an accident victim, Milind Gaikwad, a Nashik resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/insurance-policy-lapsed-pay-and-recover-cannot-be-applied-bombay-high-court-101637152794071.html
17-11-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh lifts all Covid-19 related curbs with immediate effect||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday removed all Covid-19 related restrictions from the state with immediate effect, with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan saying that this was being done as the pandemic situation in the state was under complete control. “All social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural and religious programmes can be organised normally. There is no ceiling on the number of people allowed at wedding ceremonies or last rites. The night curfew is also being done away with,” a rough translation of Chouhan's tweet, which was posted in Hindi, read. प्रदेश में अलग-अलग क्षेत्रों में मेलों का आयोजन हो सकेगा। चल समारोह निकल सकेंगे। शादी समारोह जितनी संख्या में लोगों की उपस्थिती में आयोजित करना चाहें कर सकते हैं। नाइट कर्फ़्यू भी आज रात से समाप्त होगा। अंतिम संस्कार में भी जितने लोग शामिल होकर अंतिम दर्शन करना चाहें कर सकेंगे।The chief minister added that establishments such as cinema halls, shopping malls, swimming pools, club, gyms, yoga centres, restaurants etc. can function at full capacity. Educational institutions such as schools, colleges, universities, coaching classes, too, can open with 100 per cent student strength, he further said.However, Chouhan also appealed to people to not let their guard down. “Please keep complying with all the necessary protocols such as wearing face masks, sanitising hands, getting tested even for minor symptoms etc. By 31 December, we have to ensure that the entire Madhya Pradesh is fully vaccinated. So, please take your second dose as well,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader posted. हमें #COVID19 को लेकर सतर्क भी रहना है। बचाव संबंधी दिशा-निर्देशों का पालन जारी रखें, जैसे मास्क लगाना, हाथ स्वच्छ रखना, मामूली लक्षण पर तत्काल जांच आदि। दूसरा टीका सभी अवश्य लगवा लें। 31 दिसंबर तक हम सभी को मिलकर मध्यप्रदेश के सम्पूर्ण टीकाकरण का लक्ष्य प्राप्त करना है।Therefore, shopkeepers can open stores only if they are fully inoculated, while, in hostels, all students above the age of 18, too, should have taken both doses, Chouhan said. Full vaccination is mandatory for employees in cinema halls as well, while audience members should have taken at least one dose.Giving out the latest Covid-19 numbers, the chief minister said that 5 more people tested positive for the viral illness, while active cases were down to 78. On the vaccination figures, he said that 91 per cent people were partially vaccinated while 47 per cent had taken both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-removes-all-covid-19-related-restrictions-with-immediate-effect-101637149344283.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Drugs unit in Kolhapur farmhouse busted by cops. Mumbai lawyer is prime suspect||MUMBAI: The Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) of the Mumbai police has busted a mephedrone manufacturing unit allegedly running out of a Kolhapur farmhouse of a Mumbai-based lawyer, a senior police officer said on Tuesday. Two persons including a 35-year-old woman have been arrested in this connection.ANC claims to have seized mephedrone and raw material needed to manufacture drugs with a street value of Rs. 2.35 crore from the farmhouse.The two persons arrested by the team were identified by the police as Nikhil Lohar, 29, the caretaker of the farmhouse, and Cristina Maglin, alias Ayesha alias Simran, 35, a drug peddler from Sakinaka.ANC deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade said a police team first arrested Cristina Maglin from Bandra on Saturday on charges of possessing 50gm of mephedrone. She named a Mumbai lawyer who she claimed, sold her mephedrone - it is a synthetic stimulant drug that is known by many street names including meow-meow - for supply to her clients in the Bandra area.Nalawade said an ANC team tried to verify the information revealed by Cristina Maglin and traced the farmhouse mentioned by her to Dholgarwadi village in Chandgad taluka of Kolhapur district, 375km from Mumbai.“We have seized 38.7 kilograms of raw material, chemicals, 120 gram MD total worth Rs. 2.35 crore. We have arrested Nikhil Lohar who have s also confirmed the name of a lawyer, Rajkumar Arjunrao Rajhuns,” Nalawade added.HT is trying to contact the lawyer for his comments.Nalawade said Rajhans is on the run and attempts are being made to trace him.The senior police officer said Nikhil Lohar, the caretaker of Rajhans’ farmhouse, told them that the lawyer used to make weekly visits to his farmhouse to pick up mephedrone packets that were sold in Mumbai.Cristina Maglin was produced before a local court and has been remanded to police custody till November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugs-unit-in-kolhapur-farmhouse-busted-by-cops-mumbai-lawyer-is-prime-suspect-101637151533752.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP rolls out tractor rallies on UP’s poll pitch||LUCKNOW The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has begun rolling out tractor rallies in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP). And over the next 15 days, over 30,000 roaring vehicles, with farmers and BJP leaders on board, would criss-cross the state with party flags, symbol and messages. Each tractor show would comprise 200 to 500 vehicles. The inaugural rally with 410 tractors was taken out from Mau in eastern UP (Purvanchal) on Tuesday. The BJP’s tractor rallies would continue till November 30 and conclude in Bijnor in western UP. The BJP initiative, timed amid the ongoing farmers’ stir, is aimed at connecting with farmers and the start of each tractor rally would see marketing of government schemes while the conclusion over ‘jal paan’ (snacking) in rural settings would also revolve around efforts to blunt the impression of the government being “anti-farmer”. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is spearheading the farmers’ agitation, too had taken out tractor rallies. WHY TRACTORS? “Tractors are a sign of rural prosperity. They symbolise satisfied farmers and also indicate their growth. So, these tractor rallies are meant to convey that the farmers have prospered under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” said Kameshwar Singh, UP farmers’ wing chief. RALLIES AREN’T JUST ABOUT FARMERS ALONE The launch destination - Mau Sadar assembly segment – for instance was chosen after much consideration. The BJP has never won this seat since 1956 while the current MLA Mukhtar Ansari has been winning it continuously since 1996, twice as an independent candidate. “Mau was previously known for various other reasons. But now, with mafias either behind bars or on the run, Mau is now scripting a development story,” said Singh. Mukhtar Ansari, for whom the UP government fielded a battery of lawyers to ensure that he was brought back to the state from Congress-ruled Punjab, is currently behind bars and BJP leaders have repeatedly flagged Yogi Adityanath government’s crackdown against criminals and mafias prominently in the run-up to the 2022 UP polls. Recently, union home minister Amit Shah credited the Adityanath government of helping free Purvanchal from “mafia aur macchar” (mafia and mosquitoes). Prime Minister Narendra Modi too has been mentioning the BJP government’s crackdown on criminals in UP prominently in his speeches during his visits to the state, which are increasing as elections draw closer. Since August, the BJP has constantly been holding farmer-connect campaigns. In August, the party held ‘kisan samvaad’ (dialogue with farmers) at 298 places in 95 such assembly segments with sizeable presence of sugarcane farmers. This was followed up with a meeting of farmers at the chief minister’s residence on August 25. In September, kisan sammelan (farmer meetings) were held across the state while in October gram kisan chaupals (rural farmer meets) were held in 40,000 villages. “In November, we are taking out tractor rallies and in December we will hold assembly-wise meetings. In January, we will launch a programme ‘chalo gaon ki ore’ (head towards villages) where we would connect with the countryside,” said the farmers’ wing chief. In a major pro-farmer outreach initiative in August, Adityanath had announced that cases against farmers for burning crop residue would be withdrawn and a decision was taken to reimburse monetary penalties levied on farmers. Orders were also issued to not disconnect power supply of farmers due to pending bills. “Of the 403 assembly segments in UP, nearly 399 are believed to be fully or partially rural in character. In the past too, the BJP had or for that matter other parties, had focused on rural UP. Now, the tractor rallies by the BJP are obviously aimed at connecting better with the countryside and that makes good political sense,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran political observer. “This celebratory rally is yet another brutal and brazen display of indifference showcased by the BJP government. This government is expert in marketing and so it is trying to cover up farmer distress through such antics. But, the people are watching. Rural UP will teach the BJP a lesson,” said Congress leader Zishan Haider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-rolls-out-tractor-rallies-on-up-s-poll-pitch-101637151355209.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena blames ‘fake Hindutvawadis’ for Amravati violence||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena has blamed “fake Hindutvawadis” for the violence in Amravati, saying the communal tensions were stoked for political mileage ahead of next year’s Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.Mob violence erupted in Amravati on Saturday after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) called for a bandh to protest against a violent bandh organised on Friday against communal violence in Tripura. Former minister and BJP leader Anil Bonde were among those arrested for the violence that broke out on Saturday and later released on bail.Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the country faces real danger from “fake Hindutvawadis”, who create Hindu-Muslim tensions and use Pakistan to win elections. “If you heard [chief minister] Uddhav [Thackery]’s speech on Dussehra, he said that the real danger that the country faces is from the fake Hindutvawadi. These people bring up Hindu-Muslim issues when elections are around the corner. They come up with India-Pakistan issues during elections. They intend communal tension so that they can win elections. Everyone knows who these people are,” Raut said.Also Read: Sena leader’s son dies by suicide in PuneIn an editorial published in its mouthpiece Saamana on the ninth death anniversary of the Sena founder Bal Thackeray on Wednesday, the party said the bandh called by Raza Academy in Amravati to protest against the violence in Tripura was unwarranted. It downplayed its role saying it did not have the organisational capability to indulge in stone pelting.“Violence was carried out. Raza Academy is an organisation that is limited to distributing pamphlets. They do not have the strength to indulge in violence and stone pelting. Even then, it was not correct to give a bandh call in Maharashtra owing to the incident in Tripura. Fake Hindutvawadis burnt Amravati taking advantage of the bandh,” the editorial said.The Saamana said Bal Thackeray brought Hindus together and added that had he been alive, the “fringe outfit” would not have dared to call a bandh and the masks of “fake Hindutvawadis” would have come off. “There is an attempt to instigate Hindu-Muslim riots to win the Uttar Pradesh election. Keep your politics to your state. Why did you burn Maharashtra for this? The Shiv Sena founder would have asked this question,” the editorial added.The Sena mouthpiece said Bal Thackeray gave a structure to the scattered values of Hindutva. “Some cowards entered this structure and are now giving lectures to us on Hindutva.” As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of the BJP does not respond to criticism or remarks in Saamana editorials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-blames-fake-hindutvawadis-for-amravati-violence-101637150259062.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court discharges DHFL from CBI’s case against Kapil Wadhawan||The Bombay high court on Wednesday discharged Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL) from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case against its erstwhile chairman and managing director (CMD) Kapil Wadhawan, director Rakesh Wadhawan and Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor.DHFL moved the high court after a special CBI court in August rejected its plea for discharging the non-banking finance company from the case. It argued the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June approved a resolution plan for DHFL’s reverse merger with Piramal Capital and Housing Finance Limited.Senior advocate Ravi Kadam, who appeared for DHFL, submitted the special court did not take provisions contained in Section 32A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, into account while rejecting the discharge plea. He submitted DHFL would not be liable for any offence committed prior to commencement of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. Kadam added the prosecution would not continue once the resolution plan was approved by the Adjudicating Authority - the NCLT.Also Read: CBI autonomous body, Centre not accountable for it, SC toldAdvocate Pranav Badheka, who represented Kapil Wadhawan, opposed the plea by pointing out that the former CMD of DHFL and 63 Moons Technologies Ltd have filed appeals challenging the approval for DHFL’s reverse merger. The outcome of the appeal would be a crucial consideration in deciding the discharge plea, he added.CBI’s lawyer, Hiten Venegaonkar, also opposed the plea. He submitted it would be inappropriate to discharge DHFL of the criminal liability until statutory appeals were decided. Venegaonkar added that cognisance of an offence cannot be taken twice and therefore it would be very difficult for the CBI to reverse the situation if, in appeals, the approval to the resolution plan was reversed.A single-judge bench of Justice Sandip Shinde took into consideration the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal’s refusal to stay the execution of the reverse merger. Subsequently, DHFL management has changed.Shinde noted that Kapil Wadhawan and Rakesh Wadhawan were ousted from the Board of Directors two years ago and had since no control over the management of the NBFC.The Wadhawans were booked in March 2020 along with Kapur and his family members. Between April and June 2018, Yes Bank allegedly invested ₹3,700 crore in short term non-convertible debenture of DHFL and Kapur received ₹600 crore as kickbacks from DHFL in terms of loan advanced to two firms his family members controlled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-discharges-dhfl-from-cbi-s-case-against-kapil-wadhawan-101637149058987.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya yet again on BJP’s priority list as UP assembly elections near||As the Yogi Adityanath government prepares for the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh due in February-March next year, yet again Ayodhya will be on top of the list of priorities for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state. In December, chief minister Adityanath is expected to lay the foundation stone for pending projects in the temple town while dedicating some of the projects nearing completion to some people. According to Ayodhya’s administration, the Queen Heo Hwang-ok memorial park and a digital museum at Ram Katha Park are nearly complete. Ayodhya’s railway station is also undergoing a complete makeover. Also Read: UP govt plans sector-wise industrialisation in 12 districts along Purvanchal ExpresswayThe central government has approved 27 road projects in Ayodhya under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana. For the roads with a combined length of 197km, the Narendra Modi government has sanctioned ₹132.78 crore. Construction work on these roads will start next month after Adityanath lays the foundation stone for the project. The Ayodhya Development Authority is also likely to finalise a master plan for the temple town by the end of next month. “The chief minister is likely to visit Ayodhya next month to inaugurate some projects that have been completed. He will also lay the foundation stone for some projects,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya (Sadar) constituency. Ayodhya remained on top of the priority list of the UP government throughout the Covid-19 pandemic. Ayodhya remained the focal point of Adityanath’s government from day one of the BJP government in the state after it came to power in March 2017. Adityanath has been regularly visiting the temple town since becoming chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-yet-again-on-bjp-s-priority-list-as-up-assembly-elections-near-101637147560685.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Modi calls for one nation, one legislative platform||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called for setting up one platform to connect all democratic institutions. Also read: First Sikh jatha crosses over to Pakistan after reopening of Kartarpur Corridor“I’ve been thinking of one nation, one legislative platform, a digital portal that not only provides a technical boost to our parliamentary system but also attaches all democratic institutions. All resources of our Houses should be on this platform,” Modi said while virtually addressing the inaugural session of the 82nd All India Presiding Officers’ Conference (AIPOC) that began in Shimla. The two-day conference coincides with the centennial year of the AIPOC. Congratulating the presiding officers, the Prime Minister said: “AIPOC is completing 100 years and this reflects the democratic expansion of India. The conference holds more importance because India is also celebrating 75 years of Independence. The coincidence increases our responsibilities manifold.” Stay united while celebrating diversity Citing the example of the Covid pandemic, Modi said the country fought this battle taking along all states and today India has crossed the 110-crore vaccine doses mark. “Our future dreams and resolutions will also be fulfilled with the united efforts of the Centre and the state. Our policies and laws should strengthen the spirit of India and our Ek Bharat-Shresht Bharat resolution and most importantly our conduct in the House should be according to Indian values. In today’s changing times, it is the responsibility of our legislative Houses that they stay alert even if there is one divisive voice so that we can continue to celebrate our diversity,” he said. Representatives for public welfare The PM said people make an image about public representatives that they always indulge in politics. “But, if you see, in every political party there are some public representatives who spend their lives in public welfare. These works strengthen people’s belief and trust in politics,” he said. Calling for qualitative debate, Modi said, “During this decorum must be followed and there should be no political remarks. It should be a healthy debate. The priority should be to increase the productivity of the House. Our laws will be comprehensive only when they are directly attached to public welfare for which positive debate is necessary. So, youth members, public representatives from aspirant areas and women need more and more opportunities in the House.” Modi stressed on speeding up digitisation of libraries of Parliament and assemblies and making them available online. First state to start paperless work Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla hoped that the conference would go a long way in strengthening the democratic setup. He said problems that arise on the floor of the House should be redressed effectively. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the Himachal Pradesh assembly is known for its positive discussions and urged the Prime Minister to provide a Nation e-Academy for the state at Dharamshala. He said the hill state was the first in the country to start paperless work in its Vidhan Sabha, known as e-Vidhan. Recently, President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the House on the golden jubilee year of statehood of the state. Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh said that the conference was an opportunity to ponder over objectives for the next 100 years. He expressed concern over the delay in implementation of assurances given in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/modi-calls-for-one-nation-one-legislative-platform-101637147559082.html
17-11-2021||Bangalore||Australia announces new consulate and centre to boost tech ties with India||Australia announced on Wednesday that it will establish a new consulate in Bengaluru and set up a centre of excellence for critical and emerging technology policy in India as part of efforts to drive the technology partnership between the two countries. Prime Minister Scott Morrison unveiled Australia’s plans during a virtual address to the Bengaluru Tech Summit, saying technology is at the forefront of the comprehensive strategic partnership he signed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year. The new consulate will focus on deepening Australia’s ties with “India’s vibrant innovators, technologists and entrepreneurs” and support Australian businesses in “one of the world’s most important commercial centres”, foreign minister Marise Payne said in a statement. The new centre of excellence will elevate cooperation under an existing cyber and critical technology partnership and bring together Australian and Indian technologists, policy practitioners, academics, researchers and thought leaders, she said. Also Read: Rains to continue over Bengaluru, other parts of Karnataka“It is a multi-stakeholder initiative that will help guide the responsible development and use of critical technologies,” Payne said. Over the past year, India and Australia have stepped up cooperation on emerging and critical technologies both bilaterally and in partnership with Japan and the US, the other members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad. Much of this work is focused on lowering reliance on Chinese technologies and building secure and reliable supply chains. A group established by the Quad has been working to set standards and forge closer collaboration on critical and sensitive technologies such as AI and 5G. India and Australia are also collaborating on the use of rare earth elements. Noting that the consulate in Bengaluru will take the number of Australian missions in India to five, Morrison said the post will deepen ties with innovators and the government. “Bengaluru is the world’s fastest growing technology hub – of course, we want to be part of it. It is home to a third of India’s unicorn companies,” he said. The centre of excellence, he said, will help the two countries “shape technology governance so it aligns with our values and supports an open, inclusive and resilient Indo-Pacific region”. The centre will also promote investment and innovation between Australia and India in technology and “amplify our policy influence globally”, he said. Morrison referred to the launch of the first Sydney Dialogue, which is a global summit on emerging and critical technologies, and said the event will witness the unveiling of Australia’s first “blueprint for critical technologies”. “This signals Australia’s firm commitment to shaping the development and adoption of critical technologies internationally, including by working with trusted partners like India,” he said. Morrison also referred to the work currently being done by Australia and India in the field of technology, and said technology-leading nations will have greater economic and political power and influence on global norms and values in the years ahead. The two sides are sharing expertise on cyber and critical technologies such as quantum computing and AI, and collaborating on the mining and processing of critical minerals such as cobalt, lithium and rare earth elements that are vital to clean energy technologies and have military applications. “We’re also cooperating on space science, technology, and research – and Australia is proud to be supporting India’s inspirational Gaganyaan human spaceflight mission,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/australia-announces-new-consulate-and-centre-to-boost-tech-ties-with-india-101637146419012.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: A basil garden gives root to Pune’s first shopping plaza||The growing metropolis of Pune has engulfed most historical spaces, but the lively character of some places has survived, thrived and readapted to new demands and changing times in seamless manner. Tulshibaug in Budhwar peth is a perfect case in point. Tulshibaug doesn’t merely represent a garden or a roadside bazaar. It has, over centuries, evolved into an interesting mix of sacred precinct, cultural platform, shopping complexes and trade activities. It would be hard to believe that 250 years ago this space lay on the borders of the settlement of Pune and was known as kale vivar (black hole!). The area from present day Laxmi road towards the south was occupied by Kotwal chavadi, Chakle baug, Khajagiwale baug, Haripant Phadke’s baug and Ramshwar temple. Naro Appaji Khire (1700CE), who hailed from Padali village in Satara region worked as a small-time clerk under sardar Khajagiwale who handled the Peshwa families’ Pune affairs. His bright intellect was noticed by Nanasaheb Peshwa and he was quickly promoted to the post of Sar Subhedar in 1750s. Naro Appaji’s administration of Pune was appreciated by the next Peshwa, Madhavrao I, who was known to be strict, disciplined and an able administrator. Madhavrao was especially impressed by the fine diplomacy exhibited by Naro Appaji during the Nizam’s attack on Pune, as a result of which further damage was averted. Naro Appaji served four Peshwas, upto Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa. With the aim to raise a fine temple, Naro Appaji bought a corner of Khajagiwale’s garden measuring about an acre and started construction in the 1760s. The garden primarily consisted of basil plant beds which became its identity and was known as “Tulshi - baug”- basil garden. The association was so inseparable that Sarsubhedar Naro Appaji “Khire” came to be known as “Naro Appaji “Tulshibagwale” and the family surname continues to present times.The entire temple complex was well planned and reflected evolved choices of Maratha art and architectural design. The principal idols of Ram, Laxman and Sita in Rajasthan marble were sculpted by Uamajibuwa Pandharpurkar in 1765 and are probably the best in Pune. As per oral history quoted by Nanasaheb Tulshibaugwale, another set of idols of Ram and Sita were presented to Naro Appaji by an ascetic during his pilgrimage to Trambakeshwar and the original idols were replaced by these. Later, to complete the triad, famous Rajasthani sculptor Bakhatram was asked to make the Laxman idol. The present idols at the Ram temple in Tulshibaug are carved with weapons and old style costumes.The campus hosts temples of Trambakeshwar Mahadev, Siddhi Ganesha, Vitthal-Rukmini (also known as Anand Swami math due the presence of his samadhi) and shrines of Sheshshayin Vishnu, Das Maruti. The Trambakeshwar Mahadev temple consists of a shivlinga and baan (hygroscopic stone which captures and releases moisture from the air). Keeping with the Puneri tradition of eccentric names, the shrine behind the main temple housing Maruti is sarcastically known as “Kharkatya maruti” (leftover food), after the scraps left over by visiting pilgrims. The temple complex also houses smaller shrines of goddess Shitaladevi, Savatsa-Dhenu and minor deities. The shikhara of Tulshibaug is the tallest in Pune city measuring 140 feet in height. It has a square base topped by a narrow and sharp cone with horizontal layers of vaulted roof miniature shikaras or “maratha kutas”, giving an impression of a multi-storeyed divine abode. The construction is in brick and lime stucco and is white-washed with lime. The niches in miniature shikharas consist of sculptures of various deities and human figures dressed in pagdis (medieval headgear). The four corners of the square base of the shikhara are adorned with almost life-like monkeys. The temple has a magnificent wooden sabha-mandapa in front, with decorated ceiling and sloping aisles on both sides built in 1884 by Nandram Naik. The Ram temple at Tulshibaug acted as a social gathering platform and would host numerous devotional functions. The main festival of the temple is “Ram-navami” (birth of lord Ram). The main temple complex has entrances from three sides, one opening south towards Mahatma Phule Mandai, one on the east which is closed at present and one in the north, from the bustling lanes of Tulshibaug shopping area. The entrance from the north is the main entrance called “Sangit Darwaja” and consists of a nagarkhana (drum house). Madhavrao I started the tradition of “Naubati Chaughada”, drum beating, to mark festivals, auspicious occasions and the Maratha conquests. The construction of the temple complex continued in phases till 1795 and the total cost came to ₹1,36,667.In the olden days, area was occupied by sadhus, gosavis, ascetics, mendicants, ganpatyas, fakirs and so on. They would burn their dhunis (sacred fires), cover the body with ashes, perform penance, hang on trees and some even exploited naïve worshippers. Artisans from far places would display their art in form of terrcotta and utensils in the bazaar. The crowds of men and women would fill the campus of temple during the chhabina procession. Movement would difficult and the crowd had to be managed. Ladies would find it difficult to participate in the festivals due to lack of space.Bohri Ali was area was only market available for household items which orthodox Brahmins of the Peshwa period viewed as unsafe for women. Naro Appaji and his descendants encouraged development of Tulshibaug as a safe shopping experience by controlling the male crowds and promoting the retail market in the vicinity of the Ram temple. The “Tulshibaug sansthan” established by Naro Appaji managed the temple and annual festivals. Today, the temple is flocked to by women. It also serves a leisure spot to escape the hectic buying experience in the bylanes and offers great refreshment and peace. Over time, the maintenance and upkeep of the properties around temple became an overwhelming task and were leased out as residences and commercial spaces.Over the years, Tulshibaug evolved as a safe an affordable shopping space for women. It became well known for every small, minor household and fashion item. In fact, one of the early wig stores was opened in the precincts of Ram temple! It has been granted Grade A Heritage status in Pune’s heritage list and has been recently restored by conservation architect Kiran Kalamdani to its original glory.The Ram Temple complex retains its peaceful existence carrying on the legacy of Naro Appaji’s Tulshibaug in this dense commercial space in Pune’s heartland.Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-a-basil-garden-gives-root-to-pune-s-first-shopping-plaza-101637146120644.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Push for WFH, restricted vehicular movement: Delhi govt announces measures to fight pollution||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday announced a number of emergency measures to reduce air pollution in the city. Under the new guidelines, vehicles, except those involved in essential services, from outside will not be allowed into the city. "Police department and transport will ensure this is being followed," Rai said, announcing the measures.The Delhi government also has also ordered all government departments to work from home with 100% capacity till November 21. Construction and demolition work has also been halted till November 21 in Delhi, while schools and other educational institutes will remain closed in the national capital until further orders, the environment minister also said.To encourage people to ditch their personal vehicles and travel by public transport, Rai said, "More than 1,000 private CNG buses will be hired" for the city. The hiring will begin from Thursday, he also informed.The movement of more than 10-years-old diesel vehicles and petrol vehicles in use beyond 15 years, will also be restricted under the new rules. "A list has been handed over by the transport department to the Police... they will initiate the action over this," Rai also announced. Pollution under control (PUC) certificates will also be checked at fuel stations regularly, as per the measures.Rai announced the measures in a media interaction after chairing a high-level meeting for strict implementation of the suggestions of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).The environment minister also informed that a Special Task Force of the Traffic Police will be constituted to monitor the traffic congestion so that traffic flow can be made smooth and pollution due to congestion of vehicles can be stopped.Meanwhile, the officials from the Delhi Metro and Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) have written to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that the "decision of allowing people only by sitting should be reviewed." Travelling standing in Delhi metros and DTC buses is prohibited due to the social distancing mandate under the Covid-19 guidelines.Speaking on current measures taken by the Delhi government to tackle the issue, Rai said, as many as 372 water sprinkling tanks are presently operating in the city. "Water machines of the fire brigade will be stationed at 13 hotspots to ensure more water sprinkling. Usage of only gas will be allowed in industries, action will be taken if found to be using polluted fuel," he also said.Delhi suffers from hazardous air quality every year with an onset of winters due to the stubble burning, emissions from transport, coal-fired plants outside the city and other industries, as well as open garbage burning and dust. On Wednesday, no improvement was witnessed in the air quality of the national capital as the Air Quality Index (AQI)continued to remain in the 'Very Poor' category at 387, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board at 10 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/push-for-wfh-restricted-vehicular-movement-delhi-govt-announces-measures-to-fight-pollution-101637144006729.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Security breach at Rashtrapati Bhavan, couple arrested||Delhi Police has arrested a couple after they allegedly attempted to enter the Rashtrapati Bhawan premises in their car on Monday night.As per Delhi Police sources, the couple had entered the Rashtrapati Bhawan late at night and were held by the security personnel posted there. They were interrogated by a joint team of central agencies and Delhi police.Investigation into the matter is underway, and more details are awaited.Two persons (one male, one female) had forcibly tried to enter Rashtrapati Bhawan under influence of liquor. They were arrested after FIR was lodged, Delhi Police said. A couple arrested after breach of security at Rashtrapati Bhawan. The incident happened two days back when the couple had attempted to barge into one of the entrances of Rashtrapati Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/security-breach-at-rashtrapati-bhawan-couple-arrested-101637140687710.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur: Compensation for 506 Covid deaths in limbo due to missing data||Payment of compensation to the kin of at least 506 patients who died of Covid-19 in Kanpur is in limbo due to private hospitals’ failure to furnish records of these Covid deaths at their facility during the second wave of the infection, health officials privy to the issue said. Families of those who died of Covid-19 are eligible for a compensation of ₹50,000 in the state of Uttar Pradesh,provided cause of their deaths is verified through an audit process. The death audit reports of 506 Covid patients has not been completed as some private hospitals in the city have failed to submit medical records of their treatment, a health official said.Excluding these 506 deceased Covid patients, the administration has now released a list of 1,905 patients whose death audits could be completed. 826 of these had died in the first wave of the infection last year. The process of providing compensation is in the final stages.The GSVM medical college conducted the death audit for the first and the second wave of Covid-19 for Kanpur and Kanpur Dehat districts, however, it couldn’t obtain the details of the 506 patients, who died at Covid designated private hospitals in the two districts during the second wave, despite serving them two reminders.Also Read | Zika positivity rate falling in UP: Yogi Adityanath“We have sent a third reminder to these hospitals again and informed the government about the status of these patients as incomplete,” a doctor of the medical college said.In absence of any response from the hospitals, these deaths were likely to be treated as separate from deaths caused by the Covid infection, an official said. He added that the possibility of a reaudit was also highly unlikely.Officer in charge of the Covid death audits, Dr SK Gautam said he had apprised the college principal Dr Sanjay Kala about the missing details about the 506 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-compensation-for-506-covid-deaths-in-limbo-due-to-missing-data-101637140657959.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||First Sikh jatha crosses over to Pakistan after reopening of Kartarpur Corridor||The first jatha (group) of pilgrims reached the historic Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Narowal district of Pakistan after the reopening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor on Wednesday. Also read: Sikh jatha leaves for Pakistan to celebrate Guru Nanak’s Prakash PurbOn the occasion of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev’s Prakash Purb (birth anniversary) on November 19, Union home minister Amit Shah had on Tuesday announced the Narendra Modi-led BJP government’s decision to reopen the visa-free 4.7-km corridor that connects Dera Baba Nanak Sahib gurdwara on the Indian side with Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, the final resting place of the first Sikh Guru, now in Pakistan. The corridor was shut last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The first jatha, comprising 50 members, including the Panj Pyare (five beloved), crossed over to Pakistan at 11am. The corridor was reopened after 20 months of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) and Border Security Force (BSF) officials honoured the members of the jatha with a siropa (robe of honour) and sweets at the Dera Baba Nanak ICP. “A list of 50 members was approved by the Centre for Wednesday’s visit. The group comprises VIPs and the panj pyaras. Another group that will be led by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will visit Kartarpur Sahib via the corridor on Thursday,” said a senior Customs official at the integrated checkpost (ICP) at Dera Baba Nanak. Online registration for visitors resumes He said the registration process for visiting Kartarpur Sahib has also been started. “Those who are getting themselves registered through the online portal will be able to cross over to Pakistan after 10 days,” he said. The first group of pilgrims was accorded a warm welcome upon crossing the zero line by Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Ameer Singh and Pakistan chief executive officer of the project management unit Muhammad Latif. ‘Our prayers have been heard’ The first group included Neelam Grewal, the vice-chancellor of Guru Kashi University at Talwandi Sabo. She said she received a phone call on Tuesday and filled the form to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib. Ameer Singh said it was good that the corridor had finally been opened. “Our prayers have been heard,” he said. The reopening of the corridor coincides with the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. The corridor was inaugurated on November 9, 2019, on the 550th birth anniversary of the Sikhism founder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-sikh-jatha-crosses-over-to-pakistan-after-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-101637140357828.html
17-11-2021||Patna||Trooper among three held for murder||A Central Industrial Security Force trooper has been arrested along with two other members of his family for allegedly hiring three contract killers to kill his 28-year-old sister-in-law. The woman’s brother registered a case against unknown people but suspected the role of her in-laws in the murder.Police superintendent Jagunatharaddi Jalaraddi said the call details showed an interaction between Ravi Kumar, the trooper, and one of the shooters before the murder. Sumit, a resident of Bhagalpur, stayed at his house for a week, and tracked the woman’s movement. Police first arrested alleged shooter Gautam, who named another shooter Sanjeev and Patlu Kumar. During interrogation, the shooter confessed to his involvement in the murder. He told investigators that Sumit approached him and offered him and his associates ₹1.20 lakh to kill the woman.Also Read | Bihar panchayat polls: Supporters of defeated candidate create ruckus in Supaul“Ravi Kumar is currently posted in Dhanbad. His brother, Chhotu, and cousin Sumit were arrested late on Tuesday evening for hatching the murder conspiracy,” said Jalaraddi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/trooper-among-three-held-for-murder-101637138197734.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai wakes up to 2nd warmest morning in 10 years, AQI remains ‘poor’||Mumbai recorded its second warmest November morning in 10 years with the minimum nighttime temperature on Wednesday touching 26.5 degrees Celsius, only about a degree less than the high of 27.4 degrees Celsius, recorded on November 4, 2018 . Experts attributed the rise to the continuing influence of a low-pressure system in the Arabian Sea, close to the Maharashtra coast, which has scuttled wind patterns and led to an influx of moisture over the Konkan region.“Humid air is able to hold heat. There is a weak low pressure system bringing moisture from the sea, and so it has become warmer. The wind speeds are also very slow, and so there is no cooling effect from the sea breeze. But the increasing humidity is also a sign that some thunderstorm development may happen around Mumbai soon. Parts of south Konkan and Madhya (central) Maharashtra got rains on Tuesday evening,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Mumbai’s relative humidity, as per the IMD’s monitoring station in Santacruz, stood at 84% on Wednesday morning, up significantly from 64% the day before. Thunderstorms had deposited 38mm of rain over Ratnagiri, 63mm over Vengurla, 24mm over Nanded, 15.55mm over Satara, and 7.4mm over Pune until 8:30am on Wednesday.Mumbai’s air quality Index (AQI) on Wednesday afternoon settled at 201 by 12:30 pm, a significant improvement from AQI of 269 at 8:30 am. An AQI of 100 to 199 is considered ‘moderate’, while 50 to 99 is considered ‘satisfactory’ and below 50 is considered ‘good’. AQI in excess of 200 is considered ‘poor’, above 300 ‘very poor’, above 400 ‘severe’ and above 500 is considered ‘severe+’.Also Read: Maharashtra pushes for booster doses, reduction in Covishield gapColaba continued to register the most polluted air in Mumbai with an AQI of 320 (down from 370 a day earlier). This was in the ‘very poor’ category, which, as per the Central Pollution Control Board, can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.” Other locations with ‘very poor’ air on Wednesday included Mazagaon at 316 (down from 331 on Tuesday). Malad, which clocked an AQI of 327 on Tuesday, showed improved air quality with an index value of 290 on Wednesday.A similar improvement was also seen in Bandra-Kurla Complex, where the AQI dropped from 311 on Tuesday to 228 on Wednesday afternoon. Chembur (183), Borivali (133), Worli (93), Bhandup (99) and Navi Mumbai (113) also saw slight improvements in air quality on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-wakes-up-to-2nd-warmest-morning-in-10-years-aqi-remains-poor-101637137837816.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Congress to complain to cops against Kangana Ranaut for defamatory comments on Gandhi||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Wednesday said legal action will be taken against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for her alleged defamatory statements against Mahatma Gandhi.Patole said the Mumbai Congress will register an official complaint against her with the city policeThe Congress leader’s statement came a day after Ranaut, who was recently conferred the Padma Shri award, said freedom fighters Subhas Chandra Bose and Bhagat Singh got no support from Mahatma Gandhi and went on to mock his mantra of non-violence by saying that offering another cheek gets you “bheek” (alms) not freedom.Maharashtra Congress to take legal action against actor Kangana Ranaut for her alleged defamatory statement against Mahatma Gandhi. Congress will register an official complaint against her with Mumbai police: Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole(file pic) pic.twitter.com/SwC6JGXPGKThe ‘bheek’ comment was in response to the massive criticism that she has been facing for previously describing India’s Independence as “bheek” and declaring that freedom came only in 2014 when the Narendra Modi-led government came to power.Also read | Rakhi Sawant is dubbed ‘national crush’ by fans after she calls 'didi' Kangana Ranaut 'nation's traitor'In a series of posts on Instagram, Ranaut, whose Twitter account has been suspended, this time targeted Mahatma Gandhi and urged her fans to “choose your heroes wisely”.The “Manikarnika” actor, still in the eye of the proverbial storm for her comments, shared an old news clipping headlined "Gandhi, others had agreed to hand over Netaji". The report claimed that Gandhi, along with Jawaharlal Nehru and Mohammed Ali Jinnah, came to an agreement with a British judge that they would hand Bose over if he were to enter the country. "Either you are a Gandhi fan or Nataji supporter You can't be both... Choose and decide," Ranaut captioned the news clipping.In another post, Ranaut, who has courted many a controversy with her provocative statements, then wrote, "Those who fought for the freedom were 'handed over' to their masters by those who had no courage burning/ boiling hot blood to fight their oppressors but they were power hungry and cunning.”She then went on to target Gandhi, even claiming that there was evidence suggesting he wanted Bhagat Singh to be hanged."Those are the ones who taught us, 'If someone slaps you offer another cheek for one more slap' and that is how you will get Aazadi. That's not how one gets Aazadi, one can only get bheekh like that. Choose your heros wisely(sic)," the 34-year-old actor said. The actor said it's about time people know their history and their heroes. "... Because just placing them all in one box of your memory and every year wishing them all birth anniversaries is not enough in fact it's not just dumb but highly irresponsible and superficial…," she added.Ranaut’s “azaadi” statement at an event organised by a news channel last week came two days after she was presented the Padma Shri by President Ram Nath Kovind.She has been under attack ever since with politicians from across the spectrum, historians, academics, fellow actors and others lashing out at her for views and many saying she should return her award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-congress-to-register-complaint-with-cops-against-kangana-ranaut-101637137396574.html
17-11-2021||Dehradun||Cops recover shells, live cartridges from Salman Khurshid's vandalised house||Police team recovered seven shells and one live cartridge from Congress leader Salman Khurshid's house in Nanital which was vandalised by the mob, officials informed on Wednesday.According to the police, the bullets were found from the ceiling and walls due to aerial firing."The forensic team that reached for investigation has recovered seven shells and one live cartridge, most of them due to firing inside the bungalow. Bullets have been found embedded in the ceiling and walls," Nilesh Anand Bharne Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) told ANI.He told that along with identifying the accused who carried out this incident, the search for the absconding accused is going on.Congress leader's house was vandalized and parts of it were also set on fire allegedly by mobs. This attack comes a few days after his new book on Ayodhya drew parallels between Hindutva and radical Islamist groups.The Kumaun police have booked 21 people in connection with the vandalisation of the house of the former Union Minister.Two Delhi lawyers have also filed complaints with Delhi Police against Khurshid, for allegedly defaming and comparing Hinduism with terrorism in his book which was released last week.Advocate Vivek Garg in his complaint is seeking to file a case against Khurshid.The complaint alleges that senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid has compared Hindutva to radical terrorist groups like ISIS and Boko Haram.Meanwhile, advocate Vineet Jindal in his complaint said that the statement published in the said book is not only instigating and provoking but also stirring emotions among followers of the Hindu religion.Khurshid's new book on the Ayodhya verdict was released last week. It explored the Apex Court's landmark judgment on the Ayodhya dispute. Senior Congress leader Khurshid has compared Hindutva to radical terrorist groups like "ISIS and Boko Haram".The development comes at a time when seven states in the country namely Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, and Gujarat are slated to go for assembly elections next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cops-recover-shells-live-cartridges-from-salman-khurshid-s-vandalised-house-101637137179423.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Indian Railway’s first pod hotel at Mumbai Central railway station. Details on categories, tariffs, facilities here||Indian Railways’ first pod hotel was inaugurated at Mumbai Central railway station on Wednesday by the minister of state for railways, Raosaheb Danve. The pod hotel, spread over an area of approximately 3000 square feet with a mezzanine floor, is located on the first floor of the station building at Mumbai Central and has 48 capsule-like rooms including classic pods, private pods and separate pods for women and the differently-abled. The pod hotel has a number of small bed-sized capsules to provide affordable overnight accommodation.The pod hotel comprises three categories—30 classic pods, 7 ladies only, 10 private pods and one for differently-abled passengers.
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh jatha leaves for Pakistan to celebrate Guru Nanak’s Prakash Purb||A Sikh jatha (group of pilgrims) left from Golden Temple in Amritsar for Pakistan on Wednesday to celebrate the 552nd Prakash Purb (birth anniversary) of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev at his birthplace at Nankana Sahib. Also read: Dera Baba Nanak erupts in joy over reopening of Kartarpur corridorThe jatha will cross over to the neighbouring country via the Attari-Wagah border checkpoint by the evening. Members of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) will welcome the jatha at Wagah border. Police expects around 3,000 pilgrims to cross over to Pakistan on Wednesday. “The pilgrims have started crossing the border. The exact number of pilgrims going to celebrate Gurpurb will be known by evening,” said the Punjab Police protocol officer at Attari border. All pilgrims underwent the mandatory Covid-19 test before departure. Most of them are being sent by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). The apex gurdwara body’s jatha is led by its members Rampal Singh Behniwal, Balwinder Singh Veinpui and Bibi Ravinder Kaur Ajrana. 856 visas approved for Pakistan visit The SGPC sent a list of 1,046 devotees to the Government of India for visas, but only 856 were approved. The SGPC jatha was flagged off by general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka. “The governments of both countries should have approved the visas of all devotees on such an occasion. Those whose visas were rejected are dejected,” Sialka said. The Sikh jatha was honoured by SGPC executive member Harbhajan Singh Masana, additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhura Kohna and vice-secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas. Upbeat about Kartarpur Corridor reopening The Sikh jatha will visit historic gurdwaras in Pakistan, including Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur Sahib, before returning on November 26. The visit of the jatha coincides with the reopening of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor after 20 months. The corridor had been closed due to the coronavirus pandemic. “We are grateful that we’ve got this chance to visit Nankana Sahib on Guru Nanak’a birth anniversary. We are thankful to the Government of India for granting us visas and reopening the Kartarpur Corridor,” said one of the pilgrims, Paramjit Kaur. Another pilgrim, Lakhbir Singh, said “I feel blessed to be celebrating Guru Nanak’s Prakash Purb at Nankana Sahib.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-jatha-leaves-for-pakistan-to-celebrate-guru-nanak-s-prakash-purb-101637134777284.html
17-11-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls: Supporters of defeated candidate create ruckus in Supaul||Bihar's Supaul district witnessed violence after supporters of a defeated candidate created a ruckus near the collectorate on Tuesday after receiving false information about their candidate winning in the ongoing panchayat elections in the state.The police resorted to a lathi-charge to disperse the supporters of Dinapatti constituency's candidate Asha Devi as they were seen pelting stones at the premises.According to a report by ABP, after the counting of votes on November 13, a message shared on the WhatsApp group of the district administration showed the names of Asha Devi and Aditi Riswati, candidates from the Dinapatti constituency, securing 2,464 votes. While Dulari Devi, another candidate, secured 1,695 votes and came second.However, according to the Election Commission's website, Aditi Riswati was declared the winner, the ABP report said. And some newspapers printed wrong information about Asha Devi winning the Dinapatti constituency and this is the reason her supporters created ruckus at the collectorate in Supaul, the ABP report added.Before the stone-pelting happened, supporters of Devi arrived at the collectorate in Supaul to meet the district magistrate (DM) Mahendra Kumar. However, Kumar along with other officials was busy in a video call with chief minister Nitish Kumar.Moments later, the district magistrate's convoy left the collectorate, according to a report by Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan. This angered the supporters of Asha Devi as they started demanding a certificate of victory for their candidate and further pelted stones near the collectorate, the Live Hindustan report added.Apart from the lathicharge, police also fired rubber bullets in the air to disperse Devi's supporters. As many as 18 people have been arrested. After the incident, the area around the collectorate was under tight security for two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-supporters-of-defeated-candidate-create-ruckus-in-supaul-101637126074398.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM doing nothing except making false promises: Union minister Som Prakash||Slamming the Congress-led Punjab government, Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash on Tuesday said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is doing nothing except making false slogans and promises.Speaking to ANI, Parkash said, "In 2017, the Congress party had promised to give jobs to the people. No one was given a job. The Punjab government is doing nothing except giving false slogans and promises."He also took a dig at the infighting in the Punjab Congress unit, saying state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been targeting his own government recently over different issues."For the first time, we have seen that the chief minister says something and the party chief says something else and terms the chief minister's decisions as a lollipop. It shows how Congress is failing," he added."I do not understand why chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has announced ₹2 lakh to the culprits of January 26 violence in Delhi. There are cases of sedition and the Punjab government gives them two lakhs. This is very unfortunate. Democracy is being murdered," he added.Earlier, Sidhu had attacked the Channi government for not being able to fill up job vacancies in the state. He had questioned the government why it had failed to fill up one lakh job vacancies in the state.Earlier, Sidhu had slammed the state government and had urged them to not shy away from actual issues that Punjab people want to get resolved. He had also pointed out in his tweets that Punjab is the most indebted state of the country with debt accounting for 50 per cent of the state's GDP.Taking to Twitter, Sidhu said, "Today, Punjab is the most indebted state in India. Debt accounts for 50 per cent of State GDP. Half of our expenditure is funded by expensive debt. Let's not derail from real issues to which every Punjabi and party worker demands a solution because there is #PunjabBeyond2022 #HaqiqatPunjabDi."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-doing-nothing-except-making-false-promises-union-minister-som-prakash-101637125408166.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||New liquor regime kicks in with some opening hiccups as vends get into gear||Delhi will move to a new excise regime from Wednesday which promises to improve user experience, increase government revenue, and clean up malpractices in the city’s liquor business. But on day one of the new regime, only a handful of the shops will open as most either could not place orders for liquor stocks until Tuesday evening or did not have their premises ready for business.HT on Tuesday visited at least 14 new liquor shops in east, central and south Delhi and found none of them was ready. Also, the five new super-premium liquor shops for high-value products will take longer to open as the revenue department is yet to call for applications.Also Read| ‘Won’t act against pvt vendors for not paying license fee’: Delhi govt to HCAt MGF Metropolitan and Select City Walk malls alone, about five vends are coming up and none of them was ready as on Tuesday evening. The interiors of one of the shops are being planned with a mix of French and modern architecture with shades of black, white, and brown. “Our shop will be bigger with roughly 1,700 square feet area. Earlier it used to be a small space of about 700 square feet. The interiors are being done in such a way that we will have a separate side for whiskey and scotch, another side with fridges for beer, and a separate corner for wine. It will take us a day or two more to get the place ready. Now we are giving it an artistic look with multiple arches and exposed brick textures,” said the manager of the place who did not wish to be named.When asked why the shops aren’t ready, the retailers cited a host of reasons like the excise department not issuing provisional licences for individual vends on time, difficulty in finding a location to open a store, protests by resident welfare associations and locals of areas where the shops are coming up, difficulty in getting approvals from malls or the district centres, and problems in placing orders with wholesalers.“We have not received our licence ID from the department till now without which we cannot place orders with wholesale companies. We hope to get the ID by tomorrow morning and then we will place orders for all the four shops here. The deliveries will come only by Thursday,” said Monu Bansal, manager of the four shops that will come up at Mayur Vihar Phase-I’s Star City and Galleria malls. These two malls together housed at least 17 liquor shops in the old regime.Excise department officials said more and more shops will be ready in the coming days. “We are issuing provisional licenses on a war footing. It often gets delayed because each licence is issued only after our officials inspect the premises. Most of them turn out to be unfit and we reject them. That is why only about 350 provisional licences have been issued so far,” said an official on condition of anonymity.Another official said they are also helping licensees to resolve issues with the locals. “There have been protests by locals and RWAs against the opening of liquor shops in Kalkaji, Shahdara, Burari and so on. The government is helping retailers in convincing people as well,” said the official.Also Read| Delhi govt all set to exit liquor biz, pave way for reformsThe new excise policy aims at providing a more equitable distribution of stores by dividing the Capital into 32 zones for the retail sale of liquor. Each zone will have at least 27 liquor vends — all of which will go to one successful bidder. It also ends the system of collecting licence fees separately from each store. Instead, the licence fee and excise duty are charged upfront, and retailers are free to decide the selling prices and offer discounts in a competitive environment rather than a maximum retail price mandated by the government.Work was in full swing at the liquor shop located near Savitri Cinema in Greater Kailash 2 as well. “We will take at least a week to open the store fully. Until then, we have made a small enclosure from where we will start selling liquor from tomorrow. The experience will be like buying liquor from a mall,” said Rajeev Malhotra, in-charge of the shop.On Tuesday, none of the retailers was aware of what brands will be available from day one as they said there is no clarity about what the wholesalers will send. “They (wholesale companies) said they will deliver whatever they have. We placed orders for everything, they will send only what is available,” said a store manager of a new store that will open in South Delhi’s Kotla area.Meanwhile, the Delhi government’s liquor store at Connaught Place wore a deserted look with all the empty shelves. The store had at least four employees. “We have not yet been told whether we will be sacked or deployed in some other government department. There are approximately 3,000 of us who handle the government’s liquor shops in Delhi,” said an employee who did not wish to be named.After decades of operating around 60% of the city’s nearly 850 retail liquor shops, the Delhi administration formally exited from the business permanently from Tuesday night.A third senior excise official said a file on this has been sent to the services department, which handles transfers and postings of government employees. “Nobody will be sacked. They will be accommodated in other government departments,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-liquor-regime-kicks-in-with-some-opening-hiccups-as-vends-get-into-gear-101637127495717.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Liquor shortage, chaos on cards as Delhi’s new excise policy comes into effect. Here's what changes||Delhi is preparing to have about 850 swanky liquor stores across the national capital as the new excise policy comes into effect today. The government quit the retail liquor business with nearly 600 government-run liquor vends operating across the national capital shutting shop on Tuesday. Under the new excise regime, the liquor business will be handled completely by private players and people will now be able to walk in swanky liquor vends.The new excise policy is aimed at revolutionising the consumer experience as stylish liquor stores are set to replace the existing government-run shops. The policy was put in the public domain in July under which spacious, well lit and air-conditioned liquor vends will be set up in 32 zones across the city. Some liquor outlets will also have tasting facilities to enhance users’ experience.The new private licence holders can start the retail sale of liquor in Delhi starting today, with one retail licensee to have 27 liquor shops per zone. The shops will remain open from 10am to 10pm.The L-17 licensees, which include independent restaurants and gastro-bars, will be able to serve liquor in the balcony, terrace, and lower area of the restaurant given the area is screened off from public view.But the transition may initially cause a shortage of liquor and chaos as shops in many areas are still preparing for operations."Not more than 250-300 shops will be able to function on the first day. There maybe some shortage in the initial few days due to lesser number of shops, however, it will end as new vends come up," Delhi Liquor Trade Association President Naresh Goyal said, as quoted by news agency PTI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/liquor-shortage-chaos-on-cards-as-delhi-s-new-excise-policy-comes-into-effect-here-s-what-changes-101637123603601.html
17-11-2021||Jaipur||'Do govt teachers in Rajasthan pay money for transfers?': Asks CM Gehlot; teachers' reply leaves him in pain||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his government were embarrassed when he asked whether government teachers in the state had to pay bribes for their transfer between schools."We hear sometimes money has to be paid for transfers. I don't know if it is true... Is the money paid?" Ashok Gehlot asked at a state-level function to honour teachers on Tuesday."Yes” was the collective response from the teachers present at the event."It is very painful that teachers are eager to get transfers done by paying money,” said a surprised Gehlot. “If there is a policy on transfers, everyone will come to know when they are to be transferred. Then there will be no circulation of money and need of an MLA to give his recommendation,” he said.The Rajasthan chief minister added that the issue of transfer policy is serious and it should be made in such a way so that there is no heartburn.State school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra later said any minor malpractice should be reported to him, adding Gehlot wanted to indicate that people should not be forced to pay money."This will be totally ended with the implementation of a policy for the transfer of teachers under my and chief minister's leadership," Dotasra said on Tuesday.However, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) reacted sharply to bribes being paid by government teachers in Rajasthan by saying that educators have shown the corrupt face of the Ashok Gehlot government to everyone."Teachers are the mirror of society, who can never lie," deputy leader of opposition in the assembly Rajendra Rathore tweeted.In recent months, the Congress-led government in Rajasthan has faced flak over a cheating scandal right before the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) in September.The exam was held amid tight security and mobile internet services were suspended in some districts including Jaipur to avoid cheating.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-asks-govt-teachers-about-bribes-gets-this-answer-101637118523713.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra urges Centre to reduce gap between two shots of Covishield vaccine||Maharashtra on Tuesday urged the Centre to provide booster doses of the Covid-19 vaccine for its healthcare and frontline workers, and also sought a reduction in the gap between two Covishield doses from the existing 84 days to 28, which is the case with Covaxin jabs.At a meeting between Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope and union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in New Delhi, the western state also sought to know when the anti-Covid vaccination drive for children aged 12-18 would begin. Tope had made the request to cut down on the time gap between two Covishield doses last week during a virtual meeting between Mandaviya and health ministers of all states and union territories.The Maharashtra minister argued that there was a need to speed up the administering of second doses across the state. Until Tuesday evening, Maharashtra had 34,292,903 fully vaccinated people, which is about 37% of the state’s eligible beneficiaries for vaccination against Covid-19. Of the 91.44 million targeted beneficiaries in the state, 69,789,048 people, which is 76.3%, have taken the first dose. Also Read: Salman Khan to help Maha tackle vaccine hesitancy in Muslim areas: MinisterMaharashtra administered a total 104,094,458 doses of a Covid vaccine until Tuesday evening, according to the Centre’s CoWin vaccine-tracking dashboard.The state government has set a target of inoculating 100% of its eligible population against the coronavirus disease with at least one dose by November 30. While the Centre has no such official target for the country, the union health ministry has asked state governments to ensure that the entire adult population is covered with at least the first dose while the “Har Ghar Dastak” campaign continues.Tope said the 20-minute meeting with the union health minister “was positive”. He said, “We want to increase the percentage of fully vaccinated people. Therefore, we have sought a reduction in the gap between two Covishield doses from 84 days to 28 days.”Besides Maharashtra, Kerala, too, has demanded a reduction in the gap between Covishield doses, and it has also asked for booster doses for healthcare and frontline workers.In a column for HT last week, virologist and retired professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Dr T Jacob John wrote why booster doses may become an important tool in containing the virus. “Dampening the tempo of virus circulation will lead to fewer infections and deaths. For that, breakthrough infections must be prevented by giving booster doses to all who come forward,” he wrote. “There is apprehension, amplified by the World Health Organization (WHO), that a booster dose deprives someone waiting for second dose. If vaccines were in short supply, that is reasonable. However, India has unused vaccine stocks in several states and institutions - thus, a policy shift allowing boosters will be a wise and ethical decision.”The state health minister said it has been nearly a year since healthcare and frontline workers were vaccinated, so booster doses were required. Maharashtra also sought National Health Mission funds to recruit personnel, as was done during the first two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, for the sixth straight day, Maharashtra recorded fewer than 1,000 Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, it reported 886 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 6,625,872. The state added 34 fatalities due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 140,636. Mumbai added 213 fresh cases, taking its tally to 760,724. Mumbai recorded one fatality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-urges-centre-to-reduce-gap-between-two-shots-of-covishield-vaccine-101637120135734.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Salman Khan to the rescue, Maha will rope in actor to tackle vaccine hesitancy in Muslim areas: Minister||Bollywood star Salman Khan will help convince people to take the Covid-19 vaccine in Muslim-dominated areas where there is hesitancy about taking the jab, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said.Tope said that Maharashtra is leading in terms of the number of vaccine shots administered but the pace of vaccination is low in some areas of the state, Tope said, speaking to reporters on Monday, according to news agency PTI."There is still some hesitancy in Muslim-dominated areas. We have decided to use Salman Khan and religious leaders to convince the Muslim community to take the vaccine," Tope was quoted as saying by the news agency. “Religious leaders and film actors wield great influence and people listen to them," he added.Also read | Maharashtra pushes for booster doses, reduction in Covishield gapThe Maharashtra health minister said that more than 10.25 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far and all those eligible will have received at least the first dose by the end of this month.About the possibility of a third wave of the viral infection, Tope said as per the experts, the pandemic has a seven-month cycle, but due to large-scale vaccination, the next wave would not be severe. People should follow the COVID safety protocol and get vaccinated, he added.On Tuesday, Maharashtra reported 886 Covid-19 cases and 34 related fatalities, taking the tally in the state to 66,25,872 and the death toll to 140,636, the health department said. The state on Monday reported 686 Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths.Also read | Covid deaths in Maharashtra dip from 667 to 386 in 1st 15 days of NovemberThe health department’s data showed that seven districts and seven civic bodies did not report any Covid-19 case in the last 24 hours. Mumbai reported the highest with 213 new infections, followed by Pune city with 96 cases.The discharge of 948 patients in the last 24 hours took the recovery count to 64,69,739, leaving the state with 11,847 active cases. Maharashtra's case recovery rate now stands at 97.64 per cent and the fatality rate is 2.12 per cent.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/salman-khan-to-help-maha-tackle-vaccine-hesitancy-in-muslim-areas-minister-101637113434894.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Black income worth ₹600 cr unearthed after tax dept raids on 2 Gurugram groups||Unaccounted income of ₹600 crore was detected after the Income Tax Department recently raided two business groups based in Gurugram in Haryana, the CBDT said on Monday.The searches were carried out on November 10 on the groups, one engaged in real estate and hospitality and the other a tools and equipment manufacturing group, it said in a statement."The search action on these groups has led to the detection of estimated unaccounted income to the tune of ₹600 crore," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said. ₹3.54 crore in cash and jewellery worth ₹5.15 crore were seized while 18 bank lockers have been placed under restraint, the policy-making body for the tax department said."Various incriminating documents and electronic data relating to unaccounted investment in real estate, unaccounted sales and purchases, difference in stock, acquisition of shell companies, benami properties and transactions, bogus unsecured loans and share application money, evasion of capital gains, etc. were seized.""Evidence of large sums of money having been received in the form of salary and remuneration by family members without any commensurate qualification or participation in the management of the businesses has been seized in one of the groups," it claimed.The CBDT did not identify the entities raided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/black-income-worth-rs-600-cr-unearthed-after-tax-dept-raids-on-2-gurugram-groups-101637109863822.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to propose naming Halwara Airport after martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha||State transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring said the Punjab government will soon send a proposal to the Centre for naming the Halwara International Airport after Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha as a tribute to the legendary revolutionary who attained martyrdom at the age of 19.He said this while presiding over a state-level function organised on Tuesday to commemorate the 106th martyrdom day of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha in his ancestral village.On the proposal of Congress leader Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, the minister said Dakha’s new bus stand would also be named after the martyr and the proposal in this regard will be taken up in the state cabinet meeting.He further announced a daily bus service between Ludhiana and Sarabha village. Warring also announced a grant of ₹10 lakh for the development of the village from his discretionary funds.The minister said the sacrifice made by martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha will inspire the youth to serve the nation.Sandhu said the state government was committed to the development of the ancestral village of the legendary hero.Later, the minister, along with Captain Sandeep Sandhu, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Ludhiana (rural) senior superintendent of police Raj Bachan Singh Sandhu and several others, visited the ancestral house of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha and paid tributes to the martyr.The cabinet minister was also felicitated by the Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Sports Club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-propose-naming-halwara-airport-after-martyr-kartar-singh-sarabha-101637098290957.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man booked for cultivating banned Thai Mangur fish||The vigilance bureau recovered Thai Magur fish being illegally cultivated in two ponds at Humayunpur village on Monday. The Sadar Police lodged an FIR against Rakesh Kumar of Ranjitgarh of Basant Avenue for cultivating banned fish.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP, Vigilance) Parminder Singh Brar said they received information that Kumar was cultivating Thai Magur fish in the ponds. The vigilance bureau along with Karamjit Kaur, agriculture development officer, agriculture officer Amandeep Sharma, deputy directors of fishery department Dalbir Singh and Ashok Kumar conducted a raid and found the banned fish.The DSP added that Thai Magur was a carnivorous fish that grows rapidly in any type of water. It feeds on other aquatic insects, and small fish, harming the ecology of the ponds following which the government has imposed a ban on its cultivation. A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been lodged against the accused for cultivating the banned fish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-booked-for-cultivating-banned-thai-mangur-fish-101637097871044.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Day after carpeting, road in Ludhiana scrapes off||The tall claims made by authorities regarding the quality of development works have fallen flat after the hotmix material started scraping off from the surface of the Model Town-Jawaddi road, a day after the road was carpeted by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT).Shopkeepers in the area complained that the material started scraping off after the surface on Tuesday morning. Soon after the complaint was submitted, LIT officials reached the spot for inspection.Submitting a complaint with the authorities, RTI activist Arvind Sharma said the half portion of the road was carpeted on Monday evening, while the other half is being constructed on Tuesday. The project is being taken up at the cost of around ₹2 crore.“The area falls under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation (MC), but the road is being constructed by LIT due to the shortage of funds faced by the MC. No official of the MC or LIT was present on the spot when the road was carpeted and the material scraped off when scratched with shoes on Tuesday morning. It is a sheer wastage of public funds and action should be taken against the contractor and officials. I have submitted a complaint with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and will file a complaint with the local bodies department in the coming days,” he said.Meanwhile, LIT executive engineer Jagdev Singh claimed that they had checked the road and it was being carpeted properly. “Only around 4*6 inches of road portion was damaged that too due to the leakage of diesel at the spot. The diesel might have leaked from the machinery being used by the contractor to construct the road. Other spots were also checked, but everything was fine. The damaged portion has also been repaired,” he said.Previously too, residents had complained against alleged inferior quality road construction works done in Kitchlu Nagar, Haibowal, SBS Nagar among other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-carpeting-road-in-ludhiana-scrapes-off-101637097690833.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Quota for Punjabis proposal: Move may be last nail in dying industry’s coffin, say traders||With the state government proposing a reservation for Punjabis in government and private sector jobs, a section of industry has opposed the move, appealing to the state government to keep the industry away from quota.Stating that the Punjab industry is largely dependent on migrant labour, members of All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF) rued that fixing quota for locals in private industries may be the last nail in the coffin of the state’s sinking manufacturing sector. The forum has written to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, expressing their concerns with regard to the proposal.The members said there are around 30 lakh migrant workers in the state and around 6 lakh have settled permanently in Punjab.President of the forum, Badish Jindal said according to a study carried out by the Centre for Development Economics and Innovation Studies (CDEIS) of Punjabi University, 70% of the people coming to the cities are from outside the state and only 30% belong to rural Punjab. The MSME industries in Punjab have 70% to 90% workforce from outside the state and the large and medium industries employ between 30% and 60% non-Punjabi workers, the study says, adding 90% of unskilled workers in industries are migrants.Jindal said, “The industry is already reeling under recession due to locational disadvantages, the ongoing pandemic and many other factors and this proposal, if implemented, will result in closure of a large number of industrial units. This may also affect the proposed investment in the state by different companies and corporate houses. The proposed law is not only against the constitutional provisions, but is also against the basic principle of meritocracy that acts as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive. If at all the proposal has to be implemented, it should be implemented in the government sector only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/quota-for-punjabis-proposal-move-may-be-last-nail-in-dying-industry-s-coffin-say-traders-101637097210899.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 9 GPS trackers found fitted in state GST wing’s vehicles||In a shocking and bizarre incident, nine GPS trackers were found fitted in four cars of the mobile wing of the state Goods and Services Tax (SGST) department recently. Though department officials are tight-lipped over the issue, a complaint has been submitted with the cyber crime cell of police suspecting that the trackers have been placed by tax evaders to keep a check on the movement of department officials. The department has sought the help of the cyber crime cell to gather information regarding the GPS trackers, in which SIMs are used. As per information, the role of department officials is also under scanner as few of the trackers were installed by drilling in the vehicles, while others were installed underneath the car using magnets. Four trackers were installed in a car and three were installed on the other. The other two had a single tracker installed. A senior official of state GST department, requesting anonymity, said the vehicles were checked on suspicion and nine trackers were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-9-gps-trackers-found-fitted-in-state-gst-wing-s-vehicles-101637096310978.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: DJ dies as car overturns after hitting divider on National Highway||A 39-year-old man died after his car rammed into a divider and then overturned on the service lane of Ludhiana-Delhi national highway on late Monday night. The deceased has been identified as Hitesh Dhiman, 39, a disc-jockey from Division Number 3 area. Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, station house officer, Salem Tabri, said that according to family members, Hitesh had gone to Phillaur for some work around 8pm. Around 9:30pm, he was returning home in his car when the mishap took place.“Near Ladhowal, Hitesh got on to the service lane of the highway. When he reached close to the Talwandi crossing, his speeding car rammed into the divider and overturned. Thereafter, the car hit a tree near the spot. Onlookers rushed Hitesh to hospital, however, doctors declared him dead,” said the cop.The sub-inspector added Ludhiana police have inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Hitesh is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dj-dies-as-car-overturns-after-hitting-divider-on-national-highway-101637095590560.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Serial killer’s escape bid from court foiled||A ‘serial killer’ tried to escape from the New Court Complex in Ludhiana on Monday after thrashing and tearing off the uniform of a constable, but he was nabbed immediately. The accused has been identified as Arun Kumar of Vishal Nagar of Pakhowal road. A fresh case has been registered against him at Division Number 5 police station.Complainant, head constable Sukhwinder Singh, said they had produced Arun Kumar before the court on Monday for hearing of a murder case. After the hearing, when they tried to handcuff Kumar, he assaulted constable Sukhvir Singh and tried to flee. The cops chased him and nabbed him immediately.Kumar, who is already serving 20 years’ imprisonment for executing the double murder of his sister-in-law (brother’s wife) and her daughter-in-law, had bludgeoned to death one of his fellow jail inmates, Sanjiv, while the latter was sleeping in his barrack in Ludhiana central jail in August, 2016. A case under Section 303 (murder by life convict) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Kumar at Division Number 7 police station of Ludhiana.According to sources, before killing Sanjiv, Kumar had recited some prayers. After the killing, he shouted that it was his offering to god. Sanjiv was also serving imprisonment for a murder.Criminal mindsArun Kumar had bludgeoned his sister-in-law, Usha, and her daughter-in-law, Poonam, with a bat in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. A case of double murder was registered against him at Sarabha Nagar police station in March 20, 2012. Later in 2016, he bludgeoned to death a fellow jail inmate in his sleep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-serial-killer-s-escape-bid-from-court-foiled-101637094990451.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Election commission rejects Punjab govt’s proposal to transfer Ludhiana DC||Putting an end to the ongoing controversy, the Election Commission of India (ECI) rejected the state government’s proposal to transfer Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma ahead of assembly elections.It has been learnt that the ECI sent a formal document to the state government on Tuesday, stating that the proposal was considered and rejected. Row had erupted over the government’s proposal to transfer Sharma, amid his alleged tussle with a cabinet minister. The matter got murkier as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) submitted a complaint with the ECI alleging that Sharma was being “targeted” for working against the land mafia which, they claimed, enjoys the support of senior Congress leaders, MLAs and cabinet ministers.Submitting a complaint with the ECI in Chandigarh on Tuesday, AAP leaders including Ludhiana Lok Sabha constituency in-charge Amandeep Mohi, spokesperson Ahbaab Grewal and joint secretary, Kisan wing, Gurjit Singh Gill demanded that the ECI should reject the proposal. In the complaint, the AAP leaders alleged that Sharma had “angered Congress leaders” by not allowing the sale of a prime land in Model Town Extension at throwaway prices in the past. He had also reportedly marked an inquiry into the wrongdoings of a Congress MLA. Due to this, the senior Congress leaders in the city came at loggerheads with the DC, AAP had claimed.As per the guidelines of ECI, prior approval of the commission is mandatory for transfer of any officer engaged in revision of electoral rolls during an election year due to extraordinary reasons. Due to this, the state government had sent a proposal to the Election Commission to transfer Sharma from the city. AAP leaders claimed that Dr Amarpal Singh, who they termed as a controversial officer, was being considered for the post of Ludhiana DC. AAP alleged that Singh is a “blue-eyed” boy of former chief ministers Captain Amarinder Singh and Parkash Singh Badal. His name had also come up in the multi-crore iron ore scam in 2017, which had led to losses worth crores to the public exchequer. But Singh was pardoned by the former CM, the AAP claimed.Claiming to have been instrumental in stopping the transfer of DC Sharma, AAP leaders, including Grewal and Gill, appreciated the actions of the ECI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/election-commission-rejects-punjab-govt-s-proposal-to-transfer-ludhiana-dc-101637094390380.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||I-T raids at Akali MLA Manpreet Ayali’s house, offices in Ludhiana||The income tax (I-T) department on Tuesday conducted surprise searches at the house and offices of Shiromani Akali Dal’s Dakha MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali in Ludhiana district. The raids were underway till filing of the report. Around 6am, security personnel sealed Ayali’s house soon after the income tax officials raided it. No one was allowed to enter or exit the premises since morning, it is learnt. Ayali’s properties were also raided by the income tax department in 1999. The 46-year-old MLA, who is into real estate business, owns a large chunk of ancestral land at Ayali village. Sources said the department team had made preparations in advance. Area residents said that the officials began gathering near the MLA’s premises in the wee hours of Tuesday. Mani Sharma, the officer on special duty to the MLA, said that a team of 70 persons, including I-T officials and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel, simultaneously raided the Akali leader’s properties, including a farmhouse, agricultural land, party office at Mullapur Dakha and an office in Golf Link Apartments that Ayali developed. Ayali was not available for comments.Besides Ayali, I-T teams also raided the offices of other colonisers in South City and the newly developed Sun View residential colony. The residences of partners of Sun View Enclave were also raided. The raids were conducted on the directions of income tax principal director (investigation) Avdesh Mishra by teams comprising officers from the department’s branches in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Mohali and Jammu. “The details of the MLA’s assets are in the public domain. He (Ayali) had come clean in the past and the same will happen this time too,” mani Sharma said. “The government is using central agencies to harass the opposition leaders. The MLA led the agitations on several occasions to oppose the three farm laws. It was him who pressed upon his party leadership to break the longstanding alliance with the BJP,” said Sharma.In his 2019 by-elections affidavit, Ayali, a college dropout, had declared agricultural land, commercial and residential properties at different locations. He was a partner in PPR Associates II, PPR Construction, Nirmaan Builders and Developers and director in Ayali Developers and Colonisers Private Ltd, according to the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/it-raids-at-akali-mla-manpreet-ayali-s-house-offices-in-ludhiana-101637093972131.html
17-11-2021||Pune||‘Pune needs dedicated chess stadium for yearly tournaments’||PUNE Setting up a date with a chess board in 1985, Abhijit Kunte began his journey as a chess maestro, the crowing glory in terms of achievements coming on November 13 when Kunte received the Dhyan Chand award in Delhi from the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind.The Dhyan Chand award is given to sports personalities by the ministry of youth affairs and sport, as an honour for active contributions to sports both during active careers and after retirement.Abhijit Kunte is now chief coach and chairman of the selection committee of the All India Chess Federation. He also runs a “chess in school” programme that has been adopted by many states. From becoming a Grandmaster in 2000 to now chief coach and chairman of the selection committee, Kunte, in light of his award sheds some light on how chess has progressed in the country, and what still needs to be done.What does Pune need to develop chess?Pune needs one dedicated chess stadium where international tournaments are conducted every year. In Maharashtra we have 10 Grandmasters of which five are from Pune. This is apart from the four woman grandmasters and apart eight international masters. In Maharashtra, Pune is one of the strong centres for chess. Because of the pandemic there was a bit of a set back, but it will definitely come up. How has the sport changed from 1985 to 2021?Everything has changed. When I started in 1985, there were only three age group categories: under-16, under 19 and the Open. There were only four open tournaments in India and there was no grandmaster. When I played my first tournament it was under-16 and I was eight-years old. I got the youngest player’s prize. Now at the age of 8 children are playing national championships. At the state level there are 10,000 children playing chess. Such a revolution has happened. Around 100-118 tournaments happen in a year. In all, we have 72 grandmasters in the country.Are you enjoying your role as a coach?Coaching is a different. Many things are basically not in your hand. Coaching for the long run is different because you have a lot of time to work with players and discuss and form long-term plans. A team needs to have a different strategy and when you are actually coaching a player for more than three years, then you can have a completely different bond. There are various different dimensions of coaching which are different from playing and it is much tougher, but also rewarding.Online or offline chess formats. What’s your move? I am not a big fan of online chess, because I could not play it well. Online chess is a reality and it is the future. It is easy to watch. Now there are many online channels as well which has helped chess reach many new audiences. People used to say that chess is not spectator friendly, but online chess has broken that jinx. When I was with the women’s team in Spain, on the first day we realised players were having problems calculating moves and we thought it is because they have played a lot of online chess. I feel both are important and people need to manage both, as online chess is not going away as tournaments are happening.How is your ‘chess in school’ doing?What we see as chess should be part of the curriculum and it should be taught to every student as a life game. Chess should be taught for introducing four concepts - concentration, decision making, patience, taking responsibility for failures and accepting decisions. All these are very important in life and will help to learn management. It is very important to introduce it at a very young age as it will identify a lot of talent. There is no problem for space, so for schools it is a much easier task to accommodate chess. Government of Arunachal Pradesh has started chess in their curriculum, and Chhattisgarh has agreed to start a pilot project. Many schools are coming forward.Check the knight -Abhijit Kunte was vice-captain coach of the Indian team, along with Srinath Narayanan that won bronze at the Online Olympiad in 2021.- He was also coach of the Indian team that won silver medal at the FIDE World Women’s Team Championships 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-needs-dedicated-chess-stadium-for-yearly-tournaments-101637093670839.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Manpreet Badal urges Sitharaman to allot pharma, food, textile parks for Punjab||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Tuesday urged the central government to allot pharmaceutical, food and textile parks for the state. Taking part in a virtual meeting with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, he demanded a special package to the state on the lines of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand. “Punjab needs support from the Centre as the state is facing new-age challenges in transition of agriculture,” said Manpreet who urging Sitharaman to give production-linked incentives to the industry so that Punjab can successfully migrate to other crops out of wheat and paddy cycle. He suggested that it will increase the income of farmers and help in conservation of groundwater and solve the problem of stubble burning which is again a burning issue in the country. He also asked the Centre to set up solar or gas-based power plants so that transportation cost of coal could be cut down. The minister sought rail links between Patti and Makhu, Rajpura and Mohali, and Beas and Qaddian. He also urged the Union minister to ask the health ministry to start a National Institute of Virology in Punjab as soon as possible as the land has been provided for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manpreet-badal-urges-sitharaman-to-allot-pharma-food-textile-parks-for-punjab-101637093610176.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Bus fare hike on cards in Ludhiana||The deadlock between the municipal corporation (MC) and city bus contractor over running the service to its full capacity is likely to end as civic body officials have decided to move forward with the proposal to revise the bus fares, which has been a long-pending demand of the contractor. MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal conducted a meeting with the contractor at the civic body’s Zone-A office on Tuesday and stated that a proposal to hike the fare will be tabled in front of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and mayor Balkar Sandhu, but the final decision has to be taken by senior officials only.Service currently available only on 2 routesCurrently, the contractor charges ₹5 for the first five kilometres , ₹10 till 10 kms, ₹15 till 15 kms and ₹20 till 20 kms. The only public transport facility of the city, the bus service has been running into choppy waters as out of the total 83 buses handed over to the contractor in 2015, only 25 are running. The service is available only on two routes as the contractor has been complaining of losses on other routes. The contractor stated that he is ready to extend the service to at least seven routes and run all 83 buses, if the MC increases fare. In all, 120 buses were purchased under the project and the remaining 37 buses, worth around ₹17 crore, are gathering dust at the Tajpur road depot since its purchase.The MC has been at the loggerheads with the contractor, demanding the payment of pending dues that run into around ₹3 crore while the contractor has been seeking a fare hike. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the Congress is keen on resolving the issue, at the earliest, as assembly elections are round the corner. There is also a clause in the agreement that the fare has to be increased if there is a hike in diesel prices. The MC had served a termination notice to the company in 2019, following which the company moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The matter is sub-judice.Recently, the contractor had served a legal notice to transport minister, local bodies minister, municipal and transport authorities for their failure to take action against illegal buses plying on city roads, which affects the business of the city bus service.Dachalwal said, “The proposal on fare hike will be taken up with senior officials. The rates can be revised by the municipal corporation itself and there is no need to take the consent of the state transport department. Final decision over the same will be taken soon. If revised, the fare will be increased after taking into account the hike in diesel prices.” Will surrender service contract if fare not revised: ContractorJaskirat Singh, one of the directors of the company which is running the city bus service, said the fare of buses was fixed in 2015 when the diesel rate was around ₹48/l. Now, the diesel rate has doubled, but the fare is not being revised, even though there is clause regarding this in the agreement. “We are running into losses and will be forced to surrender the contract if the MC fails to revise the fare,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bus-fare-hike-on-cards-in-ludhiana-101637093370389.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Truck flips on side at Navale bridge chowk in Pune causing major traffic jam||PUNE Vehicular movement on the Katraj-Dehu road bypass was disrupted for nearly two hours during peak traffic hours on Tuesday, after a truck flipped onto its side near Navale bridge. Long queues of vehicles from Dukkar Khind on one side and the new Katraj Tunnel on the other side were followed jamming traffic for several hours. As per the Sinhagad police, truck driver Ravi Rajababu Pushpakar Mari (40), of Navi Mumbai, sustained injuries on his legs in the accident. “The truck was heading towards Mumbai from Satara at around 9.20 am. The truck driver lost control while descending from the Navale bridge ramp. The truck was moving on the second lane of the bypass and there were many vehicles ahead of the truck as well as on the left lane. The truck driver took a sharp right turn and crashed into the road divider,” said senior police inspector Devidas Gheware of Sinhagad road police station. The impact was so intense that the truck broke the 10-foot long cement railings and also the iron crash barriers. The truck also hit the high-mast lamp post. While assistant inspector Prashant Kanase said, “The container section of the truck occupied a major area of carriage width of the bypass, while the cabin occupied a lane on the lane leading to Satara. Movement of the vehicles heading towards Satara as well as towards Mumbai was blocked.”City traffic police diverted the vehicles from the service roads but due to movement of heavy vehicles and the situation returned to normalcy at around 11.30 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/truck-flips-on-side-at-navale-bridge-chowk-in-pune-causing-major-traffic-jam-101637093310628.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Zika positivity rate falling in UP: Yogi Adityanath||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that the zika virus positivity rate was falling in the state and asked for regular monitoring of every single patient infected with the virus. At the same time, the CM asked the officials to step up ‘trace, test, and treat’ to control the zika and dengue infections.The CM said this at a Covid-19 review meeting and added officials concerned with the ‘trace, test, and treat’ policy for zika and dengue to seek the cooperation of the Asha workers and Nigrani samitis (monitoring committees). He also asked for keeping a check on the prices of dengue diagnostic tests and asked the officers to get surprise inspections done at private pathology labs.Yogi also reiterated the need for regular and thorough cleanliness, sanitisations, and fogging drives to check the mosquito-borne diseases. Both zika and dengue, like malaria, are vector-borne diseases transmitted by mosquitoes.He said that the policy of trace, test, treat and vaccinate worked well in controlling Covid-19. The state recorded only nine fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours while the total number of active cases in the state were 99, the CM added.Yogi said that the state, till Monday, had administered a total of 14.74 crore doses of the Covid vaccine.On pollutionCM also asked for checking pollution in the state and said that people should be encouraged to use public transport and reduce the use of private vehicles. At the same time, the farmers should be made aware and asked to refrain from stubble burning because the practice not only pollutes the environment but also harms soil fertility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/zika-positivity-rate-falling-in-up-yogi-adityanath-101637093250288.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana advocate general defers hearing on criminal contempt petition against Navjot Sidhu||The Haryana advocate general has deferred for November 25 the hearing on a criminal contempt petition filed against Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for his reported tweets about the ongoing proceedings in a Punjab drug racket case in the high court. Parampreet Singh Bajwa, a high court lawyer who is also treasurer of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association, appeared before the advocate general on Tuesday and addressed arguments seeking consent of the AG. “The matter has been deferred for November 25. Arguments were partly heard today and it will be taken up on November 25 for further argument,” Bajwa said. The plea seeks consent of the advocate general for initiation of contempt proceedings against Sidhu by the high court. It alleges that Sidhu posts tweets about the drug case just when it is to be taken up by high court in a matter where proceedings are going on. His act “substantially” interferes with “due course of justice” since Twitter is a public platform and he has 9.77 lakh followers. Sidhu knows his tweets are widely read and generate huge publicity, it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-advocate-general-defers-hearing-on-criminal-contempt-petition-against-navjot-sidhu-101637093130280.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Maha may see all-time high production of sugar this year||PUNE: With the sugarcane crushing season for 2021-22 having started from October 15 in Maharashtra, sugar commissioner of the state, Shekhar Gaikwad, has predicted a record high sugar production this season. Gaikwad said that the area under sugarcane cultivation has increased this year to nearly 12.5 lakh hectares from 11.42 lakh hectares in 2020-21.“This year, the area under sugarcane cultivation is the highest till date. Maharashtra has not recorded sugarcane cultivation on an area of 12.5 lakh hectares before. The crop quality is also good. It may also increase next year,” Gaikwad said.One-hundred-and-ninety-five sugar mills had applied for license this crushing season out of which 172 have been issued licenses so far, with 131 having started operating. “We haven’t given licenses to mills who haven’t paid the FRP,” said Gaikwad.As on Nov 15, 62 cooperative and 69 private sugar mills have become operational for this crushing season. A total 97.71 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane has been crushed so far and 83.61 lakh quintals sugar has been produced. The recovery rate is 8.56%. Gaikwad also pointed out that the sugarcane diversion to ethanol has already started. “It is estimated that this season, around 10 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane will be diverted into ethanol production. This record has also started building up and this number, too, is likely to increase next year,” Gaikwad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-may-see-all-time-high-production-of-sugar-this-year-101637093070214.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Armed men rob cash transfer shop in Ludhiana, 3 injured||Five armed men barged into an e-money transfer shop on Sua Road in Focal Point and robbed ₹5.8 lakh cash and a laptop, after injuring the shop owner, his wife and their two-year-old daughter.The victims have been hospitalised and their condition is said to be stable.Complainant, Navneet Srivastva, 30, said he helps labourers send money to their families in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states electronically. As his shop is close to his house, he works till late at night. On Monday around 10pm, five masked men barged into his shop and asked him to hand over all the cash. His wife and daughter were also present in the shop at the time.“One of the robbers tried to take the cash box. When I resisted, the man injured me with a sharp- edged weapon. My wife, Amrita, raised the alarm following which the accused shot at her. The bullet hit her thigh and she fell on the ground. Splinters of the bullet hit Vatika, our daughter, leaving her injured as well,” said the victim in his statement.Hearing the family’s cries for help, the accused fled. While three of them sped away on their bikes, the other two fled on foot as their bike did not start, said the victim. Focal Point station house officer, inspector Davinder Sharma said it seems to be a well-planned robbery as the accused chose a time when there were no customers in the shop. He added that bike left behind by two of the accused has been seized and efforts are on to trace its owner. Police are examining closed-circuit television cameras in the area for leads. On the prowlA look at the recent robbery incidents in LudhianaNovember 13: Just 50m from Division Number 8 police station, two miscreants injured a man at an ATM kiosk near Kailash Cinema in an attempt to rob him. One of the accused who had opened fire, ended up injuring himself in a bid to flee after being cornered by onlookers. Locals later handed him over to the police, but his accomplice managed to escape. The accomplice was arrested later.November 11: An alert liquor company driver foiled a ₹5 lakh robbery bid by driving off with the money bag after around 10 people surrounded the company’s pick-up jeep, which was being used to collect earnings from the company’s vends near CMCH Chowk.November 6: Six men robbed a Ludhiana resident of his car, ₹18,000 cash and a mobile phone after thrashing him outside a restaurant near Neelon Canal Bridge in Samrala.October 30: An alert security guard at Muthoot Fincorp Gold Loan’s Sundar Nagar branch in Ludhiana shot dead one of the four robbers who tried to rob gold and cash after injuring him. Three of the robbers tried to escape from the spot. The robbers had also shot the manager of the branch in his right shoulder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/armed-men-rob-cash-transfer-shop-in-ludhiana-3-injured-101637092950368.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||UP’s smart cities: Unified command centre for 16 cities being set up in Lucknow||The Integrated Command Control Centres (ICCC) of other smart cities of the state will be set up in the state capital itself. This will save the state treasury crores of rupees, required to set up a command centre in any smart city.This centre will help improve traffic flow, pick up traffic violations and control pollution in these cities, besides a host of other services and utilities.On the request of the urban development department, IIT Kanpur has reviewed the detailed project report of the unified command centre and given its green signal. The upcoming centre will be one of the largest cloud-based command centre of Northern India.Indramani Tripathi, special secretary urban development department, said, “There are 10 smart cities declared by the Centre, while the state government has named seven cities of state as smart cities.”Gorakhpur, Ayodhya, Shahjahanpur, Meerut, Firozabad, Mathura, and Ghaziabad have been declared smart cities by state government, while Lucknow, Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Aligarh, Jhansi, Bareli, Saharanpur, and Moradabad figure on the list of smart cities announced by the centre.“The ICCC of Lucknow was built at a cost of ₹150 crore in Lalbagh, which included the cost of the building along with other infrastructure. We have the building of the directorate of urban local bodies on Sultanpur Road, where we will create the infrastructure of the unified command centre, but this time the cost will be around ₹25 crore for the remaining (16) smart cities. We hope to start this centre in December,” Tripathi said.“The unified command centre will have advanced integrations, visualisation, in addition to incident-management for peacetime as well as emergency situations. It will help in integration of various smart elements such as smart street lights, environment sensors, city surveillance, intelligent traffic management system, solar power system, e-governance, e-health, house tax collection, complaint portal, GIS system, etc,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-smart-cities-unified-command-centre-for-16-cities-being-set-up-in-lucknow-101637092890226.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Sena leader’s son dies by suicide in Pune||PUNE Nikhil Malusare (28), son of Shiv Sena leader Balasaheb Malusare, died by suicide at his Shukrawar peth residence on Tuesday. He was rushed to KEM hospital, but was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. The hospital authorities informed the Khadak police station, after which a suicide-related death was registered. Khadak police station officials said that an investigation is on. Hookahs, related material worth ₹22.17 lakh seized in Kondhwa raid PUNE The Kondhwa Police, on Tuesday, raided a warehouse in Yeolewadi and seized hookahs and related material worth ₹22.17 lakh. Three people have been arrested, identified as Shehzad Ashraf Rangoonwala (37), Naved Munnekhan (21), and Shafiq Mohammad Malapuri (21), all residents of Lake District Society, Yeolewadi.According to Kondhwa police officials, the state has banned the sale of hookahs and related materials. Police Naik Tushar Alhat received a tip off that hookah materials were stored in the warehouse of the society located in Yeolewadi.The police then raided the spot. Senior inspector Sardar Patil, inspector (crime) Jagannath Jankar, sub-inspector Swapnil Patil, and constables Ramesh Garud, Jyotiba Pawar, Tushar Alhat, Nilesh Desai, Gorakhnath Chinke, Satish Chavan and Laxman Holkar were part of the team that undertook the action.Opium worth ₹24,000 seized by anti-narcotics cell, 3 held PUNE The anti-narcotics cell arrested persons for smuggling opium from Rajasthan. Opium, in poweder form, worth ₹24,000 were seized. Shishupal Ratnaram Rao (38), Dharmaram Kisnaram Rao (28), and Sairam Siyak (39, all residents of Mundhwa and originally from Jodhpur have been arrested. Prakash Khandekar, inspector, anti-carcotics cell (Unit II) was patrolling the Chandannagar and Mundhwa area when he received information that Shishupal Rao was selling opium. Accordingly, ANC sleuths reached the spot and arrested him on Saturday. Later, Dharmaraj Rao and Sairam Siak were arrested from Dhayarkarwada in Mundhwa. The accused were smuggling opium powder from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh and selling it in the city, ANC officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sena-leader-s-son-dies-by-suicide-in-pune-101637092472187.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Night temperature falls below 10°C in Chandigarh||Minimum temperature dropped to 9.9°C in wee hours of Tuesday, going below the 10°C mark for the first time this season in Chandigarh. It was recorded at 10.5°C the previous night, and is expected to rise once again to around 11°C in the coming days, according to the weatherman.“A weak western disturbance will be active in the region and although no rain is likely, cloudy weather during the nights can make temperature go up by two to three notches,” said an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official.Meanwhile, maximum temperature rose slightly from 26.8°C to 27°C and is expected to stay around 26°C in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-temperature-falls-below-10-c-in-chandigarh-101637092470919.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal welcomes Kartarpur corridor reopening||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday welcomed the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor.Sukhbir, who held a series of meetings in the Nawanshahr constituency in support of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Nachhatar Pal, said the SAD as well as the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) had urged the Prime Minister to honour the sentiments of the Sikh community by reopening the corridor. He said the Punjab government should do its best to facilitate the visit of maximum devotees who had been waiting for the reopening for more than a year.The former deputy chief minister also urged the masses not to fall into the trap of anti-Panthic forces that were using the Sikh garb to weaken the community from inside. He said there was a deep-rooted conspiracy to render Sikhs leaderless by discrediting their religious institutions as well as their representative party – the Shiromani Akali Dal.On the income tax survey of SAD MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali, Badal said he (Ayali) was being victimised. “Ayali’s sole fault is that he has supported the Kisan Andolan from the very beginning. He will continue to do so even now and such intimidatory tactics will not stop the SAD and its workers from raising their voice in solidarity with the farmers.”The SAD chief held various public meetings across Nawanshahr constituency, where he listened to public grievances and assured to redress them permanently after forming the government.Sukhbir also spoke with farmer union members who posed questions to him related to Akali Dal’s stand over the three farm laws and other issues. Sukhbir said that SAD had always supported the farmers and even broke the alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party over three farm laws and his wife, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, quit the Union cabinet.“We also demand justice in the Guru Granth Sahib sacrilege cases as the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party are politicising the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-badal-welcomes-corridor-reopening-urges-govt-to-facilitate-common-pilgrims-101637092233325.html
17-11-2021||Pune||NBCL-accredited PMC lab lying idle for 2 yrs||PUNE: The laboratory started by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in 2011 to test food and water samples for the public and government authorities was the first to get a National Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NBCL) accreditation in 2015, however it has been lying idle for the last more than two years due to the lackadaisical approach of the civic administration.An inquiry under the Right to Information (RTI) has found that the laboratory was run by a private agency for five years till 2018 while the renewed proposal for renting out the laboratory to private players so that the PMC would get revenue was approved by the standing committee in 2019 but has been awaiting the general body’s approval ever since. Owing to apathy on the part of the administration and ruling party, the PMC has been losing out on revenue ever since.Earlier, the PMC was paying the private agency around Rs53 lakh per annum to run the laboratory. Till 2018, the PMC paid the agency Rs3.56 crore for running the laboratory. The corporation also spent around Rs60 lakh on chemicals, electricity bills and other expenses during this period.Vivek Velankar, founder of the city-based Sajag Nagrik Manch, said, “The PMC started a laboratory and provided a facility to test food and water samples for the public and government authorities. It was run by a private player till 2018. Objecting to the wastage of public money, the PMC tabled a proposal in the standing committee to rent out the laboratory to private players so that it would get Rs30 lakh per annum in revenue. The proposal was sanctioned in July 2019 in the standing committee. But, it is pending approval of the general body and the PMC is losing out on revenue since 2019. It is a waste of taxpayers’ money that was used to set up a laboratory to provide facilities to common citizens.”“On the one hand, the corporation is trying to find other sources to boost revenue while on the other, they are not bothered about running existing facilities to earn revenue,” Velankar said.Being the second government laboratory in Pune district and only the first to get NBCL accreditation, the laboratory (while it was active) issued quality certificates under the Food Safety Act to the public and government authorities. To begin with, the laboratory tested meat from the PMC-owned abattoir in Salunke Vihar, Kondhwa. Later, it began testing food (milk, butter, ghee, edible oil, cooked food and vegetable- and meat- products); water; and sewage water.A PMC health officer said, “The corporation was testing around 1,000 samples every year, including food and water. The corporation’s in-house samples of water and meat (PMC runs slaughter houses) were also tested in the laboratory. Now, the PMC will have to follow all procedures to get NBCL certification. The new contractor will have to pay around Rs3 crore to the NBCL as deposit and will have to follow all procedures to get NBCL certification due to the laboratory being inactive.”Meanwhile, Dr Ashish Bharati, chief medical officer of the corporation, maintained, “The proposal has been tabled in the general body meeting. After approval, the laboratory will resume as early as possible.”Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the house of the PMC, claimed, “Due to Covid-19, the general body meeting could not be conducted physically. We will now take up the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nbclaccredited-pmc-lab-lying-idle-for-2-yrs-101637092230192.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||First Lady inaugurates Chandigarh Bird Park||First Lady Savita Kovind inaugurated the Chandigarh Bird Park at Nagar Van near Sukhna Lale on Tuesday. Built by the Chandigarh forest department, the park is spread over an area of 6.5 acres and has two small aviaries and two walk-through aviaries. The structure surrounds thousands of plants of varying canopies, which gives an ideal habitat, food and shelter for these birds.UT chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai gave a tour of the facility to the First Lady and UT administrator’s wife Pushpa Devi Purohit, who visited both aquatic and terrestrial birds’ enclosures. UT adviser Dharam Pal and other senior officials were also present. Main attractionsThe aviary will be open to the public from Wednesday onwards between 10am and 5pm. It will remain closed on one day, which is yet to be announced.The facility has around 250 pairs of birds of 48 species and subspecies. The main attractions include African lovebirds, budgerigars, white swan, black swan, wood duck, golden pheasant, green wing macaw, sun conures, African grey parrot, finches and melanistic pheasant. There is a special enclosure for tamed birds as well. People will be allowed to interact with them in close proximity, click pictures and even touch them under the staff’s supervision. However, it will cost ₹100 for just a five-minute stay. Otherwise, the entry ticket to the park is ₹50. For children up to 12 years of age, it is ₹30. The aviary has a cafeteria, and outside food items are not allowed. “The whole project is loosely based on the Bird Park in Jurong, Singapore. It will be very informative for the kids as well and I would especially like to thank the staff who worked on this project even with the two Covid waves going on in the city,” said Dalai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-lady-inaugurates-chandigarh-bird-park-101637091937736.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Insurance cover for Chandigarh MC Group-D employees||The municipal corporation, Chandigarh, has enrolled all its group D employees under two ambitious social security schemes i.e. “Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana” (PMJJBY) and “Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana” (PMSBY).At a function organised at the auditorium of Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila Bhawan, Sector 38, Chandigarh, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma distributed enrolment letters to the beneficiaries from the sanitation wing, public health wing and horticulture wing.The PMSBY will offer a renewable one-year accidental death-cum-disability cover of ₹2 lakh for partial permanent disability to all group D employees, door-to-door waste collectors and outsourced group D employees in the age group of 18-70 years for a premium of ₹12 per annum per subscriber. While the PMJJBY on the other hand will offer a renewable one-year life cover of ₹2 lakh to all group D employees, door-to-door waste collectors and outsourced group D employees in the age group of 18-50 years, covering death due to any reason, for a premium of ₹330 per annum per subscriber.The annual premium of all group D employees, door-to-door waste collectors and outsourced group D employees will be borne by the municipal corporation, Chandigarh, said the mayor. It shall amount to around ₹24 lakh per annum. Initially, two banks i.e. Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda have been authorised for enrolling the employees under both schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/insurance-cover-for-chandigarh-mc-group-d-employees-101637091936627.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Two Chandigarh lads make it to India U-19 team||It was natural for Harnoor Singh Pannu to pick up a bat than playing with toys while growing up. His father, Birinder Singh, had represented Punjab U-19 team while his grandfather Rajinder Singh was involved with the game in Punjab; so the talk at home always revolved around cricket. Harnoor toiled hard to chase his dream of donning the India colours and the dream has indeed come true. The Chandigarh lad scored the highest 412 runs, including three centuries, during the U-19 Challenger Trophy, and the result was his selection in the India A for the upcoming Triangular one-day series starting in Kolkata from November 28 involving two teams from India and one from Bangladesh. “Since we did not have any tournament in the U-19 category due to the pandemic, it was great to get a domestic tournament this season and also the Challenger Trophy. My aim would be to make use of the chances and make a mark,” said Singh, an opener who idolises Shubman Gill and like his idol believes in playing aggressive strokes. He hammered scores of 22, 130, 137, 129 in the Challengers Trophy and also hit the maximum 54 fours during the tournament. He impressed the national selectors with his ability to score at a stunning strike-rate. After the triangular series, the India U-19 team would be selected for Asia Cup in Dubai followed by U-19 World Cup in West Indies in February 2022. “I am focused on giving my best in the Triangular series and see how things go after that for future tournaments,” said the 18-year-old Harnoor, who is a student of PML SD School, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Along with Harnoor, Chandigarh all-rounder Raj Angad Bawa has also made it to India A team for the Triangular series. Playing for Team B, Raj Angad scored a total of 154 runs including a century (119) and eight wickets in three innings with the best bowling figures of 3/45. A lanky fast bowler and attacking left-handed batsman, Raj Angad is son of renowned cricket coach Sukhwinder Bawa and grandson of hockey Olympian Tarlochan Bawa, who was member of the team that won the Gold at London in 1948. “My grandfather is an inspiration for me. And what I am today is because of my father. He has been a tremendous coach and a guide. Knowing that the U-19 World Cup is around the corner, I trained hard this season and gave my best while playing for Chandigarh in the Vinoo Mankad Trophy. And then the Challenger Trophy happened. It gave a right platform to showcase my all-rounder skills,” said Raj Angad, who is also a student of PML SD School, Sector 32, Chandigarh, and looks up to former cricketer Yuvraj Singh. With this, they are the first cricketers from UT Cricket Association to make it to the India U-19 team since it came into being in 2019. Earlier, both played for Punjab at the U-16 level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-two-chandigarh-lads-make-it-to-india-u-19-team-101637091935385.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||After 15 years, Yamunanagar sugar mill begins early crushing||Yamunanagar’s Saraswati Sugar Mills on Tuesday started its crushing operations, almost a week before last season and earliest after 15 years, senior vice-president (cane) DP Singh said. Last year, sugar crushing was started on November 24.“We had promised the farmers that the operations will be started early to facilitate timely wheat sowing. We completed our promise. On the first day, we demanded 60,000 quintal and a sufficient quantity of cane was received,” Singh said.The mills, said to be one of the largest in India, have set a target of 170 lakh quintal this year, against 160 of last year. However, nearly 161.59 lakh quintal was crushed, officials said.The operations were officially kicked off by chief operations officer SK Sachdeva and other officials after a few farmers who came early on the first day and 10 farmers of 115 identified last season for supplying good quality cane, were felicitated.Around 20,500 cane farmers of 672 villages in Yamunanagar and parts of Ambala and Kurukshetra districts are attached with the mills.“We’ve cleared ₹565 crore to farmers of last season till June 30. No payment is pending,” Singh said.Construction of an ethanol plant with a capacity of 100 KLPD worth ₹200 crore at the mill premises is also underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-15-years-yamunanagar-sugar-mill-begins-early-crushing-101637091934231.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||PEC has always risen to needs of nation, says President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday said that it is an honour to know that Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has always risen to the needs of the nation.Kovind was speaking during the centenary celebration ceremony held at PEC on Tuesday. PEC completed its hundred years of existence on November 9.The President said that in the early 1960s, when it was felt that our country needed the services of aeronautical engineers, the Indian Air Force had approached PEC. “It was through the joint efforts with IISc that PEC created history as being the first engineering college to give India its first batch of 17 graduate aeronautical engineers in 1964,” he said.The President unveiled a special postage stamp containing images of PEC’s campus in 1921, originally Mughalpura Technical College in Lahore, and PEC’s present campus, marking the completion of 100 years of the institute.Kovind said that when the foundations of an institute have such a glorious and inspiring past, its students are bound to have higher ambitions in mind. Such ambitions were personified in Dr Kalpana Chawla, an astronaut-engineer and the first woman of Indian origin to travel in space.“I was pleasantly surprised to know that during the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic, PEC students built robots that could go into isolation wards and deliver food, medicine and other supplies to patients,” he said.The President also said that he would expect institutes like the PEC and its competent alumni to act as mentors and collaborate with other universities of the country.Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit said: “Over the years, PEC has always provided future generations with extraordinary facilities and resources. It has been a guiding light for many young intellectuals and has produced some of the most refined talents this world has ever seen.”The President also inaugurated a newly constructed centenary hall to mark the milestone besides a new semiconductor research centre. He also laid the foundation stone of a hostel, which will house 600 students and will be a new addition to the four existing boys’ and two girls’ hostels on the campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pec-has-always-risen-to-needs-of-nation-says-president-kovind-101637091932710.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh property dealer’s story of rags to riches to disgrace||After the arrest of property dealer and financier Ram Lal Chaudhary in a cheating case, Chandigarh Police have unearthed property worth ₹135 crore owned by him and his family. Chaudhary was arrested on November 12 for allegedly duping a Gurgoan resident of ₹5 crore on the pretext of real estate investment about five years back. He is presently in seven-day police custody. The 64-year-old, who started off a labourer, used to stay in a shanty at Karsan Colony in Ram Darbar when he first came to Chandigarh in 1976 at the age of 19 from Rajasthan for “better future”.Entry into real estate changed everything. Presently, he is the director of Orvis Developers in Mohali. “He used to sell sand and bricks on a rehri. At that time, a rehri of sand would earn him ₹25,” said a police official privy to investigations. “Over the years, he cultivated contacts with politicians, bureaucrats and cops that helped him sail through. As per the complaints, he had taken money from people to get relief in criminal cases and even helped many policemen get posted in different wings,” said another senior cop, who didn’t wish to be named. After two unsuccessful attempts in MC elections from Mauli Jagran and Ram Darbar, Chaudhary diverted all his time to real estate and financier business.Multiple propertiesThe investigations have revealed that the family now owns a house in Sector 46, Chandigarh, besides more than 40 flats, agricultural land, commercial sites and booths in Chandigarh and Mohali. The family also owns a fleet of luxury vehicles, including BMW 7 series, Mercedes, Audi Q7, Range Rover and Porsche.“Chaudhary used to give loans at high rates of interest and took signed blank affidavits as security that were later used to transfer property in his name,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh.Chahal said that investigations are in progress and documents related to properties worth more than ₹135 crore have been recovered. “The enforcement directorate has also sought details of his properties and bank accounts from us,” he said. Chequered past Over the years, Chaudhary has also been embroiled in a number of criminal cases. He was one of the accused in the infamous rape-on-wheels case registered in 2002. He was also arrested for the murder of his son’s live-in partner, who was a model. He was acquitted in both cases. In 2005, he was booked in a drugs case in Panchkula. Later in 2008, he was convicted and fined in a case of negligent driving in Manimajra, and was also booked for cheating in Mohali. A case of theft was also registered against him at the Rohini police station in Delhi. Alleges extortionAn additional sessions court has issued a notice to the UT administration for Wednesday, seeking reply after Chaudhary filed a petition against his seven-day remand. The petitioner sought that the order passed by the judicial magistrate first class be kept aside and he be sent to judicial custody immediately.Chaudhary’s counsel alleged that the property dealer was picked up by the police “illegally” and that he was being harassed by a senior police official and a station house officer, who were trying to extort money from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-property-dealer-s-story-of-rags-to-riches-to-disgrace-101637091931673.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Licence fee row: Parking contractors in Chandigarh to move court||The two parking contractors in Chandigarh have decided to move court against the municipal corporation’s notices for the recovery of ₹4.5-crore pending licence fee. While the Zone-1 contractor owes ₹1.67 crore, the Zone-2 contractor has to pay up ₹2.88 crore, according to the notices issued on November 14.The MC has also warned them of cancelling the contracts and taking over the parking lots if they fail to clear the dues within a week. Divided into two zones, there are 89 parking lots being managed by these contractors.Vikas Pandey, manager of Delhi-based Pashchatya Entertainment Pvt Ltd that operates parking lots in Zone 2, said: “We will approach the Punjab and Haryana high Court against the MC notice. The exemptions being sought by us are justified and as per the contract.”While Zone-2 contractor had sought an exemption of ₹98.64 lakh, Patna-based Ram Sundar Prasad Singh, who runs the Zone-1 parking lots, had requested the MC to waive ₹1.02 crore licence fee on account of losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown and free parking given to municipal employees. The MC General House had rejected their demand during a meeting last Friday, following which recovery notices were issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/licence-fee-row-parking-contractors-in-chandigarh-to-move-court-101637091930455.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur teen goes missing after exam in Chandigarh||A 16-year-old boy, a resident of Zirakpur, went missing after his exam. The police have registered a kidnapping case. In his complaint, the father of the boy, said his son had left home on Sunday. He said his son had gone to Allen Institute, Industrial Area, Phase 2, Chandigarh, to take a scholarship exam at the institute, but did not return after the exam. The police are yet to trace the 16-year-old whose mobile phone that had a dual SIM is also untraceable. Acting on the father’s complaint, a case under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the IPC was registered at the Sector 31 police station, Chandigarh. MORE TRICITY NEWS IN SHORTIreo MD in seven-day ED custodyThe enforcement directorate on Tuesday arrested Lalit Goyal, the vice-chairman and managing director of real estate group Ireo, in connection with a money laundering probe linked to alleged diversion of home buyers’ funds to the tune of ₹2,600 crore. Goyal was detained at the Delhi airport last week. The agency claimed the businessman was “non-cooperative and did not divulge any relevant information” during questioning and hence, was taken into custody under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Chandigarh. A local court later remanded him to seven days of ED custody, it said. PTINew Chandigarh DC relieved from P’kulaVinay Pratap Singh, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer, on Tuesday relinquished the charge of Panchkula deputy commissioner and is likely to join as the Chandigarh DC on Wednesday afternoon. The Haryana government issued the relieving orders, a day after the Centre asked it to expedite the process.Bike-borne snatchers stab youthThree bike-borne snatchers wielding a knife attacked two Manimajra youths and fled with a wallet and mobile phone near Sector 17, Panchkula, late on Monday night. Complainant Suman Karki, 18, who works as a waiter in Sector 16, told police that he was returning home along with a friend, Rakesh, when the crime took place. “As I resisted, one of them stabbed a knife in my thigh and another one snatched my phone and wallet. My friend managed to escape unhurt,” he said. A case has been registered.Mayor inaugurates community centre Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Tuesday inaugurated a community centre at Sector 56. Built at a cost of ₹2.79 lakh, it has a hall for 200 people, library, sampark centre, gym, dormitory, toilet blocks and parking for 50 vehicles. The mayor also laid the foundation stone of a green belt near the civil dispensary in Sector 56.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-teen-goes-missing-after-exam-in-chandigarh-101637091882987.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 10-year-old girl raped in forest area in Dera Bassi||A yet unidentified person has been booked for raping a 10-year-old girl in a forest area near Haripur Garuda village in Dera Bassi.According to police, the girl had gone to the forest area to collect wood with her four-year-old brother on Monday, when the crime took place. The parents, who work as labourers, were at work at the time. When the girl returned home, she was crying and bleeding and narrated the incident.The girl has been admitted to the civil hospital, Dera Bassi. Her medical examination confirmed rape, said police.Assistant sub-inspector Harjinder Singh said the girl has not been able to identify the accused. Police are inquiring about people who go to the forest area daily, and are taking the help of villagers to trace the accused.A case has been registered under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Dera Bassi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-10-year-old-girl-raped-in-forest-area-in-dera-bassi-101637091881802.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||3 fresh Covid cases; 40 down with dengue in Chandigarh tricity||With a dip in temperature, dengue cases have started ebbing in the tricity with only 40 fresh infections on Tuesday. Mohali reported 12 cases, while 22 infections surfaced in Chandigarh and six in Panchkula. The tricity’s fresh dengue count was 89 on Monday. However, no death was reported in any of the three jurisdictions on Tuesday.For this year, Mohali’s dengue count has now gone up to 3,690, with the death count being at 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,273 cases so far, besides three fatalities. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 830, with one death so far this year.Amid the possibility of a rise in infection transmission after the festive season, only three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Tuesday. In a breather, only two cases were reported from Mohali while one got infected in Chandigarh. Panchkula, however, didn’t report any fresh infection on Tuesday.So far in November, Mohali has reported two Covid-related fatalities while no death has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula.Tricity’s active cases tally stands at 92, with 50 patients still being infected in Mohali, 30 in Chandigarh, and 12 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,390 positive cases, of which 64,540 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, the total cases recorded to date are 68,885. Among these, 67,765 patients have recovered and 1,070 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,788 includes 30,397 recoveries and 379 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-fresh-covid-cases-40-down-with-dengue-in-chandigarh-tricity-101637091880610.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: BJP to prepare vision document with public participation||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will prepare its vision document or ‘Sankalp Patra’ in the municipal elections with the participation of the general public. On the same basis, a roadmap will be prepared for the next 5 years. This was stated by BJP state president Arun Sood in a press conference held at the BJP state office Kamalam here on Tuesday. Sood said the BJP wanted to reach out to the people of Chandigarh and ensure their participation in the democratic process. “Our vision is to make Chandigarh not only the number 1 city of the country, but also a world-class city in the next 5 years. To create a roadmap for this, the biggest public participation campaign of Chandigarh, “Aapka Chandigarh, Aapka Sujha”, will be started by the state BJP,” he said. Under the campaign, all people of Chandigarh will be invited and encouraged to share their suggestions/aspirations with the BJP. “Based on all these suggestions and aspirations, the BJP will prepare a vision document, ‘Sankalp Patra’, for the 2021 municipal elections,” said Sood. Under this campaign, suggestion boxes will be kept at prominent places in each locality in which the public can submit their suggestions by writing, people will also be able to give their suggestions through a recording by giving a missed call. Suggestions can also be submitted by visiting the website. Apart from this, BJP workers will hold discussions with different groups of Chandigarh and collect their suggestions. Responding to a question, Sood said Rakesh Tikait’s statement would not affect the people of Chandigarh. Tikait had recently given a statement not to vote for the BJP in the municipal elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-bjp-to-prepare-vision-document-with-public-participation-101637091879531.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sippy Sidhu murder case: 6 years on, family awaits justice||Six years after city-based lawyer Sippy Sidhu’s murder, his family still awaits justice. On Tuesday, the mother and brother of the deceased held a press conference, where they requested the investigating agency to hand over the copy of the documents.The application was moved by the family during the last date of hearing, and the case is now listed for November 18.“While the investigating agency has filed the untraced report, we want to file a protest petition. The case is now listed on November 18 for protest petition, which is only possible if the investigating agency hands over the copy of all documents,” Sippy Sidhu’s mother Deepinder Kaur Sidhu said.She said, “The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has given us the copy of an untraced report which has the statement of witnesses, but it has no article on which the agency had relied. The articles are primarily information in the form of discs, seizure memos and CCTV footage which contain material evidence.”“We are seeking a copy of these articles, which are part of the final report but not supplied to us,” she said.Lawyer Sukhmanpreet ‘Sippy’ Singh Sidhu, 36, was shot dead in a Sector 27 park in Chandigarh on September 20, 2015. The case was transferred to the CBI in 2016 after allegations by his family about the involvement of a judge’s daughter.The woman, reportedly a friend of Sippy Sidhu, was summoned and questioned twice by the Chandigarh police during the initial probe. Sidhu’s family had held protests alleging that she was being shielded by the police. The UT administration had on January 22, 2016, recommended a CBI probe in the case.In December 2020 the CBI had informed the CBI court that it has no evidence of the involvement of a former Punjab and Haryana high court judge’s daughter in the crime. The federal agency, however, has said it will like to keep investigations open as it has “strong suspicions about the role of (woman’s name hidden) to eliminate Sippy Sidhu.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sippy-sidhu-murder-case-6-years-on-family-awaits-justice-101637091877827.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Dignitaries witness multiple landings by fighter jets at Sultanpur air show||Prime Minister Narendra Modi witnessed an air show organised by the Indian Air Force (IAF) after inaugurating the 341-km-long Purvanchal Expressway in Sultanpur district on Tuesday.UP governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari and BJP MP from Sultanpur, Maneka Gandhi were present on the occasion.Multiple landings and takeoffs were done from the airstrip by the fighter jets in front of the dignitaries.Mirage 2000 was first to land on the airstrip for turnaround servicing (TRS). The fighter aircraft led the IAF operation in the Balakot strike in 2019 and Kargil war in 1999 against Pakistan.The AN-32 aircraft made assault landing with Air Force commandoes and Army special force jawans, terrain vehicles and technical personnel.An arrow head formation fly was carried by five fighter aircraft, including Mirage 2000, Sukhoi-30 MKI and Jaguar. It was followed with touch and go landing by Mirage 2000, Jaguar and Sukhoi-30 MKI.A low altitude maneuvering was carried out by Sukhoi 30 MKI. The plan took a high speed turn upward as it rolled several times in the air to carry out a maneuver, ‘vertical Charlie’. The two-seater fighter aircraft was flown by Wing Commander Parvinder Singh Chahal and Flight Lieutenant Surya Pratap Singh, native of Sultanpur district.The air show concluded with a fly past over the runway by Kiran Mk II aircraft, led by two Sukhoi 30 fighter aircraft. After the air show, the Prime Minister left the spot on C-130J Super Hercules aircraft.An IAF officer said the air show on the Purvanchal Expressway was the fourth emergency landing air show carried out by the Air Force. Earlier, such events were carried out by fighter aircraft on the Agra expressway, Yamuna expressway and National Highway number- 925 in Rajasthan’s Barmer.The emergency landing facility on the Purvanchal Expressway adds to the operational flexibility of the IAF, troop deployment, human assistance during disaster relief operation and increases the fighting capability of the country as well, said officials.The 3.2-km-long and 34-meter-wide concrete cement runway constructed for the emergency landing of aircraft on the expressway near Kurebhar village in Sultanpur district has been carried out under the Bharatmala project launched by the ministry of road transport and highways, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/air-show-in-sultanpur-dignitaries-witness-multiple-landings-takeoffs-by-fighter-jets-101637091876742.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula health department unveils pictures of Covid warriors||The Panchkula health department unveiled pictures of two health workers, who lost their lives while serving Covid patients. As a part of a state-wide drive, a “Covid Wall” was inaugurated on Tuesday to honour those who lost their lives.One of the health workers is Surinderpal, 50, who used to work as a helper in the operation theatre, and another worker is Kiran Bala, an ASHA worker who succumbed to Covid-19.Surinderpal’s daughter Rajni recalled how her father used to work during odd hours and worked without any break when Covid-19 was at its peak.“He used to go in the morning and would return at night. My father was a health-conscious person, he used to eat a healthy diet and would not skip a day without exercise. But one day, he reported extreme weakness and two days later, he died,” Rajni said.It was on November 4, when after returning from duty, Surinderpal complained of weakness, sweating and uneasiness. He was diagnosed with Covid-19 and on November 6, he died.He left behind his wife and three children. Rajni stated that they had to face a lot of difficulties as their father was the sole earning member. “After a lot of struggle and visiting many offices, my brother got a job in the health sector. However, we have received no financial help from the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-health-department-unveils-pictures-of-covid-warriors-101637091875149.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Poor upkeep sends Ward 9 residents up the wall||Poor sanitation and dilapidated streets are among the key issues being faced by residents of ward number 9 under the Chandigarh municipal corporation.The ward comprises Daria village, Mauli Jagran-2 and the Industrial Area, Phase I, besides its surrounding habitations of Sanjay Colony, Kabari Colony and Colony Number 4. While residents of Daria will participate in the MC elections for the first time, The Industrial Area, Phase 1, was earlier part of ward number 22.In Daria, the most common problems are broken streets, open garbage heaps and poor sanitation. The residents say nothing much has changed in the past few years even as the MC has taken over the village. Nirmala Devi, a 50-year-old resident of Daria, says: “We have been waiting for our street to get revamped but nothing has been done so far. Cleanliness has been an issue and even sewerage line gets blocked during monsoons.”Residents have been also facing the problem of irregular water supply, due to which they have to hire water tankers for daily use. Also, there is no place for recreational activities in the locality.“Dangling electricity wires on the narrow streets pose threat to public and there is no cleanliness here. During the rainy season, water gets accumulated on the streets and sometimes enters our houses. These issues need to be resolved,” says Mohammad Shahid, 40, who resides in Raja Bagh, Daria.In Mauli Jagran-2, residents are irked by stray cattle and poor maintenance of parks. They also complain that water meters have not been installed in the houses and sewerage lines remain choked.Ved Prakash, 42, a local, says: “The maintenance of roads and parks is poor in our locality and stray cattle menace is a concern. Sometimes street lights do not work properly here.”The list of issues at Sanjay Colony in Industrial Area, Phase 1, is long. Residents say they have to suffer from unhygienic surroundings and narrow and broken streets inundated by water, which sometimes even enters their homes. “As there is no draining system in our colony, the rainwater sometimes enters the houses. There are only a few taps for water supply and even toilets here are in a bad state,” says 21-year-old Akash, a resident of Sanjay Colony.Sunil Rai, a 40-year-old vegetable seller who lives in the colony, says: “We have been residing here for decades, but the state of the colony has not improved. Poor sanitation is the main problem.”Residents in Kabari Colony and Colony Number 4, also in the Industrial Area, face similar issues. The colonies are in a poor state, with garbage dumped in the open. At Colony Number 4, many were allotted houses in Maloya after a survey in 2006. However, those who were left out are still waiting to get rehabilitated, says a local.KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Daria; Mauli Jagran-2; Industrial Area, Phase 1, along with Sanjay Colony Kabari Colony and Colony No. 4Reserved for women (general)Voters: 20,000 Key issuesPoor sanitation and open garbage dumpsDilapidated streets and choked sewersInadequate water supply and dangling electricity wiresLocal voicesWe have been waiting for the streets to get revamped but nothing has been done so far. Cleanliness is a major concern: Nirmala Devi, 50, a homemaker residing in DariaWe often face the problem of blocked sewerage lines. The streets are in a poor state and there is no maintenance: Nityanand, 30, a bike mechanic residing in DariaThe maintenance of roads and parks is poor in our locality and stray cattle menace is another concern: Ved Prakash, 42, works in a private firm and lives in Mauli Jagran-2 Nothing has changed in Sanjay Colony over the years. The condition of sanitation is extremely poor: Sunil Rai, 40, vegetable seller from Sanjay Colony||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhpoor-upkeep-sends-ward-9-residents-up-the-wall-101637091873153.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC begins registration of pet dogs||Four months after the Punjab local bodies department notified pet-dog bylaws for Mohali, the municipal corporation on Tuesday began their registration. The one-time registration fee for pet dogs is ₹100 and the annual renewal fee is also ₹100. On Tuesday, city mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu handed over the first token of registration to councillor Kamalpreet Singh Bunny by registering his pet dog. Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and municipal commissioner Kamal Garg were also present. A resident is allowed to keep only two pets dogs at home. Sidhu said that people who do not register their pet dogs will have to pay ₹100 for a one-month delay, ₹200 for two-month delay and if they still fail to do so, they will have to cough up five times the renewal fee. If a pet dog is found loitering, it will be impounded. The owner will have pay up ₹5,000 penalty and daily feed charges of ₹500. If the dog is repeatedly impounded, the penalty will be ₹10,000. Failure to control dangerous pet dogs can result in a fine of up to ₹50 per day and a maximum of ₹2,000. Online processRegistration can be done online at http://petlicense.gov.in/pet-license/citizen-form. Before registering a pet dog, it must be vaccinated and a fitness certificate must be obtained from a doctor which must be submitted online, said the mayor. Failure to provide information about a rabid dog will lead to a fine of ₹2,000.As per a rough estimate, there are around 20,000 pet dogs in the city but none of them are registered, and thus kept without rules and regulations. Pet registration not just helps ensure the safety and well-being of a domesticated animal but also regulates how it interacts with the society and vice-versa. In November 2019, a Mohali court had awarded six-month jail to a woman found guilty of negligence after her pet dog bit a neighbour. Every year, around 2,000 dog bite cases are reported at the civil hospital in Phase 6, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-begins-registration-of-pet-dogs-101637091871818.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Jobless ETT teachers marching to CM’s house cane-charged||Members of unemployed ETT teachers, who are protesting for the past one month over long-pending demands, on Tuesday tried to enter Chandigarh from the YPS roundabout in Mohali, to gherao chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence. However, they were stopped by the Chandigarh police at the Mohali-Chandigarh border on Tuesday. A heavy police force was present at the border and there was a mild lathi-charge on the protesters. Holding a state-level protest, the unemployed ETT teachers gathered at the Dussehra ground near Amb Sahib Gurdwara, Phase-8, Mohali. The teachers had been protesting for the past 27 days at Desumajra village in Kharar where five teachers, including a girl, were holding fast unto death at the overhead water tank. Senior vice-president of the Unemployed ETT Teachers Union Sandeep Saama said the protesting youth were hoping that after becoming the chief minister, Channi would solve their problems on a priority basis. He rued that Channi and others did not take out time to listen to their demands. He said the recruitment of 2364 ETT teachers could be done by sending the file in this regard to the AG, Punjab, but no initiative had been taken. He claimed that the issue was being deliberately delayed and no concrete steps were being taken by the AG, Punjab, to get the stay removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-jobless-ett-teachers-marching-to-cm-s-house-canecharged-101637091870385.html
17-11-2021||Pune||PMC raises commission for capture, slaughter of stray bovines||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to increase its revenue by imposing a 25% commission on the contractor/agency for pig capture and slaughter - up from the current Rs150 to Rs365 per animal captured and slaughtered. The move will help the civic exchequer get 2.5 times what it got earlier in revenue. So, while the civic body earned Rs60 lakh in commission on pig capture and slaughter in the past three years, it will now earn an estimated Rs80 lakh in the next three years. Pigs are seen as a nuisance which is why the civic body has taken such a decision.Dr Abhijeet Mane from the PMC veterinary department, said, “We have increased the PMC’s commission on pig capture and slaughter as these animals breed uncontrollably, leading to unhygienic conditions. The PMC has now increased its commission for every pig from the current Rs150 to Rs365 (25%) as the corporation has set a maximum limit of Rs1,425 for every pig that can be auctioned at a slaughterhouse. We have also mandated that every contractor must have at least 10 workers under him and a vehicle, and must also arrange for police protection if the need arises. The civic body will charge 25% commission and thereby, the civic body’s income is also likely to multiply. As the commission was set at Rs150 per animal, the civic body earned Rs60 lakh in the last three years which we now estimate will go up to Rs80 lakh in the next three years.”The Pollution Control Board (PCB) mandates that only 30 pigs can be slaughtered every day which is why the contractor would be required to supply at least 30 to 35 pigs per day. Dr Mane said that each of the pigs captured would be tagged like all other stray animals so that the same animal is not registered twice. In addition to increased revenue for the civic body, the PMC also aims to create a more hygienic city through various such initiatives. Dr Mane said that while this may not seem like a major problem in city areas, it is a huge problem for those living in rural areas as uncontrolled breeding leads to pigs frequenting garbage collection spots and spreading unhygienic conditions in turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-raises-commission-for-capture-slaughter-of-stray-bovines-101637091810351.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Some people misleading farmers to fulfil their political motives: Banwari Lal||Haryana cooperation minister Banwari Lal said some people are misleading farmers by instigating them to fulfil their political motives.“Everybody has a right to protest. But there are some limits as people want to disturb the peace and harmony in state,” the minister said, in a statement after his virtual address from Panipat on launch of crushing operations at a cooperative sugarmill in Shahbad.He said the government is committed to the welfare of farmers and steps are being taken to assist cane-growers of Haryana.He urged farmers to write to him directly if they face any difficulties and assured that their issues will be addressed immediately.“Besides having highest sugarcane advisory prices of ₹362 per quintal and the per day crushing capacity of all 11 cooperative sugarmills being increased to 29,650 from 27,300,” he said, adding, “Loans of ₹3,511 crore and subsidies of ₹371 crore have been given to the mills for since 2014.”High drama was witnessed at the Shahbad sugarmill as a group of farmers associated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) threatened to protest any politician or cooperation minister from coming to attend the programme. The farmers objected even virtual inauguration of the crushing by the cooperation minister.They said, in the invitation cards, the administration has announced that deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar will inaugurate crushing operations physically and there was no mention that the minister will also attend the programme, virtually.BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said late night, they had received invitation cards but there was no mention that the minister will also attend the programme. They decided to protest the virtual inauguration by the minister.He said on call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, farmers of Haryana do not want leaders of the ruling parties to attend the programmes as they did not take any steps to accept the farmers’ demand or end the agitation.Vijender Chaudhary, managing director of the sugarmill, refuted the allegations that the administration did not disclose that the minister will join the inauguration virtually and said it was decided that the minister will inaugurate the crushing via video conferencing.The MD said the invitation being circulated by farmers was not finalised. In the final invitation, it was mentioned that the minister will inaugurate the crushing. In the card, there is no mention on whether the inauguration will be virtual or physical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/some-people-misleading-farmers-to-fulfil-their-political-motives-banwari-lal-101637091630039.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress candidate was never in bypoll contest: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday said the Congress candidate for Ellenabad assembly bypoll, Pawan Beniwal did not make enough efforts to stay in the contest.Hooda, who chaired a meeting of the Congress legislature party (CLP), said Beniwal was never in the fray.“Ummidwar chunav hi nahin lada (The candidate didn’t fight the bypoll). This is my estimation,” Hooda said, terming it one of the factors among others for the loss.Beniwal had finished a poor third polling about 20,900 votes in the bypoll and lost his security deposit. The Congress vote share declined by 9.7% in the bypoll as compared to the 2019 general elections; while the BJP candidate got 9.1% more votes than in the 2019 polls.Hooda said winning and losing is a part of the game. “We won the Baroda assembly bypoll handsomely. The party, however, needs to look into the causes of drubbing in Ellenabad,” he said.Responding to a query regarding a show-cause notice issued by state Congress chief Kumari Selja to his loyalist, Bharat Singh Beniwal for “indulging in anti-party activities” during the bypoll and predicting that the Congress candidate will finish third in the bypoll, the former chief minister said Bharat had only made an estimation.Addressing the media, Hooda asked the BJP-JJP government in state to revoke its order pertaining to handing over recruitments in universities to the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).“The coalition government is playing with the autonomy of universities by interfering in their recruitments. And by doing this, the government is violating the guidelines of the UGC and also the Centre’s new education policy.Referring to the UGC rules and the guidelines of the new education policy, Hooda said every university already has suitable rules and committees for recruitment.“Even in the last assembly session, CM Manohar Lal Khattar had assured the House that the recruitment of government universities will not be done through HSSC and HPSC. Despite this, the government is interfering in functioning of autonomous institutions. This will adversely affect their work and the level of education. Already the ranking of universities in Haryana is continuously falling. Only one university of Haryana is included in the top 100 universities,” he said.Hooda said posts of about 34,000 teachers are lying vacant in government schools in state and headmasters are not appointed in 50% schools. Instead of paying attention to this, the government is engaged in demolishing the education structure, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-candidate-was-never-in-bypoll-contest-hooda-101637091270698.html
17-11-2021||Pune||HC directs state to clarify decision on multi-member wards for civic polls||PUNE: The Bombay high court has directed the Maharashtra government to explain its decision to allow multi-member wards in the forthcoming municipal elections. The order comes after Pune-based non-profit Parivartan, civic activist Maruti Bhapkar, and others filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay high court, challenging the decision of the state government and state election commission to allow multi-member wards in the upcoming civic elections. The PIL was admitted after which the court asked the state government to clarify its decision.Parivartan and other organisations are of the view that there should only be single-member wards as citizens can then hold these members responsible for development works. In case of multi-member wards, the elected members tend to pass the buck instead of taking responsibility and addressing the problems. Besides, there is a lack of unity among these members, according to civic activists||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hc-directs-state-to-clarify-decision-on-multi-member-wards-for-civic-polls-101637091151229.html
17-11-2021||Other||Himachal achieves milestone of administering 1-crore Covid vaccine doses||Himachal Pradesh crossed the one-crore Covid vaccine doses mark on Tuesday by administering 1,00,29,598 jabs to eligible population. CM Jai Ram Thakur congratulated the people of the state and appreciated the health staff on vaccination duty for putting in sincere efforts to achieve the milestone.It is worth mentioning that, Himachal was the first state to vaccinate 100% of its 18+ population with at least the first dose of vaccine in August. It also has another achievement; its near-zero wastage of vaccine doses The state expects to complete its round of second doses for all residents by November end. Meanwhile, the state on Tuesday recorded 129 fresh Covid cases taking its cumulative tally to 2,26,022 while the death toll mounted to 3,805 after one patient died of the infection.The active cases have climbed to 1,132 while the recoveries have reached 2,21,068 after 109 people recuperated.144 test positive for Covid in J&K, 2 deaths recordedJammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 144 fresh cases and two deaths, an official health bulletin said. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 115 with active cases reaching 1,544.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 67,150 vaccine doses were administered. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,28,433 prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.21%. J&K’s total caseload is 3,34,432 and its death toll 4,455.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-achieves-milestone-of-administering-1-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-101637091150023.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||INSO slams Haryana’s move to carry out varsity recruitments through HPSC, HSSC||The Indian National Students’ Organisation (INSO, student body of the JJP, junior partner of the BJP in the Haryana government) has sound its war bugle against the state government over its move to recruit Class 3 and 4 employees through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and Class 1 and 2 through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) in state universities.Students associated with INSO burnt an effigy of the Haryana government, Haryana state higher council chairman Prof BK Kuthiala and MDU vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh outside the university in Rohtak.Interacting with the media, INSO national chief and JJP’s 2019 Rohtak Lok Sabha nominee Pradeep Deswal described the decision of the state government to carry out recruitments in state universities through the HPSC and HSSC as a “Tughlaqi order”.“The state government has not only stripped the universities of their power of recruitment by this order, it could also result in undue interference of the government in the institutes of higher learning which could spoil the academic atmosphere. We will hold a protest against the government’s move at all district headquarters,” he said.He said he will write to all 90 MLAs of Haryana to raise the issue in the Vidhan Sabha and save the autonomy of universities.‘Won’t allow govt representative to enter varsities’Deswal said volunteers of his organisation will not let the government undermine the autonomy of the universities.“Either the Haryana government will withdraw the order immediately or we will not let any representative of the Haryana government to enter any university in state. We will not allow even our party leader and Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala in any university across state if the orders are not taken back,” he said.The INSO leader has been attacking the BJP-JJP government for its recent decisions regarding higher education.The Haryana government had recently issued an order that the recruitment on various posts in the universities will now be done through the HPSC and HSSC. The university teachers’ association has also termed the decision a violation of the rules of UGC and a “direct attack on the autonomy of the universities”.The INSO president levelled serious allegations against chairman of the Haryana Higher Education Council, Prof BK Kuthiala, while stating that the chairman had been facing charges of corruption, fraud and irregularities in recruitments.“As per police records, Prof Kuthiala is a proclaimed offender as he faced criminal charges. He got bail from the Supreme Court,” he alleged, while showing the documents to support his charges.“Such person neither fulfil the eligibility of these posts nor does he meet the criteria of morality to hold this post,” he said, while adding that Rajbir Singh, vice chancellor of the Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak who also holds the charges of SUPVA, Rohtak got recruited as professor in the Kurukshetra University with the blessings of Kuthiala, years ago.Deswal urged chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to intervene in the matter and take action against these two persons holding key positions which are having a negative influence on the academic atmosphere in the state.MDU vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inso-slams-haryana-s-move-to-carry-out-recruitments-in-varsities-through-hpsc-hssc-101637091090000.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Baba Nanak erupts in joy over reopening of Kartarpur corridor||The people of Dera Baba Nanak town in Gurdaspur are jubilant with the Centre announcing reopening of Kartarpur corridor after 20 months, on the occasion of Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak.The corridor, which connects the historic town of Dera Baba Nanak to Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara which falls in Narowal district of Pakistan, was inaugurated on November 9, 2019, to mark the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. The corridor was closed in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 outbreak.The residents of Dera Baba Nanak said with the reopening of the corridor not only the Sikh sangat’s devotional aspirations will be fulfilled, the decision will also boost the economy of the border town. They have also demanded from the Centre a relaxation in the process of applying for visiting Guru Nanak’s final resting place in the neighbouring country.In a series of tweets, Union home minister Amit Shah said reopening the Kartarpur Corridor will benefit a large number of Sikh pilgrims. “This decision reflects the immense reverence of the Modi government towards Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji and our Sikh community. The nation is all set to celebrate the Prakash Utsav of Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji on November 19, and I am sure PM Narendra Modi government’s decision to reopen the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor will further boost the joy and happiness across the country,” the home minister tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) leaders in Punjab met President Ram Nath Kovind and Amit Shah on Monday, requesting that the corridor be reopened.“We can’t express our happiness. It’s like we have got everything. The Center’s decision, though late, but is at a right time,” said Baba Sukhdeep Singh, who claims to be the 17thdescendant of Guru Nanak.He said, “There has been a marriage-like atmosphere in Dera Baba Nanak since the Centre’s announcement. The decision has also brought jubilation among the small and medium traders of the town. When the corridor was opened last year, the pilgrims used to purchase various items, including fresh vegetables and fruits, from the town market for Langar at Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib. The market of the town will flourish and the economy will flourish.”He said, “As per media reports, only 250 pilgrims will be allowed in a jatha that will leave for Kartarpur Gurdwara to celebrate the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak on November 18 and 19. The number of pilgrims should be increased to 5,000, so that everyone can pay obeisance. The government should also ease the steps for applying for the pilgrimage. Only 62,000 people had visited the Gurdwara Kartarpur when the corridor was opened. Many people don’t know how to apply.”Dera Baba Nanak municipal council president Parmeet Singh Bedi said, “There have been the same feelings of happiness among the people which were there when the corridor was inaugurated nearly two years ago. The decision will also bring new avenues for the traders. The town’s people have demanded that the corridor should never be closed.”Gurkirpal Singh, a resident of the town, said, “Our joy knows no bounds. Around 3,000-5,000 people have been visiting Dera Baba Nanak daily to have a glimpse of the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara using a binocular. We have one more demand. The Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) had promised to construct Darshan Asthal (a raised platform to have a glimpse of the Kartapur Sahib gurudwara with the use of binoculars) at the border. The platform should be constructed immediately for all those who don’t have their passports and can’t cross the corridor.”Dera Baba Nanak sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Harpreet Singh said the administration was ready to successfully implement all the decisions of the government.Preparations on for first jatha’s visit tomorrowThe district administration of Gurdaspur has been on toes for making preparations for the visit of first jatha to Kartarpur Sahib.Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi and other members of his cabinet will be the part of the first jatha on November 18.Gurdaspur deputy commissioner (DC) Mohammad Ishfaq said the Chief Minister’s Office has sent a list of likely pilgrims to government of India for approval. “The number of pilgrims can be anywhere between 30 and 200. This will be a special delegation and it will be sent with the prior approval of the government of both the countries.”Normally, it takes nearly 15 days for a pilgrim to get approval from governments of India and Pakistan to visit the final resting place of Guru Nanak via the corridor.Sources said the CM wants the leaders of some other parties to be part of the delegation, but there was no official confirmation.Meanwhile, the officials of the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) and the Border Security Force (BSF) held a meeting at the integrated check post (ICP) at Dera Baba Nanak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-baba-nanak-erupts-in-joy-over-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-ahead-of-gurpurb-101637090853424.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Executive meeting of Himachal BJP to start on November 24||The Himachal Pradesh BJP’s executive meeting will be held from November 24 to 26 at Shimla wherein reasons behind the debacle in the recently held byelections will be discussed. State party general secretary Trilok Jamwal said that BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh, state incharge Avinash Rai Khanna, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, former CM Prem Kumar Dhumal and Union minister Anurag Thakur will take part in the meeting. The meeting will presided by BJP state president Suresh Kashyap. He said that BJP’s core group meeting will be held on November 24 while the extended core group will meet on November 25 followed by a meeting of state office-bearers. National Press Day observed in HPHP’s department of information and public relations organised a state-level function to mark National Press Day. The theme of this year was “Who is not afraid of media?” Additional chief secretary, information and public relations JC Sharma said the Press was a vital pillar and the media had a great responsibility for capacity building so that people could contribute efficiently in democracy. 1 dead, 6 injured in road accident inside Nashri tunnel on Jammu-Srinagar highwayOne person was killed and six people were injured on Tuesday when two vehicles crashed into each other on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Udhampur of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. An SUV, which was on its way to Jammu, collided with a mini bus inside Nashri tunnel, they said. One person died on the spot and six people were injured, they said. All the injured were taken to Chenani hospital and four of the injured are serious. Traffic was briefly disrupted on the highway following the accident.SMVD college of nursing holds 41st governing body meet The 41st meeting of the governing body of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi College of Nursing, Kakryal, was held here on Tuesday. It was chaired by Maj Gen SK Sharma (retd) and attended by Ramesh Kumar, CEO among others. A proposal for enhancement of seats from 60 to 80 for BSc (nursing) programme was placed before the governing body. The body also took stock of the construction of additional infrastructure and faculty. Jammu HC Bar body delegation calls on LGOffice-bearers of J&K High Court Bar Association, Jammu, on Tuesday called on LG Manoj Sinha and apprised him of the problems faced by the lawyers, particularly on account of lack of infrastructure. Association chief Mohinder Bhardwaj said the LG assured that the demands proposed by them will be sympathetically considered. Bhardwaj also made some suggestions regarding developing additional infrastructure in the Janipur court complex and sought the LG’s personal intervention and appealed to him to take immediate steps to safeguard the interests of the lawyers. They also demanded construction of additional buildings to accommodate various tribunals and offices in the high court complex here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/executive-meeting-of-himachal-bjp-to-start-on-november-24-101637090851518.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Kurukshetra University to resume physical classes from Nov 22||After a gap of one-and-a-half year, Kurukshetra University has decided to resume physical classes from November 22.The decision was taken in a meeting held on November 15, under the chairmanship of the vice-chancellor with dean student welfare and the chief wardens for boys and girls hostels.As per minutes of the meeting, the varsity will open for physical classes for first semester students from November 22 while online classes of the first semester students will continue till November 20.Only the students who have been vaccinated for Covid-19 vaccine by at least one dose will be allowed to attend the physical classes. The decision to resume classes for students of other semesters has not been taken yet.As per the university management, hostel allotment process for students of first semester will start from November 16 and students can register for hostel accommodation on the university portal.The hostel facility will only be provided to students who have been fully vaccinated.Theory classes for students of third, fifth, seventh and ninth semester students will continue in online mode until further notice. The campus is already open for those subjects where practical, training or field work is involved.Strict directions have been issued to all teaching and non-teaching employees of the university to get fully vaccinated as per the directions issued by the Haryana government. Chairpersons, directors and wardens should complete preparations for reopening the campus for physical classes as per standard operating procedure.Physical classes were suspended after the first lockdown but later, the university opened for practicals and submission of project reports for shorter periods, twice.Brajesh Sawhney, director public relations of the university, said the decision to resume physical classes for first semester students was taken following government orders.Meanwhile, officials said the final decision regarding exams beginning from the first week of December has not been taken yet and there is a strong possibility that the exams will be conducted online.In the Mahamari alert-Surakshit Haryana notification on November 13 of the Haryana government, fully residential universities in state were directed to plan reopening campus for physical classes as per their respective semester schedules after adopting SOPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kurukshetra-university-to-resume-physical-classes-from-nov-22-101637090850267.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Shiv Sena agitates, says BJP delaying property tax waiver for ex-servicemen||As the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is dragging its feet on the waiver of property tax for ex-servicemen, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday staged an agitation against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Shiv Sena leaders said that when the state government has issued a government resolution (GR) on the matter and the PMC general body, too, has given its nod for waiving property tax for ex-servicemen, there is no reason for the BJP to further delay implementing the waiver. “The administration is delaying it and citing the reason that they need to get permission from the commissioner. If the state government and general body have given permission, why is the ruling party failing to execute the decision,” president of the Sena city unit, Sanjay More, said.Recently, ex-servicemen barged into the PMC office and criticised it for not executing the waiver despite having the permission of the state government and general body of the corporation. Instead of implementing the waiver, the PMC is asking ex-servicemen to first share photographs, bank details, identity proofs and other documents. There are around 20,000 ex-servicemen in the city awaiting benefits under the scheme. According to ex-soldiers, while they have received cards from the district Sainik Welfare office, the PMC is refusing to accept these cards and instead asking for various documents as proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shiv-sena-agitates-says-bjp-delaying-property-tax-waiver-for-exservicemen-101637090790481.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu resumes charge as Punjab Congress chief||Chandigarh Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who on Tuesday resumed charge 10 days after withdrawing his resignation, said that winnability will be the only criteria for ticket allotment in the upcoming 2022 state polls. Talking to the mediapersons, he said that a roadmap was ready and party’s organisational setup in state will be out within 10 days. “The list of district presidents and party spokespersons will be announced soon,” he said. Party’s state affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi accompanied Sidhu to the party office. Sidhu had resigned from the party’s top post on September 28, opposing appointment of APS Deol as advocate general, after Charanjit Singh Channi took over as the state CM, for the reasons that he had secured blanket bail for Punjab’s ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, an accused in the sacrilege case. He had also opposed appointment of IPS Sahota as DGP, for giving clean chit to some key accused in the sacrilege case when he was heading a special investigation team (SIT) in 2015. After assurance by the state government for replacement of both the officers. Sidhu, on November 5 had announced to withdraw his resignation with the condition that both Deol and Sahota would be replaced. The appointment of new AG was discussed in Tuesday’s meeting and the all the ministers gave powers to the CM for choosing new incumbent. A panel for a new DGP has been sent to the Union home ministry for approval. Answering a query from the media, sate Congress head reiterated that the best option to regulate sand trade was to constitute a state-owned corporation, quoting the example of Telangana. Recently Channi had announced to sell sand at rate of ₹5.5 per cubic feet. In reply to another question from media, Sidhu said the party’s organisation and the government were united and the special session of Vidhan Sabha last week was the evidence. Sidhu reiterated that there was need to increase tax recovery and fill the state’s coffers because welfare schemes can’t be run by taking debts. He again pitched for raising the state’s income for spending on development works rather than depending upon the debt. “Punjab is the most indebted state in the country. Today, Goa’s capital expenditure per person is ₹14,000 while Haryana’s is ₹6,000 and the national average is ₹3,500. But Punjab spends only ₹870,” he said. On being questioned as to who would contest from Patiala assembly segment, Sidhu said the candidate will be chosen as it will be done for the rest of the constituencies. Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, whom Channi replaced on September 20, represents the constituency as MLA. ‘Opening of Kartarpur corridor a welcome step’ Welcoming opening of Kartarpur corridor for which an announcement was made by the Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday, Sidhu said it’s a priceless gift to the humanity and especially the Sikhs. “I praise the government who opened it, because some things are above politics,” he said. Referring to state government’s proposal to construct a ‘Darshan Sthal’ — a 60-metre raised platform — Sidhu said the work should be completed soon. Every citizen is a CM face: Chaudhary To a question on party’s chief ministerial face, party’s state in-charge Harish Chaudhary said that every citizen of the state is the CM face. Chaudhary said the party’s state unit under the leadership of Navjot Sidhu and the state government under chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will take Punjab forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-joins-punjab-cong-chief-office-says-winnability-will-decide-tickets-for-2022-polls-101637090550498.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to Punjab on CBI probe plea into death of dera follower||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from the Punjab government and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the plea from wife of Dera Sacha Sauda follower Mohinder Pal Singh Bittu, who was murdered in the Nabha jail. The high court bench of justice Raj Mohan Singh has sought response by December 2 and also asked to bring on record probe report. The plea by Santosh Kumari alleges that senior Punjab Police officers were involved in the conspiracy that was not probed by the investigation agencies. The plea seeks a CBI investigation into the case. Bittu, who was booked in the 2015 sacrilege cases and arrested three years later, was killed by two inmates, Maninder Singh and Gursewak Singh, both serving life terms for murder, on June 22, 2019, with iron rods. On September 5 that year, the police had filed a chargesheet against four persons, including the attackers. Thereafter, a Patiala court framed charges against them and the trial is underway. The plea also seeks stay on the trial proceedings. The plea claims Bittu was brutally killed in a larger conspiracy using judicial tools when he was lodged in the Nabha jail and the murder was committed in collusion with the police and politicians who were named by Bittu in the note. “Police officers mentioned in the note subjected my husband to third-degree torture to pressurise him to confess to his complicity in the sacrilege episode. He was falsely implicated in a case of the theft of bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib as part of a deep-rooted conspiracy due to political pressure,” the plea says, adding that since many senior police officers of the state are “involved”, it would be in the interest of justice that further investigation be conducted by the CBI, the plea demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-hc-notice-to-punjab-on-cbi-probe-plea-into-death-of-dera-follower-101637090490084.html
17-11-2021||Other||Jai Ram launches phase 2 of crop diversification project in Himachal||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday launched the ₹1010.6-crore phase 2 of the HP Crop Diversification Promotion Project (HPCDP) supported by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) at Dharamshala.He said it would be implemented in all 12 districts and help in uplifting the socio-economic status of farming families. “The phase 1 is being implemented in Mandi, Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Una on pilot basis since 2011 has virtually transformed the economy of the farmers,” he added.Thakur said the main objective of this project was to develop a successful model of crop diversification and increase the land under vegetable cultivation from 2,500 hectares to 7,000 hectares by 2031.To achieve the goal, he said, the government mobilised funds from all possible sources, including the Centre, and external funding agencies like JICA, World Bank and Asian Development Bank.“Himachal considers JICA to be the most important source of financial support and partner in development of the state,” Thakur said. He said both India and Japan have developed systems of sustainable production instead of bulk production of food grains.“The United Nations has also set sustainable development goals (SDGs) which were to be achieved by 2030. HP has institutionalised SDGs through budgetary support and we look forward to meeting these goals in a record time,” he added.Agriculture minister Virender Kanwar said due to the hilly topography, the area suitable for cultivation was less, thus greater stress must be laid on crop diversification to increase farmers income.He said the new phase of the HPCDP would have the JICA loan component of ₹ 807.3 crore while the state’s share would be ₹203.3 crore.Chief representative of JICA-India Saito Mitsunori said the project is aimed at sustainable and climate resilient agriculture development and it also has a component of technical solution.Secretary agriculture Ajay Kumar Sharma said the targeted rise in gross income per hectare is expected to be ₹2.5 lakh at the end of the project from the existing ₹55,000 per hectare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-launches-phase-2-of-crop-diversification-project-in-himachal-101637090371675.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Special CBI judge Panchkula among 11 shifted||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday transferred 11 Haryana judicial officers, including special CBI judge Panchkula Sushil Kumar Garg.As per an order issued by registrar general of the high court, Garg was transferred as additional district and sessions judge, Fatehabad.Presiding officer, industrial tribunal-cum-labour court-1, Faridabad, Sudhir was posted as special CBI judge, Panchkula.Narnaul district and sessions judge Ravi Kumar Sondhi was transferred to Faridabad as presiding officer industrial tribunal-cum-labour court-1. Additional district and sessions judge, Ambala, Rajneesh Bansal replaced Sondhi as Narnaul district and sessions judge.District and sessions judge, Karnal, Jagdeep Jain was posted as presiding officer, industrial tribunal-cum-labour court-II, Gurugram. Member secretary, state legal services authority, Chandigarh, Puneesh Jindia replaced Jain as Karnal district and sessions judge.Fatehabad additional district and sessions judge Surender Kumar was posted as member secretary, state legal services authority, Chandigarh.Additional district and sessions judge, Gurugram, Aman Deep Dewan was transferred as Narnaul additional district and sessions judge, replacing Mona Singh who was posted as Gurugram district and sessions judge.Presiding officer, industrial tribunal-cum-labour court-II, Gurugram, Amrit Singh was posted as additional district and sessions judge, Faridabad as an additional officer.Sirsa additional district and sessions judge Rajesh Sharma was posted as Gurugram additional district and sessions judge as an additional officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-cbi-judge-panchkula-among-11-shifted-101637090370528.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster, aide sentenced to life term in 2014 Jaitu double murder||A gangster and his aide were sentenced to life imprisonment after the Faridkot additional sessions court on Tuesday pronounced them guilty of murdering two men on the outskirts of Jaitu town in 2014 following old rivalry between two groups. The court acquitted 10 others for want of evidence. Additional sessions judge Jagdeep Singh Marok convicted Gurbaksh Singh and Ginderjit Singh, both residents of Sewewala village, for murder and sentenced them to rigorous imprisonment for life along with ₹40,000 fine each. On March 30, 2014, Maninder Singh, 25, and Sukhpal Singh, 45, were shot dead from close range to avenge the murder of gangster Ranjit Singh Sewewala by his brother Gurbaksh and his aides. Jaitu police had booked 14 persons for murder and rioting on the basis of a complaint filed by Sohan Singh. They included gangster Davinder Bambiha, gangster Ajmer Singh, alias Jimmy Sidhu, Ginderjit Singh, Gurbaksh Singh, Sharanjeet Singh, Sakatar Singh, Roop Singh, Ramndeep Singh, Nachatar Singh, Kulwant Singh, Jagroop Singh, Gurjeet Singh, Harjinder Singh and Sukhwinder Kaur. While Bambiha was killed in an encounter by Bathinda police in 2016, Jimmy was killed by Faridkot police in a separate encounter the same year. On April 9, 2013, about 25 to 30 people, allegedly led by Ranjit Singh, had attacked Sadhu Singh of Sewewala village, at his shop in Jaitu. When he, along with his son, grandsons and a relative, tried to run, they were chased and thrashed at the Ramleela ground in Jaitu. Sadhu and the other injured were admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. Later, Ranjit and his brother Gurbaksh Singh were also admitted to the hospital. Enraged by the incident, Sadhu’s nephew Chamkaur Singh shot Ranjit dead in the hospital. Later, Ranjit’s brother Gurbaksh became the leader of the group and avenged his brother’s death by killing Chamkaur’s brother and nephew. Chamkaur was sentenced to life imprisonment in Ranjit’s murder case in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-aide-sentenced-to-life-term-in-2014-jaitu-double-murder-101637090310715.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ways to strengthen legislative practices to be discussed at AIPOC: Om Birla||The All India Presiding Officers’ Conference (AIPOC) will deliberate on the ways to further strengthen the legislative practices and democratic set up in the country, said Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on his arrival in Shimla on Tuesday. Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly is hosting the conference, which will begin on Wednesday, at its historic council chamber building. AIPOC is the apex body of the legislatures in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the inaugural session of the AIPOC. “AIPOC will deliberate on the methods to strengthen the legislative institutions and the democratic setup in our country,” Birla said while interacting with the media. The Speaker said it would also discuss to make these legislative and democratic institutions more accountable to the public and how they can be used for the larger public welfare. “And, I hope this conference will be decisive in achieving these objectives,” he said, adding that the conference is important as the presiding officers would also deliberate on the constitutional values.The Lok Sabha Speaker was received by Himachal Pradesh assembly speaker Vipin Singh Parmar and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj.Bhardwaj said it was a proud movement for Himachal to host centennial conference. Nearly 400 delegates, including the 70 members from the parliament, speakers and deputy speakers of all state assemblies, members of Himachal Pradesh assembly, presiding officers, deputy presiding officers and secretaries would be in attendance. Besides, one government official each from all states, union territories, legislative councils and assemblies will also be present. The first AIPOC was held in Shimla on December 15 and 16 in 1921.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ways-to-strengthen-legislative-institutions-to-will-be-discussed-at-aipoc-om-birla-101637090249943.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 10 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Tuesday reported 10 fresh cases taking the infection count to 6,02,835, according to a medical bulletin. With no Covid-related death reported, the death toll stood at 16,573, it said, adding that the state’s positivity rate remained 0.04%. The number of active cases in the state also came down to 302, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, two were detected each in Bathinda, Pathankot and Mohali. With 27 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 585958 in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-reports-10-fresh-covid-cases-101637090191397.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||This year till September, rural Haryana witnessed more deaths than urban areas||Deaths registered till September this year have been higher in rural Haryana than the urban areas, according to government data which also show that 39% of total fatalities in first nine months were recorded in May-June during the deadly second wave of Covid-19.Every district in state has recorded unusually more deaths (irrespective of their cause) than they would have been in a normal year, in what is a clear sign of the devastation the Covid-19 pandemic caused.While 38% total deaths (1,01,456) registered in rural areas of Haryana were reported in just May and June this year, near 39% urban deaths (96,506) were recorded in May-June, according to the data that the Haryana health department supplied under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.During the pre-pandemic 2019, Haryana had registered total 1,88,910 deaths (1,19,360 male and 69,550 female). In 2020, total deaths recorded in Haryana rose to 2,12,214 (23,304 more deaths in 2020 than 2019).In 2020, the number of registered deaths in comparison to 2019 rose in every district, but in Rohtak, 15,940 deaths were recorded in 2019 and 15,061 in 2020.Till September this year, the number of deaths (due to any cause, including Covid-19) registered in Haryana has already reached 1,97,962 (1,01,456 in rural areas and 96,506 in urban). And, of the total deaths till September this year, 1,21,056 are males and 76,906 females.The data received under the RTI Act doesn’t reveal the cause of death and the cause of these deaths are multiple, including Covid-19.According to deputy director (health services) Dr PK Singh, a higher number of deaths have been registered in rural areas so far this year in Haryana. “The death is registered at the place where it took place and the cause of death is not disclosed on the death registration portal,” Dr Singh said.As per the health bulletin data, almost 50% of the total deaths in Haryana due to coronavirus had taken place in May, the deadliest month ever since the Wuhan virus was detected in Haryana last year in February.In April, Haryana had recorded the second highest 1,061 fatalities due to Covid-19. On the other hand, till May 31, 2020, the death toll in Haryana due to Covid-19 was 20 and it began increasing in following months with the virus claiming 16 lives in June, 639 in November and 477 in December.Rural vs urbanA health department functionary said more deaths registered during the second year of the pandemic in rural areas points towards people not going to urban health institutions due to Covid.“Such patients of rural areas who needed regular treatment/healthcare succumbed to the diseases (other than Covid) in their homes or in health institutions in their vicinity,” the official said.In January this year, 17,929 deaths were registered across state, which included 9,397 in rural areas and 8,532 in urban. February saw 16,985 deaths (8,929 rural and 8056 urban), March recorded 15,563 deaths (7,560 rural and 8,003 urban), and the number rose to 19,157 (9,130 rural and 10,027 urban) in April.In May, when the pandemic was causing havoc, Haryana registered total 45,587 deaths (21,683 rural and 23,904 urban), the number of deaths recorded came down to 30,750 (17,231 rural and 13,519 urban) in June.In July, August and September, more deaths were recorded in rural areas even as during these three months 26% of the total deaths in nine months were registered.In an indication of Covid-19 increasing the number of deaths, in May, Ambala recorded 1,669 deaths, Bhiwani (1,988), Faridabad (3,891), Gurugram (3,562), Hisar (4,180), Jhajjar (2,682), Jind (2,158), Rohtak (2,664), Sirsa (2,080), Sonepat ( 2,927), and Karnal (1,969).“The health institutions were unable to admit/treat patients suffering from ailments other than Covid-19. One thing is clear that rural area patients could not come to the urban health institutions due to the pandemic. This appears to be one of the reasons behind rural areas recording deaths higher than urban belts this year,” a health official said, refusing to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-year-till-september-rural-haryana-witnessed-more-deaths-than-urban-areas-101637090071346.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet meeting: Punjab to give free school uniforms to general category boys||The Punjab government will give uniforms to nearly 2.66 lakh boys belonging to the general category and studying in Classes 1 to 8 at state-run schools.The decision was taken by the Punjab cabinet led by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi with an aim to increase enrolment, reduce dropout rate and attract students to government schools, an official statement said here.The government will spend about ₹15.98 crore in current financial year on providing uniforms to students, it added.Presently, the school education department is providing free uniforms costing up to ₹600 per student to all girls and boys belonging to the SC and BPL categories.Chairs to be set up in GNDU, Pbi varsity The cabinet also accorded approval for setting up Sant Kabir, Jeevan Singh/Jaita and Makhan Shah Lubana chairs in Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; and Guru Ravidas and Bhagwan Valmiki chairs in Punjabi University, Patiala. Another chair will be set up soon in the name of Bhagwan Parashuram, the statement said.Restructuring of election department Approval was given for recruitment of 898 permanent posts in the office of chief electoral officer (CEO), Punjab, at Chandigarh and 23 posts in the district election offices. 117 posts of electoral registration officers are part of the restructuring plan. The plan also includes 767 existing employees working on outsourced and part-time basis converted in regular posts. The Cabinet also gave approval for requisite staff for newly created Malerkotla district. Recruitment at BFUHS The cabinet gave nod to the recruitment of 1,101 sanctioned vacancies of paramedical staff and group-C posts in Government Medical Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar and Government Dental Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot. These posts will be filled on a merit basis through a written test. It was also decided to take these posts out of the purview of Subordinate Service Selection Board. Increase in financial aid for cane growers For economic viability of private sugar mills and timely payment of state agreed price (SAP) on sugarcane to the farmers in the current crushing season, the cabinet gave approval to provide the financial assistance at rate of ₹35 per quintal to the sugarcane farmers out of SAP on behalf of private sugar mills. This amount would be deposited directly into the bank accounts of the farmers. On November 1, the Channi government had decided that out of increase of ₹50 per quintal of sugarcane price, the private sugar mills shall pay 30% (Rs. 15) and 70% of the increased SAP (Rs. 35) will be transferred directly into the bank accounts by the state government. The Council of Ministers also gave nod to amend the guidelines to obtain ex-post facto approval and approval for new work from the cabinet regarding revision of guidelines for utilisation of funds under Punjab Nirman Programme (PNP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-meeting-punjab-govt-to-give-free-school-uniforms-to-general-category-boys-101637090010116.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||SC dismisses plea challenging Dinkar Gupta’s appointment as Punjab DGP||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed the petitions filed by DGPs Sidharth Chattopadhyaya and Mohd Mustafa (now retired) challenging the appointment of 1987-batch Indian Police Service officer Dinkar Gupta as the Punjab Police chief by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government in 2019. The development is seen as a setback for Chattopadhaya, considered a frontrunner for the post of Punjab DGP, the appointment of which is expected in the next few days. The camp led by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been strongly backing Chattopadhyaya’s candidature for the post. It was under the Sidhu faction’s pressure that Chattopadhaya was appointed chief director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Punjab, last month. The judgment pronounced by Justice L Nageswara Rao dismissed the appeals filed by Chattopadhyay and Mustafa. “The appeals are dismissed in terms of the signed reportable judgment. Pending application(s) if any shall stand disposed of,” reads the three -member bench also comprising Justice Sanjiv Khanna and Justice BR Gavai. The court had reserved judgment in the case on September 15. Gupta had superseded five officers Dinkar Gupta was appointed the Punjab director general of police (DGP) in 2019. Both Mustafa, a 1985-batch IPS officer, and Chattopadhyaya, 1986-batch IPS officer, had challenged Gupta’s appointment with claims that the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) ignored seniority while sending the panel of officers to the state government and made tailor-made rules to include Gupta in the panel sent to it by it to the Punjab government. Gupta had superseded five senior officers, including Mustafa and Chattopadhyaya. After both the officers challenged the appointment in the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), this court had quashed Gupta’a appointment. However, the Punjab and Haryana high court in January 2020 stayed the CAT orders. The UPSC is said to have taken a strong stand while including Gupta’s name, citing two factors, the length and range of service in the previous 10 years of service at the time of the names were considered for the post. Gupta was removed as DGP after change in dispensation in the Congress government with Charanjit Singh Channi replacing Amarinder as the chief minister. A 1988-batch IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota is holding the additional charge of the DGP every since Gupta was posted chairman of the Punjab Police Housing Corporation. Even as the detailed judgment in the case has still not been uploaded on the website of the apex court, it is bound to have bearing on the selection of the new DGP. The Channi-led state government has already sent panel of nine officers to the UPSC for the appointment of the new DGP on September 30 with Chattopadhyaya the senior-most in the panel. “As in the pleas police officers also opposed the contention of the empanelment committee, which had sent a report to the UPSC, saying the officers lacked experience in core policing areas, it would be interesting to see what stand the UPSC takes to successfully defend Chattopadhaya’s pleas,” a senior home department functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-dismisses-plea-challenging-dinkar-gupta-s-appointment-as-punjab-dgp-101637089831276.html
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin man jailed for life for stabbing wife to death in UK||An Indian-origin man has been sentenced to life imprisonment by a UK court after being convicted of murder by a unanimous jury for stabbing his wife to death in Milton Keynes area of south-east England.Anil Gill, 47, was arrested on suspicion of the murder of 43-year-old Ranjit Gill by Thames Valley Police after being called to the couple’s home in January this year by the suspect.Officers discovered Ranjit lying wrapped in a duvet and bin bags in the garage of the property with significant injuries and it was soon obvious that she had been deceased for some time. A post-mortem examination determined that Ranjit had died as a result of multiple stab wounds.In February, Anil was charged with one count of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment at Luton Crown Court on Friday. He must serve a minimum of 22 years behind bars before being eligible for parole.“The only sentence for murder is life imprisonment,” said detective inspector Nicola Douglas of Thames Valley Police’s Major Crime Unit – the senior investigation officer in the case, who described the murder as “ruthless and cold-blooded”.“I am satisfied the minimum term to be served of 22 years reflects the severity of this awful crime. I would like to again pay tribute and thank the family of Ranjit who have shown such dignity in the most terrible of circumstances,” she said.According to Thames Valley Police, throughout the trial Anil claimed that he was not guilty of murder, but admitted to manslaughter, accepting he had unlawfully killed Ranjit. Anil denied he had intended to cause her serious harm and also put forward the partial defence of loss of control because of things he said Ranjit had said and done to him.The court heard that Anil stabbed his wife at least 18 times. He then spent several hours cleaning up the scene, wrapping Ranjit’s body in bin bags and moving her to the garage, before showering and going to bed. Later that day is when he called the police to say what he had done, while making excuses and blaming his dead wife for his actions.“No one should have to suffer domestic abuse and we would encourage anyone who is being abused to please report it.” Ranjit’s brother Raj Sagoo spoke of the void left behind in the family’s life since the death of his sister.Ranjit’s sisters Kamel Aujla, Tejinder McCann, Harminder Sahni and niece Monica Aujla also paid tribute to a “beautiful, amazing” person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-man-jailed-for-life-for-stabbing-wife-to-death-in-uk-101637089651179.html
17-11-2021||Noida||5 held for stealing over 300 cellphones worth ₹60L from Greater Noida showroom||Five men were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stealing 364 smartphones worth ₹60 lakh from a multi-brand showroom in Greater Noida’s Surajpur on the night of Diwali (November 5) this year, police said.The theft took place at ‘Noor Communication’ in Surajpur’s Saifi Market between 1:12am and 1:45am on November 5, said the 31-year-old shop owner, Irfan Khan, in his complaint. According to Khan, he closed the showroom at 11pm and returned home -- around 100 meters away from the showroom.“There is a gym in the building where my showroom is. Next morning, the gym instructor reached there at 5am and informed me that the showroom’s shutter was damaged. I reached there immediately and found that all the cellphones in my showroom had been stolen,” Khan said.Thieves had also damaged the CCTV cameras there, and taken away the DVR.Haris Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a case was registered against the suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 380 (burglary) and 457 (house-trespass) at the local police station on November 5.“A police team identified the suspects’ car after scanning multiple CCTV footage in the neighbourhood where the incident took place. They were also seen in camera footage at a toll plaza on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, as they were travelling to Haryana,” Chander said.Police received a tip about the movement of the suspects near Tilapta roundabout in Greater Noida, Chander said on Tuesday. “A police team reached the spot and made the suspects stop their car. During a search, the police team recovered 177 stolen smart cellphones worth ₹30 lakh, ₹6,000 cash, a car, three fake registration number plates; two each iron rods, screw drivers and live cartridges; and one each LCD, DVR, fake insurance certificate, pollution under control (PUC) certificate, countrymade gun and master key to break locks from their possession,” he said.The suspects -- identified as Rashid (goes by first name), 25, Irfan Mohammad, 26, Sohail, 24, Shabir alias Gidad, 24, Hakimuddin alias Hakku, 23 -- all residents of Nuh, Mewat in Haryana.During investigation, the suspects revealed that they had targeted to steal valuables from the showroom randomly.Initially, the shop owner had informed the police that nearly 600 smartphones worth ₹2 crore were stolen from the showroom, however, following an audit later, he said that 364 phones worth ₹60 lakh were stolen there. “These smartphones were from authorised distributors and we have all the documents with us. We also had some cellphones from local dealers, and we do not have the exact count of those... We welcome the police investigation and swift arrest. We got to know that the cellphones recovered during the search are in the low-price range. Some costly cellphones stolen from the showroom have not been recovered yet,” Khan said.The suspects revealed during interrogation that they had stolen 308 cellphones in total. “They have sold some cellphones... Two more persons are also involved in the gang, and police are conducting searches to arrest them and recover the remaining smartphones at the earliest,” Chander said, adding that the suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/5-held-for-stealing-over-300-cellphones-worth-60l-from-greater-noida-showroom-101637089595786.html
17-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Work on road to link Delhi-Meerut Expressway and NH-235 to start soon||Commuters travelling on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) will soon be able to seamlessly move on to National Highway 235 (NH-235) to journey onwards from Meerut to Hapur and Bulandshahr as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) plans to link the two stretches with a 14.6km four-lane highway. The NHAI officials said the agency for building the connecting highway has been selected and a letter of acceptance has also been issued for the work, which is estimated to cost about ₹309 crore. The road is expected to be ready in two years, the NHAI said.The 60km DME connects Delhi to Meerut, while the 62km NH-235, which was made operational last year, connects Meerut with Hapur and Bulandshahr. The NHAI officials said the link road will start about eight kilometres before the Kashi toll plaza (under phase 4 of the DME) in Meerut and this will connect further to NH-235 near the Meerut-Hapur Road. The agency for the work has been selected and, after completion of some document formalities, it is likely that the work will start from December or January 2022,” said Arvind Kumar, deputy general manager, NHAI. “Both sides of the 14.6km link road will be joined by loops which will help ease the flow of traffic between the DME and NH-235,” he further said. Officials also said the new link will be four-laned and is likely to be ready in two years. “Commuters will further benefit as there is a plan to link DME to the proposed Ganga Expressway, six-lane access-controlled expressway that has been proposed to connect Meerut and Prayagraj. In this regard, we have written to the state government to build another 3km link road — the 14.6km link will connect the DME to NH-235 and the 3km extension branch of the road will further connect to the Ganga Expressway. Essentially, this will link the two expressways,” said another officer from NHAI, asking not to be named. The officials said once the plans are finalised, commuters of DME and NH-235 will be able to get expressway connectivity to areas such as Kanpur and Prayagraj over a distance of about 1,020km and will considerably improve connectivity between western and eastern Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-work-on-road-to-link-delhi-meerut-expressway-and-nh-235-to-start-soon-101637089594730.html
17-11-2021||Noida||Dengue tally reaches 587 in Gautam Budh Nagar but cases dipping, say officials||Cases of dengue have started declining in Gautam Budh Nagar, officials said on Tuesday, even as seven fresh cases were reported in the district, taking the tally to 587.According to health officials, active cases of dengue in the district have also declined with 22 patients currently under treatment.Dr Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer of Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The active dengue cases, as well as fresh cases of the vector-borne disease, are on a decline this month. In fact, the cases have almost halved in the second week of November, compared to the first week. Between November 1 and 8, 83 fresh cases of dengue were reported, while only 44 fresh cases were reported between November 9 and 15.” Sharma, however, added that the health department in Gautam Budh Nagar is still on the alert, and has been conducting intensive fogging drives in all dengue hotspot areas.Following the death of a 44-year-old dengue patient, the toll from the disease in the district became two on November 13. The first death was reported on October 19 — a 14-year-old boy died of the vector-borne illness.Medical experts, meanwhile, said the total number of critical dengue patients has also increased in the district this year, as compared to previous years.“This time, more dengue patients are suffering from high-grade fever. There are also more cases of dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome, than in previous years. In such critical cases, the platelet count of a patient deteriorates rapidly and the infection also starts diminishing red blood cells of the person,” said Dr Yatendra Singh, medical superintendent of Bhangel community health centre (CHC), Gautam Budh Nagar.At present, dengue tests are being conducted at District Hospital, Post Graduate Institute of Child Health, and Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida, said the officials.The district health department has been testing at least 300 samples of suspected dengue cases daily, at the sentinel lab in the district hospital in Sector 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-tally-reaches-587-in-gautam-budh-nagar-but-cases-dipping-say-officials-101637089591296.html
17-11-2021||Other||Dev Deepawali: Action against boatmen using drugs while rowing boat||Additional commissioner of police (headquarters and crime) Subhash Chandra Dubey on Tuesday said that strict action would be taken against boatmen if they were found rowing boat after consuming narcotics during Dev Deepawali on November 19.Dubey was holding a meeting with assistant police commissioners, NDRF officers, water police officers, and boatmen regarding the preparations of Dev Deepawali scheduled in Kashi on November 19.“Boatmen have been instructed to display the capacity of their boats and carry passengers accordingly. They have also been instructed to keep lifesaving jackets, torch and a rope in their boats,” said Dubey. “The boatmen have also been asked to behave politely with the passengers,” he added.Dubey said that NDRF personnel had also been instructed not to ply steamer at a fast pace in the Ganga on Dev Deepawali and said that a tight vigil was being maintained on the ghats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dev-deepawali-action-against-boatmen-using-drugs-while-rowing-boat-101637089590141.html
17-11-2021||Noida||Pollution woes: UPSRTC may get more CNG buses for Ghaziabad’s Kaushambi ISBT||The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) is working on a proposal to purchase 130 new CNG buses and officials said anything between 50 and 100 are likely to be given to the interstate bus terminal (ISBT) in Kaushambi, Ghaziabad. The Kaushambi township has already been identified as a pollution hot spot by the UPPCB and residents are pursuing court cases against agencies for their failure to tackle different local sources of pollution affecting their area. Of the 500-odd buses operating from the ISBT, only 125 are CNG-based currently, while the others are running on diesel. Officials of UPSRTC said a proposal to purchase 130 new CNG buses is under consideration at the headquarters and it is likely that the ISBT may get a major share of these buses. “Earlier (in October), we demanded 200 CNG buses, but there is already a proposal to purchase 130 CNG buses which is being considered by the UPSRTC headquarters. So, we will try to procure anything between 50 to 100 of these buses for our ISBT. They will help reduce pollution in Kaushambi. There is another proposal for purchase of 1,000 diesel buses which will be BSVI compliant (more fuel efficient and less polluting) — at present, we are operating BSIV compliant buses,” said AK Singh, regional manager, UPSRTC. “Of these diesel buses, it is likely that the ISBT may get about 100-150 buses. They will be compliant to standards and have much better technology. We are focussing on reducing pollution and congestion in the area and we have also scaled down operations of buses to about 500 at present as against 750 earlier. During the Covid period we operated 1,700 buses on a daily basis,” Singh said. The Kaushambi township is located opposite the ISBT with barely a distance of about 50 metres between them. The presence of the ISBT and the resultant congestion lead to frequent pollution spikes in the locality. The Kaushambi Apartments RWA (Karwa) had challenged the operations of diesel buses in a petition filed in 2015 before the National Green Tribunal. “There have been directions from the tribunal to deploy CNG buses in Kaushambi as diesel buses emanate pollutants which affect our township. We also moved the Supreme Court last year against the different pollution sources affecting our township. We want diesel buses operating from the ISBT removed and we will continue our fight against pollution,” said VK Mittal, president, Karwa. The township comprises 22 high-rises and is also surrounded by Delhi’s Anand Vihar ISBT, the Ghazipur landfill site and the Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area — all these entities together making Kaushambi a pollution hot spot. In their winter action plan chalked out in October, the UP Pollution Control Board had identified Kaushambi as one of the ten hot spots in Ghaziabad city while the other nine were Sahibabad, Raj Nagar Extension, Delhi-Meerut Road, Loni, Bhopra-Delhi border, south side of GT Road, Sanjay Nagar, Vasundhara, and Siddharth Vihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pollution-woes-upsrtc-may-get-more-cng-buses-for-ghaziabad-s-kaushambi-isbt-101637089534547.html
17-11-2021||Noida||2 construction workers die after basement wall of a building collapses in Noida||Two labourers died after the basement wall of a four-storey building in Noida Sector 2 collapsed on Monday evening.The victims -- identified as Atul Das, 45, and Anil Mukhiya, 30, -- who were natives of Durgapur in West Bengal and Darbhanga in Bihar, respectively, lived in Barola village in Noida. The duo was engaged in some construction work to prevent dampness in the building, when the incident took place.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the incident took place at Block A in Sector 2 -- under the jurisdiction of Sector 20 police station -- at 8pm on Monday. “There is a four-storey building in which three workers were engaged in construction work in the basement. The basement wall suddenly collapsed, in which two workers were injured,” Singh said.Security guards of the building raised an alarm, and informed the police about the incident. The two injured workers were taken to the district hospital where doctors declared them dead.Das is survived by his 40-year-old wife Jatotsna (goes by first name), and two sons -- Anant Das, 19, and Sushant Das, 17. They live in a rented accommodation in Noida.Anant said that his mother had spoken to his father over the cellphone at 6pm on Monday. “My father had said that he was at the construction site, and the contractor had made him stay back for some overtime construction work, and that he would be late to return home,” he said.Police called Anant at 8:30pm on Monday and asked him to reach the district hospital. “I found my father dead at the hospital. He had suffered injuries in his head and abdomen after the wall collapsed on him,” Anant added.Mukhiya’s cousin Ravindra Kumar, 32, said that the victim and his 28-year-old wife, Dropadi, lived in a rented accommodation in Noida. “Mukhiya’s wife is pregnant... She is inconsolable after the incident took place. We demand that the police take strict action against the accused,” he said.The four-storey building titled ‘Landmark’ houses some Information Technology (IT) firms and an event management company.Rakesh Verma, caretaker of the building, said that the property owner was in the United States at the time of the incident. “We wanted to fix the damp in the building wall, and so, we hired a contractor -- Rajan -- who engaged some workers to fix the damp. The workers have been working here for nearly a month,” Verma said, adding that the management is in talks with the kin of the victims to provide them a due compensation.Singh, meanwhile, said that the contractor and a third worker, yet to be identified, had fled the spot after the wall collapsed, instead of helping the victims. “We will register a case of death due to negligence against the duo and arrest them,” he said, adding that the victims’ family has not filed a written complaint against anyone yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-construction-workers-die-after-basement-wall-of-a-building-collapses-in-noida-101637089532360.html
17-11-2021||Noida||UPPCB’s survey to identify bad roads in Ghaziabad; to penalise erring agencies||With the extended deadline for completing road repair works ending on November 15, the officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said on Tuesday that they have started a survey to identify the stretches where work is pending and to levy an environment compensation cost (ECC) from the errant agencies. The Ghaziabad city has been reeling under severe air pollution with the daily air quality index (AQI), recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), oscillating between “very poor” and “severe” categories since October 31. The city on Tuesday recorded an AQI of 356 while neighbouring Greater Noida and Noida recorded an AQI of 361 and 397, respectively, all figures falling in the “very poor” category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The officials of the UPPCB said bad roads also contribute to pollution and were to be repaired by November 15. “As the extended deadline — the original one was October 31 — has also expired, we have started a survey to identify the bad roads that are left to be repaired and levy an ECC from the errant agencies. The sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management has also directed us to identify dusty roads,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB. When Hindustan Times made a cursory tour of the city, the team found bad stretches in Govindpuram, Patel Nagar 2, GT Road, Vijay Nagar link road, and BS Road industrial area, among others. The roads in all these parts are maintained by different agencies. The sub-committee, in its latest directions, issued on November 13, has reiterated that states and agencies must increase the frequency of mechanised road cleaning and sprinkling of water, besides identification of road stretches having high dust generation. “Bad road patches are a common feature in Ghaziabad and they cause high levels of dust emission, besides leading to snarls and posing a risk to commuters. Such patches lead to an increase in PM10 pollutant and also indirectly cause an increase in PM2.5 level — they cause snarls which lead to more vehicular emissions. The repair work should have been taken up on war footing before the start of the winter,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers or less and is inhalable into the lungs. PM2.5 is finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream.The officials of agencies such as the Ghaziabad municipal corporation and public works department (PWD) said they have completed a majority of the work, but some portions remain. “We have completed 98.2% of repair work but the work of resurfacing roads is left and it is estimated that about 20 to 22 roads are yet to be resurfaced. Since there is a ban on the operation of hot mix plants at present, we are unable to complete the work. Further, the extended monsoon and festival season also hampered the work progress,” said NK Chaudhary, chief engineer, Ghaziabad municipal corporation. The sub-committee in their latest directions had also called for the closure of all hot mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR. The officials of the PWD also said they have completed about 80% of the work on the roads maintained by them and the remaining work is being held up by the ban on hot mix plants. “We need some more days to complete the work as there is a ban on hot mix plants and these works can be taken up only when the ban is lifted. We have also come to know that the deadline of November 15 is likely to be extended by another 15 days. But we are waiting for the written orders from the state officials. There were a lot of factors which affected the works and the UPPCB should consider these before levying any fine from us,” said Vimal Kumar, executive engineer, PWD. On November 9, the pollution control board had taken cognisance of the under-construction CISF Road in Indirapuram and levied a cost of ₹25 lakh on UP Jal Nigam for not completing the work, while giving the agency the liberty to recover the cost from its contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uppcbs-survey-to-identify-bad-roads-in-ghaziabad-to-penalise-erring-agencies-101637089529923.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Pollution: Delhi govt to hire 1,000 buses to augment DTC fleet||The Delhi government will hire 1,000 private buses to augment the public transport fleet and curtail the use of private vehicles so as to reduce vehicular pollution and improve the city’s air quality, which has remained “very poor” or “hazardous” since Diwali (November 4).Transport minister Kailash Gahlot held a meeting on Tuesday with private transporters to get them on board with the plan. “In order to curb vehicular pollution, the people of Delhi are requested to shift from personal vehicles to public transport. With a view to augment public transport, the Delhi government is in the process of hiring around 1,000 private buses for a period of one month,” he said after the meeting. The air quality in Delhi went back to the severe zone after remaining in the very poor zone for two days. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings, the average air quality index of Delhi on Tuesday was 403, in the severe zone. On Monday, the AQI was 353, categorised as very poor. According to the affidavit submitted by the Centre before the Supreme Court on Monday, 28% of the city’s PM2.5 levels during winters is contributed by the transport sector in Delhi. The contribution of vehicles to the PM10 level is around 24%, the affidavit said. Delhi has more than 10 million registered vehicles and thousands more enter or pass through the national capital every day. Compared to that, the city has only about 6,700 buses (Delhi Transport Corporation-run buses and privately operated orange cluster buses). PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers or less and is inhalable into the lungs. PM2.5 is finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream, according to health experts.Gahlot also announced that owing to the improved Covid-19 situation and to control pollution from private vehicles, the government has moved a proposal before the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to allow standing passengers on buses and the Delhi Metro. “We have requested the DDMA to modify the current order prohibiting the same. I request all Delhi residents to cooperate and shift to public transport,” he said. When allowed to operate at full capacity, including standing passengers, the DTC and cluster buses together carry about 4.2 million people every day, while the Delhi Metro carries about 2.3 million passengers, government officials in the know of the matter said.The Delhi government has hired private buses in the past as well, to augment public transport during the odd-even car rationing scheme in November 2019 to combat pollution. That time, the government set a target of hiring 2,000 such buses which were a mix of school buses and all-india permit tourist buses. However, even then, it could hire only about 1,000 buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollutiondelhi-govt-to-hire-1-000-buses-to-augment-dtcfleet-101637089471769.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two snatchers arrested after brief encounter with police||Two men who allegedly committed a string of snatchings and robberies in the national capital were arrested after a brief encounter with the police early Tuesday.Police identified the suspects as Manish Poddar (25) and Nirala (24). Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Rohini, Pranav Tayal said a team from the KN Katju Marg police station was formed to nab the two men. The team was deployed near KNK Marg when they came that way on a motorcycle that had no rear number plate, he said.“On Monday, around 7.30pm, a trap was laid and finally around 1am, Poddar and Nirala came riding that way. When the police team tried to apprehend them and asked them to surrender, they tried to dodge the police and flee. The pillion rider opened fire at the police and they returned the fire, injuring the pillion rider in the right leg. A policeman, constable Rakesh, was also injured,” said DCP Tayal.Constable Rakesh and Poddar were taken to BSA hospital for treatment. Subsequently, a case was registered and the duo arrested.Police said Poddar is a notorious criminal with at least 37 cases to his name, including two cases of attack on police. During his interrogation, he allegedly disclosed that he along with his associate Nirala and others have committed about 15 snatchings and robberies in Rohini area alone. Police said Nirala is also wanted for 19 cases of theft, snatching, robbery and cases under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-two-snatchers-arrested-after-brief-encounter-with-police-101637089410436.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Govt aims to bring Delhi’s per capita income on par with Singapore’s: Sisodia||The Delhi government’s aim is to raise the per capita income of Delhi to be on a par with that of Singapore by the year 2047, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday, while taking part in a virtual meeting chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. He said Delhi’s growth rate has reached 11-12% in the last six years and the per capita income is three times the national average. Tuesday’s meeting was aimed at improving the country’s economy and accelerating the pace of development in states, officials in the know of the matter said.“Delhi’s contribution to the country’s GDP is 4.4% despite having only 1.49% of the country’s population. The service sector accounts for 85% of Delhi’s gross domestic product (GDP). The Kejriwal government’s special focus is on health, education and environment. But, the lack of land with the Delhi government is the biggest challenge in the all-round development of the city. We expect cooperation from the central government on this,” Sisodia said.On the infrastructure front, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government said it is redesigning 540km of roads in Delhi, at a cost of ₹11,000 crore. “The Delhi government is currently funding this project with its own funds, but it expects the Centre to contribute as well. People from all over the world visit Delhi, India’s capital, and they should have a positive impression of the country after seeing the roads here,” he said.Sisodia also apprised the Union finance minister of the slew of measures his government has taken, including implementation of the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy, to tackle rising pollution. He observed that e-vehicles are adopted in such large numbers in developed countries because these countries also invest in setting up a large number of charging stations and necessary infrastructure. He said his government also intends to make Delhi the country’s e-vehicle capital.“The Delhi government requires the Centre and Delhi development Authority (DDA)’s cooperation in this direction because the DDA owns the majority of land in Delhi. The Delhi government has purchased 1,000 e-buses in order to reduce pollution. In the coming days, the Delhi government intends to purchase 4,000-5,000 more e-buses, for which the central government will be required to cooperate,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-aims-to-bring-delhi-s-per-capita-income-on-par-with-singaporessisodia-101637089170481.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Local eateries team up with Robinhood Army to feed hungry||Poor and homeless in Sangam city will not sleep empty stomach anymore, courtesy joint efforts of the Prayagraj unit of Robinhood Army and the officials of the Food Safety and Drug Administration department (FSDA) of the district. Following the noble work being by the Robinhood Army for the past two years, the district administration has decided to come forward and further strengthen the bond between the ‘army for the poor’ and the restaurants of the district. The eateries have agreed to part with the remaining amount of food that goes waste at their respective establishment and the same would be distributed to homeless and downtrodden by the volunteers of the Robinhood Army, said officials. The FSDA officials had arranged a meeting of the Robinhood Army representatives and the office bearers of the hotel and restaurant association of the city. “Although, we were in contact with some of the prominent hotel and restaurants of the city but due to Covid-19 in 2020 and 2021, the businesses of hotels and restaurants were adversely affected and impacted collections too,” said Narendra Tiwari, a senior member of the Robinhood Army. He said that there are around 250 active volunteers of the ‘army’ and presently the sticker drive is being carried out by the team of these volunteers who visits the guest houses of the city on every Sunday and paste the stickers at prominent and noticeable places of the guest houses. “Through the stickers we try to communicate the numbers that the people using these guest houses for hosting marriage and birthday functions can contact us if they have leftover food. The food, which the donor wants to give us, should be minimum for 25 people with no maximum limit,” said Tiwari. He added that the sticker drive has already covered around 90 guest houses of the prominent localities of the city including Daraganj, Kydganj, Allahapur, Sobatiyabagh, Talierganj etc while 90 odd more guest houses marriage halls would be contacted soon. “We attend the calls till around 11pm also and after that, we request callers to preserve the food that is picked up early next morning. We taste the food and if it is fit to be consumed, then we distribute it to the needy living in the vicinity of the food collection site,” Tripathi said. Prayagraj’s Chief Food Safety Officer, Department of Food Safety and drug administration, KK Tripathi said, “The department is trying to play the role of a bridge between the hotels, restaurants and this noble NGO from time to time. Such meetings are held to spread awareness about the noble work of this ‘army’ and how hotels and restaurants can play an important role in the same”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/local-eateries-team-up-with-robinhood-army-to-feed-hungry-101637089051515.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Four held for assaulting policeman in Gurugram||Police late Sunday night arrested four inebriated persons for allegedly abusing and assaulting a policeman after he stopped them from creating a ruckus on the road in Sikanderpur, DLF Phase 1. Police said the suspects tore his uniform too. Police said they received a call at the police control room around 9.40pm from commuters who informed them that four persons were abusing people in the area and dancing in the middle of the road. Police said they were not letting vehicles cross the stretch. Police said a team from the DLF Phase 1 police station reached the spot and asked the suspects to stop making noise, following which they started abusing them, caught hold of a constable of the team and slapped him, said police. Naresh Kumar, station house officer of DLF Phase 1 police station, said that the suspects also tore the uniform of the constable, who is the complainant in the case. “One of the group members, a woman, was under the influence of liquor and was randomly abusing people,” he said. “When I asked them to stop they started abusing me and other team members. They not only slapped me but also tore my uniform and also threatened to kill me. They pushed me onto the ground, following which I raised an alarm,” he said. Another police team reached the spot within minutes and arrested the suspects. They were identified as Soritot Yimchunger, Ikelungbe, Rasamyi Pame, and Rimna Hungle Newme. Police said three of them are from Manipur while one is from Nagaland. They live in a rented accommodation in Sikanderpur, one of them is a music teacher while two others work as waiters in a hotel. Newme works as a beautician with an online beauty parlour, police said. Police have registered an FIR against the four persons under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public function), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant) 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 34 (common intention), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code at DLF Phase 1 police station. Kumar said all four were sent to 14 days of judicial custody on Monday after being produced before the local court. The injured constable is being treated in a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-held-for-assaulting-policeman-in-gurugram-101637089050086.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: FB officials to depose before Assembly panel on November 18||Facebook India is set to depose before the Delhi assembly’s committee on peace and harmony on November 18, the panel’s chairperson and AAP Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha said in a statement on Tuesday. The panel is conducting an inquiry into the communal riots that hit Delhi in February last year, killing 53 people and injuring over 400 others. The committee initially asked Facebook to send a senior representative to depose before it on November 2, but the social media firm sought two weeks’ time, noting that it is selecting an appropriate executive to represent it.“The summons were issued by the committee to Facebook India to depose its views on the critical role of social media in preventing the spread of false, provocative, and malicious messages that can incite violence and disharmony,” Chadha said.The statement said that Chadha will convene the committe’s meeting in Delhi Vidhan Sabha at 12.30pm on Thursday. “The proceedings of the committee will be streamed live in view of transparency,” said the statement.Facebook India’s public policy director Shivnath Thukral and director (legal) GV Anand Bhushan will appear before Delhi assembly’s committee.Thukral, in an official letter, wrote, “We again thank you for the opportunity to appear before the Committee on Peace and Harmony to provide our views to assist the committee in its aims to recommend preventative and remedial measures concerning issues of governance, social cohesion, unity, brotherhood and peace and to strengthen overall social and economic development through communal harmony. Facebook shares the committee’s aim to improve harmony among religious communities, linguistic communities, and social groups.”In October 2020, the Delhi legislative assembly panel told the Supreme Court that it had summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director as a witness to ascertain the social media platform’s views on whether it contributed in any way to the build-up of the February, 2020 communal violence.On July 8, the Supreme Court order upheld the powers of the panel to summon both members and non-members, including representatives of Facebook.“Facebook cannot excuse themselves from appearing pursuant to the new summons issued to them on February 3, 2021... Facebook is a platform where political differences are reflected. They cannot wash their hands off the issue as this is their very business,” said the top court’s July 8 order.At the same time, the court clarified that the panel cannot become a “prosecuting agency” which can hold people guilty and order filing of charge sheets in the riot cases. The Facebook executive will be at liberty not to answer questions relating to law and order and police, while such a refusal cannot lead to any coercive step by the assembly, the Supreme Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-fb-officials-to-depose-before-assembly-panel-on-november-18-101637088931619.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Man assaulted, robbed at gunpoint in Sohna||A 52-year-old Ballabhgarh resident was assaulted and robbed of his cash and belongings at gunpoint in Sohna allegedly by two unidentified men who offered him a lift while he was on his way to attend a function.Police said he was thrown out of the car near Mohammadpur Gujar in Sohna and threatened against reporting the incident.According to the police, Man Singh Yadav had come to Sohna around 4.30pm on Monday to attend an engagement ceremony. He got down at the Sohna bus stand and went to a mobile phone shop to get his phone repaired.Rajesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), said that two men were standing at the shop and offered him a lift to the venue, a banquet hall in Sohna, to which he agreed. “After driving for a few minutes, one of the suspects held him at gunpoint and threatened to kill him. He asked him to hand over his cash and his belongings. They assaulted him and forced him to share his ATM PIN,” he said.Police said the suspects took his debit cards and ₹5,400 in cash.“The suspects drove the car towards Mohammadpur Gujar village through the forest area and pushed him out of the car at the outskirts of the village,” he said.Police said Yadav was traumatised and waited for half an hour before seeking help from strangers. He stopped a motorist and requested him to drop him till the main road from where he called the police and narrated his ordeal.A team from Sohna city police station reached the spot and took him to the police station and registered a case under two unidentified persons under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-assaulted-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-sohna-101637088930422.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Man booked for molesting 11-year-old boy in Pataudi||An 11-year-old boy was sexually assaulted allegedly by a man from his village in Pataudi on Monday. Police said the boy told his family on Monday about the repeated assault after the suspect again forcefully took him to a park and molested him. The suspect is yet to be arrested, police said.Police said the latest incident took place a few days ago when the boy was returning home from school. Jai Bhagwan, assistant sub-inspector of Pataudi police station, said that the boy’s mother filed a complaint on Monday night alleging that the man accosted him and took him to a park. “The man threatened my son and then forced him to indulge in objectionable acts. When my son got scared and started crying, the man beat him up and threatened to kill us (his parents). He also threatened him to keep quiet and told him to not tell anyone about the incident. The man often blocked my son’s path and made attempts to molest him,” she told police. Police said the woman also alleged that when she confronted the suspect’s family, he came to their house, abused her, and threatened her with a stick. Police said according to the complainant, the boy had placed a transfer request at his school as he was scared to walk home. Bhagwan said the man first accosted the boy last month after the school reopened (when post-pandemic restrictions were lifted). The boy did not inform his family members out of fear, but when the man started troubling him again and again, he shared his ordeal, following which a case was registered. An FIR was registered under Section 8 (punishment for sexual assault) of the Pocso Act and IPC sections 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult modesty) on Monday night. Bhagwan said police were investigating the case and raids were being conducted to arrest the suspect. “The boy was taken to the child welfare committee (CWC) for counselling and his statement was recorded before the committee members. He has narrated his ordeal before them and has refused to attend school,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-booked-for-molesting-11-year-old-boy-in-pataudi-101637088809755.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Assembly polls 2022: Trinetra App to help cops identify trouble makers||Ahead of Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, police is uploading fresh details of criminals on the “Trinetra App” -an artificial intelligence-powered face recognition app of UP police. Till now details of 9500 criminals have been uploaded, said officials. The step will be helpful in tightening the noose around trouble makers before the upcoming elections, they said. On the instructions of election commission, police have started identification of persons who may create trouble during polls, may disrupt polling process or may cause disturbance and harm peace. SHOs and Inspectors are preparing list of such persons under jurisdictions while details of them is being saved through Trinetra App. In this procedure, the details of criminals which includes his name, address, photographs, modus operandi etc is being uploaded. Now, it will not be easy for criminals to change territory or shift to another place with a new identity for committing crimes. Through Trinetra App, it will be easy for cops to recognise and identify criminals even in another city and arrest them even if he has changed his name. It is often seen that criminals change their location and move to other places for committing crimes. Some move to rural areas while some come to city to avoid being traced and nabbed. They use forge identification documents to dodge police as cops find no record on their new identities. However, now with the help of Trinetra App, police will trace the real identity of criminals and will take action against them ahead polls. All details of a criminal will be available as soon as his photograph is uploaded in the Trinetra App. SSP Sarvashreshtha Tripathi said besides old criminals, details of new ones are also being uploaded in Trinetra App which will prove to be helpful in taking action against trouble makers’ ahead polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assembly-polls-2022-trinetra-app-to-help-cops-identify-trouble-makers-101637088749903.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: CCTV footage captured suspects behind Jangpura double murder||The Delhi Police probing the murder of two women, who were found dead inside their employer’s house in K Block Jangpura Extension, have found a 45-second CCTV footage that captured the five alleged suspects outside the house. While police officially did not comment on the investigation details, a police officer, aware of the case, said they are exploring several angles because of the unusual aspects of the case. Asking not to be named, the officer explained -- firstly the entry inside the house was friendly -- neither the doors nor the locks were broken. Even if the women knew one or two suspects, it was surprising why she or both of them would allow all five of them inside the house at around 2 am. He added that the only item that appears to be missing is a cell phone of one of the dead women. Other peculiar details include all five men were carrying heavy bags, which is unusual if they had come to murder the two women; the women were found dead on two different floors with their mouth taped and limbs tied; the security guards supposedly admitted to the police they had seen five masked men but assumed they were residents, and did not bother to check, and also the fact that nobody heard a thing. Police suspect the two women were smothered at different times during the early hours of Monday. On Tuesday, doctors at AIIMS conducted the post-mortem after which the bodies were handed to their husbands. The two women, who were from Darjeeling in West Bengal, had been working in the house for the last 5-6 months. Mina Rai,35, worked as domestic help, while the other victim Sujata Gurung,40, was a nursing attendant, police said. The twin murders inside the house came to light when a local dog trainer rang the doorbell at around 9.30 am on Monday and got no response. The man then called the building owner, after which she went to check on the two women and found them dead on the ground and the first floor. “We are looking at the call data records of both phones. Only Mina Rai’s phone was taken. We found Sujata’s phone on the floor next to her body. This will help us get more details,” a police officer said on Tuesday. HT contacted Esha Pandey, the southeast district’s deputy commissioner of police (DCP) for an update on the investigation but despite phone calls and text messages, the DCP did not comment. A second police officer, who too asked not to be named, said that the two women lived in the house but visited their husbands once or twice a month in Gurugram. Mina’s husband works as a housekeeping employee while Sujata’s husband works with a physiotherapist. “We are speaking to their husbands to get more details. Separately, we are trying to identify the five men. All of them are wearing masks. The video is blurred. The backpacks they are carrying seem to be heavy. They are seen talking outside the house and scaled the building wall to enter the house,” the officer said. While police are working to crack the twin murders, the video of the five men has been widely circulated among the residents. The colony resident welfare association president, Kapil Kakkar, said a message has already been circulated among residents to stay vigilant. Kakkar said they have in the past met the local police personnel at the Jangpura police post and asked for night patrolling in the colony. “For the past several years, the police have repeatedly said that they are short-staffed. We will try to employ more security guards and are requesting all residents to contribute to pay for the guards.” DWARKA MURDER Meanwhile, another police team in Delhi is working to identify the woman, seemingly in her mid-20’s, whose body was found in a drain behind a fuel pump in Dabri sector 2. The body was spotted by a passerby at around 6pm on Monday. Doctors had told police that there were burn marks on the woman’s forehead and her private parts, suggesting she may have been raped before being murdered. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary was not available for comments on the investigation update. But officials, aware of the probe details said they are matching the woman’s description --- 157 cms, wheatish complexion, oval face, long hair – with description of other missing women. Police said the photograph of the woman’s face may not be of much help because her murderer had assaulted her causing several injuries and burned her face. “We have sent the details of the woman to every police station across the city. We are focusing more on the nearby areas. The details and photos have been shared on WhatsApp groups. Once we identify the women, we will be able to proceed further. We are checking CCTV footage of the case,” said an officer, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cctv-footage-captured-suspects-behind-jangpura-double-murder-101637088689990.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Construction ban in NCR: DTCP forms 5 teams for enforcement in Gurugram||The department of town and country planning (DTCP), to strengthen the construction ban imposed by the state government in view of the high levels of pollution, on Tuesday issued directions to developers to stop construction in private licensed colonies as well as ongoing projects till Wednesday. On Sunday, the Haryana government directed the closure of all schools, banned construction activities and advised government staff to work from home till November 17 in the four districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar.According to officials of DTCP, the department formed five teams to enforce the construction ban and also ensure that norms imposed by National Green Tribunal to check pollution are not violated. DTCP officials said that while an extension of the construction ban would depend on directions from the state government, it was likely to be extended due to high levels of pollution. On Tuesday, Gurugram’s Air Quality Index (AQI) reading was recorded at 378, an increase from Monday’s reading of 342. An AQI reading between 301 and 400 is considered “very poor”.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement said that the five teams will randomly visit private colonies in their respective jurisdictions and enforce the ban. “We have already been issuing notices and imposing penalties and this will be enforced more strictly. Construction activities will not be allowed till further directions from the government,” he said. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, said that if local residents spot any violation, they should lodge a complaint and action will be taken at the earliest. Responding to the construction ban, developers said that they were ready to halt work if it helped but there was a need to find out whether such a ban will make any difference in the longterm. Pankaj Bajaj, president, CREDAI, NCR, said, “Public health comes first. The developer community is happy to halt work for as long as it is required, if it is going to help. Studies say construction contributes less than 5% of the ambient dust in the NCR. Experts say there is a need to check pollution caused by farm fires and vehicular emissions. The period for stoppage of work plus a reasonable re-mobilisation period should be allowed as force majeure for delivery commitments to home buyers.”In another development, the enforcement team of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran cleared three acres of prime land in sector 57 of illegal encroachments. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP said that an enforcement team demolished 150 hutments, five shops selling building material, six scrap shops and two eateries. “All these structures were illegal and were removed with the help of local police. This plot is reserved for a group housing project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/construction-ban-in-ncr-dtcp-forms-5-teams-for-enforcement-in-gurugram-101637088631153.html
17-11-2021||Pune||PMC to appoint new consultant for 24x7 water project||As the former consultant who prepared the project report and detailed project report (DPR) has refused to continue working with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the corporation has been forced to float a tender to appoint a new consultant for its ambitious 24x7 water project which is learned to be moving at a snail’s pace.Nandkishor Jagtap, project in-charge of the 24x7 water project and executive engineer, said, “We have floated the tender for appointing a new consultant as the previous consultant refused to work with the municipal corporation. As per the contract, either the PMC or the consultant can quit work by giving 30 days’ notice.”“SGI was the former consultant who prepared the project report and DPR. The firm cited Covid-19 and the financial situation due to the pandemic as reasons for leaving the work. However, the PMC has received all the data and drawings. The corporation issued bills only for the work carried out by SGI. According to the firm, there are some dues pending but the department will put the proposal before the municipal commissioner and senior officials will take the call on the matter,” Jagtap said.PMC officials claim that the new contractor will be appointed within a period of two months and that work on the project will not stop in the interim. According to sources however, work on the project has been very slow due to which both the former consultant and the contractor have been widely criticised. Even the ruling party (BJP) is not happy as they were expecting to have something to show ahead of the civic elections. Besides, several roads in the city have been damaged due to the 24x7 water project and the PMC has not reinstated them properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-appoint-new-consultant-for-24x7-water-project-101637088629853.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Air quality may deteriorate further||New Delhi: India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said air pollution levels in Delhi could get worse, as they predicted a drop in wind speed and temperatures. The air quality in Delhi went back to the severe zone after remaining in the very poor zone for two days. Health experts, however, say that under both conditions high pollution levels continue to pose a critical risk even to healthy individuals. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings the average air quality index of Delhi on Tuesday was 403, in the severe zone. On Monday, the AQI was 353, categorised as very poor. IMD scientists said that wind is likely to remain calm till November 18, and temperatures may drop too making it difficult for the pollutants to disperse easily. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded the season’s coldest day with a minimum temperature of 10 degrees Celsius. IMD’s Ayanagar station recorded the minimum temperature at 9 degrees -- the first sub-10 degrees of the season. Since November 5, a day after Diwali, Delhi’s air quality has remained in the severe zone for seven days, with the AQI only showing minor improvements. Environmental experts said that while the initial spike in pollution levels were caused by large scale cracker bursting in the Capital on Diwali night, the situation was aggravated by a peak in stubble burning incidents in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. Union ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research’s (Safar) air quality analysis for Delhi showed that the number of stubble fires in these agrarian states have started declining. On Tuesday, 1,820 fires were reported from Punjab and Haryana, which contributed to 8% of the Capital’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels. “It appears that the stubble fires have already peaked and the fire count is now declining,” the Safar analysis said. Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) also warned of more polluted air in the coming days. “Delhi’s air quality slipped again to the severe category last evening owing to a dip in wind speeds. Almost two-thirds of regulatory monitors in Delhi reported PM 2.5 levels higher than 250ug/m3, breaching the national standards of 60ug/m3. The city’s average PM 2.5 levels reached a maximum of 340ug/m3 at 10 am this morning.” She added, “However, the PM2.5 levels started falling slightly given a marginal increase in wind speeds in the afternoon. But meteorology will continue to have a crucial impact on Delhi’s air quality in the coming days. Given the drop in temperatures, contribution from local biomass burning for warming needs might see an uptick.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-air-quality-may-deteriorate-further-101637088570034.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Covid vaccination picks up pace in Nuh with door-to-door campaign||The pace of Covid-19 vaccination in Nuh has improved this week with over 5,500 people being vaccinated daily in the district, said officials on Tuesday.According to official data, Nuh has one of the lowest vaccination coverage rates in Haryana with the first dose coverage at 38% and second dose coverage at 8.9%. Officials attributed the change in pace to the door-to-door campaign that started earlier this month and the incentives, such as extra funds for villages, announced by the district administration.In Nuh, door-to-door vaccination started on November 10. Officials said that before the door-to-door campaign, 2,500-2,800 people were vaccinated daily, but in the last two days, over 11,000 people were vaccinated every day in the district. On Monday, 11,090 people were vaccinated while on Tuesday, 11,631 people were vaccinated in Nuh.Dr Surender Kumar Yadav, chief medical officer of Nuh district, said, “In the last three days, the pace of vaccination increased rapidly, especially by involving all departments in the district. The deputy commissioner formed committees at the village level and announced several incentives. Awareness campaigns are also being carried out by different departments that are encouraging residents to get vaccinated. Health staff like ASHA and ANM workers have prepared lists of all residents who are yet to take the vaccine and if anyone is not able to go then they are also being taken to the centres.”The department has hired 47 cars to help ASHA and ANM workers reach vaccination sites and take people to the centres. In the first week of November, health workers surveyed every village in the district and prepared lists of those who were yet to take doses of vaccination.Officials said that every ASHA worker (there are 1160 workers in the district) personally interacted with residents in 450 villages while preparing the list, and are now ensuring that all those who are eligible for the vaccine either go to the vaccination centre themselves or are taken there in vehicles hired by the health department. Each ASHA worker is assigned a population of 1,000-1,200.The district administration has also started giving incentives to people and has declared that the first five villages in every block to achieve 100% vaccination will be given ₹10 lakh in extra funds for infrastructure development projects. The district administration has also tied up with the chemist associations and said that residents who have taken their first dose will get a 5% discount on medicines and those fully vaccinated will get a 10% discount. Vaccinated residents will also be given a 0.5 paisa discount per litre on petrol, said the chief medical officer.“If this pace continues (over 10,000 people are vaccinated daily), then by next week we hope to leave the list of 45 districts in the country that have a lower than 50% rate of first-dose vaccination,” added the Yadav.Capt Shakti Singh, deputy commissioner of Nuh, said, “We first identified the problem areas and found that availability of public transport was a major problem and both residents and vaccinators would go back early as they would not find vehicles after 3-4pm. So, we hired vehicles that ferry four teams of vaccinators around 7am so that vaccination can start from 8am.”He also said that initially, the pace of vaccination was slow because of rumours such as the vaccine adversely affecting people’s health.“Since the door-to-door campaign has started, the vaccination pace has definitely increased and we will make sure it stays the same. On Tuesday, over 13,400 people were vaccinated, which exceeds the total number of people vaccinated in June and July. Our target is to vaccinate 20,000 people daily by end of this week,” added Singh.He also said that the administration has noted that due to the sowing season, many individuals leave for fields early in the morning and miss the vaccination process. The administration will send special teams to agricultural fields from next week for their vaccination.Last Thursday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar set a target for the state to achieve 100% vaccination in two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-vaccination-picks-up-pace-in-nuh-with-door-to-door-campaign-101637088330021.html
17-11-2021||Pune||Pune doctors sound “viral infection” alarm with change-of-season forecast in play||PUNE As temperatures across Pune city fluctuate with a difference of at least 10 degrees Centigrade between maximum and minimum, doctors have sounded the change of season “viral infection” alarm.On Tuesday, the maximum temperature reported by the weather department for Pune city was 31.6 degrees Celsius, with the minimum temperature at 20.6 degrees Celsius. Earlier in the month, minimum temperatures in parts of the city were as low as 10.9 degrees Celsius.Cloudy weather along with light rainfall is also likely in parts of the city for the next few days said, weathers department officials.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast a cloudy climate in the city till November 19.Dr Mahendra Dadke of Jupiter Hospital said patients with diabetes, hypertension and asthma need to be careful.“This weather is ideal for viral infections to spread. In the morning, the breeze is cooler and afternoons are relatively warmer which is favourable for pathogens to breed leading to more infections. Patients with complaints of pulmonary functions may get viral infections during this time. As the season changes, there is a rise in viral infection cases. High-risk patients should wear warm clothes while taking a morning walk, and should take steam inhalations to keep infections at bay,” said Dr Dadke.He added that young children are also at risk of infections during this time.“However, as schools are shut as of now, the number of paediatric patients are fewer. They still are at risk. Parents should take special care of children during this time,” said Dr Dadke.Dr Kapil Lendal, a city-based paediatric practitioner said that children should be given immunity boosters to safeguard them from infections.“If the child has a cold and a cough, s/he should be given steam. However, the child should be taken to a medical practitioner. If the child has fever, they should be immediately taken to the doctor for antibiotics treatment,” said Dr Lendal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-doctors-sound-viral-infection-alarm-with-change-of-season-forecast-in-play-101637088271222.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: CBSE Term 1 exams begin||New Delhi: The Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) Term 1 board exams for students of Class 12 started on Tuesday, with school authorities saying that the examinations -- in Beauty and Wellness, and Entrepreneurship subjects -- went on smoothly in Delhi. In view of the pandemic, CBSE had earlier announced two-term board exam this year, with the Term 1 featuring a 90-minute test in the multiple choice questions (MCQ) format.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said there weren’t many glitches in the process, other than minor delay in uploading the answer keys after revaluation. Acharya said that the school had trained students well with the help of mock OMR sheets before the exam. “The paper came on time. Students were also familiar since the board had shared an explainer video earlier. We also gave them practice tests on mock OMR sheets. Since the paper was minor and only around 10 students appeared in our school, everything took place smoothly,” said Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka.Laksh Vir Sehgal, principal of Bal Bharati Public School on Ganga Ram Hospital Marg, said the exam went smoothly. “It was the first paper under a new system, so there were a few hiccups initially but everything was solved well within the time since we had the mock test yesterday. Today, we had a minor paper so the number of students taking the test was also less,” said Sehgal. Noting that printing question papers on campus for minor papers is not hard, he, however, added that it could be a challenge for some other minor subjects where the number of students is high. “Printing of papers can be especially challenging and schools will need to arrange for high-speed printers,” said Sehgal, who is also the city coordinator for the exam. The Vice- and Principals’ Association of Delhi on Tuesday also wrote to the CBSE chairperson and sought a supply of printed question papers for the Class 10 Sanskrit exam, scheduled on November 22, noting that the number of students appearing for the test is high.Dr Sanyam Bhardwaj, controller of examinations, CBSE, said that the board will provide printed question paper for the Sanskrit exam for both classes 10 and 12. “Since the matter is confidential, it’s possible that the schools are not aware of the same. However, we are already providing printed papers for the Sanskrit exam,” said Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cbse-term-1-exams-begin-101637088269816.html
17-11-2021||Noida||Over ₹1 crore fine levied on polluting establishments in Ghaziabad||Penalties are being levied as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) measures to curb pollution levels in Ghaziabad, officials said on Tuesday.The district administration has been following the orders of a committee constituted by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and its adjoining areas, District Information Officer Rakesh Chauhan said.District Magistrate R K Singh has imposed a pecuniary fine of ₹1.03 crore so far, the official said.Keeping in view the adverse meteorological conditions prevailing in NCR and worsening air quality index (AQI), fines are being slapped on Ghaziabad Nagar Nigam, including 17 polluting establishments like builders, shopping malls and hospitals.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has passed an order after a writ petition filed by environmental protection committees. The polluting establishments were identified by Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) during its surprise raids.Following the orders of the district magistrate and the report of UPPCB, Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Sadar) Vinay Singh has issued recovery orders.The revenue department would recover the fine from the errant institutions which are responsible for the deteriorating pollution levels, DIO Chauhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-rs-1-crore-fine-levied-on-polluting-establishments-in-ghaziabad-101637085633584.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Uphaar case: Ansals undermined rule of law, Delhi police tell court||The Delhi Police on Tuesday told a local court that real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal have committed a crime which is “gravest of its kind” that has shattered the faith of the common man in the justice delivery system.The Ansals have sought to suspend the sentence and the fine imposed on them last week after the magistrate found them guilty of tampering with evidence in the Uphaar tragedy case. The trial court sentenced the Ansal brothers to seven years imprisonment and imposed a fine of ₹2.25 crore each on them. Opposing the plea, additional public prosecutor AT Ansari argued that the convicts, including the Ansals, have not only potentially eroded the institutional integrity of the “Delhi judiciary”, but also seriously impugned the administration of the criminal justice system.“The offences proved against the convicts are gravest of its kind and have ultimately shattered the faith of the common man in the justice delivery system. By tampering with crucial evidence forming part of judicial records, convicts sought to hamper and scuttle the process of law. They have not only polluted the stream of justice but they have also potentially undermined the majesty of ‘rule of law’,” the public prosecutor told additional sessions judge Anil Antil. “It would not be an exaggeration to submit that it is a targeted assault by the convicts on the institutional integrity of Delhi judiciary. The possibility of reform cannot be expected from the convicts namely Sushil Ansal and Gopal Ansal. They are previous convicts,” he added.Ansari argued that this case has led to a formation of a perception that rich, mighty and influential people can do any thing and get away with it and that they even can manipulate the judicial system in their favour and the court needs to break this perception.The matter will be heard next on November 18.The Ansal brothers were sentenced to two years by the Supreme Court in August 2015 in the main fire case that stunned the Capital 24 years ago and led to major changes in fire safety norms. But they avoided further imprisonment after spending about five months in prison when the apex court, in August 2015, ruled that a penalty of ₹30 crore each and time already served was adequate punishment for their criminal negligence given their age.Sentencing the Ansals on November 8, chief metropolitan magistrate Dr Pankaj Sharma said, “It is important to note that in a sentencing process, it is not only the crime that is important but the criminal and his/her circumstances are also equally important. The circumstances during which the instant crime was committed show the deep disrespect which the convicts had for the law and the judicial process and for the victims.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uphaar-case-ansals-undermined-rule-of-law-delhi-police-tell-court-101637088209840.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram braces for below 10°C dip in temperature||Gurugram residents could be in for a further drop in temperature as the meteorological centre in Chandigarh on Tuesday evening issued a cold wave warning for the next 24 hours at isolated places in the districts of south Haryana, including Gurugram and Faridabad. This is the first such warning for the district, with winter barely setting in, weather analysts said.The city recorded a minimum temperature of 10.7 degrees Celsius (°C) on Tuesday, one degree below normal. The maximum temperature also dipped four degrees below normal, to settle at 25°C on Tuesday. Officials said cold wave conditions set in when the minimum temperature is either 10 degrees or below or when the difference between the normal range of minimum temperature and the actual recorded temperature is four degrees Celsius or more. Manmohan Singh, director of MeT Chandigarh said, “Cold wave conditions are declared when the minimum temperature in plains is 10 degrees or less or the departure is more than four degrees. For the past two days, the minimum temperature being recorded in south Haryana districts is fulfilling this criterion and the cold wave condition is likely to stay for the next 24 hours. A western disturbance is also predicted over the state around November 18, after which temperatures will rise for a day or two; after that, it will reduce gradually.” A western disturbance means an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure, moving from the west to the east, carrying with it moisture associated with rainfall, snowfall and fog in northern India. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, said, “Districts such as Hisar recorded a minimum temperature seven degrees below normal. This is a severe cold wave and unusual for mid-November. Some other districts as well as Delhi have also recorded temperatures four degrees below normal.”Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 9 degrees Celsius at Aya Nagar station of the India Meteorological Department on Tuesday -- this season’s first sub-10 degrees temperature. The Safdarjung station that gives the representative data for the national capital, meanwhile recorded the season’s lowest minimum of 10 degrees Celsius, India Meteorological Department data shows.Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist, said, “Cold wave conditions are being reported in several districts of south Haryana already. We have not witnessed a western disturbance in over two weeks, due to which dry weather is continuing. Western disturbances lead to the weather becoming slightly humid, which balances the temperature. Otherwise also, districts of south Haryana report more dry weather compared to other parts of Delhi-NCR.”Meanwhile, Gurugram recorded “ very poor” air quality index for the second consecutive day on Tuesday with a reading of 369, according to the Central Pollution Control Board bulletin. This is a climb from the AQI of 332 on Monday. According to bulletin issued by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality in the region is likely remain in the “very poor” category for the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-braces-for-below-10-c-dip-in-temperature-101637088150165.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra pushes for booster doses, reduction in Covishield gap||Maharashtra on Tuesday asked for booster doses for its healthcare workers and frontline workers, a reduction in the gap between two Covishield doses from 84 days to 28, and sought to know when vaccination for children between ages 12 and 18 would begin. These demands were made by Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope in a meeting with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in New Delhi. Tope sought a reduction in the period between two doses of Covidshield from 84 days to 28, at par with the Covaxin doses of Bharat Biotech. Last week, Tope had made the request in a virtual meeting between Mandaviya and health ministers of all states and union territories. The demand, he said, is to boost the speed of administering second doses in the state. As of 9pm on Tuesday, November 16, Maharashtra had 34,292,903 fully vaccinated people or approximately 37% of the state’s eligible beneficiaries. Of the 91.44 million targetted beneficiaries in the state, 69,789,048 people or 76.3% have taken the first dose. Maharashtra had administered 104,094,458 doses till 9pm on Tuesday, according to the Central government’s CoWin vaccine tracking dashboard. The state government has set a target of inoculating 100% of its eligible population with at least one dose by November 30. While the Centre has no target for India as such, the Union health ministry has asked state governments to ensure that all the adult population is covered with the first doses during the ongoing ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign. Tope remarked that the 20-minute meeting with the Union health minister “was “positive.” He said, “We want to increase the percentage of fully vaccinated people. Therefore, we have sought a reduction in the gap between two Covishield doses from 84 days to 28 days.” Besides Maharashtra, Kerala, too, has demanded a reduction in the gap for Covishield doses and also asked for booster doses for healthcare workers and frontline workers. In a column for HT last week, renowned virologist and retired professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Dr T Jacob John wrote why booster doses may become an important tool in containing the virus. “Dampening the tempo of virus circulation will lead to fewer infections and deaths. For that, breakthrough infections must be prevented by giving booster doses to all who come forward,” he wrote. He added, “There is apprehension, amplified by the World Health Organisation (WHO), that a booster dose deprives someone waiting for second dose. If vaccines were in short supply, that is reasonable. However, India has unused vaccine stocks in several states and institutions — thus, a policy shift allowing boosters will be a wise and ethical decision.” The state health minister added that it has been nearly a year that HCWs and FLWs have taken their vaccines, so booster doses were sought for these categories. This is similar to what was done in some countries such the United States, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. “It was a positive discussion. He (Mandaviya) said that they will study our demands,” Tope said. The state also sought National Health Mission funds to recruit personnel, as was done during the first two waves of the coronavirus. “Owing to the threat of a probable third Covid-19 wave, [we] requested budget allocations for human resources in supplementary PIP [programme implementation plan] under the national health mission,” Tope said. He added that the state had asked for a revision in the proposal to set up catheterisation or cath labs under the NHM’s supplementary project implementation plan. This was previously disapproved under PIP. “We want to set up more cath labs in Maharashtra to scan patients for their heart ailments, angioplasty, angiography, etc, but NHM funds don’t cover it (setting up labs). We made a representation to the ministry and they have asked us to send a separate letter for cath labs. We are hopeful that it will be considered,” said Tope. Meanwhile, for the sixth day straight, Maharashtra recorded fewer than 1000 Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, Maharashtra added 886 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 6,625,872. The state added 34 fatalities due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 140,636. Mumbai, meanwhile, added 213 fresh cases, taking its tally to 760,724. Mumbai recorded one fatality. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 102,888 samples, giving a positivity rate of 0.86%. The overall positivity rate of Maharashtra stood at 10.33%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-pushes-for-booster-doses-reduction-in-covishield-gap-101637088031093.html
17-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body to curb waste disposal in vacant plots||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will now closely monitor waste disposal in residential, commercial, and industrial establishments that hire private contractors for garbage collection. MCG has realised that a lot of them dump waste in vacant plots which is a practice the civic body now plans to curb, officials said on Tuesday.“Bulk waste generators (BWGs) that are not covered by Ecogreen (MCG’s concessionaire) will have to declare the ways waste is transported and subsequently processed after it is collected by the respective private garbage collectors. Post-declaration, nine teams from MCG’s sanitation wing will visit such establishments across the city and verify whether the waste is being collected, disposed, and processed properly and issue penalties if not,” said a senior MCG official who attended Monday’s meeting.The matter was brought up during an internal MCG meeting held at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Monday evening, following which officials were asked to closely monitor BWGs.Any establishment, such as a condominium, society, township, mall, school, college, bank, hospital, industry, banquet hall, hotel, restaurant, religious area, factory, and mill that produces over 50 kilograms of waste per day is considered a bulk waste generator.According to MCG officials, there are over 1,800 BWGs in the city, of which 1,200 are covered by Ecogreen.MCG officials also said that there are around 600 BWGs that employ private garbage collectors to lift garbage from their premises, the disposal and processing of which is largely unaccounted for, and results in piles of garbage being dumped illegally in vacant areas.To overcome this, close monitoring will be done to fine violators and ensure waste collection, disposal, and processing system are adhered to, as per norms, said officials.If a BWG flouts norms, it can be penalised for an amount upto ₹25,000.The MCG official quoted above also said that teams from the sanitation wing will also be responsible for encouraging BWGs to get their waste collected from the MCG’s concessionaire for a nominal fee instead of paying high sums to private garbage collectors.According to the norms, in a BWG, wet waste needs to be processed into compost on-site or transported to a nearby site for the purpose, while segregated dry waste needs to be handed over to authorised waste collectors, said officials.“According to the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, it is mandatory for the bulk waste generators located within MCG limits to dispose of the waste they generate at their own level. If anyone disobeys these rules, then action will be taken against them according to guidelines, in which there is a provision of heavy fine,” said Dr Vaishali Sharma, additional municipal commissioner, MCG.Sharma who chaired Monday’s meeting on sanitation also directed officials to seize vehicles of private garbage collectors found to be dumping waste illegally, lodge FIRs against them, as well as serve a notice to the BWG concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-body-to-curb-waste-disposal-in-vacant-plots-101637087909917.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: EDMC to send teachers abroad for higher education||NEW DELHI: To improve the quality of education in civic schools, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has decided to send its teachers to foreign universities for higher studies, with the corporation promising to bear the cost of their education, including tuition, accommodation and living expenses, officials said. EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand said that the idea is to improve the quality of education in its schools. “At present, there are over 5,000 teachers in EDMC schools. While all efforts are being made to keep the quality of educational institutions high there, we are also giving an opportunity to our teachers to gain international exposure. We are sending our teachers to foreign universities to study in different programmes related to teacher training. The teachers applying for these courses will have to inform the training section of the education department at the time of application. Once a teacher is selected by these universities, he/she can apply for sponsorship under the EDMC’s funding of foreign training (FFT) scheme. Under this scheme, the EDMC will sponsor two teachers for training in a reputed foreign university in the first year,” he said. Anand further said that the scheme can be availed by a teacher once in their career. “The applicants must be below 42 years of age and must have impeccable profession record with at least ‘very good’ grading in their last five years’ service book record. This scheme is applicable to the teachers who get admission in top 100 universities and institutions. These teachers can choose subjects like public education, special education, development of education and use of digital technology in education in these international universities. The maximum amount of financial assistance permissible for each candidate is ₹75 lakh. This financial aid will cover tuition fees, accommodation, books and living costs of the selected candidates,” he said. Echoing similar views, Rajiv Kumar, the chairman of the EDMC’s education committee, said that if a teacher fails to complete the foreign diploma/degree/doctorate programme, the person will have to refund the entire amount to the corporation. “The teachers, who have excellent record in the field of teaching, are eligible for this scheme. The minimum service length to avail this higher education programme is 10 years as a regular teacher. The selected candidates will have to sign an undertaking that they will not avail other financial assistance during their foreign training course from any other institution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-edmc-to-send-teachers-abroad-for-higher-education-101637087852119.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Bad air causing asthma-like symptoms in healthy children||The hazardous levels of air pollution in Delhi is leading to healthy children developing asthma-like symptoms and the prolonging of upper respiratory tract infection that need to be treated with inhalers, according to doctors in the national capital. At the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), there has been a 20% increase in the number of patients visiting out-patient clinics as well as the emergency with exacerbations of existing conditions such as asthma and COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) in the past one week. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday was 403, in the severe category. The hazardous air quality has been persisting in the capital since Diwali and also prompted the government to close schools till November 20 and order all government employees to work from home till Wednesday. Construction activities are also banned till November 17.“There has been an increase of around 20% in the number of patients visiting our OPD and the emergency department with exacerbations of existing diseases. In otherwise healthy people, the high levels of pollution are prolonging symptoms of normal viral infections or the common cold,” said Dr Karan Madan, associate professor, department of pulmonary medicine, AIIMS. He further said, “In many healthy people who get a viral infection or cold, a cough that would otherwise get better in two or three days is lasting for over 10 days to two weeks now. It is almost like an asthmatic episode and to get better, many end up having to use steroid inhalers like asthma patients.” And, the impact is being seen across all age groups, doctors said. Dr Puneet Khanna, head of the department, respiratory medicine, Manipal Hospital, Dwarka, said he has seen several cases of seasonal asthma-like symptoms in children. “In addition to headache, congested nose, loss of concentration, and irritability, we see seasonal intermittent wheezing and asthma-like symptoms in children every year when the pollution levels spike. They are fine the rest of the year. And many of them go on to develop asthma as well,” said Dr Khanna. Research has shown that high levels of pollution not only exacerbates existing asthma, but long term exposure also increases the risk of developing the disease. According to the World Health Organization, the lungs of a child, who is living in a region where air pollution is quite severe, may not function properly by the time (s)he attains adulthood. Due to weak lungs, such children, are likely to develop asthma in their later years.He said he has also seen a 10% to 15% increase in admissions due to pneumonia – an infection of the lungs that inflame the air sacs – especially in the elderly. High levels of pollution are linked with an increase in respiratory infections, possibly because it reduces the body’s ability to fight off infections. The only way to protect oneself from the bad air effects is to stay indoors, said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor, department of pulmonology, Safdarjung hospital. “However, staying indoors all the time is not a practical solution. People should try to avoid the outdoors for prolonged periods. And, when outside they must wear a mask; the acceptability of masks has increased since Covid-19. However, the normal surgical masks do not really protect against pollution. N-95 masks are needed for that,” he said. He also urged people to wear masks properly, with it covering their mouth and nose, and with a good fit around the chin; they should especially try not to fiddle with it, he said. Dr Madan said people must avoid strenuous exercise or outdoor activities when the pollution levels are high. “Air purifiers serve only a limited area. People who want to do intense exercises, but are prone to pollution-related symptoms, may do so in a closed room with an air purifier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-bad-air-causing-asthma-like-symptoms-in-healthy-children-101637087851053.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Flyer from Dubai held with 2.5kg gold at Delhi’s IGI airport||The Delhi Customs on Monday nabbed a flyer at the at the Indira Gandhi International airport and seized more than 2.5kg of gold he allegedly hid in a life jacket under his seat in a SpiceJet flight coming from Dubai.Officials said the accused, who had been living in Dubai since the last three years and was returning to Delhi for the first time since, boarded the flight with the gold on him and later concealed it in the life jacket under his seat.He allegedly told Customs personnel that he was only asked to keep the gold under his seat before stepping out of the plane. Officials suspect a flight crew member may be involved in the smuggling.The accused was handed over to the IGI airport police station where he was officially arrested.“We were acting up on a tip off from one of the informers. Further investigation is ongoing,” said a senior Customs official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/flyer-from-dubai-held-with-2-5kg-gold-at-delhi-s-igiairport-101637087791534.html
17-11-2021||Lucknow||Rare heart surgery performed at BHU||A complicated heart surgery was performed on a patient in the Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery (CTVS) department of Banaras Hindu University (BHU). He was diagnosed with a case of ruptured sinus of valsalva into right ventricular outflow tract with severe aortic regurgitation. It’s a rare heart disease which if not treated timely may result in death, doctors said.Manish Yadav (22) from Azamgarh was admitted to CTVS department at BHU with severe difficulty in breathing and swelling in whole body over a fortnight ago, said Dr Siddharth Lakhotia, professor at the department. “His oxygen saturations were very low on room temperature and he was coughing continuously. His Covid-19 report was negative and he underwent few urgent investigations. The diagnosis was done with the help of 2D echocardiography,” Dr Lakhotia said.He was kept in the CTVS ICU on ventilator support initially and was given medications to manage his heart failure. “During surgery the abnormal communication of aorta with right ventricle was closed with help of an artificial material graft and the aortic valve was replaced by a metallic artificial valve. The surgery was very challenging. However, the patient is now fine and was discharged on Tuesday, Dr Lakhotia added.The surgery was performed by a team of doctors, including Prof Siddharth Lakhotia and Dr Narendra Nath Das while anaesthesia was given by Prof SK Mathur and Dr Reena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rare-heart-surgery-performed-at-bhu-101637087790461.html
17-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees coldest day of season as mercury drops below 10°C||Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 9 degrees Celsius at Ayanagar station of the India Meteorological Department on Tuesday -- this season’s first sub-10 degrees temperature. The Safdarjung station that gives the representative data for the national capital, meanwhile recorded the season’s lowest minimum of 10 degrees Celsius, IMD data shows.IMD has forecast that the mercury will stay around 9 degrees Celsius with cold north-westerly winds blowing towards Delhi at the moment. But, wind direction may change to south-easterly from Thursday onwards, and the minimum temperature will rise by 1-2 degrees, Met officials said.“We have been recording a steady drop in minimum temperature over the last two weeks. North-westerly winds generally bring colder winds from the mountains. This will continue till Wednesday. But from Thursday, we are likely to see a slight change in wind direction to south-easterly, leading to a slight rise in temperatures,” a Met official said, adding that the mercury is likely to touch around 11 degrees Celsius by November 20.While Ayanagar was Delhi’s coldest location on Tuesday, Mungeshpur in northwest Delhi also recorded a sub-10 degrees temperature of 9.8. The lowest minimum temperature recorded at Safdarjung before Tuesday was 10.1 degrees Celsius on Sunday. IMD data shows temperatures generally tend to dip below the 10-degree mark towards the last week of November.Last year, the lowest minimum temperature recorded in November was 6.3 degrees Celsius, on November 23. In 2019, the lowest minimum in November was 11.4 degrees, and 10.5 degrees Celsius in November 2018.Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet, said a sharp drop in temperature is only expected towards the end of the month, with the mercury likely to stay around 9-10 degrees Celsius for the next few days. “A western disturbance is developing in north-west India and once this is over, we will start seeing a drop in temperature. This will happen only after November 22, with some snowfall in the mountains,” said Palawat.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 27 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, one degree below normal. The relative humidity meanwhile oscillated between 35% and 95%. The IMD has forecast a maximum and minimum of 26 and 9 degrees Celsius respectively for Wednesday, along with shallow fog in the early hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-coldest-day-of-season-as-mercury-drops-below-10c-101637087610261.html
17-11-2021||Pune||20 drivers return to work; MSRTC to resume bus ops from Thursday||PUNE The Maharashtra State Transport Corporation’s (MSRTC) Pune division is expected to resume normal bus services from Thursday. On Tuesday, at least 20 drivers who were participating in the ongoing strike, rejoined work. In all, a total of 430 MSRTC staffers have gone back to work. “Over the last few days since drivers and conductors were on strike, buses were at a standstill. Now some of the drivers have come back and we will be starting regular ST bus operations from Swargate and Wakdewadi ST stands from Thursday onwards,” said MSRTC’s Pune divisional controller, Ramakant Gaikwad. “Initially, buses will run on major routes like Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Solapur and already Shivneri and Shivshashi buses are operating on the Pune-Mumbai route. If more drivers rejoin work, then the number of buses and routes will increase,” added Gaikwad. Tuesday was day 18 of the strike. As of now, 500 workers from the Pune division have been suspended by the department. Currently, contractor-owned Shivshahi and Shivneri buses are operating on various routes from the Swargate, Wakdewadi and Pune railway station ST stands. A large number of drivers and conductors are still on strike. “Our strike is going on for our survival, as the organisation is going through financial losses and our demand is to merge it into the state government. I have been suspended from work, but now we won’t stop and will continue the strike till our demands are heard,” said Sanjay Gondhale, an MSRTC driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/20-drivers-return-to-work-msrtc-to-resume-bus-ops-from-thursday-101637087429897.html
17-11-2021||Mumbai||BJP corporator from Kharghar Leena Gharad suspended for 6 years||In an expected move, rebel BJP corporator in Panvel, Leena Garad, has been suspended by the party for alleged anti-party activities for six years.The decision was taken by MLA Prashant Thakur, who is also the party president for North Raigad region. Garad is a corporator from ward 5 of Kharghar.Garad, who had been denied the post of the Mayor, has been raising a number of issues against the ruling party in Panvel. Also, along with the opposition, she has been targeting the Thakur family that controls the party in the region.Prakash Binedar, BJP spokesperson, said, “Despite being elected on the BJP ticket, she had been colluding with the opposition and targeting the party in the house and also outside besides making baseless allegations. There were several complaints against her in this regard. A decision has been taken to suspend her primary membership of the party for a period of six years as her actions hurt the party image.”Garad said, “I am yet to receive the official letter of suspension and will comment after reading it.”Leena Garad, the wife of police officer Arjun Garad, had come to limelight in 2014 when she contested the Kharghar Gram Panchayat elections. She had declared property worth ₹200Cr in her affidavit. It included seven plots and 17 high-end cars. She had claimed the market value of her investments had risen over the years and that everything was documented. She said she was in the construction business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-corporator-from-kharghar-leena-gharad-suspended-for-6-years-101637071528604.html
